Document of
The World Bank                   F E ' .  f
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
RESTRICTED
Report No. P-3391-CHA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO $75.4 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
October 14, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency in Renminbi
$1.0   = Yuan (Y) 1.75
Y 1.00 = $0.571
ABBREVIATIONS
CAAS     -     Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences
CAS      -     Chinese Academy of Sciences
CAST     -     Chinese Association for Science and Technology
CNTIC    -     China National Technical Import Corporation
MOA      -     Ministry of Agriculture
MOE      -     Ministry of Education
NRRI     -     National Rice Research Institute
PC       -     Project Commission
PO       -     Project Office
SAC      -     State Agricultural Commission
SSTC     -     State Science and Technology Commission
GOVERNMENT OF THE PEOPLE-S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
September 1 - August 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
*          Borrower:               The People's Republic of China
Amount:                 SDR 67.8 million ($75.4 million equivalent)
Terms:                  Standard
Project Description:   In support of the Government's program of strengthen-
ing higher education and research in the agricultural
sciences, the project will provide assistance to 11
leading agricultural colleges, 6 existing research
institutes, and a new National Rice Research
Institute (NRRI). The project will finance civil
works, furniture, equipment, specialist services,
fellowships, and other related inputs to: (a) raise
the quality of graduates and research work in the
agricultural sciences; (b) expand both undergraduate
and postgraduate enrollment and research capacity in
these fields; and (c) strengthen the organization and
management of resources in agricultural education and
research. Project risks grow out of the Bank's
limited knowledge of China's agricultural research
system, the dimensions of China's manpower pool in
agriculture, and the presently changing system of
agricultural education. The studies of China's agri-
cultural manpower and agricultural research system to
be conducted under the project will contribute to
reducing these risks and will enable the Government
to improve the effectiveness of future projects in
agriculture.
This document has a retricted ditribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfor4mance
of their ofical duts. Its contents may riot otherwise be discloed without World lank authorization.



- is -
Local  Foreign   Total
Estimated Cost:                                    ----- ($ million) ----
I.  Improvement of Teaching and Research
Quality
(a) Fellowships and academic study tours         1.5    13.4      14.9
(b) Specialist services
Academic                                     -     1.2       1.2
Language training                          1.7     1.8       3.5
(c) Equipment                                   26.3    45.3      71.6
Subtotal                                 29.5    61.7       91.2
II. Expansion of Enrollment and Research
Capacity
(a) Furniture                                    2.5     -         2.5
(b) Construction and remodeling                 71.2     -        71.2
Subtotal                                   73.7     -        73.7
III.  Management of Institutional Resources
and Project Support
(a) Management study tours                         -     U.8       U.8
(b) Specialist services - management               -      0.5      0.5
(c) Management expenses                          1.7     -         1.7
Subtotal                                    1.7     1.3       3.0
IV. Studies and Preparation of Future Projects
Subtotal                                    1.7     1.0       2.7
Baseline Cost                             106.6    64.0    170.6
V. Contingencies
Physical                                       5.3     3.2       8.5
Price                                         14.3     8.2      22.5
Total Project Cost                        126.2    75.4    201.6
Financing Plan:                                    Local   Foreign  Total
---- ($ million) -----
IDA                                                  -      75.4    75.4
Government                                       126.2         -   126.2
Total                                     126.2      75.4   201.6



- iii -
Estimated
Disbursements:          Bank FY      1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988
Annual        3.7  11.3  18.9  15.1  15.1  11.3
Cumulative   3.7  15.0  33.9  49.0  64.1  75.4
ERR:                       NA
Staff Appraisal Report:   No. 3819c-CHA, dated October 14, 1982



I



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR AN AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the People's Republic of China to help finance an Agricultural
Education and Research Project. The credit, for SDR 67.8 million ($75.4
million equivalent), would be on standard IDA terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An introductory economic report, entitled "China:  Socialist
Economic Development" (No. 3391-CHA), was distributed to the Executive
Directors on June 1, 1981. A Country Economic Memorandum, which updates the
report, particularly on developments over the past two years, is under pre-
paration. Country data are given in Annex I.
Development Objectives and Performance
3.        China's economic system combines an urban state economy modelled
after that of Eastern European countries, with a rural commune economy based
on the country's own traditions as well as its socialist ideology. The state
economy is characterized by public ownership, centralization of economic
decisions, strictly hierarchical control, and relatively little reliance on
markets or prices. In the commune economy, land and most capital are owned
collectively by production teams of 30-40 households, which generally corres-
pond to traditional villages (or neighborhoods of larger villages). Each
team is part of a brigade, each brigade part of a commune: these higher level
units organize land improvement projects, run industrial and other enter-
prises, and deliver education and health services. In both the urban and
rural economy, extensive reform of the economic management system, aimed
mainly at improving economic efficiency, has been instituted in the last few
years (paras. 14-15).
4.        Development efforts over the past three decades have consistently
been directed toward two main objectives: first, industrialization, and in
particular development of a heavy industrial base; second, elimination of the
worst aspects of poverty. Chinese development strategy has also been shaped
by two major constraints:  first, an extreme shortage of cultivable land
in relation to population; second, a high degree of international isolation.
5.        These two constraints have sharpened the conflict between the
two objectives. The prospective returns to investment in agriculture (the
principal source of income for the poor) have been limited by land scarcity
and by the fact that the easiest advances in intensive cultivation had already
been made. Similarly the inevitable competition for capital and skilled
manpower between industrialization and other means of poverty reduction was
for a long period aggravated by reliance entirely on domestic resources and
technology.



- 2 -
6.        The Chinese response to this dilemma has been to approach the two
objectives in two different ways. Following an initial phase of institutional
change and property redistribution, poverty reduction - mainly through rural
development and the provision of basic health and education services - has
been based largely on local resources and initiative. Industrialization,
by contrast, has been based mainly on a massive infusion of centrally
mobilized resources, with little concern for cost effectiveness, and using
largely Soviet technology of the 1950s.
7.        Tension between these two approaches has contributed to sharp policy
oscillations, as has a continuing debate on the role of political criteria in
economic decisions and on the most appropriate degree of centralization.  The
country is only now recovering from the latest political upheavals - the
Cultural Revolution (1966-76) - during which extreme leftist views often
predominated, and egalitarianism and ideology were emphasized at the expense
of economic efficiency.
8.         Notwithstanding these policy swings, which have engendered some
dramatic economic fluctuations, there has been substantial progress toward
the two main objectives. Industrialization has been very rapid, largely as
the result of an unusually high rate of investment, virtually all of which
has been financed by domestic savings. The share of industry in GDP (around
44%) is currently similar to the average for middle-income developing
countries. However, agriculture still accounts for 35% of GDP and over 70%
of employment - similar to the average for low-income developing countries.
Around 85% of the population still lives in rural areas.
9.         Over the whole period 1949-81 the population expanded at a little
under 2% a year. Despite the tightly constrained agricultural sector, rapid
expansion of industrial output has caused national income per person to grow
fairly fast.  With adjustments for international comparability, per capita GNP
appears to have grown at an annual rate of 2.0-2.5% in 1957-77 and (because of
a spurt in recent years) 2.5-3.0% in 1957-81. Even the former rate is
significantly above the average for other low-income developing countries
(1.6% in 1960-78) - though the latter is still well below the average for
middle-income developing countries (3.7%) and has not been high enough to pull
China out of the low-income group.
Strengths and Weaknesses
10.        China has clearly displayed an outstanding capacity to mobilize
domestic resources - material, human and financial - in pursuit of compara-
tively well-defined national objectives. Given the shortage of land and
initially high yields, agricultural growth since 1949 has been quite impres-
sive. Yields of the major crops are now among the highest in the world though
labor productivity remains low. Agricultural growth, at about 3% a year, has,
however, been eclipsed by industrial growth at an average rate of more than
10% per year. Although a large minority of the population (around 200 million
people) remains very poor, low income groups in China have been made better
off in terms of employment, nutrition, health and basic education than their
counterparts in most other poor countries. Partly as a result, but also
through an intensive political campaign in the 1970s, the population growth



rate has been reduced in recent years to a remarkably low level (1.4% in
1981). Life expectancy - whose dependence on many other economic and social
variables makes it probably the best single indicator of human welfare in a
country - is (at 64 years) outstandingly high for a country at China's per
capita income level.
11.       The outstanding weakness of China-s economy is inefficiency - in
converting inputs into outputs, in matching supply with demand, and in
investment decision making. This is partly the result of technological
backwardness, caused by two decades of international isolation. But it also
reflects the virtual absence of medium-term planning from 1958 until
recently, the lack of economic criteria in investment analysis, and serious
weaknesses in the economic system - in particular, inadequate contact
between producers and users, insufficient use of markets and price
incentives, inadequate linkage between effort and rewards, and an
overstaffed and cumbersome bureaucracy.
Recent Developments
12.       Since 1977 there has been intense discussion within China concernr
ing both the ends and the means of economic development. Though partly the
result of political change, the debate has been fuelled by some important
underlying economic considerations. Future growth will inevitably have to
depend mainly on improving the efficiency of resource use.  The benefits of
technological isolation as a stimulus to improvisation have been overtaken
by its costs in terms of backwardness and bottlenecks. And the remarkable
progress made in industrialization and in meeting basic needs has not been
matched by - and has created a demand for - a commensurately rapid rise in
general living standards.
Reform and Adjustment
13.       In 1979, the Government initiated a program of reform and adjust-
ment. Economic reform is aimed at improving the overall efficiency of the
economic system. It involves: restoring and improving the quality of
central planning and policy coordination; devolving more decisionr-making
authority to lower level units in the economic system; establishing more
direct links between incomes and the performance of economic units and indi-
viduals; and placing more reliance on market mechanisms and economic
instruments, less on administrative directives, to influence economic
activity. Structural adjustment is aimed at speeding improvements in living
standards and involves readjusting the relative shares of consumption and
investment in national income, some sectoral and subsectoral readjustments,
and more emphasis on foreign trade.
14.       Economic reforms have affected planning and management at both the
central and local government levels. A major reorganization of the central
government has strengthened the core planning and management agencies
(especially the State Planning Commission and the State Economic Commission)



-4-
and reduced the total number of commissions, ministries and agencies under
the State Council from 98 to 52. Central-local government relations have
been affected by a decentralization of fiscal and foreign trade management,
and the legal rights and obligations of economic agents have been better
defined.
15.        Other reforms have affected the management and organization of the
state enterprise and collective sectors. Management of state enterprises
has been affected by changes and experiments aimed at improving incentives,
including the introduction of profit retention schemes and more flexible
payment and employment practices. There has also been experimentation with
different types of state enterprise organization, a greater variety of
marketing channels, some price flexibility, and greater autonomy for state
enterprises in production decisions. In rural areas, more responsibility
has been given to lower level collective units and to households, and
incomes have been more directly linked to the output of groups and house-
holds. There has been an increase in the number and types of rural markets
at which households can freely trade commodities. In urban areas the scope
for collective and individual economic activities has been expanded. Some
of these reforms - especially those in rural areas - have already improved
economic efficiency, while others will take longer to have an impact.
16.        Progress in structural adjustment has been impressive.  The share
of investment in net material product (NMP) has declined from 37% in 1978 to
30% in 1981, and the share of agriculture in NMP has increased from 36% in
1978 to 40% in 1981. Emphasis on light industry, which accounted for 43% of
industrial output value in 1978, was needed to provide more consumer goods
to match higher incomes. The shift in emphasis from heavy to light
industry, which began in 1979 and has become even more dramatic in the past
two years, has led to a sharp increase in this proportion - reaching over
51% in 1981. In fact, in 1981, heavy industry output actually fell by 4.7%
while light industry output grew by 14.1%.
Stabilization Program
17.        The implementation of adjustment and reform policies in recent
years was accompanied by some macroeconomic instability in 1979 and 1980:
there were large budget deficits, moderate inflation, rapid growth in the
money supply, and a widening of the current account deficit from $0.7 billion
in 1978 to $2.4 billion in 1980. Except for the budget deficit (5.1% of NMP
in 1979 and 3.5% in 1980), the symptoms of instability were quite mild by
international standards. They were, however, taken very seriously in a
co-u.Liy accustomed to insignificant inflation rates during the last two
dec.des. Accordingly, in 1981, the Government introduced a stabilization
program, which included a moderation of currency and credit expansion,
restoration of budgetary balance and sharp cuts in investment.



18.       Monetary and Fiscal Policy.  Restoration of price stability, the
Government's major concern, has been largely achieved: retail prices
increased by only 2.4% in 1981 compared with 6.0% in 1980. In rural areas
shortages of consumer goods and repressed inflation remain, but in urban
areas measures to restrict increases in nominal incomes in 1981 improved the
demand-supply situation. Meanwhile the major changes in relative prices
between urban and rural areas and within sectors continued through 1981.
Some price flexibility has also been introduced: above-plan output can be
sold at prices negotiated directly between buyers and sellers, and there is
considerable downward price flexibility for goods in excess supply.
19.       Strict price controls were one element of the stabilization pro-
gram but fiscal policy has also played an important role. The Government
reduced the budget deficit significantly in both 1980 and 1981, primarily
through major cuts in capital construction: after rising by over 50% in
1978 and nearly 14% in 1979, budget expenditures on capital construction
were reduced by 19% in 1980 and 22% in 1981. Moreover, the mode of deficit
financing in 1981 was less inflationary than in previous years. Because of
the Government's concern about open inflation, many of the increases in
agricultural procurement prices have not been passed on to urban consumers
but instead were financed by rapidly increasing subsidies (Y 8 billion in
1978 and Y 36 billion in 1981). Total domestic revenues have continued to
increase but not as rapidly as NMP, due in part to the introduction of
profit retention schemes and the shift in the composition of industrial
output from heavy to light industry. On the other hand, extrabudgetary
funds of enterprises and administrative organizations have grown rapidly and
were about half as large as budgetary revenues in 1981.
20.       Innovations like credit financing of investment and profit reten-
tion schemes mean that monetary policy potentially has a more important role
to play in China. After rapid increases in 1979 and 1980, the growth rate
of the money supply was reduced in 1981 as a result of strict control over
currency expansion. The velocity of circulation of money fell in 1979-81,
but this was to be expected during a time of major institutional and struc-
tural changes, including the increased monetization of rural economic acti-
vities and the proliferation of collective and individual commercial and
service undertakings. Bank branches have been given more autonomy to
mobilize and allocate resources, and efforts have been made to influence
economic decision making at the micro level by increasing and rationalizing
interest rates.
21.       Balance of Payments.  The Government's current policy includes
continued emphasis on foreign trade and on making more use of imported
technology. The performance of merchandise exports has continued to be very
impressive, with the real growth rate averaging about 20% p.a. during



-6-
1978-81, due mainly to rapid growth in manufactured exports. However,
merchandise imports, which also grew rapidly in 1979 and 1980, fell by 4.5%
in value and 8.6% in volume in 1981 due to the stabilization program,
especially the sharp cutback in the investment program. As a result, the
$2.4 billion deficit of 1980 was converted into a $2.0 billion current
account surplus in 1981.
22.       The strong export performance is due in part to institutional and
policy changes. In January 1981, an internal settlement rate of Y 2.8 per
US dollar (the official exchange rate was Y 1.6 per US dollar) was intro-
duced for all trade. The central government has actively encouraged
decentralization of foreign trade decision making and has introduced
material incentives, primarily in the form of foreign exchange retention
schemes. It appears, however, that some provinces and organizations may
have striven to increase exports even if this meant undercutting exports of
other provinces or units or exacerbating domestic supply shortages; greater
access to foreign exchange has also stimulated a faster growth of imports
than would have been permitted under a more centralized system. In the
absence of price and other reforms the Government has felt obliged to deal
with these problems by introducing export quotas for 78 commodities, levying
export duties on other commodities, restricting some consumer goods imports,
and raising import tariffs on others.
23.       The Government's approach to foreign borrowing has remained very
cautious. In 1980 and 1981 it cut back sharply on interbank borrowing and
in 1981 took advantage of the unexpectedly strong current account position
to repay commercial bank and other loans. In 1981, China's debt service
ratio was 7.8%. Gross international reserves at the end of 1981 were
sufficient to cover about five months of 1981 imports of goods and services.
24.       Investment.  In 1978, China's rate of investment was much higher
than the average for other low-income or middle-income countries; moreover,
the overall efficiency of investment was low and getting worse due to
shortages of necessary materials and supplies, major transport constraints,
and inappropriate and inefficient procedures for selecting and implementing
investment projects. In these circumstances, the Government decided to cut
back on the investment rate while introducing measures to improve investment
efficiency and thereby protect future growth potential.  The reduction in
the investment rate has been achieved in spite of difficulties in cutting
many investment components: the share of inventory accumulation in total
investment has remained high; investment financed from retained earnings or
local resources has grown sharply as a proportion of the total; and there
has been rapid growth of nonproductive, particularly housing, investment.
As a result, most of the cutbacks have had to be in large centrally
financed projects, which will probably have an adverse effect on future
growth.



- 7-
Growth and Income Developments
25.       The overall rate of economic growth in recent years has been
impressive, averaging 5.6% p.a. between 1978 and 1981 - a much higher rate
than in the first half of the 1970s. In 1981, however, the rate dropped to
3.0% as a result of the stabilization program.
26.       The combination of structural adjustment, economic growth and a low
population growth rate (1.3% p.a. between 1978 and 1981) has led to rapid
increases in the general standard of living in recent years. In urban
areas, general wage increases and higher bonuses have more than offset the
increase in the cost of living index, and real per capita incomes increased
by 4.9% p.a. between 1978 and 1981. The number of urban unemployed has been
reduced dramatically and, with government encouragement, urban
self-employment has grown rapidly.
27.       Even more impressive, however, has been the increase in rural
incomes. Information from several sources suggests that at current prices,
per capita rural incomes increased by 16-18% p.a. between 1978 and 1981; and
when account is taken of price changes, the increase in real per capita
incomes has been 10-12% p.a. About 60% of this dramatic increase is due to
increased rural production and the remainder to shifts in the terms of trade
in favor of rural producers. While areas and households that were already
relatively well off may have benefited the most, many poor areas and
households have also enjoyed substantial income improvements.
Sectoral Strategies
28.       The rapid development of agriculture has been essential because
800 million people depend on agriculture for their livelihood; moreover,
rising incomes elsewhere in the economy and the requirements of light indus-
try have placed new demands on agriculture. Between 1978 and 1981, gross
agricultural output at constant prices increased by 5.7% p.a.; despite poor
weather in 1980 the growth rate was 2.7%, and in 1981 when China was again
affected by severe droughts and floods, the growth rate rose to 5.7%. There
has been a substantial diversification of the sector, with production of
cash crops expanding rapidly and large increases in livestock and sideline
production. Grain production has also increased since 1978 despite a
decline in the grain area, but domestic grain requirements have increased
more rapidly due to higher incomes and fast-growing requirements for live-
stock feed. As a result, foodgrain imports have been expanding steadily.
29.       The strong performance of agriculture in recent years is largely
due to the combination of improved terms of trade for agriculture and other
policy interventions and institutional changes that encourage local and
institutional specialization according to comparative advantage. Of parti-
cular importance have been the changes in the organization and management of
rural collectives (para. 15).



- 8 -
30.       Adjustment policy in industry has included increased emphasis on
light and consumer goods industry rather than heavy industry (para. 16);
stress on modernization of existing enterprises, particularly through
importation of new technology; and energy conservation. Promotion of
manufactured exports has also been necessary to pay for imported technology.
These exports have been growing rapidly but still account for only 4% of
gross industrial output, and imported equipment as a share of capital
construction in industry has risen from 3% in 1978 to 26% in 1981.
31.       Reforms in industry have focussed the attention of organizations
and individuals on profits and efficiency (para. 15). Innovations have
included profit retention schemes, piece rate wages, and bonuses, which
for workers in state enterprises now average more than one month's pay. New
types of industrial organization include foreign partnerships, joint
ventures between urban state industrial enterprises and rural communes, and
industrial corporations with authority over a group of enterprises producing
similar output. Charges on the fixed assets and working capital of state
enterprises are intended to encourage them to use capital more productively.
However, these reform measures have not yet been backed by price reform and
enterprises still do not bear full responsibility for losses.
32.       Since 1979 when energy conservation became a major policy issue,
energy consumption has stagnated or fallen while NMP has grown by 10%. As a
result, China has remained a net exporter of energy despite declines in
energy production in 1980 and 1981. The fall in energy use per unit of
output has been due in part to the changing structure of industry: heavy
industry consumes about four times as much energy per unit of output as
light industry, and heavy industry output grew very slowly in 1980 and
declined in 1981. The Government has been stressing the importance of
improved efficiency and energy savings within sectors and has been pursuing
energy conservation through rationing and other administrative measures.
33.       Market-oriented reforms and greater regional specialization call
for expanded and more efficient domestic transportation and commercial
systems. In the commercial sector, the real value of sales has risen
rapidly and the role of markets in the allocation of resources has expanded.
Collective and individual commercial activities have proliferated, filling
gaps left by, and forcing improvements in, the state commercial system.
Growth in the volume of freight transport slowed greatly in 1980, and there
was virtual stagnation in 1981, indicating that bottlenecks in this sector
remain severe.



- 9-
Development Issues and Prospects
34.       Although changes in the system of economic management as well as
in the structure of the economy will undoubtedly continue, a difficult
period of transition lies ahead. After spending three decades pursuing a
particular set of goals with particular instruments, the country will
inevit'ably find it hard to switch to a path that is not only new for China,
but also one that has been successfully followed by few other countries.
Reform of the economic system will be especially difficult. The measures
described above, though diverse in form, have a unity of purpose, namely to
make the economy more efficient in the sense of both cutting costs and
matching supply more closely with demand.  But the attempt to reform parts
of the economic system without a coherent overall program has also had some
adverse consequences. Bureaucratic reform has been initiated and the
momentum of reform is being sustained in the rural collective sector, but
economic reform on the scale envisaged will require careful management and
coordination.
35.       Constraints.  China's efforts to improve its people's living
standards will, in the coming decade, be subject to a tight set of inter-
locking constraints. Some of these are of long standing; they reflect the
country's fundamental resource constraints, especially the shortage of
agricultural land and the difficulty of increasing yields further. Others
are of more recent origin, however, and largely reflect the price that the
country must still pay for more than a decade of waste and economic
mismanagement starting in the mid-1960s. They include shortages of trained
manpower, energy, and financial resources for new investment.
36.       The food problem facing China in the 1980s is likely to be similar
to that in the past, but it may be exacerbated by growing demand for feed-
grain to support increased meat production. Grain output will continue to
be constrained because of the extreme shortage of new cultivable land and
the limited opportunities that remain for increasing yields. Although sub-
stantial gains will probably be possible in the short and medium term
through improved policies and management, the foodgrain balance will remain
precarious and substantial food imports will have to be maintained. Mainr-
taining a low population growth rate is also crucial.
37.       In both rural and urban areas, the country's effort to modernize
the economy will be seriously constrained by the lack of trained manpower.
Despite considerable progress in basic education, technical and higher
education has been neglected and was severely disrupted during the Cultural
Revolution. Current enrollment in both universities and technical and voca-
tional schools is one quarter of the average for other developing countries.
Many teachers in advanced education are underqualified, curricula are
outdated, and scientific equipment is scarce.



- 10 -
38.       The outlook for energy production has recently deteriorated.  Oil
output peaked in 1979 at 106 million tons, dropped to 101 million tons in
1981 and is likely at best to remain at about 95-100 million tons a year
during the 1980s. Coal output (which contributes about 70% of total commer-
cial energy) declined to 620 million tons in 1980 and remained at the same
level in 1981. It is unlikely to exceed 700 million tons in 1985 and about
850 million tons in 1990, even if high priority is given to this subsector.
Growth of total primary energy production in the 1980s will thus not exceed
3% per year - less than one quarter of the 1952-80 growth rate.
39.       The prospects for economic growth in the 1980s will thus depend
critically on reducing energy use per unit of output. In particular, the
availability of oil for use as an industrial raw material will fundamentally
influence growth prospects.  The potential for energy savings is very large,
as China is now among the world's most inefficient users of energy. In
addition to substantial new investment, however, conservation will require
fundamental reform of energy allocation procedures, incentives for reduced
consumption and changes in relative prices, and indeed, a total change of
thinking at the enterprise level on the way energy is used - all of which
will be difficult and slow to implement.
40.       The energy sector is already absorbing over 40% of industrial
investment and very large capital outlays would be required in the next
several years to accelerate the growth of energy output in the second half
of the 1980s. Competing claims for investments in other sectors are consid-
erable, especially those for badly needed urban housing and for relieving
transport bottlenecks. The attempt to modernize the huge industrial sector
built upon outdated technology will also require enormous investment out-
lays. Thus, notwithstanding the Government's effort to improve the alloca-
tion and use of its financial resources, a high level of investment will
need to be maintained in the 1980s to build a sound foundation for sustained
growth over the longer term. However, investments in key sectors like
energy and transport are presently caught between the Government's desire to
reduce the saving rate (in order to accelerate the growth of consumption)
and its loss of control over parts of the investment program as a result of
decentralization and reform.
41.       The Government's attempt to foster a much more open economy than
in the past may be impeded by a shortage of foreign exchange. Domestic
bottlenecks in the supply of certain agricultural and industrial materials,
together with the need to purchase foreign technology (in the form of
software as well as hardware), will make continued expansion of imports
essential for growth and modernization. The rate of growth of export
earnings depends critically on two uncertain parameters, namely the rate at
which nontraditional manufactured exports can be increased and the degree of
success in energy conservation. Even if energy conservation is fairly



- 11 -
successful (growth in energy use at, say, three fourths of the GDP growth
rate), oil exports will almost certainly disappear by the second half of the
1980s, and imports of energy may well be required, at least until new
domestic production capacity is established. If the external economic
environment improves, manufactured exports could grow, from a relatively
small base, by 9-10% a year in constant prices during the decade.
Nonetheless, declining energy exports will cause total foreign exchange
earnings to grow by no more than about 2% a year in the first half of the
1980s and 8% a year in the second half. Thus the strong balance of payments
situation in 1981, brought about mainly by restrictive measures (cutbacks in
investment), masks serious medium-term constraints.
42.        China's access to concessionary capital is limited:  apart from
what it might obtain from the Bank Group, concessionary capital is only
likely to come from Japan and a few other bilateral donors and will likely
average only $ 500-600 million a year during the 1980s.  Quantitative projec-
tions show that if China is to maintain reasonable growth and modernization
and keep its debt service payments at a manageable level, then it needs to
obtain the necessary foreign capital at an average interest rate substan-
tially below the market rate. China also has a strong claim to concession-
ary lending because it is still one of the poorer countries in the world.
43.        For China, as for many other developing countries, the 1980s will
be a difficult decade, and one whose problems will be compounded by errors
made in the 1960s and early 1970s. But looking further ahead, China's econ-
omic prospects appear favorable. By 1990, most new entrants to the labor
force will have received some secondary education, and the skilled manpower
deficit will have been reduced. Further progress will have been made in
tapping China's large energy potential, and in using it more efficiently.
Continuation of recent manufactured export trends should generate sufficient
foreign exchange for the Government to have more confidence in using foreign
capital and be less concerned about its terms. If the country's immense
wealth of human talent, effort and discipline can be combined with policies
that increase the efficiency of resource use, China will be able, within a
generation or so, to achieve a substantial increase in the living standards
of its people. Whether this potential can be realized, however, will depend
crucially on the success of the Government's program of reform and
adjustment in the 1980s.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CHINA
44.        China's change of representation in the Bank Group took place in
May 1980. At that time, the country had already embarked on a program of
economic adjustment and reform, though its extent and direction were - and
remain partly - undefined. The Government has recently been reorganizing
the bureaucracy, reducing the number of agencies and personnel, with a view



- 12 -
to improving efficiency and coordination. It is against this background of
uncertainty and change that the Bank defined the objectives of its work in
China and developed its initial work program.
45.       In view of the particular circumstances of China, and the policy
and economic transitions now under way, Bank lending to China should aim to
further several broad objectives. First, the Bank should try to facilitate
China's re-entry into the world community. The Bank's experience in a wide
range of member countries can do much to mitigate the negative impact of
China's lengthy isolation. Second, the Bank should assist China in removing
the major constraints on development - energy, transport, other infra-
structure, skilled manpower, and modern technology.  Perhaps even more
important, it can help the authorities to use these and other inputs more
efficiently, by improving project analysis and investment control, as well
as overall economic management and planning. Finally, the Bank should
assist the Government in its efforts to reduce remaining poverty; in view of
China's success in meeting the basic needs of most of its people, the
priority is increased attention to raising rural earning power in the
poorest regions of the country.
46.       In the initial two years of the Bank/China relationship, substantial
economic and sector work has been carried out. The Bank has produced an
introductory economic report on China's past development performance,
economic system and future prospects. The report - comprising a main volume,
a statistical annex and seven sector annexes - was distributed to the
Executive Directors in June 1981. It has been translated into Chinese and
the Government is distributing it widely among officials in China. An
updating Country Economic Memorandum is under preparation. The Bank has
completed sector work in two areas: first, it helped to develop methods that
should improve project evaluation by the new financial intermediary, the
China Investment Bank (CIB); second, it completed a rural credit study,
which reviewed China's rural investment and financial systems, especially
the operations of the Agricultural Bank of China. Work in both these areas
precedes and complements project work.
47.       Work on the lending program has resulted in approval of two
projects so far. In June 1981, the Executive Directors approved the
University Development project, which involved a $100 million credit and a
$100 million loan. The North China Plain Agriculture project, which
involves a Credit of $60 million, was approved in June 1982. A summary
statement on these projects is contained in Annex II.
Work Program
48.       The Bank is continuing its program of economic and sector work.
In addition, the Government and the Bank have agreed on a program of
collaborative economic research, which will apply advanced analytical tech-
niques, develop China's capacity for economic research, and broaden both the



- 13 -
Bank's and China's understanding of the development process. Specific
sector work will involve a review of the health sector, focusing on the
rural health care delivery system and on health manpower development. Other
studies - in areas such as river basin development under the North China
Plain Agriculture Project, and agricultural manpower planning and research
under the proposed project - are expected to be undertaken in connection
with the preparation and implementation of projects. Special studies have
also been initiated on agricultural pricing, energy conservation, manpower
development, and urban planning and management in Shanghai.
49.       The Bank's lending operations will concentrate on the Government's
priority sectors. In energy, the Bank's efforts will help to increase the
supply of fuel and power. One petroleum project at the country's largest
and most productive oilfield, Daqing, would mainly help develop new reserves
and introduce enhanced recovery techniques, while another at Dongpu would
comprise both development and exploration. Other operations are proposed to
support hydroelectric power generation and the development of underground
coal mines. In another key sector, transportation, operations are expected
to begin shortly through a project presented simultaneously with the
proposed project. This transportation project would assist China in
expanding and modernizing three ports, since the port subsector is expected
to play a vital role in China's efforts to speed development through the
import of foreign goods and technology, as well as to increase export
earnings. Work has also begun on a first railways project, which would help
increase capacity for transporting coal from mines in Shanxi Province to the
east coast cities and ports. In the industrial sector, the Bank is
assisting the China Investment Bank, which will contribute to the expansion
and modernization of light industry on the basis of systematic project
evaluation. In agriculture, a second project would help develop
uncultivated land in Heilongjiang for the production of various grains.
Under the proposed project the Bank would support agricultural education and
research, which together can provide much needed skilled agricultural
manpower and the basis for further increases in yields. Another education
project would support expansion of the TV university and a pilot program of
basic colleges. Based on government requests for project assistance over
the next few years, the Bank expects to continue emphasizing the energy and
transport sectors, followed by agriculture, education and industry.
50.       To complement the Bank's efforts in economic and sector work and
operations, the EDI has organized courses and seminars aimed at improving
national economic management, sectoral planning, and project selection and
implementation. EDI's FY82/83 China program covers national economic
management; regional development; general project planning; power, urban and
transport projects; transport planning and policy; and development banking.



- 14 -
PART III - AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION AND RESEARCH
The Role of the Agricultural Sciences in Development
51.       China's continued ability to feed a growing population and to
ensure an adequate supply of agricultural raw materials for an expanding
industrial sector depends on increasing agricultural output. Expansion of
production in the years ahead, however, faces serious obstacles - the
scarcity of arable land, major problems of soil and water conservation, and
the decreasing marginal return that can be expected from further inputs of
labor. In addition, China's very successes in the past in achieving high
yields per hectare through increased use of chemical fertilizers, expansion
of water control, and development of high-yielding varieties make the task
of raising yields still higher more difficult than in countries where
farming is less developed. What is required are new breakthroughs in the
agricultural sciences and technology and their effective application at the
production level. Yet China's agricultural training and research system,
the instrument to effect such improvements, is at present inadequate to the
task. As a result, shortages of trained agricultural manpower appear at
both the skilled and professional levels and China has fallen further behind
the advanced countries in her research capacity in the agricultural
sciences. To redress this imbalance, the project will assist in improving
the quantity and quality of agricultural education and research, and
strengthen planning in this field.
52.       To face the challenge of the coming decades - keeping agricultural
output ahead of population growth - China has given high priority to agri-
cultural modernization. The long-term objective is to reach advanced world
levels in yields of major agricultural products by the turn of the century.
Higher Education and Research in the Agricultural Sciences
53.       Overview.  While primary and secondary school enrollment ratios
have grown rapidly in China and now significantly surpass those in other
developing countries (e.g., at the secondary level 46% compared to around
26%), at the tertiary level China has only 1.2% of the population in age
group enrolled. Moreover, not only in terms of quantity but also in terms
of quality, higher education in China at present is unable to meet the need
for highly trained professionals particularly in the sciences. In 1979,
there were not more than 3,000 with postgraduate training in agriculture.
China is currently estimated to need 17,000-20,000 high-level professionals.
54.       The Ministry of Education (MOE) is the ultimate controlling
authority for the entire educational system, though the functions of manage-
ment, operation, and financing of schools are shared with other ministries
and with the provincial, prefectural and county authorities. Agricultural
education and training are offered in both nonformal and formal programs.
The former consist of: (a) short training courses for cadres conducted at



- 15 -
the agricultural colleges; and (b) spare-time education organized at the
commune and brigade levels. Formal programs are offered in tertiary
institutions - colleges and universities - and at the senior secondary level
in technical agricultural schools and general secondary schools with
agricultural programs. Certain specially funded or "key" colleges and
universities are jointly administered by the MOE and a specialized ministry
such as the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA)./l The State Agricultural
Commission (SAC) has oversight functions vis-a-vis the entire tertiary
system in its capacity of coordinating agency for ministries and agencies
concerned with agriculture.
55.       Agricultural Education.  In 1981, 302 general secondary schools
were converted into agricultural technical schools at the senior secondary
level and enrolled an estimated 100,000 students. This is in addition to
some 3,000 schools listed as "agricultural middle schools" and enrolling
around 320,000. The combined enrollment from these two sources, the only
two types of secondary institutions specifically designated "agricultural",
represents less than 1% of total enrollees at the secondary level. At the
tertiary level, there are 73 agricultural institutions with a total student
enrollment in 1981 of 80,600 and teaching staff numbering 21,000. This
represents around 8% of all enrollments at higher level institutions in
China and 9% of staff. The agricultural colleges offer a large number of
separate, highly specialized undergraduate programs.  Since the interdis-
ciplinary approach has received little emphasis, graduates tend to have
knowledge of their own, often narrow, technical specialties, but limited
understanding of the problems of agriculture as a total system. Recent
changes in admissions policy and curriculum reflect new directions in educa-
tion in the period following the Cultural Revolution. Since 1977, students
have gained admission to higher educational institutions on the basis of
their scores on a uniform national entrance examination. In 1979, 4.7 mil-
lion students sat for 272,000 places at all colleges and universities.
56.       Agricultural Research.  Over the past 30 years, science and
technology in China have made significant contributions to agricultural
development. Discovery of high-yielding varieties of rice and their effec-
tive dissemination among farmers, for example, brought about impressive
increases in total rice production. However, the quality and pace of
research was not sustained, in part due to prolonged periods of isolation
from international research and development activities. The present
research agenda identifies scientific research and the popularization of
results as the key to accelerating growth in an already labor- and land-
intensive agricultural sector. Along with continued research on major grain
crops, planners are calling for experimental work in farm management, farm
mechanization, chemical fertilizers, and cropping patterns. Much emphasis
has been placed as well on tackling problems of resource use-water conserva-
tion, soil erosion and deforestation.  Implementation of this research
program requires an effective research structure and adequate skilled and
professional manpower.
/1 The MOA has now been expanded and renamed the Ministry of Agriculture,
Animal Husbandry and Fishery.



- 16 -
57.       Research is carried on by four different types of research insti-
tutions. At the apex of the research pyramid are the State Science and
Technology Commission (SSTC) responsible for overall planning and adminis-
tration of China's scientific work, the Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS), and
the Chinese Association for Science and Technology (CAST), which coordinates
the activities of professional societies. Each agency supervises affiliates
at the provincial level. A second part of the research structure is ministry-
supervised research. In agricultural research, the most prominent of the
ministerial agencies is the Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences (CAAS)
under the MOA. The CAAS is responsible for 32 research institutes with a
total research staff numbering around 7,500. Research programs at colleges
and universities represent a third type of research activity. In the past few
years, higher education institutions have increasingly taken on research pro-
jects assigned by the Government. Providing the base of support for the
research structure are the research organizations run by the provinces, pre-
fectures, and counties. Nationwide, there are some 1,340 agricultural
research institutes at the prefectural level and above, with a total research
staff of 46,000.
Issues in Education and Research in the Agricultural Sciences
58.       Three main weaknesses have been identified in the present system of
higher agricultural education and research:
(a) poor quality of teaching and research work as a result of insuf-
ficient and obsolete equipment, deficiencies in the academic
qualifications of teaching/research staff, and narrowly
conceived curricula;
(b) low output in terms of number of graduates and volume of
research, attributable to inadequate and substandard space and
lack of postgraduate programs; and
(c) inefficient organization and management of resources at both
national and institutional levels, arising from weaknesses in
planning in the manpower and research areas and from a lack of
experience in modern management methods.
Poor Quality of Output
59.       Equipment.  Colleges and research institutes are hampered in their
efforts to improve teaching and research quality by an insufficiency of both
basic equipment and sophisticated equipment for more advanced research. The
need for basic teaching equipment is particularly acute. The SAC estimates
that the present quantity of equipment at the agricultural colleges allows for
conducting only 50-60% of the experiments required by the MOE standard sylla-
bus. Likewise, the insufficiency of up-to-date equipment at the research
institutes adversely affects the quality of research output.



- 17 -
60.       Staff Qualifications.  Teaching and research staff of the agricul-
tural colleges and institutes are underqualified by usual academic standards
and lack exposure to international research, a factor which in turn affects
the quality of both the graduates and research work produced by these institu-
tions. Data indicate that over 80% of the teaching/research staff have had
less than 5 years of postsecondary education. Half of these are in the below
45 age group, the very people who soon will move into academic leadership
positions.
61.       Curriculum.  The undergraduate curriculum at the agricultural
colleges suffers from two major shortcomings: (a) it is divided into too many
separate specializations to the neglect of broad agricultural problems; and
(b) it lacks adequate coverage of the social sciences. The tendency towards
compartmentalization means that a student learns a narrow technical specialty
without ever relating it to other fields within the agricultural sciences and
to farming as a total system. Yet an integrated and flexible approach to the
study of agriculture is becoming increasingly important as China implements
new agricultural policies.
Low Level of Output
62.       Space.  Problems of lack of space and/or substandard facilities at
agricultural colleges and research institutes have impeded increases in
enrollments and volume of research. Removal of entire institutions to the
countryside during the Cultural Revolution resulted in loss or deterioration
of physical plant at the home base as buildings were occupied for new pur-
poses. The return of institutions to their original sites in the 1977-79
period has posed problems of reoccupation, renovation, and replacement of
school buildings.
63.       Postgraduate Programs.  The projected supply of high level manpower
with postgraduate training cannot meet national needs for advanced training
and research during the next two decades. Agricultural research institutes
and administrative units require an additional 7,000 to 10,000 high level
professionals, bringing the total current requirement to between 17,000 and
20,000. Yet with the current postgraduate enrollment in agriculture at 850 - a
mere 1% of total enrollment at the 73 agricultural colleges and universities -
the country will have a maximum of only 6,000 additional professionals by
1990. Moreover, the real dimension of the shortage may be even larger than
the aggregate balance would suggest due to large imbalances by specialization
and spatial distribution. This shortfall represents a severe constraint to
research output in the agricultural sciences. At present, both colleges and
research institutes are in the process of launching new postgraduate studies
programs to produce much needed high level researchers.
Inefficient Organization and Management of Resources
64.       Linkages.  Institutional cooperation along horizontal lines needs
strengthening if China is to make best use of limited finances, equipment and
supply of highly trained manpower. The present lack of collaboration often
leads to excessive duplication of research.



- 18 -
65.       Staff Utilization.  More efficient utilization of existing staff
would enable Chinese agricultural colleges to expand enrollments significantly
without increasing staff size. The teacher/student ratio for the 73 agricul-
tural colleges is 1:3.6, which is about one-third of the corresponding ratio
in other countries. While improvement in the ratio is warranted, the extent
of possible improvement is limited by several factors. First, the present
large staff size is in part a legacy of the Cultural Revolution when it was
common practice to swell faculty ranks with academically unqualified staff.
Second, it is accepted practice in China to retain faculty long past what
would be considered normal retirement age elsewhere. Third, the institutions
consider it desirable to offer as many specializations as possible, which, in
view of the small total enrollment, leads to the need for a more diversified,
and therefore large, staff. Despite these limitations, the Government
recognizes the importance of improving staff utilization and is taking steps
in that direction.
66.       Facilities Utilization.  Poor utilization of space also impedes
expansion of enrollments. For example, lecture halls generally are used only
in the morning and laboratories only in the afternoon. School facilities are
often not used at all for many weeks of the summer vacation. The problems of
poor staff and space utilization are compounded by weaknesses in library
management, record-keeping, and accounting practices. In the latter two
areas, use of outdated methods impedes day-to-day efficiency and acts as a
brake to institutional planning. In the case of college libraries, while the
majority have adequate book collections, few offer audiovisual materials and
most operate inefficiently, open only 7 hours per day and are staffed by
poorly trained personnel.
Government Plans and Strategy
67.       As part of current readjustment policies, the Government plans to
improve the quality, expand the output and increase the teaching and research
capabilities of the agricultural education and research systems. Efforts are
being made to develop teaching and research units that in terms of faculty,
equipment and quality of graduates will exist on a par with high standard
institutions in developed countries. In research the goal is to lay the
foundation during the 1980s of a comprehensive and productive research system,
enabling China to achieve world levels in the agricultural sciences by the end
of the century.
68.       As part of its strategy to strengthen agricultural education and
research, the Government has selected 11 agricultural colleges and 6 existing
research institutes for an intensive development program. The 17 institutions
were selected on the basis of geographical location, size of enrollment,
quality of faculty/staff, and, overall, an assessment of their potential
contributions to an improved system of agricultural education and research.
The 11 colleges were chosen to provide major geographic regions with a good
quality higher agricultural college. Nine of the 11 have been designated as
key colleges, entitled to special funding and expected to become centers of
excellence.  The 11 colleges enroll 24% of undergraduates attending all 73



- 19 -
agricultural colleges and universities.  Their proportion of professors and
associate professors to total teaching staff (16%) is double the average
figure for all 73. On the research side, five of the six institutes desig-
nated by the Government for special support represent important elements of
the agricultural system - animal husbandry, aquatic products, meteorology,
water conservation and forestry - while the sixth, the CAAS' library and
information service, will serve as the clearinghouse for the entire agricul-
tural research system. In addition to its development program for the 6
existing institutes, the Government has established a major new National Rice
Research Institute (NRRI).
69.        External Assistance.  The Government expects to finance the planned
expansion and improvement program for agricultural education and research
mainly with its own resources and major assistance from the Bank Group. Some
multilateral aid is being provided by UNDP; bilateral cooperation includes
assistance in feasibility studies, fellowship programs, and exchanges of
scholars.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
70.        The proposed project was prepared by the Government with the
Association's assistance and was appraised in October 1981. Negotiations were
held in Washington from April 21-23, 1982; the Chinese delegation was led by
Mr. Zhang Quan of the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade. A
Staff Appraisal Report (No. 3819c-CHA dated October 14, 1982) is being distri-
buted separately. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
71.        Objectives and Scope.  In support of the Government's program of
strengthening higher educatioti and research in the agricultural sciences, the
proposed project will assist 11 colleges, 6 existing research institutes, and
NRRI. In addition, the Government will undertake studies of agricultural
manpower and the agricultural research system.
72.        The project will pursue three broad objectives to assist the
18 institutions:
(a) to improve the quality of teaching and research by:
(i) implementing a program of overseas fellowships and study
tours for faculty/staff;
(ii) arranging for visits of expatriate specialists; and
(iii)  providing sufficient, modern scientific equipment,
books and materials.
(b) to expand enrollment and research capacity by:
(i) rehabilitating facilities and constructing new dormitories,
classrooms, and laboratories; and



- 20 -
(ii) developing new programs at the postgraduate level.
(c) to strengthen the organization and management of resources in
agricultural education and research by:
(i) arranging overseas training programs for administrators,
librarians, and computer center directors; and
(ii) providing specialist services in the management field.
The project will also provide for preparation of future investments in
agricultural education and research, in particular through the two project
studies.
Improvement of Quality
73.       Staff Development.  The proposed project will help strengthen the
professional qualifications of the teaching and research staff at 11 agricul-
tural colleges and 6 research units by providing 633 overseas fellowships and
grants totalling 720 manryears. Fellows and study tour participants will be
trained in appropriate foreign languages in accordance with programs accept-
able to the Association (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.07).
Around 8% of total staff and 16% of those under age 45 at the colleges and
institutes will receive upgrading in various science fields under the project,
with around 10% slated to go on doctoral study programs and 25% on master's
programs. In addition, the proportion of staff with higher academic capabil-
ity (6+ years of postsecondary education) will be almost doubled, with the
under-45 age group registering a threefold increase. The project will finance
specialist services as follows: (a) short-term assignments of expatriate
specialists in various agricultural sciences for about 12 manr-years of
services, and (b) language training experts to staff the project's language
training facilities (total of 30 manr-years).
74.       Equipment.  The project will also seek to raise the quality of
training and research at the project institutions by addressing the issue of
insufficiency and obsolescence of equipment. Given the preponderance of
undergraduates at the 11 agricultural colleges, the major portion of
laboratory equipment items allocated to the colleges from total project funds
will be used for practical training in undergraduate courses. To a lesser
extent, equipment will be supplied to specialized laboratories designed for
graduate training and research. This new equipment will permit an increase
in the percentage of experiments conducted per course out of the total
required by the standard syllabus from around 60% to 85%.  Computers to be
financed under the project fall into two main categories: (a) mini computers
serving the general needs of teaching, research and records management at the
project colleges, and (b) mainrframe computers appropriate to specific
research requirements of certain of the research institutes. To help
strengthen library facilities at the project institutions, project funds
will be applied to establishment of audiovisual units within the library
systems.



- 21 -
Expansion of Output
75.       Expansion of Space.  To increase enrollments at the 11 agricultural
colleges and add to postgraduate intake and research facilities at the 6
existing institutes, the project includes a civil works program to rehabili-
tate and expand laboratory, dormitory, and classroom space. Enrollments are
expected to increase by 30% for undergraduates (from 18,000 to about 25,000)
and more than fourfold at the postgraduate level (from 450 to over 2,000).
76.       Development of Postgraduate Programs.  To assist in increasing the
number of students at advanced levels and, hence, the volume of research
output, the project will aid in the development of formal postgraduate pro-
grams. Specialist services and sophisticated equipment will be provided to
help establish master's and doctoral degree programs in the agricultural
sciences. Over the life of the project, the colleges/institutes expect the
addition of around 150 postgraduate programs.
Improved Resource Organization and Management
77.       Institutional Management.  The proposed project will address manr
agement needs through provision of specialist services and fellowships. A
total of 5 manryears will be applied specifically to advisory services in
the management field. Management specialists will review the current
operation of selected project institutions, offering advice, as appropriate,
on improved management systems and practices and on space utilization and
recommending more effective intercollege/institute linkages. Academic
specialists also will assist in this area to the extent possible. Staff
development proposals drawn up by each project institution call for sending
over 100 college/institute administrators (including presidents or vice
presidents of colleges and institute directors, registrars, and managers-
designate of the computer centers) on tours to study management of similar
institutions abroad.
National Rice Research Institute (NRRI)
78.       The Government has authorized the establishment of a National Rice
Research Institute (NRRI) under the CAAS to help overcome present duplica-
tion of efforts in rice research and to promote the development of advanced
research in this area. Plans and designs for the new institute have been
formulated through the joint efforts of the CAAS and the International Rice
Research Institute. While details of the institute's policies and opera-
tions are not yet settled, NRRI's objectives are to:
(a) carry out projects in rice research of national and long-term
significance and requiring sophisticated equipment and facilities;
(b) develop new research methodologies in all areas related to
rice production;



- 22 -
(c) enlarge the pool of highly trained researchers by providing
both an overseas training program for NRRI senior staff and a
postgraduate study program for recent university graduates; and
(d) coordinate the research efforts of provincial and prefectural
rice research institutes, thus fostering efficient use of limited
resources.
The project will assist the Government in providing NRRI with equipment such
as laboratory instruments, computers, audiovisual equipment and farm machin-
ery, as well as in constructing a conference complex and housing. To enable
NRRI to carry out its functions and to improve the quality of research, NRRI
will set up both local and foreign training programs as part of the project.
Specialist services will also contribute to staff development.
Studies and Preparation of Future Projects
79.       Studies.  To enable the Government to improve its planning capabi-
lity in manpower and research and to lay the foundation for future outside
donor assistance in the agricultural education, training and research areas,
the project will include two major studies, one of agricultural manpower,
the other of the agricultural research system. The research study will
consist of two phases. The first phase will aim at establishing the high
priority agricultural development objectives and areas of research focus to
attain the objectives. The second phase, to be formulated on the basis of
the first phase findings, will consist of detailed studies leading to pro-
posals for strengthening and modernizing of the agricultural research sys-
tem. A draft report is expected to be completed around mid-1984. The
manpower study will be conducted in a pilot province. Its objectives are
twofold: (a) to assess the future requirements for high and medium level
manpower in agriculture as aTbasis for the identification of future invest-
ment in agricultural education; and (b) help develop Chinese expertise in
manpower planning and manpower survey and projection methodologies. The
study is scheduled to be completed around March 1985. The Government has
agreed to carry out the studies in accordance with timing and terms of
reference acceptable to the Association, and to provide the Association with
a summary and analysis of the findings (draft Development Credit Agreement,
Section 3.08). Understandings on the schedule and scope of the studies were
reached at negotiations.
80.       Preparation of Future Projects.  China has important needs for
further development in the agricultural education subsector. An example of
a priority area for future investments is agricultural teacher education,
particularly at the secondary school level where an inadequate supply of
teachers of agricultural science is impeding the Government's efforts to
raise both the quantity and quality of agricultural education and training.
To prepare for future investments in such areas, the project will include
technical assistance in the form of specialist services and fellowships.



- 23 -
Project Evaluation
81.       The Government and the Association have agreed that the project
will contain an evaluation component under which progress towards project
objectives will be measured annually during and at the end of the project
and for some years thereafter (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section
4.03(a)). For this purpose, project objectives have been translated into 20
measurable indicators in four categories: quantitative change, qualitative
change, research improvement and management improvement. Understandings on
the project indicators and targets were reached between the Government and
the Association at negotiations. For an index of project performance
relative to manpower needs, colleges and institutes will conduct annual
tracer surveys of graduates to monitor the match between employment and
field of academic specialization. Surveys will be inaugurated at the
beginning of the project and continued until 1989 so as to include evidence
after the completion of the project in 1987 (draft Development Credit
Agreement, Section 4.03(b)).
Project Management and Implementation /1
82.       Responsibility for implementing the project will rest with the SAC.
The Deputy Director of the SAC's Bureau of Science and Education will assume
overall responsibility for directing the project.   In his capacity of Project
Director, he will be assisted by the division chiefs of the Bureau's Education
Division and Science and Technology Division. A specially created Project
Office (PO) established by the Bureau of Science and Education will be
responsible for day to day management of the project and will be maintained
until the Closing Date (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section
3.01(b)(i)). The PO will coordinate inputs from the SAC, the six
ministries/agencies under the SAC that are involved in the project, the
recently established Project Commission (para. 84), and the colleges and
institutes on all matters
/1 In mid-1982, the Government announced its plans for reorganizing, and in
particular consolidating, its bureaucracy in an attempt to improve
efficiency. As part of this program, the SAC is being disbanded and many
of its functions and staff are being transferred to the new Ministry of
Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Fishery (MAAF). Despite these and
continuing organizational changes made since the project was negotiated in
April, the project will be implemented by the same offices and groups of
people (though as members of different agencies, particularly MAAF). A
period of transition is now in effect, as the complete government reor-
ganization has yet to be implemented. For these reasons the description
of implementation arrangements (see para. 82) in force at the time of
negotiations has not been changed in the President's and Staff Appraisal
Reports. The legal documents refer to the SAC "and any successor
thereto," to cover changes resulting from the reorganization (draft
Development Credit Agreement, Section 1.02 (a)).



- 24 -
related to project implementation.  It will work as well with other minis-
terial agencies, most importantly the China National Technical Import
Corporation (CNTIC) of the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade,
the Government's agent for equipment procurement. The SAC has also created
two special task forces to carry out the project studies.
83.       At the college/institute level, project implementation units have
been established with appointed directors and staff representatives from
each of the specializations to be assisted in the project.  These project
units will appoint all civil works and furniture contractors, assist the P0
in drawing up equipment specifications, be responsible for procurement of
local equipment, arrange for installation and maintenance of imported
equipment, and prepare project budgets and annual implementation schedules.
84.       A Project Commission (PC), with functions and responsibilities
acceptable to the Association and made up of representatives from project
colleges and institutes, has been formed to assist in project implementation
and will be maintained until the closing date (draft Development Credit
Agreement, Section 3.01(b)(ii)). The PC's major functions are: (a) to
provide technical expertise in all specializations so as to guide the
project effectively; (b) to assist the P0 in reviewing equipment lists,
drawing up equipment specifications, and evaluating bids from suppliers; (c)
to review college/institute staff development plans and help select study
locations and subjects for overseas training fellowships; and (d) to
determine requirements for specialist services and supervise selection of
specialists. The PC also will be concerned with arranging for installation
of equipment and advising project institutions on the most effective use and
maintenance of equipment.
85.       Fellowships and grants for college and institute staff will be
awarded on the basis of selection criteria and procedures agreed upon
between the Government and the Association (draft Development Credit
Agreement, Section 3.06).  Understandings on selection criteria and proce-
dures were reached at negotiations. The fellowship/grant program will be
managed by the P0 with the assistance of the PC and appropriate departments
within the colleges and institutes. Specialists in academic subjects,
languages and management will be selected in accordance with the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" (August 1981) (draft Development Credit Agreement,
Section 3.02).
Project Cost and Financing
86.       The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at $202 million,
including contingencies but net of duties and taxes.  Cost estimates for civil
works, goods, and services are based on April 1982 prices. The technical
assistance costs for foreign experts, including salaries, housing costs,



- 25 -
allowances and international air fares, are estimated at $7,500 per man-
month and costs for overseas fellowship training at $1,500 per man-month.
The contingency allowance of $31 million includes: (a) physical contingen-
cies ($8 million) estimated at 5% of base costs; and (b) price contingencies
($23 million), allowing for an estimated price escalation of 4% per annum
for computers, and the standard escalation rates (viz. 8% in 1982 and 1983,
7.5% in 1984, 7% in 1985, and 6% in 1986-87) for the local and foreign costs
of other project components. Recurrent costs generated by the project are
estimated at about $16 million per annum at April 1982 prices. This will
represent less than a one half of 1% increase in the total budget for all
levels of education, training and research. The proposed credit of $75.4
million equivalent (37% of total project costs) will finance all foreign
exchange costs for imported equipment and technical assistance. Civil works
and the remaining domestic equipment costing $126 million will be financed
by the Government.
Procurement and Disbursement
87.       Civil works are in an advanced stage of preparation and will be
undertaken and financed by Government in accordance with local procedures.
Equipment, books and journals for the project, for a total contract amount
of $72 million, are divided into two categories. One list (37% of the
total) contains basic laboratory equipment, and books and journals in
Chinese. These are available locally and the quality is reasonable. Such
items will be financed by the Government and procured within China in
accordance with local procedures, which are acceptable to the Association.
The Association will finance the second category (63% of the total) of more
sophisticated equipment that is unlikely to be manufactured by local indus-
tries. The bulk of this equipment will be procured through international
competitive bidding. These equipment items will be grouped into packages to
the extent possible for bulk procurement. Comtracts estimated to exceed
$200,000 each will be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. Local manufacturers will
be extended a 15% preference margin, or the prevailing customs duties,
whichever is lower, in the evaluation of bids. Items and groups of items
estimated to cost less than $200,000 in each contract and not exceeding an
aggregate amount of $6.0 million may be procured through: (a) limited
international tendering, whereby contracts will be awarded on the basis of
comparison and evaluation of quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers; and (b) direct purchase for proprietary items or where justified
by the need for standardization. Assistance in installation, operation and
maintenance of the laboratory equipment will be provided under the project
by the PC. The Association obtained assurances from the Government that
buildings suitable for installation of the proposed equipment will be
available before the delivery of equipment to the project institutions
(draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.09).



- 26 -
88.       Award of contracts for items or packages exceeding $200,000 in
value will be referred to the Association for prior review.  Contracts
valued at $200,000 or less are estimated to cover less than 25% of total
contract values. Equipment will be procured in two phases spread over about
two years.
89.       The proposed credit of SDR 67.8 million ($75.4 million equivalent)
will be disbursed on the basis of: (a) 100% of the foreign cost of imported
equipment or the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured equipment procured
on the basis of international competitive bidding; (b) 75% of the invoiced
cost of imported equipment procured locally; (c) 100% of. the cost of
specialist services; and (d) 100% of the foreign costs of overseas fellow-
ships. Disbursements are expected to be completed by June 30, 1988.
Benefits and Risks
90.       Benefits.  There will be three principal benefits from the pro-
posed project: (a) the improved quality of graduates and research work in
the agricultural sciences; (b) the increased output of graduates and
research work in these fields; and (c) the improved organization and man-
agement of resources in agricultural education and research.
91.       Improvement of the quality and increases in the quantity of agri-
cultural science graduates and research should, over the long term, enhance
China's capacity to apply science and technology to agricultural development.
The large staff training element supported by the project will not only
benefit the individual institutions, but also represent a significant step
forward in China's efforts to re-establish links with the international
research community. As a result of the project, the Government expects a
rise in undergraduate enrollpnent from 18,000 to about 25,000 and in
postgraduate enrollment at the colleges and institutes from around 450 to
more than 2,000 by 1985. This increased enrollment will not only help fill
the need for highly trained researchers, but also have an effect at the farm
management level where recent decentralization policies have resulted in a
rise in demand for trained personnel.
92.       The two major studies to be conducted under the project - one of
agricultural manpower in China, the other of the agricultural research
system - are expected to enable the Government to (a) improve its overall
development planning capability; and (b) lay the foundation for future Bank
lending as well as other outside donor assistance in the agricultural
education, training and research areas.
93.       Risks.  Project risks grow out of the Association's limited
knowledge of China's agricultural education and research systems. For the
research components in particular, questions remain regarding an effective
mechanism for identifying research priorities, possible duplication in
research projects and the integration of the individual institutes into
China's national agricultural research effort. It is expected that the



-27 -
studies of China's agricultural manpower and agricultural research system
proposed in the project will permit the Government to further improve the
effectiveness of future operations in these areas.
94.       Other project risks relate to the timing of equipment arrival and
staff training. Personnel charged with the operation, maintenance and
repair of any particular apparatus should have completed appropriate
training before the arrival of the item. Likewise, permanent housing for
equipment items must be ready prior to arrival to avoid the possible harmful
effects of temporary installation.  To eliminate these risks, the Government
is preparing a coordinated plan for training, building completion and the
appointment of staff to oversee the operation and maintenance of project
equipment.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
95.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's
Republic of China and the Association and the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d), of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
96.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. A special condition of effectiveness is that China's State
Council shall have approved the Project and the Development Credit Agreement.
97.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
98.       I recommend that the' Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
October 14, 1982
Washington, D.C.



I
I
i
I



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
CHINA, PEOPLE-S REP. OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CHINA *                               REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV7RA6S
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                 -  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            9561.0                                              MOST RECENT      LOW INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL    3184.0                      1960  /b    1970 /b       ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC          ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                            ..             ..          290.0              261.4                   890.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)            559.9           434.9          733,6/c            448.7                   701.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    672865.0          815253.0        976735.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)           ..           12.0           13.2               17.3                    32.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                                    1245.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                                      1570.2
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                                 2070
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                              70.4           85.3           100.9             158.1                    255.9
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND           211.8           253.7          302.9             355.9                   1748.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                                   ..             ..           32.3               36.8                    39.9
15-64 YES.                                   ..             ..           63.7              59.7                     56.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                            ..             ..            4.0                3.5                     3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                     2.0             1.9            1.8/d              2.0                     2.3
URBAN                                       ..             ..            2.8                3.3                     3.9
CRUDE BIRTH BATE (PER THOUSAND)            40.1/e, g       39.6/g         21.1/g             29.3                    31.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)            13.6/e, g        9.6/g          7.8/              11.0                     9.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                       ..             ..                              12.0                     2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)            ..             ..             ..               19.3                    36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)                   ,.           100.0          117.0              108.1                   115.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                          86.0/e            .           103.0              97.3                   106.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)                 58.o7e            ..           62.6               56.9                    54.4
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE                ..              ..           26.0              20.0                     13.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY BATE               ..             ..            4.5/h             10.9                     6.7
hEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)              ..             ..           64.0/h             57.8                    59.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                     ..             ..           56.0/h             89.1                    63.7
ACCESS TO SAfE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                       ..             .,             ..               32.9                    32.0
URBAN                                      ..              ..             .,               70.7                    51.9
RURAL                                       ..             ..             ,.               22.2                    20.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                       ..             ..              ..             1I.1                     37.7
URBAN                                       ..             ..             ..               72.7                    65.7
RURAL                                       ..             ..             ..                4.7                    24.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                 3009.8/e,i    1709.1/i         1096.2/i           3297.8                  8540.4
POPULATUON PER NURSING PERSON            2847.1/e,f       538.8/f        483.2/f          14929.3                  4829.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                  2142.5/e -       737.8          492.8             1100.4                  1047.5
URBAN                                       ..             ..          172.1              301.3                   451.6
RURAL                                       ,.             ..          702.3            5815.7                  2597.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                   ..             ..              ..                ..                    27.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                       ..
URBAN                                       ..
RURAL                                       ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                       ..
URBAN                                       ..             ..
RURAL                                       ..             ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                       ..             ..
URBAN                                                                     ' ''
RURAL



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
CHINA, PEOPLE-S REP. OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CHINA *                                 REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVfjAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT        LOW INC       E       MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b        ESTIMATE /b   ASIA 6 PACIFIC        '  ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PKIMARY:      TOTAL                       102.0           103.0           118.0               97.4                      96.2
M4ALE                          ..             ..           111.0/k            101.0                      99.8
FEMALE                         ..             ..           114.07ik             87.8                     92.1
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                           ..              ..            79.0               53.0                      37.6
MALE                           ..             ..            92.0                63.8                     41.1
FEMALE                         ..             ..            65.0               41.3                      34.1
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)              ..              ..            2.4                 1.7                     20.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                                      ..              ..            27.0               37.7                      35.5
SECONDARY                                    ..              ..            19.0               20.2                      25.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)                   ..             ..            66.0                52.1                     73.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                                   ..              ..              ..                 1.5                      9.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                                   ..              ..              ..               35.4                    116.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                                   ..              ..              ..                3.2                     37.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                             ..             ..              ..                16.4                     53.7
CINEHA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA             ..             ..              ..                 3.6                      2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)            234602.4/e,   339960.5/I   403163.1/J
FEMALE (PERCENT)                             ..              ..              ..               29.5                     33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                         ..             ..            71.0               70.0                      52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                           ..              ..            17.0               15.0                     17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                        37.0/e          41.7            41.8                40.0                     38.5
MALE                                            ..             ..               ..               51.8                     50.5
FEMALE                                          ..             ..              ..                23.8                     26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                         ..              ..             0.9                1.0                      1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT Of PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..
HIGhEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                        ..              ..              ..              133.8                     194.7
RURAL                                        ..              ..              ..              111.5                     155.1
ESTLMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                        ..              ..              ..                  ..                   178.2
RURAL                                        ..              ..              ..                  ..                   164.9
ESTIMATED POPULAT1ON BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                        ..              ..              ..               43.8                      24.4
RURAL                                        ..              ..              ..               51.7                      41.1
Not available.
Not applicable.
NOTES
* All data exclode Taiwan, China.
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   Country estimate is 644 kilogram of coal equivalent.
'Th   Latest estimate of annual growth of population is 1.2%.
/e   1957; /f Including barefoot doctors; /g Bank crude birth and death rate estimates for 1979 were higher
than the official data.  The official rates have been adjusted accordingly; /h Bank demographic analyses
atilize a higher estimate of the crude mortality rate than the 6.2 that is officially given. The values
of infant and child mortality shown here, based on the Bank-s analyses, are thus higher than use of the
official figures would indicate; and the estimate here of life expectancy is lower than the official
figure of 68.2 years; /i Excluding traditional medical doctors.
/j   Including military personnel and those awaiting permanent jobs, most of whom are in temporary jobs; /k 1977.
May, 1982



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
lEPlNITIhtS IIF O11IAL INDICATORS
Notes.  Although tI dh     ea d  droenfrm-norengeer Ideudge  the  -st auhrtaiesd reliabe.  It should also he noted teta  they man no  b, inter-
natinaly ropoostle becoose of the lock ofo dsded dlolfnsad c.ncanne usd by dlteren   o-ntlti-  In noL-ecolo  the data-  The.aaIt,  oe
theless  osfll no descrIb   order  ohegntde.indi-uteteeds. and Ih-t-tntcci                   ebinaao   dliff-eon-  bntee-          otnt
ofE.ahlocoee              .e...o "itlto                 Ilbpote'- troop elc- 'eAddo  Ioos_monh Air stated fllddle tact" Ia chosen  tet-m   of s-enee
_Jo, fly oftecI        tlsIaeu    a   aalt  htudctr    bi  h   omaoof chnnbtua.toonthbainfhatoe                                        deedo on th  an ,labilto l,    di
one Ondi--o at a tine o-on  the cceny and r-ne-ot  g9--s
ARE,k Itno...and enko.)                                                                            .eltc   e   ortltd -toa. cnnh- . ad rcral -p lto    ttl
Totl   Tna  conac  aeaoo tttio  1ocj Irc and  nluno eater; 1h79 Jata,                             urban, and octL II  dIlded by etei . .t.pect Ire oceber oI  osItled
Agnli-ltr-l - neunete of agetoultora  aea  -sd  -upo...raly  -c yt-.nerly                          talbein pobIn andArot  ge atad speclalod hospital and re--
too  -tOy5  yp---o   --te  and kItchen g-dfen  no to lie folln; 1979 dn S.-                   bhbtlttioncent--e          H..   i-olttlaoniblunet-IsetI  sa  a
by on feast ot   hbyslcuo.  t_tab Acets -oodlnt prIn-ipaly ctr
ift _PEtCAPITA 11111 - GNn per capIta coiatsa  cotnoot nab-k y-              Is,c-                  dIaI, on  ae -nt   tlde~d.  RIntlt_         ptl,t.un    include theueh
rubbd  Insomoconnrsin  torod  - Scold look tAlus (1917-80 lasinl. 1101.                 and  mela   ett  ntrtoa y stffd b     yyica   Ia  h
ENEMYl IOlSID fIONIl  PIt CAPITA - Anoa.-I     ontio   f coro  a   neg    oltIalpoot                                 Ina'Istosin oeAlsTioloteea  N.s..t...
andlIAltc,yencleoeo--rlgo-tondt'.ydno-.nn       .ea .n  g        ..inn g ec                necoalinpitcs  fca  onttliplta......claoeaenst
ced icilInlngaso  col-on  en   e   aIa     Idb  l-h-l.  Xtd  19d onen.-  hytch-ine  houpialnanucoe   -nl  and-e tonal.
0                              ~~~~~~~~~~~dato.                                                                                Adnfaaf... ten Hospital Sad - loca  nobe  on adaf alns  o    dluch.,eas
fros hospitals dioided hy ate  -oo-tofrtedo.
POPULATION ANT VIfTAL STATISTICS
TotalPplaun  MiA-Yeat It-o-dul - Aa on July 1,li 19101L7,..ad 1980                           iliUnINi
data.  ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~R-.frb1                          IlA .et .. lIdao  n-i-nf   cartospe.                                       oneod  - total. ceba,  eA  naal
an-ogcuotiea; 1960, 1970i. d 1980 data-h the .o.et..                                                           to h ttad tcoly-p--tn
oaattynLeIuyoot A2c00n-tCme-op.rert--                                                                                leyron-t-cl,cnta. a-d1ceo  -a_eta.o.s-
-nte  cnuat        y at  ad a-   n   hoooeccit ndI.   L41.r  lentil1 Iynoe.                  oel ns  eitcu.                                                              ..eelneecla   c-ptatfsn.tesod
Projecloc - .ata.o.en      - for  onh.utorace.co`li- of thee               ..nAiusato        cocope                                                            rdcts
lnI,- so d leoalelc_fno-oe...t.c..tailfleangatO7.5 y-an.  The p-r-                           looctuo l.felrtso~lttalec-licctcluouo!,g qoaee-a   pencentge
co`-tocer .llr.t..s t...h.rn                          .....au . actdnlloin                    t.tlatcoduadtlcttlcicl
"ehit ...o. dl..  ... ....cc..ne        'hne   an   past  oni  - ola   -rino yentorea1co
_i_ lcan20fgtit-t  at_ _onr cI                 uolrtet   sn .ct ic                              tst aibini - ttl soft11.. and          ...nalt-tic,c ,d,chtldr.,c ond  6tme1
noplocto  itself onayi .  te~ -aio..a.y pIpola ion nice1 -a.outI-oetctetlcco  Inc                                               - onoIson   ray ea_d  ll peetto
-ni-atd.nto bon0  the  -nt cedcaattslsothpooatinct0sarcyaaeblIeI on  b-c  cte off icla1 -cbh-1tt
lae_ oln.t  coclou                   h acatd - TIb  neon st-  -fot-nay yoycla ion                  gon       ... rcale ono toa, o  tac bet  _tliebios-noc-lcns  fnc ynptIIs
alao oill tentaced.                                                                            only~f12ItolOyeae    cftoAt1c...encp-d-toIcotaeaat   geam..naly
toal-1   a  1960. 1911  -cd 1979 Iota                                                         orlode technical, indc...al, on other peognosnot-h cpenate~i-oeped-
P_nsako.oeelulc..lleodC-apotda-sat -nfhrnognicnlto-alIod                                        -clycranS  dtyant-mntsfscotncieica
ony   91,111 and 19l9 daaISyl-octrraI   craorn .an   aiodac-  To-   a-dont Ien-lled  a
Iyyli-4y  A3e Itn--ot  (pettea   - Childlon  li-li mar5,  crkace-gte  117-                     ptisoy and .....oery 1-nel  duo..ded by  -osbec  of -ectn   I, the
lattoo; 19160  097. and 191 SO t.                                                              dut lunay-atreeotI                  - Canat   llts Intl~ et ted ano vinte
fopulitnn itnot butt ytecenl - cotl - bonal troth nant  of tota  end-                fnl otaeo  total adclr poolnnn    d 15 nonsad tro.
Sean popolani- Ion 1950-ti, 1960-70, and 1970-li.
ronolation mooch 9ate loonceoct -utban~~~~~~~~~~- cc-    r-sIh cant  of  reba  poe-  cnOIhtntroOJN
laIVanaI ton  11-hI, 1960-70. and 1970-80.                                                   P-sneoe iOtaIne ttooaond ..  IdEyola- 1-0  - P--so1- cane  --tPeanel
Inode _nh i   t   ye   )tnot  - AnOc-l lic- nirtt  pro tIoc-adof olA--rea                         Oat  aedlang lout boo cigtt yenont  ... lod-sobooct,han od
polnlation; 1968, 1970, And 1980 da.-a-er  oh:ln
_ro eleot            ILce ....tosoof-anadoocht I ynthooead  ofr-d-yroa                       tadi   ttcne(oco ndou00r  - AlIllIofccleu   oydu
ypltn,1960. 1970. an  1980 data.                                                         br_cdi..tog-ne-l pobli~ yen tho,aod cI IopPwIaio oldn  on-
I-ltt-nra-t-t:...o--ly tlt-craeaaondn   no fill, 1970. and I91                                  ertconresatoihd  Ictog
PaolyPoolcfAciytta.oocaletosaca            _ IIoca_os_ef Ic_oe                     Oeton   rrhcsdcclcolorccto Cctacet
F-1,, ecce                                                                                        lcotneodlo  yeanoberolseocac   ft TV coo-n- llec_
ence  'h cild- eriosto  115-u   eoa  oho  use -tacob -coac    Ietea                       Onsppr ucala-t. non Iecotcto-   -clo         .oan- Shico  the a-Itg  tAr-
~lo - aalot decotd pnf'scnly In  econdiog  ,eerlnmI            lo isirlo
ellIODc biTNUTRITI                                                                                  to be "daily" at ItJ,     enoc,ce fo   its00
Ird-n oIf.yd nr-d-c tltpr CaIta  1969-71-100; - Inlet of cot c.pi,. actul                      Cl-s  A,,ca1  lt-da-co ye   a t  cnoo-ando   h  ccro
Isoocal-da-eeaa.Cntcinoc ycrioar.y..6...          oiT        t . 08 .   oganca...             aod -bAleoI
Ira--d of naiad  ahih- orceible  ndcnti    li,tllt    IoIe  and
_otonl  neat   crd-r PIoce  -alit-; 1961-65. li7T, and 1990 Adi.-                      To_tal alon- Foene l1cbcalanda   - E.....aically  -c-otrnnn  i-cloiic
Porn"Pit,splcclnu   crtntnnoAeotl  Cosyc-d I...                                                  aroed fot-nodo...plc..odbcneociodic8h.o.c.                 .s.dtt.t.
Pon doy   Areeloblo  -ppciietfsyIado-tnit prodocco, unpet  Ieus                                Ocr   onaabe   1960. 1971  _cd 1981  I_to
et-,dcha-,en-ns-ok.  Nofn-nyl-ee-ncldtto_sohfeed.s-eaos.I ytooptcnldeoeootct'    ytcnnefiuotto
iacttieo.s   -Io  oopf -ecdodloso...          dI-sbrlbcc-   teloare-                   Aga.cotlnnnlLatctnof ceIonesndfocsrotctiogcAd
ecteani-ond hy FATOac  nod 'hy"lloino   od   o   o lat                                    fishing a  pece-ge0  It Ifato  foc;...                 17   nd1i  data,.
hoa        I-lIlce; 1961-65, 1970 and 1971 da-a                                                  1961, 1970 end 19 aa
Pecciooylo   eocnltotctiylToeiiocco   ntcpla                           Ptr cctieor            pronI-ttl 000   IdIsl -Patfip-ti-nr
*                       oeeaopplloltnooyeeday.  buconpy~~--Iahl bfocoDA                t   Iocrdaohoc    rcdcuiyatoeceuc                                   oot-a.u-  t  ar fesol    ,n    -fc    i-taa
allconoces otlnnaot.ft  -1to r-chio   ycdcyotdl8taso-  afn-iaIa-d                        1961, 1970, end l9tidac.  OTec- t  ba-do   ILL'.scp-iclIac1on_aI
Scold Food Snro-y; 1961-ny, 1970 -di 1971 data.                                                cIctona  lbloc  forceI.
nercpur ontoa  tonlyIccaannal rd    Ic-re tol   -cyyly ot food do-
mood feon unietolo end poloon no lAsso yet lay, 19h1~~~~~~~~~~-h$  1l70 and 1971 Auto.  INCOMEt CitThllTAON
ChlldIant-ilceattiaeeoenho.... d)-                     I d.nad-ahecotoann Pancniaocn--ntelco loh IItah t-dc~Indl.- Rt,incdhby rich-s
tccno iota denlood  Iron Inia  -abc-, 19t0. 1970 and 192dt.c  h_onnInlds
oao_h cetn                                                                                     yAlT~_(r~  -- ~ f   .. fij~ThTy TaleT 181 ......1..... .
antcl19t1. 0n71 cod 1980Idta                                                              and ehcul  ho, noeyetcsftoIAeelccon
biatfotIIocr4ntoohA;ncndttoI.ono.oecnop tnntnbeloenecyItonhna   ih crruo-ottnltnl
of ~arerbh.,aodlco  trct,  htn   9~  ad   Ao  at.                     Aaccc     -orrt Ioccle             sle- s cocenlelo
Accost        h,-dI--                 9IO    ~1 -oaentnreco  198h1in1lfl,tA  aoorlte              ctecalanctdey1.ootooont.deonsfat
hen 0tpecplc(total  unba, etA  otAl nct ecoo'abl.acce...0 saeioffodatlI
Oaeaocolnlcocroedcfceaen  t.nnebdhtoceointd               nneocioaaoPoetIootCclIhI1.oid 1cbnad Ino
ooteiofoato-foalcftuedoroo         h-....no    aid u-..y..        nos               trlelconoeclcoccnI.oe-troa..tpeclt
yItct...c  of thennncetd      e  ppoa.n...          no nthon_ones a         _oi_. c           ptraoIo _Iccorm  of P-the   I- occony. Ice lone] P-  noticed  -bce  -tc -1
t   h     Ita tccosu,l f noltothtd t -hoclnoal cpc~.  Idnn   o   h  tocoeboto              R,r tI-- rrcao         ,0 no-a-o   lu-io  or.  onc..     nbc c-r0 ~Rohto-o
tartl' ooIc ets
Oorctcfecrnto i.l.ota.Pnrot .....o.rcI   oco            ithoi,,yo     hlc
p   E.ccn -tooc  oftRnncctcoolcpo,    ncet  Ioro-soacl
cc-ioitctono-P       utnob-.ulc -ddn-tteat .n.o let pacaceo
..iotnqolctOsdeoo,oocot  ol .cnn Oadic bloe.o b,yoo                                                                  hcoc ......i.   ae. ..Pcatioslonot
Oo-oa   .rlotony.o.Aooc-oo   co    can  i   ot   fr0   aos0.lc
tslodnfealogrt~dcaec-          ennl---,nnooacolot -oad
roenltocisola



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
Population: 977 million (mid-1980)
GNP per capita:  US$290 (1980)
CHINA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Annual Growth (%) at Congtant Prices
1957-70   1970-77   1978   1979   1980   1981
Production
Gross Output
Agriculture                      2.2       3.4       9.0    8.6    2.7    5.7
Light industry                    8.3       7.8     10.8    9.6   18.4   14.1
Heavy industry                   11.6      9.3      15.6    7.7    1.4   -4.7
Net Material Product (NMP)          5.2       4.8     12.4    7.0    6.9    3.0
1957    1970    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981
Prices
Retail price index (1970-100)  92.2   100.0   102.7   103.3    105.4   111.7   114.4
NMP deflator         (1970-100)  90.7   100.0    99.6   100.4    105.1   106.5   109.6
Exchange rate       (Y/US$)        2.46    2.46    1.83    1.66        1.54    1.50    1.71
Amount
1981                  Shares of GDP t%)              Average Annual Growth (X) at Constant Prices
National Accounts              ($ billion)   1957    1979    1981    1985    1990  1957-70  1970-79  1979-81  1981-85  1985-90
/a       la----a  /a
GDP                           263.2       100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0    5.8           5.8       4.9       4.1       4.2
Agriculture                  91.4           ..    31.4    34.7    33.3    31.4    1.6          3.2       4.2       3.0       3.0
Industry                    115.5          ..    43.7    43.9    44.9    46.6   12.1           8.9       7.7       4.6      5.0
Other                        56.3           ..    25.0    21.4    21.8    22.0    3.5          4.3      -3.1       4.5      4.5
Consumption                   185.0        76.4    69.8    70.3    73.8    76.2    2.7           5.4       5.0       5.3       4.9
Investment                     76.5        23.2    31.1    29.1    27.5    25.0    9.8           6.8       2.1       2.6       2.3
Exports GNFS                   24.4         3.7/b   6.0/b   9.2        8.5    10.0    1.6/b    8.0/b   23.1          1.7       7.8
Imports GNFS                   22.7         3.57b   7.07L     8.6      9.8    11.2    2.37i    9.471    9.3          7.3       7.1
National savings               78.5        23.6/c  31.5    29.8    26.3    24.3         ..        ..       3.9       0.9       2.6
As X of GDP
Public Finance                                   1957          1979          1981
Current revenues (excluding foreign            28.7          27.3          21.7
borrowing)
Current expenditures                           15.1          17.0          15.6
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                   +13.6          +10.3          +6.1
Capital expenditures                           13.7          15.6           8.5
Foreign borrowing                               0.7           0.9           1.8
Other Indicators                               1957-79   1979-81   1981-85   1985-90
GDP growth rate (%)                            5.4/d      4.9/d      4.1        4.2
GDP per capita growth rate (X)                 3.5T1      3.671      2.8        3.0
Energy consumption growth rate (%)             8.3
ICOR                                           5.4         ..        6.3       6.2
Marginal savings rate                         0.42                 0.17       0.17
Import elasticity                              0.95      1.90       1.78       1.69
/a  NMP basis.
/b  Goods only.
/c  GDS.
/d  Based on the official real NMP index (as are all figures for past NMP and GDP growth in this data sheet).  At Indian
prices,'GNP is estimated to have grown at 4.6% and GNP per capita at 2.7% during 1957-79.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
Population: 977 million (mid-1980)
GNP per capita:  US$290 (1980)
CHINA - EXTERNAL TRADE
Amount                                 Annual Growth Rates (%)
(million US$ at                             (at constant 1980 prices)
Indicator                      current prices)                  Actual                             Projected
1981             1978   1979   1980   1981   1982    1983   1984   1985   1986
External Trade
Merchandise exports               22,027            10.1   25.5   16.8   15.9   -3.9   -0.8         1.7    6.9    7.7
Energy                           5,054              ..      ..     ..      ..  -45.2  -51.4  -86.7 -100.0    0
Other primary                    5,306              ..      ..      ..            6.5     1.6    4.0    4.0    5.0
Manufactures                     10,533             ..      ..      ..      ..    9.7    9.7    9.7    9.7    9.0
Other                             1,134             ..     ..      ..      ..    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0
Merchandise imports                20,292           32.6   21.7    16.7   -8.6      3.2   15.1      4.3    4.2    7.9
Food                             5,340             ..      ..      ..      ..    3.0    7.0    5.0    5.0    5.0
Petroleum                             0             ..     ..      ..      ..    0        0       0       -/a  107.6
Machinery and equipment          5,317              ..     ..      ..      ..    7.8    9.9    4.0    4.0    4.0
Other                            9,635              ..     ..      ..      ..    3.3   22.5    4.1    4.1    4.1
Prices                                                                                                -
Export price index (1978=100)          ..          100.0  113.3  131.3  134.9  137.6  146.7  158.7  171.7  185.5
Import price index (1978=100)          ..          100.0  119.4  139.2  145.5  149.4  158.8  170.4  182.6  195.1
Terms of trade index (1978=100)        ..          100.0   95.2   94.3   92.7   92.1   92.4   93.1   94.0   95.0
Composition of Merchandise Trade (%)                  Average Annual Increase (%)
(at current prices)                             (at constant prices)
1978   1979   1980   1981   1985   1990   1957-70  1970-79  1979-81  1981-85  1985-90
Exports                       100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0           1.6       8.0      19.4       0.9        7.8
Energy                       13.8   19.5   25.1   22.9    0           0         ..        ..        ..       -/a       0
Other primary                39.7   34.1   28.4   24.1   27.5   26.9            ..        ..        ..       4.0       5.0
Manufactures                 46.5   46.4   46.5   47.8   66.5   68.0            ..        ..        ..       9.7       9.0
Other                         0       0       0       5.2    6.0    5.1         ..        ..        ..       5.0       5.0
Imports                       100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0           2.3       9.4       9.9       7.6       7.4
Food                           ..      ..      ..   26.3   23.7   24.8          ..        ..        ..       5.0       5.0
Petroleum                     0       0       0       0       2.9   10.7        ..       0         0         -/a      46.0
Machinery and equipment   17.5   25.2   27.5   26.2   24.3   21.3               ..        ..        ..       6.4       4.0
Other                          ..      ..      ..   47.5   49.0   43.2          ..        ..        ..       9.9       4.1
Share of Trade With
Share of Trade With           Share of Trade With               Countries with Centrally
Industrial Countries (2)   Developing Countries (%)               Planned Economies (%) /b
Direction of Trade             1978             1981          1978             1981               1978             1981
Exports                      37.3             45.9          51.6            50.2                11.1              3.9
Imports                      73.3             7t.8         17.5             18.7                 9.2             4.5
/a  Petroleum imports in 1985 are projected to total JS$961 milLion in 1981 constant prices.
/b  Includes the Soviet Union, Eastern Europe, Cuba, North Korea and Mongolia.



ANNEX I
Page of 6 of 6
Population: 977 million (mid-1980)
GNP per capita: US$290 (1980)
CHINA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(millions US$ at current prices)
Actual                      Projected
Indicator                          1978    1919    1980    1981        1982    1985    1990
Balance of Payments
Exports of goods and services        10,606  15,351  20,901  25,157   24,663  33,700  71,451
of which: Merchandise f.o.b.        9,607  13,658  18,492  22,027   21,585  29,037  70,166
Imports of goods and services        11,912  17,582  23,946  23,628   24,928  38,848  75,509
of which: Merchandise c.i.f.       10,745  15,619  21,243  20,292   21,513  34,126  65,799
Net transfers                            597     656      640     467       617      767   1,017
Current account balance                -705  -1,575  -2,405   1,996         352  -4,381  -4,327
Private direct investment                 -        -       57     265       315      465     715
MLT loans (net)                        -830      822   1,/56       /69    1,278   Z,/73   ),536
Otficial                                .       ..       ..             2,198   3,231   5,546
Private                                 ..      ..       ..              -920    -458      -10
Other capital                            822   1,362   1,082    -787          0   1,143    -572
Change in net reserves ("-" =
increase)                              708    -609    -490  -2,243   -1,945          0   1,353
International reserves                6,283   6,892   7,382  10,096   12,041  12,041  18,164
of which:  gold                         ..      ..   5,120   5,120    5,120   5,120
Reserves as months imports               6.3     4.7      3.7     5.1       5.8      3.7     2.9
External Capital and Debt
Gross disbursements                      ..
Concessional loans                      ..
DAC
OPEC
IDA
Other
Nonconcessional loans
Official export credits               ..      ..
IBRD /c
Other multilateral                    ..      ..
Private
External debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed          ..      ..   5,441   5,696
Official
Private
Undisbursed debt                       ..       ..
Debt service
Total service payments                  ..
Interest
Payments as % exports GNFS              ..      ..      5.0     7.8
Average interest rate on new
loans (%)
Average maturity of new loans
(years)



ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of September 30, 1982)
Loan or                                                    $ million
Credit                                              ------- Amount ---------
Number      Year      Borrower         Purpose    IBRD   IDA    Undisbursed
2021        1981  People's Republic  Univ.          100.0  100.0       199.7
1167                 of China           Develop-
ment
1261/a      1982  People's Republic  Agricul.                60.0       60.0
of China           Develop-
ment
Total                                               100    160         259.7
Total now held by Bank and IDA                      100.0  160.0
Total Undisbursed                                   100.0  159.7       259.7
/a  Became effective October 7, 1982.
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of September 30, 1982)
None
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Loan No. 2021         University Development Project $100 million loan
Credit No.1167        and $100 million credit of November 4, 1981;
Date of Effectiveness: February 4, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1986.
Good progress has been made in project implementation; bid evaluation and
recommended awards for about $45 million in equipment have been approved by
the Bank. Initial disbursements for technical assistance (about $300,000)
have been made and a major contract for about $5 million in expert services is
awaiting final signature.
Credit No. 1261       North China Plain Agriculture Project $60 million credit
of June 23, 1982; Date of Effectiveness: October 7, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1987.
Project civil works began immediately after credit signature and are well
underway; the first supervision mission is in the field.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to
prepare the project         : Four months
(b)  The project was prepared by : The Government and the Association
(c) Date of first mission to
consider the project          July 1981
(d)  Appraisal mission                October 1981
(e)  Completion of negotiations  : April 1982
(f) Planned credit
effectiveness              : February 1983
Section II: Special Association Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
A. Conditions of Effectiveness
The State Council shall have approved the Project and the
Development Credit Agreement.
B. Other Conditions
The Government would:
(a) carry out language training for fellows and study tour participants
in accordance with programs acceptable to the Association
(para. 73);
(b) select candidates for fellowships and training in accordance with
selection procedures and criteria agreed between the Government
and the Association (para. 85);



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c) carry out studies, in accordance with terms of reference
acceptable to the Association, of the agricultural manpower and
agricultural research system and provide the Association with a
summary and analysis of the findings (para. 79);
(d) monitor and evaluate project progress using agreed project
indicators and tracer surveys (para. 81); and
(e) maintain the Project Office and Project Commission until the
closing date of the project (paras. 82 and 84).



I~~~                                                                                                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~ '  I



9'  6tg:'i2        6;          \~~~~~~~~~N \tSOlid   ' E>_aCv
> *L*  z  t  a x r 8 t Z W S>  
o  \v1\q_   WNiNJ                                          (~~~~~~~~~,J 39.
f,;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'- fS  S1  -         -         f
7~~~~~~~~' 4              _    CtQC;?A               414
v  -5   D  V   n   C-;/          ,_                  r         _l ,  NV                           u
\ | gg r ~~~~~~~~7                                             415y 
0.~~~~~~~~~~~~K
{< s > > > C ,r r ~~~~~~~Z <49  /                                   _ '
r              >           :     p1  9>       ''  5                 ,,5     1   
_    _ e   ai   U i  0r- ar                  s      *   w   \ s
>~~~
(C  c                                                                         A     (             ,
S  >                                                          a
T290                                    '              t           A
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'



