Document of
The World Bank
FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3819c-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
October 14, 1982
Projects Department
East Asia & Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00 = Yuan (Y) 1.75
ACADEMIC YEAR
September 1 - August 31
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
CAAS     -      Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences
CAS      -      Chinese Academy of Sciences
CAST     -      Chinese Association for Science and Technology
CNTIC    -      China National Technical Import Corporation
MOA      -      Ministry of Agriculture
MOE      -      Ministry of Education
NRRI     -      National Rice Research Institute
PC       -      Project Commission
P0       -      Project Office
SAC      -      State Agricultural Commission
SSTC     -      State Science and Technology Commission



-i-                 FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA
1.  AGRICULTURAL MANPOWER AND DEVELOPMENT . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
Overview  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .I..  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  I
Development Strategy in Agriculture . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
Agricultural Manpower ... .  .  .  .  ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ..  2
2.  AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION AND RESEARCH  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    6
Overview  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  6
Agricultural Education and Training . . . . . . . . . . . . .    8
Agricultural Research . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
Issues in Education and Research in the Agricultural Sciences    13
Government Plans and Strategy ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    17
3.    THE  PROJECT   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  19
Objectives and Scope  ... .  .  .  .   ..... .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    19
Improvement of Quality  ... .  .  .  .    .....  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   20
Expansion of Enrollment and Research Capacity . . . . . . . .   25
Improved Resource Organization and Management . . . . . . . .   27
National Rice Research Institute  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   27
Studies and Preparation ot Future Projects  . . . . . . . . .   29
Project Evaluation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   30
4.  MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   30
Overview  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  30
Administrative Responsibilities, Organization and Staffing        31
Selection Procedures and Criteria for Technical Assistance        33
Procurement Procedures  ....  .  .  .    .....  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    34
Implementation Schedule ....  .  .  .    ......  .  .  .  .  .   .    35
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
China in October 1981. Mission members were: Messrs. F. Farner (educator,
mission leader), P. Hsueh (computer specialist), D. Jamison (economist),
D. Davies (economist), V. Billeh (educator), R. Cushing (agricultural
reseach specialist, consultant), T. Ramos-Saco (agricultural educator,
consultant), D. Hartzog (agricultural educator, consultant) and
Ms. P. Harrell (educational planner, consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
5.  COST AND FINANCING  ...................                             36
Overview.. .................  36
Project Cost.. .................  36
Project Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   40
6.  BENEFITS AND RISKS  ...................                            43
Benefits  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  43
Risks ...................                                          44
7.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  . . . . . . . . . . .   44
TABLES IN TEXT
1.1  Agricultural Labor Force Sensitivity Analysis  . . . . . . .    2
1.2  Professional Agricultural Manpower in China, 1979 and
Projections for 1990 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    4
2.1  Growth of Education, 1949-79 ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  7
2.2  Educational Level of Teaching Staff by Age at 11 Agricultural
Colleges . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   14
3.1  Project Institutions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   21
3.2  Phasing of Staff Development Fellowships . . . . . . . . . .   22
3.3 Projected Increases in Experiments Per Course with Project
Equipment in Use . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   24
3.4 Number of Undergraduate and Postgraduate Students at Colleges/
Institutes, Present (1980/81) and Projected (1985/86). . . .   26
5.1  Cost by Project Objective .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   37
5.2  Cost by Category of Expenditure .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   38
5.3  Unit Prices for Construction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   39
5.4  Annual Cost Escalation   ...  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    40
5.5  Financial Plan   ... .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   41
5.6  Schedule of Disbursements .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   42



- iti-
ANNEXES
1. Comparative Education Indicators
2. Enrollment and Staffing at Project Institutions
a. List of Departments and Specializations by Project College (1981-82)
b. Undergraduate Enrollment at Project Colleges by Grade, Area of
Specialization and Sex (1980/91)
c. Staff at Project Colleges by Rank, Age, Sex, Years of Postsecondary
Education and Academic Experience
d. Research Staff at Project Research Institutes by Rank, Age, Sex,
Years of Postsecondary Education and Research Experience
3. Summary of Estimated Project Costs
4. Implementation Schedule
5. Project Indicators and Targets
6. Selected Documents and Data in the Project File
CHARTS
1. Administration of Education in China
2. Structure of the Education System
3. Education Pyramid
4. Structure for Project Implementation
MAP
Location of Project Institutions



CHINA
AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Basic Data (1979)
General
Total Population:  970.9 million                   Adult Literacy Rate:  66%
Primary        Secondary            Higher
Enrollment                   (grades 1-5)  (grades 6-10/11)  (grades 12-15)  Total
Formal Education (mln)          146.6             66.5              1.0          214.1
- as % of age group              93%              47%               1.2%
Nonformal Education (mln)        21.2              4.7              0.9           26.8
Undergraduates         Post-       Teaching staff
No. of            (000)           graduates        excluding
Higher Education   insts.   Eng.   Sci.          All     (000)      assistants (000)
Key institutions      97    156.2   46.6       267.8    10.9             53.3
Other                536    189.2   23.5       752.1      4.6           104.5
Total           633    345.4   70.1   1,019.9    15.5              157.8
Research in Science
No. of researchers:   420,000            Researchers per 1,000 people:  0.4
Research expenditure: US$3.8 billion  Annual exp. per researcher:    US$9,000
Expenditure on Education
Total expenditure on education as % of total national income               3.1%
Government expenditure on education as % of government expenditures   6.6%
Government capital expenditure on education as % of
government capital expenditures                                          1.5%
Government recurrent expenditure on education
as % of government recurrent expenditures                                9.3%
Percentage Allocation of Public Recurrent Expenditure on Education
Primary - 32%        Secondary - 38%          Higher - 30%



1. AGRICULTURAL MANPOWER AND DEVELOPMENT
Overview
1.01      China's continued ability to feed a growing population and to ensure
an adequate supply of agricultural raw materials for an expanding industrial
sector depends on increasing agricultural output. Expansion of production in
the years ahead, however, faces serious obstacles -- the scarcity of arable
land, major problems of soil and water conservation, and the decreasing mar-
gin of return that can be expected from further inputs of labor. In addition,
China's very successes in the past in achieving high yields per hectare
through increased use of chemical fertilizers, expansion of water control, and
development of high-yielding varieties make the task of raising yields still
higher more difficult than in countries where farming is less developed. What
is required are new breakthroughs in the agricultural sciences and technol-
ogy--development of improved crop varieties, more efficient farm management,
better disease and pest control--and their effective application at the farm
production level. Yet China's training and research system, the instrument to
effect such improvements, is at present inadequate to the task.  As a result,
shortages of trained agricultural manpower appear at both the skilled and
professional levels and China has fallen further behind the advanced countries
in her research capacity in the agricultural sciences. The project will
assist in improving the quantity and quality of agricultural education and
research, and strengthen planning in this field.
Development Strategy in Agriculture
1.02      To face the challenge of the coming decades--keeping agricultural
output ahead of population growth--China has given high priority to agricul-
tural modernization. The long-term objective is to reach advanced world
levels in yields of major agricultural products by the turn of the century.
Current strategies to achieve this objective include:
(a) renewed emphasis on agricultural research, both basic and
applied, and a concomitant receptiveness to international
exchange as a means to bring in advanced science and
technology;
(b) strengthening educational institutions so as to expand and
improve the quality of educated agricultural manpower;
(c) decentralization of decision making whereby production team,
brigade and commune level cadres are given added responsibilities
for farm management;
(d) greater specialization in agricultural production to match
cropping systems more closely to soil and climatic conditions;
and
(e) increased state investments in the agricultural sector, combined
with judicious use of foreign assistance, both technical and
financial.



-2
Agricultural Manpower
1.03       Agricu]Ltural Workers.  China uses more labor per hectare in agri-
culture than any other country in the world and this is reflected in the very
low productivity of agricultural labor. The average Chinese agricultural
worker contributes to GDP only one-sixth of what his industrial counterpart
does. This relative contribution is substantially lower than that recorded in
other developing countries where agricultural labor productivity averages
between one-fourlh and one-fifth of industrial labor productivity. Such large
productivity difi-erences between sectors are indicators that the current pat-
tern of resource use is inefficient. If a modicum of efficiency is to be
maintained in the country's allocation of labor among sectors, labor must
begin to transfer out of agriculture. Yet, China will face difficulties in
absorbing much displaced agricultural labor in other sectors. Without a
transfer of labor from agriculture, the agricultural labor force will grow
from 299 million in 1979 to about 385 million in the year 2000 due to the
natural increase in the population. Moreover, if recent sectoral growth rates
continue for the next two decades, 3% for agriculture and 7% for other sec-
tors, the relative productivity of agricultural labor will decline precipi-
tously. The folLowing sensitivity analysis projects the size of the agricul-
tural labor force in relation to the probable range of growth rates for
agriculture and the rest of the Chinese economy assuming that China's planners
are successful in absorbing enough agricultural labor into other sectors to
prevent a further decline in its relative productivity (Table 1.1). The
Table 1.1: SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS SHOWING THE IMPLICATIONS FOR THE
SIZE OF THE AGRICULTURAL LABOR FORCE IN THE YEAR 2000 OF A RANGE OF
FEASIBLE GROW7H RATES IN THE AGRICULTURAL AND NONAGRICULTURAL SECTORS
Rate of growlth in    Rate of Growth in Nonagricultural GDP (percent)
Agricultural GDP          5.0               6.0                 7.0
(percent)                 Agricultural Labor Force (millions) -----
3.0              340.2              316.0               291.0
3.5               352.0             328.5               304.0
4.0               363.3             340.6               316.7
Assumptions:
1.  No deterioration in the productivity of agricultural
relative to nonagricultural labor.
2.  Current rates of population growth and labor force partici-
pation will cDntinue.
Source:  The Basic Economic Report of China, Statistical Annex,
provides basic productivity data and historical GDP growth
rates for broad sectors.



- 3 -
results illustrate that the severity of the problem of allocating labor among
sectors diminishes the more successful the Government is at promoting
agricultural development. However, the likely range of results confirms that
the problem cannot be avoided and will figure prominently in all
considerations of rural policy.
1.04      Middle and High Level Agricultural Manpower.  Because of a lack of
data and substantial changes which are occurring in the organization of
agriculture and, consequently, occupational profiles, the Government does not
have a clear picture of either the demand for or supply of trained agricul-
tural manpower.  The most reliable data available are from a survey of higher
scientific and technical manpower which the Government conducted in 1979 after
determining that a lack of high level manpower constituted the most serious
constraint on the further development of the country's economy. The survey
comprised only an enumeration of the number of graduates from institutions of
higher education and did not include information on lower level technical and
vocational training. The estimate of the current stock of trained high-level
agricultural manpower is obtainable only by piecing together these rather
fragile statistics. It is known, for example, that tertiary institutions
-- colleges and universities -- graduated 243,000 agricultural professionals
over the period 1949-1979 and that, of the currently employed professional
staff, somewhat over 90% have been trained since 1949. These data are
sufficient to estimate the range of probable numbers of agricultural
professionals: from about 50,000 in 1948 growing to between 172,000 and
201,000 by 1979 (Table 1.2). The number of farm households per professional
agricultural worker appears high by international standards and approximates
ratios found in the world's poorest countries./l Yet, in fact, the applica-
tion of technical know-how to agriculture is greater than these figures would
suggest as a result of two factors: (a) the unusual efficiency of China's
centrally-controlled and commune-based system in making use of limited
technical manpower; and (b) the fact that the average level of education of
nonprofessionals is higher in China than in other poor countries.
/1 The LDC mean is 400-500 families per professional.



- 4 -
Table 1.2: PROFESSIONAL AGRICULTURAL MANPOWER IN CHINA, 1979
AND PROJECTIONS FOR 1990
Existing stock of          Farm        Households/
professional manpower   households    professional
(thousands)          (millions)        manpower
1979                200-170                   176         815-1,020
1990                375-345                 150-156       400-450
Note:  Professional manpower stocks in 1979 and 1990 assume alternative
attrition rates of 2 and 3% respectively. The range in the
number of farm households is estimated under alternative
assumptions of a 1.8 and 3.8% growth in agricultural GDP and
an 8% in non-agricultural GDP as shown in Table 1.1. In
1979, there were 1.7 agricultural workers per farm household.
The 1990 projection shows the number of workers per farm
household ranging between 1.6 and 1.9.
Source: Survey of Scientific and Technical Manpower, People's
Republic of China, 1979. Figures on farm households are
from the Statistical Annex to the World Bank's Basic
Economic Report on China.



-5 -
Given a lack of knowledge on agricultural organization and associated
occupation profiles in China, it is not possible to assess with any degree of
reliability the adequacy of current staffing of agricultural professionals in
the fields of administration and teaching. We do know, however, that
agricultural and teacher training colleges are not producing agricultural
teacher trainers resulting in a shortage of teachers in agricultural secondary
schools and polytechnics. The Government has not yet come to grips with this
problem and it should feature prominently in the future dialogue between the
Government and the Bank. Projections of professional manpower for 1990 (Table
1.2) show that China could approximate the LDC ratio of farm households to
professionals (400 to 450) by 1990, a substantial improvement over the current
situation.
1.05      Postgraduate Degree Holders in Agriculture.  The projected supply of
higher level manpower with postgraduate training clearly cannot meet national
needs for advanced training and research during the next two decades. In
1979, there were not more than 3,000 with postgraduate training in agricul-
ture. Of these, less than 10% held the doctoral degree or equivalent. Nearly
all of these professionals are currently employed in the agricultural training
and research systems. Given the size of the agricultural training system, a
minimum of 10,000 professionals with postgraduate degrees, preferably docto-
rates, are required for the training system alone. The needs of agricultural
research institutes and administration require an additional 7,000 to 10,000
high level professionals, bringing the total current requirement to between
17,000 and 20,000. Yet with the current postgraduate enrollment in agri-
culture at 850, the country will have a maximum of only 6,000 additional post-
graduate professionals by 1990. Even with the most optimistic estimates of
the number of postgraduate trainees in agriculture abroad, the total supply
could reach only 7,000 in 1990. Clearly, China will be unable to undertake
the enhanced agricultural research and training efforts necessary to implement
its agricultural development strategy without tripling or quadrupling the
number of graduates from postgraduate programs. This, however, assumes a
perfect match between the profiles of requirements and actual stock whereas in
reality the country is handicapped in planning for postgraduate agricultural
training precisely because it has little knowledge of the current distribution
of postgraduates among specializations and the longer term distribution of
specialists required by its research program which is itself undefined. The
real dimension of the shortage, in other words, may be even larger than the
aggregate balance would suggest due to large imbalances by specialization and
spatial distribution. A study of agricultural manpower and education should
be emphasized in the Government's plan for the 1980s.
1.06      Agricultural Research.  While the organizational infrastructure of
the Chinese agricultural research establishment is in place, it is not func-
tioning well enough.  For reasons of social equity, the Government during the



- 6 -
period 1966-1976, assigned higher priority to basic education, neglecting what
were then regarded as elitist higher level educational and research institu-
tions.  As a consequence, research institutions were underfunded, staffs
were allowed to deteriorate qualitatively because of a lack of high level
manpower, and equipment became obsolete. The Government is now attempting
to reverse this situation and has embarked on a program of staff upgrading
through overseas fellowships, reestablishing links with the international
agricultural research community and improving facilities and equipment.
However, much remains to be done and planning for improvement is only in its
initial stages.  To provide a basis for rational planning, the Government
has decided to launch a comprehensive study of its agricultural research
needs and capabilities. The future development of the system will depend
upon the findings of this study and the research priorities which are
established.
2. AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION AND RESEARCH
Overview
2.0i      Determining priorities in education given a vast school age popula-
tion, limited financial resources, and a commitment to rapid modernization on
the socialist model has proven a difficult task for China's policymakers since
1949.  Dramatic shifts in educational policy over the thirty year period
reflect opposing views on the relative weight to give to improvement of
educational standards versus mass education, ideological qualifications
versus professional expertise, and to concepts of locally-financed and
administered or state-sponsored schools. During most of the fifties, the
early sixties and from 1976 to the present, educational policy stressed--with
variations to suit the changing times--quality, professionalism, and
centralization.  The Great Leap Forward (1958-9) and the Cultural Revolution
(1966-76) saw the pendulum swing toward mass education, ideological fitness
and decentralization.  In the case of the decade-long Cultural Revolution,
innovation gave way to extremism, resulting in school closures, destruction
of books and equipment, abandonment of usual academic standards, a shutdown
of the Ministry of Educaticn, and China's general isolation from the
international academic and research communities.
2.02      These setbacks nctwithstanding, China's record in educational
development since 1949 has been impressive, especially on the quantitative
side.  Starting from enrollment ratios of 25% at the primary level and 2% at
the secondary level in 1949, China had achieved ratios of 93% and 46%
respectively by 1979. Although disruptive of education in some respects, the
policies of the Cultural Revolution served to promote rather than retard the
expansion of enrolled students, especially those of rural origin.  Secondary
school enrollments showed a remarkable jump of 45 million from 1965 to 1979
(Table 2.1). In nonformal education, this period saw a marked increase in
spare-time university programs, night school and correspondence courses, and
worker-peasant training opportunities sponsored by factories and lower level
agricultural production units.



- 7 -
Table 2.1: GROWTH OF EDUCATION, 1949-79
1949       1958      1965     1979
Primary
Schools ( 000)                     347         777       682       924
Enrollment (millions)               24.4        86.4    116.2    146.6
Enrollment ratio (%)                25          67         70       93
Secondary
Schools ('000)                       5.2        28.9    n.a.       147.3
Enrollment (millions)                1.3          8.5      14.4     60.3
Enrollment ratio (%)                 2          17        16        46
Higher
Universities/colleges              205.        791       434       633
Enrollment (millions)                0.12         0.66      0.67      1.02
Enrollment ratio (%)                 0.3          1.6       1.4       1.2
Source: IBRD, Basic Economic Report on China Annex G (Education).
2.03       While primary and secondary school enrollment ratios for China have
risen markedly above corresponding average ratios for 92 developing countries,
at the tertiary level China has fallen far short with only 1.2% of the
population in age group enrolled./l Moreover, not only in terms of quantity
but also in terms of quality higher education in China at present is unable to
meet the need for highly trained professionals particularly in the sciences.
In large part, these quantity-quality constraints are traceable to the
Cultural Revolution. Student intake into colleges and universities ceased
altogether from 1966 to 1971 and when these institutions reopened in 1972,
applicants for admission were selected on the basis of political-social
criteria rather than academic achievement. While this measure had the
salutory effect of increasing rural representation in the student body, it
also resulted in declining academic standards. Apart from the quality of the
student, the quality of institutional resources deteriorated during the
Cultural Revolution. Outright destruction of books and equipment was a
principal factor. Swelling of faculty size with inappropriately trained
personnel and the severing of professional contacts with institutions outside
China were others.
2.04       Since 1977, the Government has moved in the direction of reestab-
lishing formal indicators of academic achievement such as the college
entrance examination and the award of undergraduate and postgraduate degrees.
/1 For elaboration on this point, see China University Development Project -
Staff Appraisal Report (June 1, 1981), paras. 2.01 and 2.02.



- 8 -
Certain colleges and universities have been designated "key" institutions,/l
entitled to special funding and intended to play a leadership role within the
educational system. At present the Government is seeking to build on this
beginning, to improve both quality and enrollment ratios at the tertiary level
as a first step in the drive for modernization.
Agricultural Education and Training
2.05       Structure and Administration.  The Ministry of Education (MOE) is
the ultimate controlling authority for the entire educational system, though
the functions of management, operation, and financing of schools are shared
with other ministries and with the provincial, prefectural and county author-
ities. Since the present is a time of transition in China's educational
policy, it is difficult to define in precise terms the role of each agency,
the length and content of curricula, and, even, in some cases, the classifica-
tion of schools within the system. In bare outline, agricultural education
and training are offered in both nonformal and formal programs. The former
consist of: (a) short training courses for cadres /2 conducted at the
agricultural colleges; and (b) spare-time /3 education organized at the
commune and brigade levels. Formal programs are offered in tertiary
institutions -- colleges and universities -- and at the secondary level in
technical agricultural schools and senior secondary/middle /4 schools with
agricultural programs.
2.06       Nonformial.  Nonformal training opportunities in agriculture are many
and varied, Agricultural colleges offer short courses for agricultural cadres
drawn from prefec:ures, counties and communes.  These programs have consider-
able impact. For example, at the South China Tropical Crops College which
offers 3 to 6 mon':h courses with 30-40 enrolled in each, some 20,000 cadres
have been trained since the institution was founded in 1958. A second form of
nonformal training is provided by prefectural and county research institutes
which train extension workers from communes and brigades. The most exten-
sively developed of the nonformal training programs in agriculture are the
locally-financed and run adult education classes supervised by the MOE's
Bureau of Worker-Peasant Education.  The principal rural training unit is the
spare-time technical secondary school operated by the commune. This offers a
two-year senior secondary equivalency program in the agricultural sciences
with the emphasis on practical production problems. Some agricultural courses
/1  China designaled some primary, middle and higher educational institutions
as key based on the concept that an efficient way to improve the quality
of education is to allozate relatively more resources to selected
institutions. This concept started in the early 1960s.
/2  Cadre is used in the Chinese context to mean a trained technician/manager
who functions to supervise and train others in turn.
/3  The Chinese term yeh yu, "after working hours" or "spare-time", refers to
part-time aduLt education programs for factory workers and peasants,
usually conducted after regular working hours.
/4 The terms are used interchangeably as the translation for the Chinese
"zhong xue x:iao".



also are taught in the brigade-run spare-time junior secondary schools which
likewise are school equivalency programs for adults. Precise data are not
available on how many of those engaged in rural occupations are receiving or
have received some form of spare-time (adult) education in agriculture.
However, to give the order of magnitude here, the 1980 MOE figure for combined
worker-peasant (i.e., both urban and rural) enrollments in spare-time
technical secondary schools is 3 million with another 3.5 million in spare-
time programs in middle schools, 8 million in general secondary schools and
16 million at the elementary level.
2.07      Formal.  At the secondary level, most schools offering agricultural
programs are administered jointly by either county or prefectural agriculture
and education bureaus. Some communes also operate agricultural secondary
schools with the assistance of county education bureaus. The MOE is formulat-
ing a master plan to convert one third of all general secondary schools in
rural areas into agricultural technical schools, a measure which may alter
lines of administrative responsibility. At the tertiary level, the key
colleges are centrally administered by the MOE and the specialized ministry
concerned (e.g., the MOA/1, Ministry of Forestry, Ministry of State Farms and
Land Reclamation) in a division of responsibilities where the MOE handles
overall policy, curricula, and entrance examinations and the other ministry
takes charge of finances and day-to-day management of the school. The
provincial institutions are under the dual leadership of the agriculture and
education bureaus of the provincial governments with guidance from the MOA's
Bureau of Agricultural Education. The State Agricultural Commission (SAC)
has certain oversight functions vis-a-vis the entire tertiary system in its
capacity of coordinating agency for ministries and agencies concerned with
agriculture.
2.08      Secondary Agricultural Education.  According to the MOE's Planning
Division, in 1981 302 general secondary schools were converted into agricul-
tural technical schools at the senior secondary level with an estimated intake
of 90-100,000 students. This is in addition to some 3,000 schools listed as
"agricultural middle schools" (nong yeh zhong xue xiao) and enrolling around
320,000.  The latter category includes both junior and senior schools offering
some agricultural courses within a general curriculum. The combined enroll-
ment from these two sources, the only two types of secondary institutions
specifically designated "agricultural", represents less than 1% of total
enrollees at the secondary level. The number of secondary agricultural grad-
uates on the formal side is supplemented by the output from nonformal pro-
grams, most importantly the commune operated spare-time technical secondary
schools referred to above (para. 2.06). For the future, the MOE's plan to
convert one-third of all general secondary schools in rural areas into agri-
cultural schools will have the effect of bringing around 2.3 million youths
into formal agricultural programs.
/1 The MOA has recently been expanded to include animal husbandry and
fishery. The new ministry is called the Ministry of Agriculture,
Animal Husbandry and Fishery (MAAF).



- 10 -
2.09      Tertiary (Postsecondary) Agricultural Institutions.  There are
73 agricultural institutions at the tertiary level with a total student
enrollment in 1981 of 80,600 and teaching staff numbering 21,000. This
represents around 8% of all enrollments at higher level institutions in China
and 9% of staff. Nine of the 73 institutions have been given "key" status as
compared with 54 in engineering and 6 in medicine. Forty-five of the 73
institutions, including 7 "key" c:olleges, are the responsibility of the MOA;
the remaining 28 have as principal sponsoring agency the Ministry of State
Farms and Land Reclamation (5), Ministry of Forestry (12) Ministry of Water
Conservancy (3), General Bureau of Aquatic Products (5), and the Central
Meteorological Bureau (3). Nine of the 73, accounting for some 6,000 students,
are two-year postsecondary institutions. The rest are colleges now offering a
four-year undergraduate course, restored from the three-year cycle in force
during the Cultural Revolution.  At the end of the 1980-81 academic year, the
B.S. degree was once again awarded for completion of the four-year program.
2.10      Recent changes in admissions policy and curriculum reflect new
directions in education in the period following the Cultural Revolution.
Since 1977, students have gained admission to higher educational institutions
on the basis of their scores on a uniform national entrance examination. The
MOE prepares the examination, allots quotas of university places by province,
and works with the institutions in determining the number of new entrants each
may accommodate. Both the institutions and appropriate local authorities
review applications and make final decisions on admissions. Students indicate
preferences for three colleges/universities in three categories, national,
provincial, and prefectural. In 1979, 4.7 million students sat for 272,000
places at all colleges and universities. For most students, agriculture is
not the preferred field of study, a factor which is reflected in the lower
entrance examination scores accepted by the agricultural colleges. The
composite mean score for 11 leading agricultural colleges in 1980-81 was 369
compared to 417 for China's first-line university, Fudan in Shanghai.
2.11      On the question of the socio-economic background of Chinese
students in tertiary agricultural institutions, mission estimates suggest
that between 50-60% come from, farm families. This figure tallies with data
available from Gansu Province which show 53% of students at the tertiary
level of peasant origin. Key colleges recruit on a region-wide basis though
the preponderant nunber of students comes from the province where the college
is located. Certain colleges allow minorities special treatment in
recruitment by alloting them extra points on the entrance examination.
2.12      The agricultural cclleges offer a large number of separate, highly
specialized undergraduate programs. Since the interdisciplinary approach has
received little emphasis, graduates tend to have knowledge of their own, often
narrow, technical specialties, but limited understanding of the problems of
agriculture as a total system.  However, the gradual expansion of postgraduate
degree programs will tend to reduce the need to provide depth through
specialization at the undergraduate level.



- 11 -
2.13      Postgraduate Education.  A new focus on developing postgraduate
education has accompanied current efforts to increase the pool of highly-
trained scientists. Until now, structured programs at the postgraduate level
have not been part of the higher education curriculum. MOE records for the
period 1949-66 show a total of only 16,000 students completing programs of
formal study beyond the four year postsecondary level. Offerings at this
level were interrupted entirely from 1966-76. When postgraduate schools
reopened in 1978 they could accommodate only around 10,000 students; another
5,000 were attached to research institutions such as the CAAS. During the
academic year 1980-81, 855 postgraduate students representing 1% of total
tertiary enrollments were enrolled in the 73 agricultural colleges. In the
summer of 1981, the MOE began a nationwide review of college/university
programs for the purpose of authorizing award of advanced degrees. Post-
graduate level and faculty research is taking on increased significance as
higher education institutions accept research projects assigned by the
Government.
Agricultural Research
2.14      Overview.  In research as in education, the past thirty years have
witnessed often profound shifts in policy. At issue has been the relative
emphasis to give to professionalism versus ideological qualifications, to
"hard research" versus research related to practical production problems, and
to the build-up of a scientific elite versus extension of the "mass scientific
network". In agricultural research, the net result over the period has been
impressive advances in some areas - in developing high-yielding varieties of
rice and rust-resistant wheat, for example. At the same time, the quality and
volume of research has not been sustained, in part due to prolonged periods of
isolation from international research and development activities.
2.15      The present research agenda identifies scientific research and
the popularization of results as the key to accelerating growth in an
already intensively-worked agricultural sector. Along with continued
research on major grain crops, planners are calling for experimental work
in farm management, farm mechanization, chemical fertilizers, and cropping
patterns. Much emphasis has been placed as well on tackling problems of
resource use - water conservation, soil erosion and deforestation. Implemen-
tation of this research and development program requires an effective research
structure and adequate skilled and professional manpower.
2.16      Structure.  Since 1977, long-term research planning has been rein-
troduced, professional societies reestablished under the Chinese Association
for Science and Technology (CAST) and the system of professional rather than
political management of research organizations brought back into use. The
State Science and Technology Commission (SSTC) is again at the forefront of
planning and administration of China's scientific work with CAST and the
Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS) also playing important policy making roles.
Each of these agencies at the apex of the research structure supervises the
work of affiliates at the provincial level. The CAS, for example, supervises
the work of over 100 research institutes handling both basic and applied
research projects.



- 12 -
2.17      Another major part of the research structure is ministry-supervised
research.  In agricultural research, the most prominent of the ministerial
agencies is the Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences (CAAS) under the MOA.
The CAAS is responsible for 32 research institutes, 14 in Beijing and 18 in
other regions. Its total research staff numbers about 7,500. In similar
fashion, the Ministry of Forestry's Academy of Forestry Sciences and the
Research Academy of Aquatic Sciences under the General Bureau of Aquatic
Products function as supervisory bodies for specialized research in these
fields. Other ministries/agencies coordinate specialized research directly.
These include (a) the Ministry of Water Conservancy which oversees 33 research
organizations with a staff of 4,800 and (b) the Central Meteorological Bureau
which has responsibility for the National Meteorological Research Institute.
Funding for ministry-affiliated institutes is funneled through specialized
bureaus within the ministry - the MDA s Bureau of Animal Husbandry formulates
the budget for the CAAS' Institute of Animal Husbandry, for example.
Additionally, funds for special projects judged to be of national importance
are allocated direztly by the STC.
2.18       In the last few years, a number of national research institutes have
established graduate programs. The CAAS, for example, currently has 80
students enrolled as master's degree candidates in its affiliated institutes.
Plans are to admit 50 students a year, including both new university graduates
and past graduates assigned to rural areas during the Cultural Revolution.
All are required to take a national postgraduate admissions examination.
Given current limitations on college/university resources, making use of the
research institutes for postgraduate training is seen as a means to he:Lp
rapidly increase the stock of young, well-trained scientific researchers.
2.19      Since 1977, agricultural colleges and universities have stepped up
both basic and appLied research activities. How such projects are assigned
and financed is noit entirely clear, but the CAS, the MOE's Bureau of Science
and Technology as well as provincial level bureaus appear to play important
roles in the process. The key comprehensive universities /1 are the most
likely source of graduates and postgraduates capable of conducting research
in basic sciences related to agriculture.
2.20      Providing the base of support for the research structure is the
mass scientific nestwork"; specifically, the various research organizations
run by the provinces, prefectures, and counties.  At the provincial level,
academies of agricultural science take the lead in conducting research. They
also are responsibLe for managing a complex of associated research institutes.
For example, in Sichuan, the provincial academy of agricultural science
coordinates the work of 11 research institutes, mostly organized on a crop-
specific basis. Sichuan also supports around 20 prefectural level institutes
and over 170 county-level establishments which have diverse programs of
research and demonstration. Nationwide, there are some 1,340 agricultural
research institutes at the prefectural level and above, with a total research
staff of 46,000. (,These figures do not include research units at colleges and
universities).
/1 Prime examples are those assisted in the first University Development
Project.



- 13 -
2.21      Linkages among various parts of the research structure are based
partly on personal contacts and precedent. In some provinces, ties between
the provincial bureaus of agriculture, the provincial research academies
and colleges and universities are weak or nonexistent. Where close coopera-
tion exists, it is often fortuitous or stems from particular personal ties.
2.22      Extension Network.  In general, research is the major function of
the national, provincial and prefectural organizations while the counties,
communes, brigades and production teams are primarily responsible for
extension services, demonstration and training. However, in keeping with some
of the more innovative aspects of the Cultural Revolution, a major effort has
been made to integrate more fully the research, extension and training
systems, to ensure not only ettective dissemination of research results among
tarmers, but also a constant flow ot information on research needs from the
production units to the higher level researchers. In some regions brigades
and production teams have taken on the task of conducting applied research and
demonstration activities. For their part, provincial and prefectural
institutes have introduced short-term training courses for brigade and team
research and extension personnel, most of whom are locally-trained "peasant
technicians." China's extension network has functioned as an extremely
effective means of channeling new technology and research results to farmers
while maximizing the value of a limited number ot well-trained agricultural
technicians. Nevertheless, the shortage of accountants, economists, and
properly trained managers remains a matter of serious concern.
Issues in Education and Research in the Agricultural Sciences
2.23      Two major constraints impede efforts to apply science and technology
to improve agricultural development: the shortage of well-trained manpower in
the agricultural sciences and the inadequacy of the research output in these
fields. There are three main weaknesses in the ability of the present systems
of higher education and research in agriculture to overcome these constraints:
(a)  poor quality ot teaching and research work as a result of
insufficient and obsolete equipment, deficiencies in the academic
qualifications of teaching/research staff, and narrowly conceived
curricula;
(b) low output in terms of number of graduates and volume of
research, attributable in large part to inadequate and substandard
space and lack ot postgraduate programs; and
(c) inefficient organization and management of resources at both
national and institutional levels arising from weaknesses in
planning in the manpower and research areas and from a lack of
experience in modern management methods.



- 14 -
Poor Quality of Output
2.24      Equipment,  Colleges and research institutes are hamnpered in their
efforts to improve teaching and research quality by an insufficiency of
certain types of basic equipment and a shortage of sophisticated equipment for
more advanced research.  The need for basic teaching equipment is particularly
acute. The SAC estimates that the present quantity of equipment at the
agricultural colleges allows for conducting only 50-60% of the experiments
required by the MOE per course. Review of the equipment resources of
11 agricultural colleges shows particular inadequacies in the areas of quality
optical instruments, chemical testing instruments, and small-scale computers.
In addition to equipment and instruments per se, institutions often lack such
support items as piped water, gas, and reliable electricity. At the post-
graduate and research level, equipment is not only in short supply but is
often obsolete, a result of Clhina's isolation from the international research
community in the last decade. Up-to-date equipment with a high-degree of
dependability and precision is essential if China is to conduct top-level
research in the agricultural Sciences.
2.25       Staff Qualifications.  The teaching and research staff of the
agricultural colleges and institutes do not hold post-graduate degrees and
lack exposure to the international R&D dimension, factors which in turn affect
the quality of both the graduates and research work produced by these insti-
tutions. Data supplied by the SAC on 11 agricultural colleges /1 indicate
that over 80% of thei teaching staff have had less than 5 years of post-
secondary education. Half of these are in the below 45 age group, the very
people who soon will, move into senior positions. Moreover, as the accompany-
ing table illustrates, within this same age group, those with five or
Table 2.2: EDUCATIONAL LEVEL OF TEACHING STAFF BY AGE
AT i1 AGRICULTURAL COLLEGES
Years of Postsecondary Education % of
Age            less than 4      4 - >5   5 - 6   Over 6   Total   total
Under 30              453              27        -        -       480      9
30 - 45               284           1,451     254        53    2,042    40
46 - 60                121          1,753     263       126    2,263    44
Over 60                 11            199      52       115       377      7
Total               869          3,430      569       294    5,162   100
% of Total            17             66      11         6       100
Source:  SAC data on staff of 11 agricultural colleges.
/1 SAC has provided data on 11 of 12 leading agricultural colleges.



- 15 -
more years of post-secondary education - the prime candidates for fellowships
for overseas study - are relatively underrepresented. Data on representative
research institutes confirm the above picture:  about 80% of total research
staff have had no more than 5 years of postsecondary training, half of these
in the below 45 age group.
2.26      The profile of teachers and researchers in the top echelon suggest
that age and experience far outweigh academic credentials in promotion to
higher ranks. Out of the total 190 professors at the 11 agricultural
colleges (4% of all teaching staff), 98% have had more than 20 years of
experience, 86% are over 60 years of age, while only 42% can claim more than
6 years of formal post-secondary education. Likewise, the typical senior
researcher is rich in experience (100% with 20+ years), elderly (78% over
60), but short on formal qualifications (28% with 6+ years of postsecondary
education).
2.27      A further factor affecting teaching quality is that about half of
all faculty members are graduates of the college where they are now teaching.
Figures are higher for lecturers (51%), instructors (49%), and assistants
(67%) than for associate professors (37%) and professors (22%). At a time of
effort to revitalize institutions, the Government has recognized the
importance of reducing "inbreeding" through an increase in inter-university
exchanges.
2.28      Curriculum.  The undergraduate curriculum at the agricultural
colleges suffers from two major shortcomings   (a) it is divided into too many
separate specializations much to the neglect of broad agricultural problems,
and (b) it lacks adequate coverage of the social sciences, When applying for
college admission, a candidate must indicate not only his choice of broad
professional field (e.g. agriculture, animal husbandry, forestry) but also the
specialization within that field (e.g., horticulture, animal diseases,
forestry engineering).  Specializations are narrowly defined and "closed" in
the sense that there is little scope for outside electives. The tendency
towards compartmentalization means that a student learns a narrow technical
specialty without ever relating it to other fields within the agricultural
sciences and to farming as a total system.  Yet an integrated and flexible
approach to the study of agriculture is becoming increasingly important as
China implements new agricultural policies which, as time goes on, may give
rise to changing manpower profiles. Current new directions in agriculture
also make it necessary to introduce into the curriculum courses in the social
sciences - farm management, rural sociology, and education/extension. Around
half of the 73 agricultural colleges have set up departments of agricultural
economics. Current enrollment in the field, however, is only 3% of the total
for all fields of study.
Low Level of Output
2.29      Space.  Problems of lack of space and/or substandard facilities at
agricultural colleges and research institutes have impeded increases in
enrollments and volume of research./I  Removal of entire institutions to
/1 Shortage of equipment (para. 2.24) also acts as a constraint to
increasing the supply of graduates and research work.



- 16 -
outlying areas during the Cultural Revolution resulted in loss or
deterioration of physical plant at the home base as buildings were occupied
for new purposes. The return of institutions to their original sites in
the 1977-79 period has posed problems of reoccupation, renovation, and
replacement of school buildings. At present, dormitories and administrative
buildings are notably overcrowded. Moreover, while available laboratory
and classroom space is usually adequate from the standpoint of sq m per
student, it is frequently substandard in terms of lighting and ventilation.
2.30      Postgraduate Programs.  The current supply of well-qualified
researchers and, consequently, the volume of research in the agricultural
sciences are severely limit:ed. This is in part due to past neglect of
postgraduate study programs (para. 2.13). Postgraduate enrollments now
account for only 1% of total enrollment at the 73 agricultural colleges and
universities. Both colleges and research institutes are in the process of
launching new postgraduate studies programs in the hope of producing much
needed high level researchers in as short a time as possible. There is some
danger that a concern for speed will outweigh the need for prudent planning,
that postgraduate students will begin their programs in the absence of
carefully developed advanced degree requirements and procedures and before
sufficient senior staff, necessary equipment and library facilities are
available.
Inefficient Organization arLd Management of Resources
2.31      Linkages.  While the vertical research, extension and training
structure is notably efficient, institutional cooperation along horizontal
lines needs strengthening if China is to make best use of limited finances,
equipment and supply of highly trained manpower. Formal coordination on
research projects and communication of research results among entities working
on similar problems would contribute to more and better quality research
work. At present, research institutes under the various ministries and
research programs in higher educational institutions generally operate
separately. To cite an example, in Wuhan, the Central China College of
Agriculture, the Provincial. Academy of Agricultural Science, and the Agri-
cultural Mechanization Research Institute operate separate facilities within a
short distance of each other with insufficient coordination of effort, The
frequent result of this lack of collaboration is excessive duplication of
research work. For example, a recent survey of Shanghai scientific research
and higher education projects revealed unnecessary overlap in 28 out of 63
projects carried out in 1978 and 1979.
2.32      Staff Utilization.  More efficient utilization of existing staff
would enable Chinese agricultural colleges to expand enrollments significantly
without increasing staff size. The teacher/student ratio for the 73 agricul-
tural colleges is 1:3.6 which is about three times lower than corresponding
ratios in other countries. As a result, average teaching loads are notably
low: 4-6 hours per week for professors, 6-8 hours for associate professors,
10-12 hours for lecturers and 8-10 hours for assistants.



- 17 -
2.33      While improvement in the ratio is warranted, the extent of improve-
ment will be limited by several factors. First, the present large staff
size is in part a legacy of the Cultural Revolution when it was common
practice to swell faculty ranks with ideologically but not academically
qualified staff. Many of these staff members now have only minimal teaching
duties and are themselves students in various upgrading programs. At 11
agricultural colleges, for example, one fourth of total teaching staff is
participating in various programs of this kind. Second, it is accepted
practice in China to retain faculty long past what would be considered normal
retirement age elsewhere. Many of these faculty members are engaged in
specialized research and have reduced teaching loads. Third, the institutions
consider it desirable to offer as many specializations as possible, which, in
view of the small total enrollment, leads to the need for a very diversified--
and therefore large--staff. Finally, there is a prevailing belief that
quality education means classes that are strictly limited in size which again
implies a sizeable faculty.
2.34      Space Utilization.  Poor utilization of space also impedes
expansion of enrollments. As a general rule, lecture halls are used only in
the morning and laboratories only in the afternoon with the result that
each type of facility stands idle for half the day. School cafeterias are
overcrowded because all students are scheduled for meals at the same time.
School facilities are not functional for many weeks of the summer vacation
or are only in partial use for various cadre training programs.
2.35      Management of Library Facilities, Records, and Financial
Resources. The problems of poor staff and space utilization are compounded by
weaknesses in library management, record-keeping, and accounting practices.
In the latter two areas, use of outdated methods impedes day-to-day efficiency
and acts as a brake to institutional planning. In the case of college
libraries, while the majority have adequate book collections, few offer
audio-visual materials and most operate inefficiently, open only 7 hours per
day and staffed by poorly trained personnel. Even the CAAS Central Library
which is designed to serve as the national clearinghouse for completed and
ongoing agricultural research, suffers from this shortage of trained library
staff as well as from the glaring lack of computer facilities. If managed
well, the computer centers planned by all colleges have the potential to
overcome some of the above management weaknesses. These centers should be
used eventually not only for teaching and research but also for storing and
processing financial and academic records.
Government Plans and Strategy
2.36      Planning.  As part of current planning for economic readjustment,
the Government has outlined a program of strengthening higher education and
research in the agricultural sciences. In the broadest sense, such a program
addresses China's problem of how to accelerate the agricultural growth rate
given three major constraints: a vast population, a limited resource



- 18 -
base, and a diminishing margin of increase that can be expected from applica-
tion of modern inputs. In particular, it reflects current efforts to reverse
the effects of the Cultural Revolution which caused severe dislocation of the
higher education and research communities thus retarding China's development
progress in a number of areas. Research and teaching in agriculture, as in
other science and technology fields, generally lags a decade and more behind
that of more advanced countries. Shortages of educated manpower in agricul-
ture appear at both the college graduate and postgraduate levels.
2.37      Government plans call for improving the quality, expanding the
output and increasing the teaching and research capabilities of the agri-
cultural education and research systems. Efforts are being made to develop
teaching and research units that in terms of faculty, equipment and level of
graduate will exist on a par with high standard institutions in developed
countries. In researc'n the goal is to lay the foundation during the 1980s of
a comprehensive and productive research system enabling China to achieve world
levels in the agricultural sciences by the end of the century.
2.38      Strategy.  Since 1977 the Government has taken major steps in
the direction of quality improvement in higher education. A national
college entrance examination was reintroduced in 1977; 1981 saw revival of
a system of awarding academic degrees. Increasingly, teachers and
researchers are being sent abroad for advanced degree study or are studying
on an exchange basis at universities and colleges within China. A survey of
11 agricultural colleges shcws a total of 102 faculty members on fellowships
and study tours abroad during 1981-82 and another 93 slated to go overseas
in 1982-83. Program locations cover Europe, North America, Japan and
Southeast Asia. Categories of training include the 2-3 month study tour,
1 year advanced non-degree trairLing, 2-3 year master's degree programs and
special arrangements such as the visiting scholar and cooperative research
programs. In-country training for faculty of the 11 colleges, including those
on leave for advanced study and those taking short-term courses at their own
institutions or at other institutions within China, has assumed considerable
importance. Over 50% of the faculty at Northwest Agricultural College is
participating in some form of upgrading program; for another 5 colleges, the
figure is between 20 and 30%.
2.39      As part of its strategy to strengthen agricultural education and
research, the Government has selected 11 agricultural colleges and 6 existing
research institutes for an intensive development program. The 17 institutions
were selected on the basis of geographical location, size of enrollment,
quality of faculty/staff, and, overall, an assessment of their potential
contributions to an improved system of agricultural education and research.
The 11 colleges were chosen so as to provide in each of 6 major geographic
areas a good quality higher agricultural college.  Nine of the 11 have "key"
status, The 11 colleges enroll 24% of undergraduates attending all 73
agricultural colleges and universities. The proportion of professors and
associate professors to total teaching staff (16%) is double the figure for
all 73 (8%). On the research side, 5 of the 6 institutes designated by the



- 19 -
Government for special support represent important elements of the agricul-
tural system - animal husbandry, aquatic products, meteorology, water
conservation and forestry while the sixth, the CAAS library and information
service, will serve as the clearinghouse for the entire agricultural research
system. In addition to its development program for the 6 existing institutes,
the Government has established a major new institute to serve national needs
in rice research. Plans for the National Rice Research Institute (NRRI) call
for construction of buildings and development of an experimental farm on two
sites near Hangzhou (Zhejiang). The Institute will undertake long-term
projects in research, coordinate the work of existing provincial rice research
institutes, and conduct postgraduate level training programs.
2.40      External Assistance.  The Government expects to finance the planned
expansion and improvement program for agricultural education and research
with its own resources and major assistance from the Bank group. Some multi-
lateral aid is being provided by UNDP;/l bilateral cooperation includes assis-
tance in feasibility studies, fellowship programs, and exchanges of scholars.
3. THE PROJECT
Objectives and Scope
3.01      In support of the Government's program of strengthening higher
education and research in the agricultural sciences, the proposed project will
assist 11 colleges, 6 existing research institutes, and the new NRRI. In
addition, the Government will undertake two studies of agricultural manpower
and the agricultural research system (para. 3.22).
3.02      The project will pursue three broad objectives to assist the 18
institutions:
(a) to improve the quality of teaching and research by:
(i)  implementing a program of overseas fellowships and study
tours for faculty/staff;
(ii) arranging for visits of expatriate specialists; and
(iii) providing necessary modern scientific equipment, books
and materials.
/1 The UNDP has a project underway to assist 5 key agricultural colleges
(4 of which are in the Agricultural Education and Research Project, one in
University Development I) to improve teaching and research, upgrade staff,
and improve physical facilities and equipment. The Government input is
Y 4.1 million, the UNDP input US$800,000.



- 20 -
(b)  to expand enrollment and research capacity by:
(i) rehabilitating facilities and constructing new dormitories,
classrooms, and laboratories; and
(ii) developing new programs at the postgraduate level.
(c) to strengthen the organization and management of resources in
agricultural education and research by:
(i)  arranging overseas training programs for administrators,
librarians, and computer center directors; and
(ii) providing specialist services in the management field.
Association assistance in the effort to achieve these objectives will take the
form of financing for imported equipment and technical assistance. Civil
works and domestic equipment will be provided by the Government. Project
institutions to be assisted under the project are shown in Table 3.1./1
Improvement of Quality (estimated outlay of US$80 million excluding
contingencies)
3.03       Staff Development.  The proposed project will help strengthen the
professional qualifications of the teaching and research staff at the 11
agricultural colleges and 6 research units. At present, only 17% of college
teaching staff and 20% of research institute staff have five or more years
of higher education (para. 2.25 and Annex 2c and d) and even those with the
best academic credentials are outdated in their knowledge. Recognizing the
need for additional well-trained scientists in order to achieve current
development objectives, the Government in recent years has encouraged
research and teazhing units to send staff for professional training abroad.
In support of this policy, the proposed project will provide 633 overseas
fellowships and grants totalling 720 man-years to strengthen staff capability
in the agricultural sciences. According to present estimates, 429 persons
will be sent abroad from the 11 agricultural colleges: 35 for 3-year
doctoral programs, 120 for 2-year master s degree programs, 114 for a year of
advanced study with 160 participating in 2-6 month study tours in various
science specialties. The 6 institutes will sponsor a total of 204 persons
for overseas study and observation: 6 doctoral and 27 master's degree
candidates, 87 candidates for advanced study and 84 participants in academic
study tours. Thus, around 8% of total staff and 16% of those under age 45 at
the colleges and institutes will receive upgrading in various science fields
under the project. In addition, the proportion of staff with higher academic
capability (6+ years of postsecondary education) will be almost doubled with
the under-45 age group registering a near three-fold increase.
/1 As a newly established institute, NRRI is treated in a separate section
(para. 3.18).



- 21 -
Table 3.1: PROJECT INSTITUTIONS
1980/81
Teaching/
Ministry/Bureau                        Enroll-  Research
College/Institute            affiliation            Location      ment /a  staff
Nanjing Agricultural       MOA                      Nanjing,       1,147    484
College                                          Jiangsu          (136)
Central China              MOA                     Wuhan,          2,361    675
Agricultural College                             Hubei            (374)
South China                MOA                      Guangzhou,    2,054    674
Agricultural College                             Guangdong        (528)
Northwestern               MOA                      Xian,          2,178    555
Agricultural College                              Shaanxi         (306)
Soutlhwestern              MOA                      Chongqing,    2,527    474
Agricultural College                              Sichuan         (528)
Shenyang Agricultural    MOA                        Shenyang,      1,901    592
College                                          Liaoning         (410)
South China Tropical       Ministry of State        Hainan,          677    180
Crops College           Farms & land             Guangdong        (100)
Reclamation
Beijing Forestry           Ministry of Forestry   Beijing            940    323
College                                                           (227)
East China Technical       Ministry of Water       Nanjing,        2,680    629
University of Water    Conservancy               Jiangsu          (309)
Resources
Shanghai Aquatic           General Bureau of        Shanghai         709    276
Products College        Aquatic Products                          (105)
Nanjing Meteorological   Central Meteoro-          Nanjing,        1,176    300
College                  logical Bureau          Jiangsu          (317)
CAAS Animal Husbandry    CAAS (MOA)                 Beijing                  120
Research Institute
CAAS Library and           CAAS (MOA)              Beijing                   124
Information Center
Center for Monitoring    Ministry of Forestry   Beijing                     130
Forestry Resources       Survey & Planning
Institute
Water Conservancy          Ministry of Water        8 locations -          1,929
Research Centers         Conservancy             see map
Lake Taihu Experimental  General Bureau of         Wuxi,                      41
Base                    Aquatic Products         Jiangsu
Mleteorology Data          Central                  Beijing                  48
Service Center          Meteorological
Bureau
National Rice Research   CAAS                      Hangzhou,
Institute                                        Zhejiang            -      -
/a  Female enrollment in parentheses.



- 22 -
3.04      The distribution of fellowships and grants by subject area shows
broad coverage of all major fields: 43 specializations are listed by the
project colleges and 25 by the institutes. In terms of man-years, relative
weight has been given to the fields of general science, agriculture and
engineering. The preponderance of fellows (84%) will study in English
speaking countries with 13% studying in Japan and the remaining few going
to non-English speaking countries.
Fellowships would be phased as follows:
Table 3.2.  PHASING OF STAFF DEVELOPMENT FELLOWSHIPS
FOR PROJECT COLLEGES AND INSTITUTES
Fellowships /a        1932     1983       1984       Total
Doctoral               10        24          7         41
Master's               30        84         33        147
Advanced study         30        94         77        201
Total            70        202        117        389
/a  Note that this table does not include study tours.
Source: Based on SAC data supplied to the Appraisal
Mission.
3.05      Fellowslips will be awarded according to procedures and criteria
agreed upon betweejn the Government and the Association (para. 4.09). Before
departure for overseas study:  fellows and study tour participants will be
trained in appropiiate foreign languages. For purposes of the project, the
SAC will establish foreign language facilities offering courses of 3-12
months- duration t:o approxiinately 150 persons per year. Assurances were
obtained from the Government: at the time of negotiations that foreign
language training will be carried out in accordance with programs acceptable
to the Associatiorn.
3.06      The fellowship/grant program will be managed by the SAC Project
Office with the assistance of the Project Commission (PC) (para. 4.06) and
appropriate depart:ments within the colleges and institutes. These groups
will work closely with the overseas institutions which will receive the
fellows and grantees.
3.07       Specialist Services (academic and language training).  The proposed
project will finance specialist services in the agricultural sciences and
language training areas as follows:
(a)  short-tErm assignmaents of expatriate specialists in various
agricultural scienices for a total of about 7 man-years of services.
Such spE>cialists will be used not only as lecturers in their
specialized fields but also as consultants who will advise



- 23 -
colleges and institutes, inter alia, on curriculum development,
staff development, and establishing postgraduate degree programs.
(b) language training experts to staff the project language
training facilities (total of 30 man-years).
The Government will submit for Association review draft terms of reference
for specialist services before signing technical assistance contracts.
Specialists will be selected in accordance with the Association's "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" (August 1981).
3.08      Equipment.  Due to the neglect of education and research during the
Cultural Revolution, equipment in project institutions is obsolescent and
insufficient to meet the basic needs of training and research. The project
will seek to remedy this by providing the essential equipment and materials
categorized as follows: (a) laboratory equipment and instruments; (b) com-
puters; (c) library and audiovisual equipment; (d) books and journals; and (e)
laboratory materials and reagents. Government funds will be applied to the
purchase of items available within the country, including some laboratory
equipment, books and journals in Chinese, and laboratory materials and
reagents. Remaining items in the laboratory equipment and books categories as
well as all computers and audiovisual equipment procured from international
competitive bidding or direct purchase from foreign countries will be financed
from credit proceeds. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the
Government that buildings suitable to accommodate equipment to be installed
will be available before delivery of equipment to project institutions.
3.09      Laboratory Equipment and Instruments.  Given the preponderance of
undergraduates at the 11 agricultural colleges, the major portion of labora-
tory equipment items allocated to the colleges from total project funds will
be used for practical training in undergraduate courses. To a lesser extent,
equipment will be supplied to specialized laboratories designed for post-
graduate training and research. Laboratory equipment for the research
institutes will be used almost entirely for research, although, as noted
earlier (para. 2.18), some of these institutions have graduate training
programs as well. There will be considerable diversity in the type of
equipment provided to match the range of research concerns represented by the
institutes.
3.10      In terms of subject matter, equipment items will be used in teach-
ing the courses required in an agricultural sciences curriculum, including
agronomy, plant physiology, soil chemistry, plant genetics, and animal
diseases.  Over 75% of equipment will be common to all 11 colleges and will
include a range of items from basic equipment (glassware, hardware, simple
balances) some of which will be provided through local funding, standard
equipment (pH meters, spectrophotometers, monocular microscopes), advanced
equipment (gas and liquid chromatographs, atomic absorption spectrophoto-
meters, and research microscopes), and, only exceptionally, over the life of



- 24 -
the project, such pieces of very advanced and special equipment as electron
microscopes and remote sensing devices. About 10% of total project equipment
assistance has been termed undesignated to permit the PC flexibility in making
final procurement decisions.
3.11      Laboratory equipment provided under the project will permit the
11 colleges to increase the percentage of experiments conducted per course
out of the total required by the standard syllabus from 59% to 83% (Table
3.3) as well as meeting the basic research needs of both the colleges and
research institutes. Not only will the quantity of experiments increase as
equipment is acquired under the project, but also the quality of laboratory
Table 3.3: PROJECTED INCREASES IN EXPERIMENTS PER COURSE
WITH PROJECT EQUIPMENT IN USE
(%)
Percentage of
experiments carried out
With
At             project
College                                                present          equipment
Nanjing Agricultural College                              50               60
Central China Agricultural College                        62               87
South China Agricaltural College                          57               75
Northwestern Agricultural College                         81               94
Southwestern Agricultural College                         60               85
Shenyang Agricult-iral College                            70               90
South China Tropical Crops College                       40                80
Beijing Forestry College                                  60               95
East China Technizal University of Water Resources    75                   88
Shanghai Aquatic Products College                         51               89
Nanjing Meteorological College                            40               70
Average                                             59               83
Source: Estimates prepared by project colleges.



- 25 -
work is expected to improve as students and researchers gain access to
better equipment. Both aspects will contribute to improved programs of
instruction and research.
3.12       Computers.  Computers to be financed under the project fall into
two main categories: (a) high-end mini computers serving the general needs
of teaching, research and records management at the project institutions,
and (b) low-end main-frame computers appropriate to specific research
requirements of certain of the research institutes. So that all colleges
might begin basic computer training courses even before the mini computer
units can be made operational, the project will provide the 7 colleges
which now have no computer facilities with microcomputer classrooms, each
equipped with 15 microcomputers. Of the four institutes slated to acquire
larger computer units, one, the Nanjing Water Conservancy Institute, will
establish a combined facility with the East China Technical University of
Water Resources, thus reducing total acquisition costs. The latter college
will absorb 10 out of a total 19 fellowships/grants offered the project
colleges in the computer field. The Meteorology Data Service Center (MDSC)
will receive the preponderant number (18 out of 20) on the institute side.
With equipment and specialist services provided under the project, the CAAS
Library and Information Center will undertake a feasibility study on compu-
terization of foreign and Chinese agricultural literature specifically
useful to the Center and more generally answering a need at all project
colleges and institutes.
3.13      Library and Audiovisual Equipment.  To help strengthen library
facilities at the project institutions, project funds will be applied to:
(a) acquisition of up-to-date books and journals; and (b) creation of
audiovisual units within the library systems.  Such basic audiovisual
equipment as slide projectors and cassette players, virtually nonexistent at
present, will serve as an invaluable teaching aid, thus leading to an
improvement in the quality of training.
Expansion of Enrollment and Research Capacity (estimated outlay: US$55 million
equivalent in local funds, excluding contingencies)
3.14      Expansion of Space.  To increase enrollments at the 11 agricultural
colleges and add to postgraduate intake and research facilities at the six
institutes, the project includes a civil works program to rehabilitate and
expand laboratory, dormitory, and classroom space. The estimated total area
to be constructed is 375,000 sq m at 60 sites with an additional 33,600 sq m
at 15 sites to be remodelled. Remodelling costs are expected to total
Y 3.1 million; construction costs have been calculated at Y 90.6 million.
Work in both categories is underway already at 10 of the 11 project colleges
and five of the six institutes. Based mainly on the provision of additional
space, the colleges and institutes have projected undergraduate and
postgraduate enrollments as follows (Table 3.4):



- 26 -
Table 3.4: NUMBER OF UNDERGRADUATE AND POSTGRADUATE STUDENTS AT
COLLEGES/INSTITUTES, PRESENT (1980/81) AND PROJECTED (1985/86)
Enrollment
Undergraduate      Postgraduate
1980/   1985/    1980/  1985/
Institution                                          81      86        81      86
Nanjing Agricultuaral College                      1,147   2,055       54      300
Central China Agricultural College                 2,361   2,731       34      219
South China Agricultural College                   2,054   2,730       71      200
Northwestern Agricultural College                  2,178   2,700       41      120
Southwestern Agricultural College                  2,527   2,820       10      459
Shenyang Agricultural College                      1,901   2,880        7      250
South China Tropical Crops College                   677   1,080        -       45
Beijing Forestry College                             940   1,590       17      120
East China TechniLcal University of Water
Resources                                       2,680   3,028        96       96
Shanghai Aquatic Products College                    709     900        -       50
Nanjing Meteorological College                     1,176     970       17       50
Subtotal                                    18,350  23,484       347   1,909
CAAS Animal Husbandry Research Institute               -        -       -       15
CAAS Library and Information Center                    -        -       5        5
Center for Monitoring Forestry Resources               -        -       -        -
Water Conservancy Research Centers                     -        -      84       90
Lake Taihu Experimental Base                           -        -       -        8
Meteorological Data Service Center                     -        -       -        -
Subtotal                                         _        -       89     118
Total                                       18,350  23,484       436   2,027
3.15      Development of Pc,stgraduate Programs.  To assist in increasing the
number of students studying at advanced levels, the project will support
the development of formalized postgraduate programs. Colleges and institutes
are in the lnitial stages cf preparing such programs (para. 2.13). Project
support will take the form of advisory services of expatriate specialists
(para. 3.07) and the provision of sophisticated equipment items (para. 3.09).
Over the life of the project, the colleges/institutes expect the addition of
around 150 postgraduate pragrams and more than a four-fold increase in
postgraduate enrollment.



- 27 -
Improved Resource Organization and Management (estimated outlay: US$3 million,
excluding contingencies).
3.16      Institutional Management.  Better management of existing human and
physical resources by project institutions will bring about some improvement
in the quantity and quality of graduates and research even without additional
resource inputs. Management weaknesses are evident in the areas of staff and
space utilization, financial and academic records keeping, and operation of
library facilities (paras. 2.32-2.35). More efficient management is also the
key to optimum use of the computer centers planned by all colleges. The
proposed project will address management needs through provision of
specialist services and fellowships. A total of 5 man-years will be applied
specifically to advisory services in the management field. Management
specialists will review current operation of selected project institutions,
offering advice on improved management systems and practices and recommending
more effective inter-college/institute linkages. Academic specialists also
will assist in this area to the extent possible. On the fellowship side,
staff development proposals drawn up by each project institution call for
sending over 100 college/institute administrators (including presidents or
vice presidents of colleges and institute directors, registrars, and managers/
designate of the computer centers) on 4-6 month study tours to observe
management of similar institutions abroad. Such visits account for 14% of the
total number of fellowships/grants provided the colleges and 21% of those
allotted the institutes. Closely related to improvement of institutional
resources are a number of fellowships and grants in library science and
related fields. To build library staff capability, 13 college staff members
will participate in overseas programs, including seven in master's in library
science programs and six in short-term visits to libraries. Four staff
members of project institutes will be enrolled in advanced degree programs in
library science, one at the doctoral level and three at the master-s level.
The related field of information science accounts for another 13 degree or
advanced study candidates with three additional staff members to participate
in study tours on microfilm techniques.
3.17      The Government expects that, after completion of project invest-
ments, the teacher/student ratio will be raised from the present 1:3.6 to
1:5, the percentage of space utilization will be increased from under 40% to
over 60%, library open hours will be extended from 40 to 80 hours per week,
and "open stacks" library operation instituted.
National Rice Research Institute (NRRI) (estimated outlay: US$29 million
excluding contingencies)
3.18      Overview.  The development of high-yielding rice varieties by
Chinese scientists from the late 1950s on contributed to substantial and
essential increases in total rice production. China now ranks as the largest
producer and consumer of rice in the world. A continuation of past successes
is critically important if China is to meet the future food needs of her



- 28 -
expanding population. However, the present system of rice research is inade-
quate to the task. Basic research is weak and the development of new research
methodologies a neglected area. The network of provincial and prefectural
rice research institutes, while extensive, operates without benefit of a
central coordinating agency thus inviting duplication of research efforts. To
overcome these constraints, the Government has established a national rice
researclh institute under the CAAS.  Plans and designs for the new institute
have been formulated through the joint efforts of the CAAS and the
International Rice Research Institute (IRRI)./1 IRRI will continue to play a
central advisory role in NRRI's development.
3.19      Objectives.  NRRI is expected to play a major role as a center of
excellence in the rice research area. While details of the institute's
policies and operations are not yet settled, its specific objectives are to:
(a)  carry out projects in rice research of national and long-term
significance and requiring sophisticated equipment and facilities;
(b) develop new research methodologies in all areas related to rice
production;
(c) enlarge the pool of highly-trained researchers by providing both
an overseas training program for NRRI senior staff and a
postgraduate study program for recent university graduates; and
(d) coordinate the research efforts of provincial and prefectural rice
research institutes thus fostering efficient use of limited
resources.
The research programs to be developed are defined by major problem areas:
genetics, plant pathology, entomology, cereal chemistry, plant physiology,
soil science, agronomy, agricultural engineering and agricultural economics.
3.20      Scope.  NRRI is to be located at the Huang-Tien-Fan State Farm
in Fil Yang County of Hangzhou City, Zhejiang province. The State Farm, with
about 450 hectares of riceland, will be converted to an experimental farm.
This site was chosen because its soils, climate and major insect pests and
diseases are representative of a large area of China's rice production.
Project works on the farm will involve construction of 107,000 sq m of
new facilities and remodeling of 5,000 sq m of existing facilities.
Buildings to be constructed include workshops, laboratories, greenhouses, a
germ plasm bank, storage facilities, drying and threshing areas, offices and
dormitories. The project will assist the Government in providing such
equipment as laboratory instruments, computers, audio-visual training equip-
ment, and farm machinery geared towards development of the fields mentioned
above. In addition, the project will finance the construction of a build-
ing complex in Hlangzhou City for convening international conferences and
/1 For details, see A Design for the National Rice Research Institute in the
People's Republic of China, International Rice Research Institute,
October, 1981.



- 29 -
exchanging information, housing senior and middle level NRRI scientists and
visiting foreign scientists, and for maintaining a city office for liaison
with other national and international scientific organizations.
3.21      Staff Development.  NRRI will have a staff of about 350 persons,
including more than 60 scientists to be selected among the nation's best
rice scientists.  To train the staff to carry out the functions of the
institute and to improve the quality of research, NRRI will set up training
programs for its 150 professional staff as part of the project.  The local
training program will consist of:
(a) short-term group training in research, running from a few weeks
to six months and emphasizing a multi-disciplinary approach
to research;
(b)  short-term individualized non-degree training;
(c) short-term group training for county, prefectural and provincial
administrators who play an important role in the popularization
of new rice varieties and technologies; and
(d) master's and doctoral degree programs.
The overseas training program will consist of fellowships for short-term
group training and individual non-degree and postgraduate degree studies and
participation in scientific conferences.  Staff development will also take
the form of specialist services, totalling 5 man-years.  Under the project,
NRRI will employ foreign rice scientists to deliver lectures and assist in
research.
Studies and Preparation of Future Projects (estimated outlay:  US$3 million
excluding contingencies)
3.22      Studies.  Chapters 1 and 2 have identified a number of gaps in
knowledge about the organization, financing and management of China's agri-
cultural research system and agricultural manpower.  To address this problem,
the Government has launched two major studies on agricultural research and
manpower. The purpose of the studies is to facilitate development of agri-
cultural education and research and identify and prepare future investments in
those areas. Two special task forces composed of senior Chinese specialists
have been formed to conduct the studies under the overall coordination of the
SAC.  The research study will consist of two phases.  The first phase will aim
at establishing the high priority agricultural development objectives and
areas of research focus to attain the objectives.  The second phase, to be
formulated on the basis of the first phase findings, will consist of detailed
studies leading to proposals for strengthening and modernizing of the
agricultural research system.  A draft report is expected to be completed
around mid-1984.  The manpower study will be conducted in a pilot province.
Its objectives are twofold:  (a) to assess the future requirements for high
and medium level manpower in agriculture as a basis for the identification of



- 30 -
future investment in agricultural education; and (b) help develop Chinese
expertise in manpower planning and manpower survey and projection method-
ologies. The study is scheduled to be completed around March, 1985. To
assist the Government in ccnducting these studies, the Association will pro-
vide technical assistance during supervision and sector missions. Additional
technical assistance will be included in the credit.  The Government has
agreed to carry out the studies in accordance with timing and terms of
reference acceptable to the Association, and to provide the Association with
a summary and analysis of the findings. Understandings on the schedule and
scope of the studies were reached at negotiations.
3.23      Preparation of Future Projects.  China has important needs for
further development in the agricultural education subsector. An example of
a priority area for future investments is agricultural teacher education,
particularly at the secondary school level where an inadequate supply of
teachers of agricultural science is impeding the Government's efforts to
raise both the quantity and quality of agricultural education and training.
To prepare for future investments in such areas, the project may include
technical assistance in the form of specialist services and fellowships.
Project Evaluation
3.24      The project will contain an evaluation component under which pro-
gress towards project objectives will be measured during and at the end of
the project and for some years thereafter. For this purpose, project objec-
tives have been translated into 20 measurable indicators in four categories:
quantitative change, qualitative change, research improvement and management
improvement (Annex 5). For an index of project performance relative to
manpower needs, colleges and institutes will conduct annual tracer surveys on
graduates to monitor the match between employment and field of academic
specialization. These surveys will be inaugurated at the beginning of the
project and continued until 1989 so as to include evidence after the comple-
tion of the project in 1987. Assurances on monitoring and evaluation of the
project were obtained from the Government at negotiations and understandings
on the project indicators and targets were reached.
4. MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
Overview
4.01      Management arrangements for project implementation will rely on
existing organizations aided by newly created project units in the SAC and
each of the 18 colleges/institutes. NRRI will be included in the imple-
mentation arrangements described in the paragraphs to follow. These
arrangements include:
(a) comprehensive plans for administrative responsibilities,
organization and staffing;
(b)  procedures and criteria for selection of fellowship recipients and
specialists;
(c)  procurement procedures for civil works and equipment; and
(d)  a realistic implemaentation schedule.



- 31 -
Administrative Responsibilities, Organization and Staffing
4.02      Responsibility for implementing the project will rest with the
State Agricultural Commission (SAC)./1 The Deputy Director of the SAC's Bureau
of Science and Education will assume overall responsibilty for directing the
project. In his capacity of Project Director, he will be assisted by the
division chiefs of the Bureau's Education Division and Science and Technology
Division. The day-to-day management of the project will be assigned to a
specially created Project Office (PO) established by the Bureau of Science and
Education. Two coordinators, one responsible for equipment and civil works,
the other for staff development, and additional staff to handle accounting,
procurement, staff development and secretarial tasks will operate the PO on a
full-time basis. The PO will coordinate inputs from the SAC, the six
ministries/agencies under the SAC that are involved in the project, the
recently established Project Commission (PC), and the colleges and institutes
on all matters related to project implementation. It will work as well with
other ministerial agencies, most importantly the China National Technical
Import Corporation (CNTIC) of the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and
Trade, the Government's agent for international equipment procurement, In
addition, in its capacity as responsible implementing agency, the SAC acting
through the PO will:
(a) ensure compliance with government plans and project objectives on
the part of all agencies involved in the project;
(b) monitor the preparation of architects' briefs, civil works designs,
appointments of civil works and furniture contractors and
supervision of the capital works program;
(c) review equipment lists and specifications to ensure that project
equipment is of high priority and has appropriate specifications;
(d) prepare equipment tender documents for international competitive
bidding and work with the CNTIC whose responsibilities are to
conduct bidding and evaluation and award equipment contracts;
(e) monitor procurement of local equipment and give assistance to the
project institutions in this respect;
/1  In mid-1982, the Government announced its plans for reorganizing, and in
particular consolidating, its bureaucracy in an attempt to improve
efficiency. As part of this program, the SAC is being disbanded and
many of its functions and staff would be transferred to a new Ministry
of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Fishery (MAAF). Despite these and
continuing organizational changes made since the project was negotiated
in April, the project will be implemented by the same offices and groups
of people (though as members of different agencies, particularly MAAF).
A period of transition is now in effect, as the complete government
reorganization has yet to be implemented. For these reasons, the descrip-
tion of implementation arrangements in force at the time of negotiations
has not been changed in the President's and Staff Appraisal Reports.
The legal documents referred to the SAC 'land any successor thereto" to
cover changes resulting from the reorganization.



- 32 -
(f)  recruit specialist services and administer placement of fellows on
overseas training programs;
(g)  review the project budgets and monitor and control project costs
in accordance with approved budgets;
(h)  maintain records and accounts, prepare and submit disbursement
applications to the Association and maintain a general liaison
with the Association;
(i)  monitor and evaluate progress and submit periodic (quarterly,
annual, midproject and completion) reports to the Association; and
(j)  monitor progress of the project studies.
Assurances were obtained from the Government at negotiations that the PO,
staffed by qualified personnel, will continue to assist the SAC in the afore-
mentioned functions during the five-year life of the project.
4.03      College/Institute Level Administration.  Each college/institute
has established a project imnplementation unit with an appointed director,
usually a college dean or equivalent, and staff representatives from each of
the specializations to be assisted in the project. The director of the
project unit is to be assisted by an office responsible for the day-to-day
manage-ment of the project and staffed by a manager and officers in charge of
equipment, data gathering and other administrative matters.  The project
units will:
(a)  appoint all civil works and furniture contractors and supervise
their work;
(b)  assist the PC in drawing up equipment specifications;
(c)  supervise installation of equipment and its operation and
maintenance;
(d)  procure local equipment; and
(e)  prepare project budgets and annual implementation schedules.
4.04      Organization of NlaI.  The Institute will be established under
CAAS, Ministry of Agriculture and jointly administered by the
Zhejiang Provincial Governme.nt.  NRRI will be headed by a Director,  Four
deputy directors will assist; him and provide guidance for the administra-
tive, research, training and. coordination functions. The scientists to
carry out the research programs will be organized into disciplinary
research departments. A prcject implementation unit will be established
with the same responsibilities as the project units in the other 17
institutions.
4.05      Organization of the Studies.  The SAC will be responsible for
carrying out the two studies.  It has created two special task forces
staffed with senior agricultural research scientists and manpower research-
ers to implement the studies.



- 33
4.06      Project Commission. A Project Commissi.-  -P-) made up, o- r-
sentatives from the 18 colleges/institutes has been formed to assist Lr
project implementation. It coinDrises four teams of 5-6 members eac&K (a)
optical equipment; (b) analytical equipment; (c) computerss; and (d)  ibrary
science/audiovisual techniques and staff' development,  The ""'s majk E func-
tions are:  (a) to provide technicaal expertise in all specializatiors so as
to guide the project effectIvely; '(b) to assist the PO in reviewing equip-
ment lists, drawing up equipment specifications, and evaluating bids from
suppliers; (c) to review college/institution staff develomme.t plans and
help select study locations and subjects for overseas training fellowships;
and (d) to determine requirements for specialist services and supervise
selection of specialists.  Over the five-year life of the project the PC also
will be concerned with (a) arranging Lor installation of equipment; and
(b) advising project institutitons oni the most effective use and maintenance of
equipment.  Assurances were obtained from the Government at negotiations that
the PC will continue to carry out the aforementioned functions and responsi-
bilities until completion of project investments. To assist the PC in its
initial task of reviewing equipment and staff development proposals of the
project institutions, a UNDP-financed study tour was arranged for PC members.
They visited colleges and universities, -esearch institutes and equipment
manufacturers in the US, LrK, West GermanJr and Japan for four weeks during
January/February 1982.
4.07      Project Implementation Staff.  An overall project implementation
chart identifying lines of responsibility is shown in Chart 4. Staff of the
Project Office and the 18 project urits will be selected from existing staff
of the SAC and the colleges/instittutes. The Project Office will consist of
about 10 staff members. The number of project implementation personnel at
each institution will average around 15; depending on the scope of the project
at the institution. Tne need to appoint additional staff will be determined
on the basis of periodic reviews conducted by the SAC and the project
institutions.
4.08      Maintenance.  Provislons have been made for the maintenance of
project buildings and equipment- Each project institution sets aside funds
for maintenance in its annual budget. Each will appoint staff to oversee the
maintenance of project equipment and buildings. Maintenance personnel will
be advised by the PC on the most effective use and maintenance of equipment.
Selection Procedures and Criteria for Technical Assistance
4.09      Fellowship and training granit recipients will be selected in
accordance with criteria and procedures agreed upon by the Government and the
Association. These will include submitting to the Association an overall
staff development plan clearly defining training needs and objectives and
possible locations of study. Candidates for training will be nominated by
each college department or institute division and will be chosen by a
selection committee staffed by senior management, Administration of contracts
of fellows at overseas universities will be the responsibility of the SAC.
Candidates will be selected from existing staff and graduate-level students
of project institutions, and from staff whose foreign language proficiency
(after language training) is adequate for study abroad. Understandings
between the Government and the Association on the criteria and procedures for



- 34 -
fellowship selection were reached at negotiations and assurances obtained
from the Government that selection will be made on the basis of such
criteria and procedures.
Procurement Procedures
4.10      Civil Works.  The Government will finance all civil worKs construc-
tion under the proposed project from its own resources. Under traditional
contractual procedures, the Government selects civil works contractors on
the basis of availability and capability rather than price considerations.
Unit costs are low by international comparisons. Payments to the contractors
are made periodically against their bills for material, labor and overhead.
Such bills are revriewed and certified by site supervisors representing the
Capital Construction Bank which is responsible for making payments to
contractors and maintaining economy and efficiency in construction.
Architectural designs for the project are being prepared by design bureaus
at the central ancl provincial levels.
4.11      Equipment.  Under the proposed project, equipment worth about
US$72 million equivalent before contingencies, or 42% of the total cost
will be procured and distributed to the project colleges and research
institutes. Equipment will be procured in accordance with acceptable lists
which have been prepared by project institutions, reviewed by the PC
(para. 4.06) and PO (para. 4.02) and approved by the SAC and its consti-
tuent ministries/bureaus. Equipment will be procured in two phases spread
over about two years. Bidding documents and specifications for inter-
national competitive bidding were prepared withl Association/UNDP assistance
in March 1982 and invitations to bid are expected to be issued in late 1982.
The SAC, acting or. behalf of its constituent ministries/bureaus, will carry
the overall respornsibility f-or procurement and administration. It has the
implementation capability of handling shipside acceptance, clearing of
customs, storage, repackaging and redistribution, domestic insurance, final
acceptance, installation, initial testing and initial operation. The CNTIC
which has experier1ce in equipment procurement under international competi-
tive bidding procedures, will assist the SAC in procurement by handling bid
invitation, bid evaluation and contract awards. Advice on installation,
operation and maintenance of- the laboratory equipment, will be provided
under the project by the PC/'PO. Assurances were obtained from the Govern-
ment during negotiations that buildings suitable to accommodate equipment
to be installed will be available before delivery of equipment to project
institutions.
4.12      The equipment lists have been divided into two categories by the
SAC in accordance with estimated sources of supply. One list, 37% of the
total, contains basic and standard laboratory equipment, laboratory materials
and reagents, and books and journals in Chinese. These are available from
local suppliers and the quality is reasonable. Such items will be financed
by the Government and procured within China in accordance with local pro-
cedures satisfactory and acceptable to the Association. The Association is
satisfied that such procedures are economic and efficient, because (a) the
price of the items in this list manufactured in China are generally lower



- 35 -
than those in the international market, and (b) it takes less time to obtain
these miscellaneous items from the local market than through international
competitive bidding. The second equipment list, 63% of the total, contains
sophisticated equipment which are unlikely to be manufactured by local
industries. The bulk of this equipment will be procured through international
competitive bidding and financed by the Association. Equipment items in
this group will be grouped into packages to the extent possible for bulk
procurement. Each invitation to bid exceeding an estimated cost of US$200,000
will be subject to international competitive bidding. Local manufacturers
will be permitted to participate and will be extended a 15% preference margin,
or the prevailing customs duties, whichever is lower, in the evaluation of
bids. Items and groups of items estimated to cost less than US$200,000 in
each contract and not exceeding an aggregate amount of US$6.0 million may be
procured through: (a) limited international tendering, whereby contracts will
be awarded on the basis of comparison and evaluation of quotations obtained
from at least three suppliers; and (b) direct purchase for proprietary items
or where justified by the need for standardization.
4.13      Prior Association review of contract awards would exclude small-size
contracts (US$200,000 or less) estimated to cover less than 25% of the total
value of all contracts. Post review of such small size contracts would be
performed by supervision missions on a sample basis.
Implementation Schedule
4.14      The proposed project will be implemented over a five-year period
(Annex 4).
(a)  Civil Works.  Remodelling and construction work at some
construction sites is already well underway so that more than
one third of the civil works will be completed in the first year.
Of the remodelling works for 33,600 sq m at 15 construction sites,
more than half is expected to be completed in 1982 and the balance
by the end of 1985. Of the 375,000 sq m of new construction at
60 sites, 30% is expected to be completed in 1982, 25% in 1983, 20%
in 1984, 15% in 1985 and the balance in 1986. The remodelling of
5,000 sq m and construction of 107,000 sq m for NRRI are expected to
follow a similar implementation schedule.
(b)  Equipment.  All equipment lists have been prepared.  The
specifications and bidding documents for the first phase of
foreign equipment procurement (estimated at 50% of total equipment
procurement) were prepared around March, 1982. Invitations to
bid will be issued in early 1983 for the first phase and in late
1983 for the second phase. Delivery of equipment is expected to
be completed by early 1986.
(c) Technical Assistance. By mid-1982, the Government will: (i) make
arrangements to set up foreign language training courses for fellows



- 36 -
and prepare a detailed schedule for conducting the courses; (ii)
select the first group of fellows according to criteria and
procedures agreed between the Government and the Association, and
proceed with their placement in foreign universities; (iii) prepare
draft terms of reference for specialists who will assist in
teaching and research programs and management improvement.
The technical assistance program is expected to be completed by
June, 1987.
The Closing Date will be June 30, 1988.
5. COST AND FINANCING
Overview
5.01      Project costs will be incurred in achieving the following objec-
tives: (a) improvement in the quality of teaching and research at project
institutions; (b) expansion of overall enrollments at the colleges and of
postgraduate intake and research facilities at the institutes; and (c)
improvement of organization and management of resources. Project costs
include the following categories: (i) construction and remodeling of build-
ings, both in progress and planned; (ii) equipment, both locally procured and
imported; and (iii) technical assistance. Association financing generally
will cover the costs of imported equipment and technical assistance.
Project Cost
5.02      Summary Costs.  The total cost of the proposed project is esti-
mated at Y 353 million or US$202 million equivalent, including contingen-
cies. The estimated costs by project objective and category of expenditure
(Annex 3) are sunmarized below in Tables 5.1 and 5.2.



- 37 -
Table 5.1:  COST BY PROJECT OBJECTIVE
For-                 For-
Local  eign  Total  Local  eign  Total
Project objective                       - (Yuan million) -  - (US$ million) --
Improvement of Teaching and Research
Quality
Fellowships and academic study
tours                               2.7   23.4   26.1    1.5   13.4   14.9
Specialist services
Academic                              -    2.1    2.1        -    1.2    1.2
Language training                   3.0/a  3.1    6.1    1.7    1.8    3.5
Equipment                            46.1   79.3  125.4   26.3   45.3   71.6
Subtotal                          51.8  107.9  159.7   29.5   61.7   91.2
Expansion of Enrollment and Research
Capacity
Furniture                             4.3       -    4.3    2.5      -      2.5
Construction & Remodelling          124.6       -  124.6   71.2      -    71.2
Subtotal                         128.9       -  128.9   73.7      -    73.7
Improvement of Organization and
Management of Resources
Management study tours                   -    1.3    1.3       -    0.8    0.8
Specialist services - management        -    0.9    0.9        -    0.5    0.5
Management expenses                   3.0       -    3.0    1.7       -    1.7
Subtotal                           3.0    2.2    5.2    1.7    1.3    3.0
Studies and Preparation of
Future Projects                         3.0    1.8    4.8    1.7    1.0    2.7
Baseline Cost                    186.7  111.9  298.6  106.6   64.0  170.6
Contingencies
Unforeseen                            9.3    5.6   14.9    5.3    3.2    8.5
Price escalation                     25.0   14.4   39.4   14.3    8.2   22.5
Total Project Cost               221.0  131.9  352.9  126.2   75.4  201.6
/a Civil works for language training facilities.



- 38 -
Table 5.2: COST BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  % of
-- (Yuan million) ---  --- (US$ million) --   total
Civil Works
Furniture                   4.3       -     4.3      2.5       -      2.5      1.5
Construction and
remodelling            127.6       -   127.6    72.9         -    72.9    42.7
Subtotal              13L.9       -   131.9    75.4         -    75.4    44.2
Technical Assistance
Fellowships                   2.7   24.8    27.5        1.5   14.2    15.7       9.2
Specialist services             -    7.8       7.8       -     4.5      4.5      2.6
Studies and management
expenses                     6.0       -      6.0      3.4       -     3.4      2.0
Subtotal                8.7   32.6    41.3        4.9   18.7    23.6       13.8
Equipment
Materials                   L.7       -      1.7      1.0      -       1.0     0.6
Books                       4.6     1.6     6.2      2.6    0.9       3.5      2.1
Scientific equipment    39.8   46.9    86.7         22.7   26.8    49.5    29.0
Computers                     -   19.2    19.2        -    11.0    11.0        6.4
Other equipment               -   11.6    11.6        -      6.6      6.6      3.9
Subtotal               46.1   79.3   125.4       26.3   45.3    71.6    42.0
Baseline Cost:s       186.7  111.9   298.6   106.6   64.0   170.6   100.0
Contingencies
Unforeseen                  9.3    5.6      14.9     5.3    3.2       8.5      5.0
Price escalation           25.0   14.4    39.4    14.3    8.2    22.5         13.2
Total Project: Cost  22L.0  131.9   352.9   126.2   75.4   201.6



- 39 -
5.03       Bases of Cost Estimates.  Base costs refer to April 1982 prices.
Construction costs have been estimated on the basis of existing sketch
plans, recently started construction, and analysis of unit prices of recently
completed comparable buildings. Comparable facilities at the various
project institutions cost about the same, but unit costs for facilities with
different functions vary, depending on the purpose as follows:
Table 5.3: UNIT PRICES FOR CONSTRUCTION
Facility                                    Price/sq m in US$
Classrooms                                          110
Laboratories                                        135
Libraries                                           125
Dormitories                                          85
Administration                                       90
These unit costs are low by international comparisons. Equipment costs have
been based on master equipment lists. Specialist services costs, including
salaries, housing costs, allowances and international air fares have been
estimated at US$7,500/man-month except for those in language training which
are estimated at US$5,000/man-month. Fellowship training and study tours
are estimated at US$1,500/man-month.
5.04       Estimated project costs include the following contingency
allowances:
(a) physical contingencies (US$8.5 million), estimated at 5% of the
base cost of all project items; and
(b)  price contingencies (US$22.5 million), calculated on the April 1982
base cost plus contingencies in accordance with the following
estimates of price escalation (Table 5.4).



- 40 -
Table 5.4: ANNUAL COST ESCALATION
Civil works, equipment
(except computers) and
technical assistance              Computers
Year                      Local         Foreign             Foreign/a
1982                     8.0             8.0                 4.0
1983                     8.0             8.0                 4.0
1984                      7.5            7.5                 4.0
1985                      7.0            7.0                 4.0
1986-87                   6.0            6.0                 4.0
/a  The estimated low increases for computers are based on review of
historic cost data for this item.
5.05      The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$75 million or
about 37% of total project costs. This foreign exchange component was
derived from analyses of the amounts and composition of imported equipment
and technical assistance under the proposed project. The resulting foreign
exchange contents amount to 63% for equipment and 80% for technical
assistance.
5.06      Duties and Taxes.  The Government will bear any charges for
customs duties levied on goods imported for the project. Cost estimates for
the project exclude any such costs.
Project Financing
5.07      The tctal project cost of US$202 million will be financed as
follows:



- 41 -
Table 5.5: FINANCIAL PLAN
Asso-            Estimated average
Category of expenditure         Government ciation Total  Association financing
----- (US$ million) ----   (% of total expendi-
tures)
Civil works and furniture           85.3       -      85.3              0
Imported equipment                    -      50.5    50.5             100
Locally procured equipment          29.8       -      29.8              0
Specialist services                   -       5.4      5.4            100
Fellowships                          1.6     16.3    17.9              91
Studies and management
expenses                           4.2        -       4.2              0
Unallocated                          5.3      3.2      8.5             38
Total                        126.2      75.4   201.6              37
5.08      Recurrent Expenditures.  The project will increase the recurrent
outlays for higher agricultural education and research by US$16 million or
by 7%. This represents less than one half of 1% increase in the total budget
for all levels of education, training and research in the country which, in
1980, was about US$12.3 billion. About 50% of the increase in recurrent
expenditures will finance increased enrollments at project institutions. The
remainder will finance the operation and maintenance of new scientific
equipment including computers.
5.09      Disbursements.  The proposed credit of SDR 67.8 million (US$75.4
million equivalent) will be disbursed over a period of five years.
Disbursements will be made on the basis of:
(a)  100% of the c.i.f. cost of imported equipment or ex-factory cost
of locally manufactured equipment procured in competition with
foreign goods; and 75% of invoiced cost of imported equipment pro-
cured locally;
(b)  100% of the cost of specialist services; and
(c)  100% of the foreign costs of overseas fellowships.
5.10      To the extent practicable, withdrawal applications will be aggre-
gated in amounts of US$100,000 or more prior to submission to the Association
for disbursements. The SAC will submit all applications for withdrawals.



- 42 -
Apart from direct payment to suppliers or payments by the use of letters of
credit and qualifiead agreements to reimburse, the Bank of China will be the
recipient institution for reimbursements from the Association. Estimated
disbursements under the proposed project are shown in Table 5.6.
Table 5.6: SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS /a
(US$ million)
Projection Disbursed by Year
Regional Ave (Actual)
for     for all
IBRD fiscal year                            Estimate for  education  sectors
and semester    Semester  Cumulative   this project  projects
US$ million ----  --------------      --------------
1983
2nd          3.7         3.7            5           0.9         4.7
1984
1st          5.0         8.7
2nd           6.3       15.0           15           3.1        17.2
1985
1st          8.2        23.2
2nd          10.7       33.9           25          11.0        21.8
1986
1st          7.5        41.4
2nd          7.6        49.0           20          16.7        18.1
1987
1st          7.5        56.5
2nd          7.6        64.1           20          27.0        14.2
1988
1st          6.3        70.4
2nd           5.0       75.4           15          19.9         8.1
/a  The disbursement schedule is expected to be faster than the regional
average because the bulk of expenditures to be disbursed against by
the Association, such as equipment, specialist services and fellowships,
will be implemented in the first three years of the project. This
implementation plan is considered realistic as this project is similar
to the previous University Development project and experience gained
will facilitate project execution.



-43 -
6. BENEFITS AND RISKS
6.01      China's agricultural education and research systems are handicapped
by uneven quality of output, inadequate capacity, and inefficient management.
The proposed project will assist the Government in addressing these problems
as part of its long-term objective of modernizing agriculture thereby raising
agricultural production.
Benefits
6.02      The proposed project is expected to contribute to the improved
quality of output from the education and research systems through provision
of (a) basic and advanced laboratory equipment, (b) specialist services in
the agricultural sciences, and (c) an overseas training program for over
700 faculty and staff of the colleges and institutes. Staff training will not
only benefit the individual institutions, but also will represent a signifi-
cant step forward in China's efforts to re-establish links with the inter-
national research community.
6.03      Through provision of additional laboratory space and assistance
in developing postgraduate programs, the proposed project is expected to
result in increased numbers of graduates and expanded research work. The
Government projects a rise in college undergraduate enrollments from 18,000
to over 25,000 and in postgraduate enrollments at the colleges and institutes
from around 450 to more than 2,000 by 1985. This increased enrollment will
not only help fill the need for highly trained researchers, but may also
have an effect at the farm management level where recent decentralization
policies have resulted in a rise in demand for trained personnel.
6.04      Through the provision of funds to bring management specialists to
China and send Chinese administrators abroad for management study tours,
the project should result in improved utilization of resources and personnel
at the project institutions. Expected benefits include improvement in the
teacher/student ratio, more efficient use of space, and broader use of library
resources, factors which in turn, should enable institutions to increase
enrollments and volume of research.
6.05      Since the project institutions are expected to play a leadership
role in agricultural education and research nationwide, the experience derived
from the project will benefit other institutions preparing to launch similar
development programs. Moreover, the joining of colleges and institutes in a
single project under one coordinating body might suggest a means of overcoming
the existing problem of weak linkages between colleges and research
institutes.
6.06      The two major studies to be conducted under the project -- one of
agricultural manpower in China, the other of the research system -- are
expected to enable the Government to (a) improve its overall development



- 44 -
planning capability; and (b) lay the foundation for future Bank Group lending
as well as other outside donor assistance in the agricultural education,
training and research areas.
Risks
6.07       Project risks grow out of the Association's limited knowledge of
China's agricultural education and research systems.  For the research
components, in particular, questions remain regarding an effective mechanism
for identifying research priorities, possible duplication in research projects
and the integration of the individual institutes into China's national
agricultural research effort. It is expected that the studies of China's
agricultural manpower and agricultural research system proposed in the project
will permit the Government and the Association to further improve the
effectiveness of future operations in these areas.
6.08       Other project risks relate to the timing of equipment arrival and
staff training. Personnel charged with the operation, maintenance and repair
of any particular apparatus should have completed appropriate training before
the arrival of the item.  Likewise, permanent housing for equipment items must
be ready prior to arrival to avoid the possible harmful effects of temporary
installation.  To eliminate these risks, the Government is preparing a coordi-
nated plan for training, building completion and the appointment of staff to
oversee the operation and maintenance of project equipment.
7. AGREEiMENTS REACHED AND RECOHMENDATIONS
7.01      Understandings were reached between the Government and the
Association on:
(a)  means to measure progress towards project objectives including
specific targets for improvement of management, teaching and
research quality, and expansion of enrollment and research capacity
(para. 3.24);
(b)  the scc,pe and timing of the two project studies (para. 3.22); and
(c)  criteria and proc:edures for the selection of fellows (para. 4.09).
7.02       The Government assured the Association that:
(a)  award of fellowships and foreign language training for selected
fellows will be carried out in accordance with agreed criteria
(para. 3.05);



- 45 -
(b) the Government will submit for the Association review draft terms
of reference for specialist services before signing technical
assistance contracts and select specialists in accordance with the
Association's "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers" (August 1981) (para. 3.07);
(c) buildings suitable to accommodate equipment to be installed
will be available before the equipment is delivered to
project institutions (para. 3.08);
(d) the studies of the agricultural manpower and agricul-
tural research system will be carried out in accordance with
timing and terms of reference acceptable to the Association and
that the Government will furnish to the Association a summary and
analysis of the findings of such studies (para. 3.22);
(e) the project will be monitored and evaluated annually on the
basis of tracer surveys and project indicators as agreed upon
between the Government and the Association (para. 3.24);
(f) the Project Office, specially created by the SAC's Bureau of
Science and Education, will continue to function during the
life of the project (para. 4.02); and
(g) the Project Commission appointed from the staff of the
project institutions will continue to function during the
life of the project (para. 4.06).
7.03       Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project will consti-
tute a suitable basis for a credit of SDR 67.8 million (US$75.4 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms.



- 46 -
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS                                            ANNEX I
SEPTEMBER 7, 1982
:       .       :         :CENTRAL:                 :        :                  .                 , 
:       :       .         :  GOVT.    :             .        :       :         :      :           :.'                 :
: :                  :        :EXP. CNA:                                      :IRI,  :RECURRFNT4                     :SEC. :
:       .       :         lEI,U. AS: EDUCATION    :LITER-   FRI. COMPLE  ISTIS  :UNIT CDS :FUORLSS: SEE. :ST.:  TLHIGHER:
:       .       .         15. TTL . IRECURRENT    IACY       :ENROLL:lION      IDEN1S:FRIM. E[D.:ION RAT: :ENR0LOL:DEN1S:ENIoLL:
:       : ONP/E!    GNF  :CENTRAL E0XF' ALLDCATED:  RATE IRA'IO  :RATE F OR:FER   :AS X SNFP 'IR[M  FFI. RiATI   :OER  :RATIO
BASEFPOF.  :CAFITAI DEUVTED: TOUT I            TO:       IT  lF    NET  :FRI .SCH. :IEhACH- ChFT IT:l  TE.    R NET  :''EAC,-  ORTSS:
YR:MILLS.: (0SS(1  Fo EE'U.: EXP.  :PRI. SEC. AI.ADULTS)I  (5)  :CIPL.E%) )ER    :ER
1)5979): :79              .(1976)-                                  :                 .                       .
I (1) :    (2):   (3)         (4)  I      (5)       I  (6)  1(7)   :  (5)   I (9)    '10)   *  (11)             (12)  ( 13)  1(14)
DEVELOPED COUNTRIES
AUSTRALIA       8o  14,0   8870   6.38         14.6    --- -- --OOA   13X                 100       21                 99        73      13    20.91
CANADA          S1  23.7   9,6509  7.79        5SSAY 3AOA  34A?  23A? 99   106X           100       21      19.9RT   100          21x    18    22.6TX
S3ERMANT, F.R. 79  61,4  12.220    4.6          9.9A   --4 - --          -       99       1500      -       -        10CR        94      -      17.100
NETHERLANDS   79  14.1  11,004    7.9           5,1   70   35    25   99?   96             95       IS      12.3       99        12      II     12.40
NEW ZEALAND   E0   2.2   6,081   5.58          13.4   2)7   31    20   99   100           000       24      11.6    100          3:      15    25.SOX*
SWEDEN          79   a.3  12,863   9.0         18.2   31   10       10   998   991        150       1S8     19.9    1o0         X235     (OY  36.-09Y
EASTERN AFRICA
BOTSWANA        80   O.8B      720B  6.3P      19.3   48   28       15   35s   94          74       32      22.0       338*      27      10      1.50
BURUN0 I        81   4.2       232   2.30W    19.0   42   35    23   25         29X        35       32      22.6       12         3X     17      1.00
COMOR S        SO   0.4B      260   6.5W      25.4   40  2T        14   --- - 99X          5       49      16.0      50         710    30       1.1.i
DJIBIUTI        S1   0.3       460   5.4       10.8   30   40       ...  10    72                   41      -          60         1      (1      o.50
ETHIOFIA       As  31.0B       1308  2.2F IP.1R  22   52    140  11    30                           .9      1P.G                  9      41A     5.10
KENYA           79  11.3       390   5.9W      I 8.08   N    15    T4   45    92           74       40      15.0      41         50      20      1.0o
LESOIHO         sI   1.3       410F  4.3       21.0   51   24            52     64         61       49       4,0       64        57      21      0.90
MADhASAAR       77   8.0       330   4.0W      24.0  ,3    5        19 20       9100       33       22B      s.        31        14      23      0.1081
MALAWI          SO   2.90      2008  3.5SPW  10.28  408  15B   231  25    591X             17       52       8.0B      1:         4X    210      0.30
MAURITIU1       79   0.9   1,080   6.8Y        t7.s5B   52                                 99       2087    (9.S ?    90         73BXY  278      I 55s6
RWANDA          SO   2O.       2008  3.2        21.3         1 '7    11  231    57X        12       40      14.0        6         40    53       2.40
SOMALII         78   3.8       1858  2,OW    11.0      5                 50B   2681                 2'      20.4      93B         48X   16B      1.00
SUDAN           28  17,9       450   4.50      19.9   48   36       16   20B    008X       74       350     46.'      30         16BX   598      1.371
NWAZIuRAD       78   0.5       650   7.0W      12.2   16   D3 10   ADD   8281              490      3281     7.7      660        331XY  204      2.00
TANZANIA        80  18.5      260   5.9        17.7   17   10    16   798   958            57       70      11.0      190         7      204     1.0L1
IJGfNDA         80  12,68      3000  -          T 10.10   '3   370   20B  45    54x        61       34      ----      1/          5      23      0.60
ZAIRE           78  27.5       210A  6.0W      22.0     9   26          115                44       420               41         13X    2!      1UO,Y
ZAMBIh          80   1.7B      2660  4.5F)    11.1    18    3       "    440   95          90       40      12.9      19         .6      22      1.00
ZIMBBE          81   7.7B      700  ,1         19.5          32      6 448   90            55       39      20.0      RI         11      2_3     0.90
WESTERN AFRICA
BENIN           79   3.48      (20B  6.0w      32.0    13   N        9   110    42         30       46      14.0      30          ly    43       1.0)Y
'AMERCON        7B      .2        590   1.9Y   16. O    33  430   200           741        420      501     1.80      200        14                  0
C.A.R.          79   2.2       280   3.8- 20                                               ---      650                                              ( 0 '00Y
CHAD            76   4.4       120   2.481W  21.78   --   -              15    25Y                  77       -        --          3XY   21       S.0Y
CONDOE (8)      78 1.5         670   9O00W1  27.791                                         --..    -. -  :681        30          -       3'T y 4 00
00N0     B      77   0 6   3,420   3.781Y    8.4 -Y-                                                46B1   -                       -    19B00    2 80Y
GAMBIA         77 0,6          220   3.380      6.58  46   251818 4870 20                                    47        0         10
GHANA           7   11.3       400   401Y    15.5B   --                         2180                2781    -                    360BXY  "
aUINEA          77   5.3       270   4.38    230.88  30A  31A   300  20    34BXY           168      39B    31.1       46B        150BXY  248sO0Y
1VORY COAST   81   8.28  1,2708 10.0           45.0   33   46    03   308   60             86       43      26.0      47         12AXY            I9TY
LIBERIA         8O   1,9       520   4.6       19.6   43   23    24   30    52             32       35      20.0      76         27      '0      '.90
ALI             77   6.7B      1808  4.28      21.78   s5R  378    180  10    280xy0                43BY   -          100X                -      0 1081
MAURITANIA    79   1.68        3208  5.5       16.9   33   43    25   178   32             60       44      52.0      30          9              0 3,
NIGER           78   5.2       300   4.30y    16.69Y 528  438        54   8    17          560      410     38.7      40          2      24B    02'FY
NIGERIA         77  82.6       910   4.1Y       9.6   --                  -  ---lOXY   29                                                        0.
SENEGAL         77    5.5      450   5.0       23.0   46   34    20   10    34BXY          ---      438Y1   --        20         10      21      2.208'
SIERRA LEONE  77   3.4        250   4,08       16.08         -     --   158   37X                   35      25.08     84        15      22      0.60BY
1000           70   2.4       400   6.51    276.s5  30A  28A   21A  18    74              40        54BY   38.0       52        32BXY  400       1,608'
UPPER VOLTA   78   2.6         180   3.OAW    19.38Y 351   16    32    ---   15BY          23       53BY   52.59      19          38XY  .1       0.02Y
I-ATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
_  _  _  _ _  _   _    _ _  _  _  _ _  _  _    _  _ _ _ _ _        
ARGENTINA       78  27.3   2,210   2.7         10.9   436  31A   18A  938   S9             52       17      _         8_- S7     31       0    23.03
DAHAMAS         79   0.2   2.770    5.7        19.1   36   36       11   93B   99          97       24      --        97         75      19       -
BARBADOS        78   0.2   2, 6O   S.5AWY  22. IA  43A  31A   16A  99B  1001               990      271     19.9A    99A         '1      201a
BOLIVIA         80   5.4       550   4.10Y    30.5A  ---  '--            63    74Y         ---      20Y               --         15Y      -    12.60Y
BRAZIL          79 116.5   1,770   3.0          6.2   51   ___   14   76    73AY           ----     230Y    4.5B      619        15AY   14AY  12.628
CHILE           76  10.9   1,B90   3.281    13.08   -                          119BXY    ---        34BY   __           -        55901  2081  11.9080
COLOMBIA       s0  26,7B  1.1808  3.3          25.0   35   20       20   0B8   70          36       32       6.6        -        47      20    12.02'0
COSTA RICA    '80   2.2B  1,818O  0.4          31.1    40   27    33   90    93            77       33       5.5      77         40      27      4.,00
A               7S   9.S        ---  8.0        1.0    ---               96   112800       98       1BY   - ---       90         '10XY  15    19,020
DOMINICAN REP 78   5.3    1,030   2.1Y         13.91                    67      --        --       -
ECUADOR         80   8.4B  1.110   6.0P        36.7   45   31       16   81   105          -        36      12.6      06         47      16    29.00
EL SALVADOR   77   4.4         640   3.4BY   23.1BY 64    8    27   62    82BXY    32               39       ---      41         26BXY  27BY   7.90BY
GUATEMALA       78   6.8   1,010    1.7AY   12.6 ---  ---   ---  -             69BXY       --      358Y              69         15BXY   980   15,0Y
EUYANA          76   0.8       630   8.1BY   13.8    ---  ---   ---        -    99XY       --       321Y   ---                   59BXY   --      3.00Y
HAITI           SO   0.OB    230   3.4VW        7.981A    5    9     6   238   50          20       41      19.0      626         40     27      0.SO
HONDURAS        78   3.6       520   3.58Y   14.3BY 420  158   19A  60    89BXY    300              41BY   12.88      6SA        21XY   19       5.001
'JAMAICA       80   2.1    0,110   6.5         13.7   07   43    20   90    98             98       40       2.3      95         81      22      0.00
MEXIEC          80  65.5   I,88O    4.7        17.0A  46   39       15   92    98          53       44       9.5      06         56      17    10.30
NICARAGUA       78   2.68      610B  3.0BW    14.0B                      90B   858X        24       37B      -        ___        2680    308    --
PANAMA          78   1.B  1,1550B  5.50WY  21.SBY 42A  13A   13  B2    95BY               ---      25BY   11.6       85A        50BY   217BY  20.408Y
FARAGUAY        79   3.0   1,140    1.4W       14.2    42   17    30   B4    83            32       28       3.1R     76         22      12      0.70
PERU            8O  16.6   0,000   3.6         14.3   53   15    19   80    83             56       39       9.8      S9         39      22     14,40Y
1RINIDAD 0     T. 77   1.1   3,910    4.81      8.8BY 48   32    20   95    90           91        30      10.5'     49        62       24      __
URUAY           78   2.9   2,500   2.5          9.4 ---  ---         -   94   105          ---       4      ---                  64BX    -      17.80AY
VENEZUELA       78  14.4   3,440   5.1Y        18,9B               -    82   106BX        ---      28      --        ---        38BX    12     21.10Y



-47 -
CONPARATIUE_EDUCATION_INDICATORS                                                 ANNEX 1
SEPTEMBER 7. 1982
*         I          I~~~~CENTRALI:                                             
*  .                )UUP. UN:                  :         :        I          W~Xp.  :RI.  :RECURRENT:                 :SEC. 
-  -                 ~~~~~~~~~EDU. AS! EDUCATION    10100-    I  .'6UM9IE- :UT- :IGNIT CXUSTIPRUXRESU  ISET. :T)T-  :IRIHERi
*  .      :         ~~~~~~~~:5 TTO,IRECURRENT    180       0NR....TISN        :DENTUIFRIM. E.ION RATE: 1EN800 IDENTXIUENRIOOi
UGNF   I    GNP   )CENTSA)AOX)  AL(SODATOT   NAYLF  NRATID IRATE PORIPN                  GE10  NTF  PROEM FNI. ::UTIO IPER  IRATICX
XUUOWCP.F  ICAPUIAI  DEVOTUD)  XUUT. I            TO:       1)0 0)      NEI:PR SO.N04I CPT    CAPITA    TO0 SEE. L:NEI  :TEACH- DROSS:
YN)91IL.S. I(U(S)   TO EDO.!  RU        IX.   SEE    I AI.)IG)OT' (I  ()   :OCyLE(S)~ (E,R                     7.:.03     L()'.ER         (0.)
- (1975(0)199)   I'll      ]4                     : 197-1  :7       :   :8     .9  .0    1,                       (2   ~3    (4
CAST ASIA ANDl TUE PACIFIC
SUING            79 9XI. 8       2U     33 I       0.6    29    34      27    U       9)!A       64        27       6,0       U3         47,      14       2.8011
ENDO8):SIA      Xl 142.9        37 0    3.]        9.24   66   39        -6869A5                O         34        1.4       44       -239       1       2.USU
ARFEA            l'0  37.]    1510    2.7SA    :741  5           2      36    939   1USDy        94        406                91         6U9US    398    124U65
98)A8SI18        (U   14.2    1460]   ..   2 2.0    349           2     1      5                          SAX 0  .             4         65       27       ?]0
FA7.    9     29        760    5.4k       16.48                              98         7         31        -.1                  6400    23       -
PAHIIOPUINES   79 A4630          6550    .SA       4.T      4    3X88          '5                65        31        7.1     `39          5       0      210
),INXAPDAU  DO    7.8   ~~~4,42 0    2'    6.      9    4)      I     333U'             3           1       U.        OU 29.0
30.XR0   10.a8         02        463    4.2k    190,0 41    34          260                      30        263 5                         )         -
THAIL AN]I       GO   4'3X        23    3.4       299    59      15     1.3  861, 3,1                                .3       5           2       2        4.00
SUTH)) AXIA
8ANGLAIESA       '   92.1,        90    1.1F      10.1AY 0 I I '    23    220          Y]                  5        9.                   1,4      .        1.43
INDIA           I7'R 6,96       71      7.91       9.9k]                      36.    '9041                                               220               1.30A0
NEPAL            50  14.30        497.              .     27    IX    .36    1        X          30       38A6X18                                 208A    2OXAY
PANI" A          '979.7         270    2.0A         .10   39-4                        U         E05*      45        6.,      '1          209     1        6.00
EUROU)], MI1DDLE 16A)0 AUD NOR)) UFUICA
AFGOANI'TUAN     '   10.9               1:B,         ~37  4'1  15       U     I"      Illy       69,       17].     ,.        6'          53    .700      1.00
I1)      o38,9          EOS   !OSFA         .0 31       3            44      7460       9         346       9.        3          406     25      1.4
ALE).         76    43     410       2.0k      10,60 1 3 2 62'.                   9RIOT290                       6 'I       --         '905    7760   17.3SF
lOAN             '    6'                 .4S       4.10                       50    1018;                 32                             44A0    340A     4.900
IRAa            7'9  12.0    2.710    4.343Y       6.949                            1069                  2                              4589Y   790      9D398
IRTL-AND        6)      4X   4.4630 6.10]    (.600                                   93         94        29                  )5          1       14     11.10
180     99   72      1,260     4.3        7.     19   44       la    '0]U   970        45I       32         ,        4           4       9       46
LE.00NU460         9..]iI,                                                            '6930                                              401             27.40O40
MD0CI0D0         A0  19.         740    F,18ky  I ',X  31,  044         20 201    5669           35        39      19.7       40         254      21       4.59
04469   93    15)3 ) 3. '00                        4.U6A                              446A                7 38 A'0                                 9
F 00NU6GL         I   YAFS  2..10"I A0,0          15.4    41   21       ES   7        970        60        19                  ' 5       309      23]ID     OS
I'D H6.           I   21      2000      I.03       9,'                         0    010                     30                 3           466    220    19.0903
GF81 A I'. tI                 4.920    7.1        10.60                               9009                 290                  .        0670]           24,100Y
Y30IA            '6   80.     1,17'    4,40      10.3   39    75G    75,  '23        A'X)       BO        350                60          4100    2 Il I_. .00
9081'10          '6   0.       ,1'        0)      19.      2    39      1'J   S'0   10'S        00         900     12.7C      3'.'       30]      30      6.00
90U0 'C           9   3.      1)35    ).tUAY  11>1                            100   10'36                 33                             4]'    27        7.978Y
TEMENA6.).      .0       .4    400    5.0OF       (2,)    94                   10     '2         1.         4)      7t        1           30               1.0
E9UAT.1.9.  El,     .9           '    -4  0   10.'     )    14       5 43]    0,            53        7        22.4       1           .       10        .
)UAOFUr 0)  TWO]NFRES'                (.        10       66    65    13      73I   SO.l                          54         16                  0)      04
RA06(7)                               1.4    (2.0    '1                    0       1         1          17?      11        61          2      ('      (6,02
10.9,)  35.91     '49   461)  31)      '    10%        '9         '        /.0        69)         1      30      2.
3.J0].T IO ES)   .1).               5 .'.     9.]      .1    3521          0))    "          0) !      41       0         93)                         il.
WEOIONI A3,3                 :5        43    26U   10       0     3`         I235               1          1         22      7?       3..
LO)11                  .3     97"       30    19R  1'       23     5'         31        .2        7         30             1    le      6.
6      90) (0) I )00   TIME 0TJFLNT1                         )   T)]
OM090N1kIO(O9U                                           1      UCJP    E3109  011
C8 )ONFINED WITH BIGOT]                                   I   CON) 08)SOVEFNMENT 00 0
- IUI' 1),' OF EDUCATION 91) 1109NE 
L  Oi 3)   C)ENINA). G0VERNMENT
FUIN IF10I AlLO TU] LOFONLYU
.1 I.N( JID EVF  UDBJE  GAL]N7
SOLACES)~ ~ ~ ~~~~~yUET.SURE
SO 0CES     """US 1 A890 7)   W00.1  0XNr, 0)040  OA 1BFOD HIS29N2.
COLUMNS 3 '9 14] 1BP00 01011060 AND'Uf, 0011()3 0909199108. YEAN000.
COMPA4ATIV6E 016149(6O  FAreA APL ((SEP60  IN THE EVALUATICI OP V80I063 ED6008) ION  IYSTERS AND, 8481 '00   0 OFPRLATIVF    AGO] OF ETDUCATIONAL
IIEVELOFEI OL'TWGEN 6891060 TOUNTRIES. CW )U0E), ON T0)0D 60S1 OF THi  600   0469. 000TA   CRSNOATIONALNE SRIUI0N . SHOLD 0   OF1100
WIT]. GREAT CAUTION.  DATA 0ES0NTL1  IN TUE 9660080  0830V  BEEN COLL00ECE  LA5N9009 ST I00N]010010 F 60M 601 06906   S0))TF12   0
REMAINDERE ARE69F PTIATTEO                TDbFRO"M U40C.OFUAO   80  )06ROETI3TN)XI170I,                            II1)       6.kT IUl, M 011,)0) (F.
TAHETUAT   F TUE0836   N)O GI4EESS   6)) 5 6II                APE 091.0        fi IOLOE' 10"9000.0.   9                                                    I) 0)  '601,')9   .    
T))OOL9, IIOATIDN  40 00116EF I      N TH)  (OF 0  l   IN)]J )'L) EC   0) )IoJVT) lOAI   0.9) ET    IN I NIU , N)C T HF OURO) 001  NON  00400,
EC000XXNY 0060L REG0FADLES 91F90)]  PE.6  006008L. TOTOUIOAL, 00060).L TURA,
TIS10  G)01P3  948'L T AN    F1")0 M  ULFNITION  0)  '1  TENAlL'  A00  BE00 FOLLO3El, 041(109109L
'4) '100JP IL ) X,10) )))91 I( IN ) '01TI0N  .) (19. 4 946 5)1 SF) tOO  60 00.. .6f 'I'0  AL.AN       .RORECURRE AT  11)1,0IRL  I)EVO3ED TI) 00306A0 IOU
10   '2(3)1,) MI  )1N       )'0).9l-,  7 60 19) 60106 30 309001 ANCiENO  AN) ON) 26 I        (0  600 0) 00161000 06100R06 ) NFEOIITI  mo. t9)
THN   AFF] 4 FAGRIAF  .9000 COLF, 10     RBV) 138     67  GL .  THIO] 01) OFTENFUGOJELTFTO 8 81I0E 080016 OP EURIN  16 TAEO  FV3EORINEJ
19D1CAT00  BY 106740901 8006 CAN INF LATE TH)E RATI OS .



CHINA
AGRICULTIJRAT. EDUCATION AND RESEARCH PROJFCT
List of Departments and Corresponding 'lumber of
Specializations by Project College (1991-87)
East China
North-                 Technical    Nanjing                 Central   South   South China  South-
Shen Yang  Beijing   western  Shanghai   University  Instituite  Nanjing   China                China       College      western
Agric.   Forestry  Agric.   Fisheries   of tiater   of Meteo-  Agric.   Agric.    Agric.  of Tropical   Agric.
College   College   College   College   Resources    rology              College  College  College  Agriculture  College   Total
Departments (figures indicate no.
of specializations)
Agronomy                                      2           -          I           -           -             -           2         2          4            -            3          14
Soils                                         1           -          I          -            -             -           1          1         1            -            1           6
Plant protection                              2           -          1           -           -             -           1          1         2            1            1            9
Forestry                                      1            3         -          -            -             -           -         -          1            -            -            5
Animal huisbandry/vet. medicine               2            -         2           -           -             -           2         2          3            -            2           13
Horticultulre                                 2           -          2           -           -             -           2          3         2            -            3          14
Agricultural mechanization                    4           -          2          -            -             -                      1         2            l/a          1          11
Sericulture                                   -           -          -                                     -           -         -          1            -            1           2
Agricultural economics/management             I           _I                    _-                         -           1         2                       I/a          1            7
Water conservancy                             2            1         3           -           -             -           -         -          -            -            -            6
Landscape gardening architecture              -            I         -           -           -             -           -          -         -            -            -            1  X
Forest products and engineering               -            3         -          -            -             -           -         -          -            -            -            3
Hydraulic engineering                         -            -         -           -           2             -           -         -          -            -            -            2
lHarbor engineering                           -           -          -          -            2             -           -         -          -            -            -            2
Irrigation and drainage                       -           -          -           -           2             -           -         -          -            -            -            2
Hydrology                                     -            -         -           -            I            -           -          -         -            -            -            1
Engineering mechanics                         -           -          -           -            I            -           -          -         -            -            -            1
Automation                                    -            -         -           -                               -          -               -            -            -            2
Meteorology                                   -            -         -           -                              -                 -          -           -
Agricultural meteorology                      -            -         -           -            -             1               -                       -                              I
Atmospheric physics                           -            -         -           -            -            2           -          -         -            -            -            2
Agricuiltural microbiology                    -            -         -           -           -             -           -          1                -                               I 1
Aquatic products                              -            -         -           -           -             -           -          1         -            -                         1
Tropical crops                                -            -         -           -            -            -           -          -         -            2            -            2
Tropical crops processing                     -            -         -           -           -             -           -          -         -            1            -            I
Marine fisheries                              -            -         -           6           -             -           -          -         -            -            -            6
Aquatic products processing                   -            -         -           3                  -                  -          -         -            -            -            3
Aquactulture                                  -            -         -           2           -              -          -          -         -            -            -            2
Total Specializations                    17            8         13         11            ()            5           9        14         16            6          13          122
Total Departments                         9            4                     3            6             3           6         9          8            5           8           69
/a These departments are offering only nonformal courses.
Note:  Most colleges have a Basic Sciences Division or Department.



*       -".3"'        Os.3OsOsOs3'3'Os
Os                           I  Os
K                          -                                      :
ci                                                                     ,Os
lOs   '        I   .   IIII.,    3'   3' 3'3'  3'.3'3'            I
2''''''
JSOSK.
- ' I3'03OsOs3',OsI H-
'1
I-
000.333003 Os OsO         Os
-            Os Os Os3'OsI Os Os 3''    -
4



5000
-toO   toCotetolssh  teak, aeOop
Coll-t  ee-avsaoo    coal sod loara-   acool  to aoM                        o    t
pIO               I    Ia    IW    I   "s    P    OP    4      0     18   0      0    L             2 I    80                  1      1    1  C    OPIIIOI                   IP    o2 4  ta  P71W   0    h l OP L I       p    op       o           I P   I     I   I0  Ia    WIV I             Is                  2       I.        Ia                tso
4boors)                                                             "                                                                                        1            1         9 23         3    1              3                   4     1                 1 7        l          06          9      005  00 4                006    095    Il   04                        644                  0 
6                             23OC    04   0    0    0    0      2 0    6    07    0          C~ 1   i    C        10       0~  Cl   0~    12       1    0      2     00         C 1        C    00      90       2          8    4        0      0       1       0     0         
190    011      2,831    480    0,00               62 5,162
O-ohOa-O-ol
440           I  413 6 ~ 0         1 C    2  311    0   181   11   01   069    0    40   04    0    01   14   119    1   1             71  21   27     I    0 ~10    04   14   0    0(            I 2I  00  "0    1      7         12 1    W I 19   MI     4    6                 90       0 0 0          1    0   105       3      31"       4361    300        58991
5-6                             417~   40    4    4    0              0      I           0       15410l    03    0    0    25    2            0    0    2    00    0    0    2                     31  0  5    00      1       3    0 10  91            1    0    3     7102   oa    1601    0    200                101            40         0    01       004635050bl
60                            10    0      0    1    0 15  10         21               14015    00        3       11         1      10        1 3               3    I     0    014        057     1    00       C     0    0     0       0                  0  121          1 2    4    131        0      00        00       2      I0        0     01      028l               1          1          9 
Olte                 0      12 42   47   15    0   170      0 I al3    175   12   43   100   03    86    0    . 10 1 11             0    0 1   1     0l0   60 C78   130                 74   340       C    I         27   0     1 00 79    0   073         19   106   12    72   0    0   lOt   0   310  0              0 4  I     30    42    229       1,442    295          100    2,5
3-0                                 0102                      153         65    3    0    2161    Ot                1    111         30    0    0    13    5    0    2             2 1    19355  0             0    4150           0    23    4    0           0    2359         950        0II                0           540106             0       4        106    039        43         0016
11-0                           C    I    80   14 1         0     2    0    201                2   110    41 3         0          031 7        0    0    3    47   13   090    4 1           3      9 12   0    0 40    0   IC6  0    0    41    2    0    1    1    54    1               3   0           9  0   19   3  0        55      019         2      12        2         5029411
24                            20 1   210I  831 70I O4Il   3 051344   C   149 7100    0  00059 10016 1314983164    0  203114    0  0950133   0   22383 291  2   0010 2040  0 35   510   2 182  596499 0                                                                                                                                                                                      80415
ItO     913    2,931    4800    4,04845162(0
Catle  he          1    8        434     3    0  612   70  413 Il 0341   1  2100    31    26   01    1    32~~  16  30                      60  12            " 13 014 7      t5      4138           2    6 14    a    a1  o ~ 02   I   03          I 27  31    06    7    26         13    4405301                   390        67      5      92l     7,60      190.      304    43311
I          1-              I           roo1o-                                                         4     6131                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1131       22704  I    4  4'13712  4  1701, 
Oclyek       214  302  03 20307226055  230  30016  3                                     ,7 tabO    1873027031154203902633409  14001203050167 3 1_5920152                                                                      1 1 8 22O 0 27227 84 350300034402103052401  160G  120  190  613  20831  460   10                                                                 36
Col0t-                            461                         610                          674, 74                                                                                   9 2                     100-                       323                         5-24                         076                      300                                56



CHTNA
AGRICULTUTRAL EDUTCATION AND RESEARCH PROJECt
Research Staff at Project Researchi Institutions by Rank, Age, Sex,
Years of Post-Seconidary Eduicationi and Research Experience (1981)
CAAS Animal        CAAS Library       Center for 9lon-            Water             Lake Taihni        4eteorology           Staff by rank, age   Total staff and
Husbandry        and Information  itortng Forestry            Conservancy         Experimenital       Data Service           education, expe-    proportionl by age
Institute              Center            Resources         Research Center            Base                Center            rience and sex /a    educ. level, expe-
Research staff                 I  it     T i T V      I  ITI    IVt     I TIi TI ttiv         I  II  tiit  iv    t  it  ti        IVIt1 tv    I   ItLt v      i    i   itt     IV    rienice mnd sex la
No.       (1)
Age (years)
Below 30                     0   U      0   4   0   0       0   7   0   0        0   2    U            2 256    0   U            4   0   0       0   0       0    0      2   2 73        275      (it)
30-45                        0   0   45  27   0   0   36  27    0   0   53  36              0   1  407 426    0   0         9  t5   C)   U       2  37       :)   1   5 52    568      i,121      (47)
46-60                        2   7   29   0    1  19)   27   0   U   4   31    2            8  40  565 15i    U    1    10    I   0   0          6   3      11  7i    668    1 57        907      (3 8)
60+                          5   U      I   U    5   1      t   C)   U   0       2   U   28 15    23    7   U   U           I   U   0   0        0   0      38 16       28       7         89       (4)
Subtotal                                                                                                                                                49  88 1,250 1,005         2,392    (100)
Years of post-secondary
education
Leqs than 4                  n    2    4  189   U   0    3    9   0   U          2   2    U 0  103 192    U    t            5    7   0   0       4  11      r0   3    i21   23           363      (17)
4                            4   3   63   12   6  19   57  25    0   4   84  38    19  3 4  97 7157   U   0)    6    L   0   C)    4  29                    29  60 1,001    262        1,3 52     (63)
5-6                         0   0       7   1   U   U       I   U   0   0        0   U      5   4  152 149    0   U         9  1?   n   0        U   0       5   4    169    162         340      (16)
6+                           3    2     1   U   0   1    3    0   0   U          0   U   10 17    54   3   U   U.           0   0   0   0        U   0      13 20       58       3         94       (4)
Suhtotal                                                                                                                                                47  87 1,349    666         2,149    (100)
Years of research                                                                                                                                                                                                    -
experience
Less thanS                   0    0     1  20   0   0       0   3    0   0       0   2    U    1   26 211    0   U          0   3    0   0       0   0       0    1     27    23 9        267     (ii)
5-10                        0   0       2   6   U   0       U   8   U   0        0   0      0   U    18  80   0   U         6    2   U    0      0   0       0   0      26      96        122       (5)
11-20                       0   0   44    5   U   0   29  23    0   0   48  37              0   0  293 331   U   0          6  13   C1)   0      3  3 6      C)   0   423    445         868      (3 6)
20+                          7   7   28   0   6  20   35   0   0   4   3 8    1   36   55  6601218    C)   1    8    2   0   0                   5   4      49  87    774    225       1,135      (48)
Subtotal                                                                                                                                                49  88 1,250 1,005          2,3 92    (100)
Sex
Malenro.                     7   7    52  15   6  13    24  17   0   4   73  25   36   55  821 530    U    1   16  13    0    0                  6  24      49  801   992    624       1,745       (73)
Female no.                   0   0   23   16   0   7   40  17   0   0    13   15            0    1  176 310   U)   0        4    7   0   0       2  16       0   8    258   381           647      (27)
Female %                                                                                                                                                    (0) (9)  (21)   (38)
Total by Rank            7   7   7 531   6  20   64  34    0   4   86  40   36  56  997 840   0   1   20  20    0   0                        8  40      49  88 1,250 1,005          2,392
()by rank                                                                                                                                                   (2) (4)   (52)   (42)        (100)
Total by Institutioni            120                 124                  130                 1,929                  41                   48                                        2,39 2
TI Senior Research (Professor)
II - Senior Researchier (Associate Professor)
III =Associate Researcher
TV =Assistant Rese_archer
/a  The totals oni "Years of Post-Secondary Education" exclude the Water Coniservancy Researchi Center.' 
Source:  Compiled from informatfoni provided by thie Project Review Commission.



- 52-
5058*MY OP ENPSOI1.LHTN AND ESUSSATUESPROJECT COSTS
P500OSE0 AGRISCOLTURAL. EDUCATION AND NESEORET PROJECTr                                                                                                                            ASONCX 3
EX9CH000 GEHRA     I US$       1.750  SEAN
SCALE FACTOR: 550           050
05OCTN LEVUE.          NO.   AREA          -DRITES                   SEOLOIRO              PO~LLOPSSIP              SPEC SERAS               PROJ. AD.SRN.           MATESTALS                ROOKS                    501 EQUIP               COMPETRRS                fTlU  EQUIP           PHJO    RPS               O
Ho.    PROIEST ITSO                                         PLhaCE  SQ. M.LUCAL PURISCEE   USUAL LOCAL FORS5G5  TOTAL LOCA  P0FOREIG   TOTAL LOCAL PARSION  TOTAL LOCAL PORIGN  USUAL LUCAL, FOREIGN  USTAL LOCAL PORION  COONS. LOCAL FOREIGN5  UUAP. LOCAL PUREITAN  FOCAL LOCAL YUEIGN  USUAL LOCAL PFROJOR   USUAL  PCAL
1.0      RARICELTONAL SHOE ANT RESEARCH
14.1  SHROTARA AERICELUERAL CULLEOS  TOO  -    19200  SEP  0  560  E79A  U  APSE                                                                                  TAO     LAS     LSHE  1226    OSNO       AURA     -     5300      1300     -      352       352    1025    6659  ISSNA    6734~~~~~~~~~~~~~~94  14  104  128   266  09  : 130  130  35  35    715   469  1784 673
-  PUES  -    -         -   LERA        U     SUER                                   -I                                                                                                                                                        1086        5    1086    622
1.E.2    REEJIQG PORISTRY COLLEGE             SOP                -    SSS        120      0       120  3300        0     T3S                                                          91                        0        91            14       1AO  USES    SHOP       HATE     -     10        130      -      00       110     69       431 S 6         51
145A00        -                -     2590      0      2                                                                                                                                                                                            -       2R         0     290o    166
I1.13     IFTUSUSSTCSS CULL OP .1010          PEA               -      LSS10              0      IES'  T3EE              3360                                       30                                           U        TO  134R      250    1095  1190    2303    0063               15SEA     1549    -       439        30    62      450      11H     65
1.0.4  SOSASAS ROSHI P50  CULL  CIRP          -      069       151             LEO VAS           S     SAS                                                                                                                       66    2300       3966      -      291       291    -          02 48  30 0306        21939   6245     36
-   000       -      -        -     51        0       51                                                                                                            -                                                                                        50               1        9
1..  E. COREA TECH 7. RACER ORNOPRA  OURC                           9 NRH    12      0       12 VEStS         S    LOES01                                                                                                   179      SHE      120  2031    [NOR      4345    -         75       175    -       259       AS     23       12 111          96
1.1.5                                                 TOO010      -               -    TNT                 TNT                                                                                            
1.1.6  1IA1JEHE OSESE CELLIE  COO             -      HALE       152             SE  EASE         S    T369                                                                                01J-                                                                                                           -           36895            369    211
1:1  111, HE 11, CIILSIR  I m  18100  15  0  153658           3658                                                                              lo        0      100   641    10          745H 35 356    SHO     AES             20252Q02           -     111411060076    392011181612
1.1.7 5825090 AEIC  OLLIC  OQA-    SESO            lE       0      SE  TES          0     3115450                                                                                     S      45T    NT      140      200 NIT    2720         3533           ST00      1300    -        546      SEA    4608    610~6   93164      32
- I210            -            -    31         2      TP                                                                                                                                                                                                     361  06361               266
1.0.  CONEAL CAINE ACEIC COLIREE         00                      35300      HUE      U      4AN7650                P65SoAS5                                                                                     0      ASS   200      139      340  2396   ZAHA        0090           1300      1300             571      37     10        55160          82
1..8 35H CESRE AGOIC coLLIT            PMAO                     210200     15              00580             0     HO                                                                                                        201     139      34E  5OSE    2918       0052            I30 300 18 130                     41    EL         66102          81
2.0.10   SOOTH COINS TNP COOPS C0LO            SL  F169P7                        18       U      20   035          0     424                                                                                        0.SA           .P     11         20 14        362      Hl66                                               66      NON     T2      916      56
1..1 SOISETR   OL   PAEC              O                        AE       115 0250                          0 2400                                                                                                          1515139          290  2003    2059       0262           1300      13000           889       89     P6       EP 171          61
-   332      -           -   -       6                 H--66                                                                                            0                                                                                                                       666    038
SONTOTL S  1.  LOSEECOIP              -      2356     159                 9 El  562      E     1321262                                                                                     0     1261  THOU    IT7H      S1OE 25105   25102    5U297            11822    11R17            6365      6365  83377  44740 128125  732314
RE0PUE0LONE                     30782       -      -        -           268  5    20           -2682                                                                                                                                                                                                  0     61     13
TOTAL                        266031    ISIS9      U    LESS 5ET1A         0   INS41261                                                                                     0     1261  3800    1306       5124 25105  25182    50297        - 11817    118107              6365      635869 408100                    46
1.2       OUSE RESEARCH ISETITUTEN                                                                                      123                                                                                         0        3     4                 1    14 42             9122                      6270
1.2 .1    60T00 CONSNEV. 000 LONE            0060               -     891A       156      7      156 19US         0 19228                                                                                                   T  0            0       S   SR        42        69            2N2      262       -      70        05261          70      32       RH
-  100        -      -        -       755     0       75-                                                                                                                                                                                        -            75        0      7       43
1.20  NTEUAL  GOI  LI   INT CHUETAL            -      EE       156       5     156 ETEOO         S   EUSO                                                                                                      E        0       50   639   2265        2904                       -      -       68A      604  10645   29H49, 13794    7802
-   SE       -      -         -    20         0      23                                                                                                                                  -                                                          -      50                5       0
1.2.3    HON CENTER PESP AQOAT PROS           110a                    10Sl6      32 5     C      375  SLOE        0    S2LEE                                                                                      -0       50    66       6       11   90       lEN        SR-                              -       88        8     353     12       512      05
.20  ANI,AL SCIEECT RES INTSTITUE   COLE                  -      60                 -                             552520  U                                    320                                                          50       0        914          59       31                3        5              9                69     20        25     56
1.2.5    NATL CE  0910~T POREST OUSUORCE OPSPI                  -       600       34      5       34   641        0       6004S                                                                                     041                                    23       0       5519                      15      -      33       11       96     lR      6756     361
-   600      -      -        -       60       0       AU                                                                                                                                                                           -          -       6060 3E                   4
1.0.6    0ACC OTUSUOULO SOP  COPR EM         cOT.                      30500     LEO      S      ST   1200        0     022         1101                                                                                                                      306      1437           2002     7002      -       18        1     221      36     677       78
-   00      -       -0       -      3UT      S       3SE                                                           -                                                                                                               -         -        30       0       30      17
SEH-TOTAL OF 1.2           CONSTRUCLTION                   139629    821        U      020 U8973        0   U89731200                                                                                    U      L2N   EN4       65      629 02546   10333    23081             5072      5072           3747      37 563 201              721 688
ITOCD   ING                       2000      -      -         -    4HOE       0       4513                 -                                                                                                                                                       --         -       1                1       0
TOEAL                        L          821OHO    a      821 39EH8        0   39380-                                                                            105        0      150    SEE      69      629 12540   1U533    23000              5872    3072    -        3741     34 548 1H1              766409
I.E       OUE-I0SIUCUIUN TPECIPIC
1.3.1    LANOQAEIET00INONO350                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              350     -        --              -        -        -                3       5        8
TOTAL UP SECTOR 1.0  CEREOOECTSCS  3P4697    240E  0    2400 90602  0   EHESE                                                                0390        E     1309  4363    1440      5602 30653   35705    73378            17609    17689            18112    iHIIO 13641089   64666436  0013760 11507252  7378  1689    76891011    1012 13410   4966201  ,6 15077
ECOECL0IFV                      352                         - 3090          0    3090        -307                                                                                                                                                                                                   0 000        17
U1HCO                                                           350                                                                                                       350                                                -       -       350     350     000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5 
TOTAL                        408279    SASS       0     1240 93102        0   93002139                                                                                     0    1309  4363   0640        5603 363       605    731         -     789   17609        - 112 10112            3S7 651 1420 102
2.0       STAOU DEVELOPMENT
2.1       A EOSOI  T00A9NAW-                                                                                                           31        I'l-                                                                              -
21.,3    ADEACSO0 SU.E                                                                                                           66    610       63                                                                                                                                                                            0      07       73     36
0.1.4     600353001                                                                                                             2042    3209     30 0-                                                                                                                                                                          22     30        40     17
0.1.5    HANAG009NT EXPENOSES                                                                                                                                                   3U0U       0    3000                        -      -350                           350       700    -        --               -       --              30        35     300     21
SUOTOOTAL So  2.1                                                                                                    167 - - - -    04  020128    22956    -30-0UT               0    3000350                                                          T5U       7HS    -        --               -       --              52     212 266 122
OpZ       OAHACEWPTHPTPSI8NG                                                                                     1006                     1326            -                                                                                                                                                                            36      11        5
22        E PECRALMS  SUSICCS
2.U.1   AIOEOITPSPECIALISTSIEERICES                                                                                                                     07       120127                                                                                                                                                                      12        8
2.3.2  HIRAEOPOIHORPOCIALINTRERO000S                                                                     845      965945                                                                                                                                                                  905      EHO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4,  45 945 54
2. 3 .3    LANGUAGE ETECIALIST SERVICEN                                                                3000       0     3000                                   3071    3000300                                                                                                                                                              370     671      38
SON-TOTM, OPE.R                                                                              3055       0    3107      -        -        -    -      5243     5043-                                                                                                                                                       300     543     840      49
USaL OF ROOTER 2.0                                    -        -        -      .        - 300U          5    3000  1674  22608    14202   -          504      5043   00         0      3000             -        -       -      -               360     350       750     -       --               -       --              82     201 T62         256
3,U       NAEL 0100 RESNACLOC  P9.5T18020                            107040    1075       0    lESS U001E         3   30014   1012   2150        3102          0050     1030                             300       5      30E    200     20U       600   1046  1EH59   12305        -     'SO      1500      -     1500     10 359          165     525 283
SCUE         -900                            U      900900                                                                                                                                                                                                              0    9 00     516
40.1      STOEII  PR4PEOPCMTUROPOJO.                                                                                                1050                         1750  3000        0    3000-                                                                                                                               35        OS      70      25
0ONTLERV CUSSTP    YUAN                                                        4325       0    630I120616        0  117626   2606  24750    77654H   -       7043      79634.  NESS      0    6000  1609l         7     1609  456%3   0640      620'I3 39849  A4660L    06733     -    1908      05009     - I11612        01    877   056289
IN  us $                                                       2471       0    7471093             0 793         15II7          162      -    4082.63           4 366             42    96         2      965  2600      937    3505271  1791    49562                   1 0965   1000635          6630      631071          390 709
5805R0E00      10    OL                                                         26N             200  6301        I    6100    13E   1730        032     37              3 90    30U      0      300    04         0       04    220      82      31U  199U    2346       53317            959      959     -       580      56      TN      39      43
OR s1  9                                                       106      5       2   3600        0    3666       77    707       704          2 24      024   171        0      o7n    60         0       OH   LUS       00      077  0039    1360       2678     -      540       548            332       32     53       318      53
PRICE          I4E0                                                              1               3   AS         -    16704    PEE   3000        4136   -       9        093  13R3        P    1393     00       -        2 64    013    256      5695062    6070    006110        -     0125      LIS      -     211       21      56      45       92
SRCRS                                                             E      -       3649TO          -       54    10 70             062   -        6         6    796        0      P7E    051      -        11   407       168      555283        3473      6366     -       43       643     -     1132      102 135          80      02
10.A17 TUTAL   SE   SOLO                                                        5110      7    5179915,7751        0  150751  30TON   Z980846   57930         9 300    9220  0602,        0    0093  2037          0    SOUP7  3506    190       0687  668900 4  55206   102210    - 20272    202703             14200    128203 1168300
18NS us A0 9                                                                    259 06103         0   06113  1750.  106          629          323927         6SS          0    639    0164               1166  3145   100    4275282    3104    UE46U                   12156    12156      -     8119    011232759 070
                                                                                                                                                                                                       -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ----------



CHINA
AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Calendar Year         1982           |        1983           |         1984                   1985           |         1986                   1987                     1988
Fiscal Year   FY 82             FY83                    FY84                    FY 85                   FY86                    FY87                    FY 88             FY 89
Quarters   1    2      3    4            2    3    4       1    2      3    4    1       2     3    4      1    2      3    4      1     2     3    4       1     2     3    4
(a)  Remodelling                                  60%                     1E%                     10%                     15%
(b)  Construction    d20 A5%rd                                                                          _      _                                  10%
(c)  Furnufature  and Delver                                                                                              2 l  0l
II. Equipment
(a)  PRC
(b)  Specificatiolrs
ic) Preparatlon of Tender Documents
(ci)  General Frocurement Notice
(e) Invitation to Bid
(f)  Bid Evaluation and Award
_ g)  Manufacture and Delivery
ill. Specialist Services
(a)  Language Training                                            -
(b)  Visiting Scholars                                  20%               60%   120%
Ic)  Management-
Id)  Evaluation and Future Projects--                                                                                         -     -
IV. FellowshipsI
Effectiv  Date                                                                                         Copeion Date
Worid Bank-23696
*                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



- 54 -                                  ANNEX 5
Page 1
CHINA
AGRICULTUIRAL EDUCATION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Project Indicators and Targets
Midway         Final
Base          target        target
Indicator/target                               1980/81        1983/84       1985/86
Enrollment and Output in Project
Institutions
Undergraduate enrollment                      18,350         19,320        23,500
Postgraduate enrollment
Colleges                                       350            850         1,900
Institutes                                      90            100           120
Improved sex ratio enrollment: %
freshmen who are female                         17             19            21
Undergraduate output (no. of graduates)        4,229          4,195         5,025
Qualitative Improvement
Quality of staff and its source
% of staff with less education than
four years of postsecondary studies           17             12    Less than 5
% of stafZ in top three grades under
45 years o'L age (1,195 members)
holding:
Doctoral degrees                             0              2             5
Master's degrees                           Few              5            15
% of staff whc are graduates of the
college in which they teach                   51              -     Under 50
Curriculum improvement, expansion and
broadening
% of experiments conducted out of
total required by curricula                   59             70            83
Number of graduate degree programs
authorized by State Ccuncil (by
specialty):
Doctoral                            Less than 10           35            55
Master's                            Less than 10           70           110
Establishing agricultural education/
extension units in prcject colleges
(number of colleges)                           0              3             6
Introducing a basic course in farming
systems (% of students enrolled)               0             20            50



- 55 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2
Midway       Final
Base         target      target
Indicator/target                                 1980/81       1983/84      1985/86
Qualitative Improvement (cont'd)
Strengthening agricultural economics/
management courses and expanding
enrollment (as % of total
enrollment)
Undergraduate                                   7             8           10
Postgraduate                                    3             6           10
Improvement of student intake:
Improving the % of freshmen admit-
ted with national college
entrance scores below 340                        7   Less than 4  Less than 1
Prompting intercollege exchange of
students:   % of postgraduates
who took their undergraduate
work at another college                  Less than 5   Over 10       Over 25
Delaying student's decision to
choose specialized area after
admission to the college (number
of colleges)                                     1            5           11
Research Improvement
Quality of research: % of staff
research published in.
Local college journal                      Over 90           90    Under 50
CAAS journals                            Less than 10        10     Over 20
CAS and international journals            Less than 5         5     Over 10
Management Improvement
Improving staff utilization (expressed          1:3.6          1:4.2        1:5.0
in teacher:student ratio)
Improving space utilization (% utili-         Under 40        Over 45    Over 60
zation)
Extending the period of library servi-
ces (hours per week)                              40             60           80
Broadening access of students to              No open        Some open  Fully open
library materials                            stacks         stacks      stacks
Source: Prepared by the mission on PRC information.



- 56 -                            ANNEX 6
Page 1
SELECTED DOCUMNTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A. Reports and Studies Related to the Subject
A.1  Barnett, A. Doak, China and the World Food System, Overseas
Development Council, April 1979
A.2  Colletta, Nat, Worker Peasant Education in the People's Republic of
China: A Study of Adult Education in Post-Revolutionary China,
(World Bank Draft Mimeo), June 1981
A.3  FAO, China:  The Agricultural Training System, 1980
A.4  IBRD, Annex G (Education) to Basic Economic Report on China,
June 1, 1981
A.5  IBRD, Annex C (Agriculture) to Basic Economic Report on China,
June 1, 1981
A.6  Lofstedt, J.I., Chinese Educational Policy (Stockholm, Almquist and
Wiksell, International, 1980)
A.7 Montaperto, R.N. and Henderson, J., China's Schools in Flux (White
Plains, N.Y., M.E. Sharp, Inc. 1979)
A.8  Orleans, Leo (ed.) Science in Contemporary China, Stanford University
Press, 1980
A.9  Suttmeier, Richard P., Science and Technology in China's Socialist
Economic Development, January 1982
B. Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B.1  State Agricultural Commission, Project Background Paper
(October 1981)
B.2  State Agricultural Commission, Project Plan (October 1981)
B.3  State Agricultural Commission, Documents on Proposed Equipment Lists
(October 1981)
B.4  International Rice Research Institute, A Design for the National Rice
Research Institute in the People's Republic of China, October 1981



- 57 -                             ANNEX 6
Page 2
C. Working Papers
C.1   Findings and Recommendations on the Computer Component (Hsueh)
C.2   Project Cost Estimates (Billeh)
C.3   Civil Works Summary Data (Billeh)
C.4   Evaluation of Staff Development at Project Institutions (Ramos-Saco)
C.5   Evaluation of Curriculum at Project Institutions (Ramos-Saco)
C.6   Project Institution Data
C.7   Summary of Project Fellowships by College, Field of Study and
Category (Ramos-Saco)
C.8   Scientific Equipment and Library Resources (Ramos-Saco and Cushing)
C.9   Rural Secondary School Education/Training for Farming (Hartzog)
C.10 Outline for a Study of the Chinese Agricultural Research System
(Cushing)



- 58 -
CHART 1
ADMINISTRATION OF EDUCATION IN CHINA
STATE COUNCIL r
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Other ministries, commissions
and bureaus have their own          j                   X 35 higher education
education and training activities|                         institutions
EDUCATION AND HIGHER EDUCATION
BUREAUS IN EACH PROV:INCE//
MUNICIPALITY/AUTONOMOUS REGION                            !higher education institutions,
responsible for implesmenting central                     middle technical schools, and
educational strategies and policies                       middle normal schools belonging
and administering higher education                        to the province/municipality/
institutions, middle vocational                           autonomous region; key middle
schools, general middle and primnary                      and primary schools for which
schools, adult education, national                        the province/municipality/
minorities education, financial planning,                 autonomous region is responsible;
personnel matters, audiovisual                            sparetime education
programs, enrollment in higher
education institutions, etc., in the
province/municipality/autonomous region
EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS IN EACH                             vocational schools for workers,
PREFECTURE, AUTONOMOIJS PREFECTURE                        peasants, and medical training;
OR LEAGUE                                                 middle technical schools; middle
responsible for financial planning in                   --normal schools; key middle and
education, personnel matters, etc.                        primary schools; sparetime educa-
in the prefecture (or autonomous                          Lion, etc. administered by
prefecture or league).                                     prefecture/league.
EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS IN EACH COUNTY,                     middle normal schools run by
AUTONOMOUS COUNTY, BANNER AND                              the county/banner; key and
AUTONOMOUS BANNER                                        - _ordinary middle and primary
responsible for administering financial                   schools in the county/banner;
planning in education, teaching,                          sparetime education.
personnel matters, et:c. in the county
(or banner).
__ __L_ _   _  _  __ __  __ _ __ _
EDUCATION UNIT IN EACH COMMUNE                             _
responsible for administering the  1                      agricultural and vocational!
agricultural and vocational middle                        middle schools run by the
schools run by the commune, as well r                     commune; sparetime and
as reviewing and approving budgets                        literacy trainang.
for all primary schools in the
commune. etc.
BRIGADES                     _
responsible for administering payments-
in-kind for teachers in schools run by
the local people, and funds provided by
the brigade for maintenance of buildings
Lfor middle and primary schools, etc.



STRUCTURE OF EDUCATION IN CHINA
Kindergarten                         Primary                        Junior Sec.               Senior Sec.                         University or College
1  1*                                 1'                       1'                       t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1' 21
Vocational
Technical
Primary Teacher Training
University, College
3      2S         2              4
Kindergarten                          Primary                        Junior Sec.              Senior Sec.               University, College          Graduate School
(lovver middle)       (upper middloe       
Vocational
P rink 2r
TTrang.e
Technical
(industry, Agr. Forestry, iHealth, Economics,
e .               4 ~~~~Art, Physical Culture, etc.) 
AGE   3        4      5      6          7      8      9      10     11         12     13     14         15      16     17         18     19      20     21     22      23     24     25      
GRADE                                   1      2      3      4       5         6       7      8          9      10     11         12     13      14     15                                         o
Source: Ministry of Education
World Bank -22431



EDUCATION ENROLLMENT PYRAMID IN CHINA, 1979
INCLUDING FORMAL AND NON-FORMAL EDUCATION
AGE                                  POPULATION
AGE GROUP
21                                           \I; 01+ 0.09
_                                              \'                           _                                                                 HIGHER EDUCATION
20                                                                             0.3 + 0.2                                                        1.02 M regular institutions
_  l,> _    ,1.28 M in other institutions
19                                                                              0.3 + 0.5                                                 L       24% Female
0_3 + 0I                                                           Total  2.30 M
18                                                                          _0.3+0.5                                                      )
FEMALE
17                                               ,                 0,3 + 0 61|1 110,2 + 0-3             l                                 3   SENIOR SECONDARY EDUCATION
I_I                                                                12.9 M in regular institutions
16                                               l       3.4 + 1.2                    2.3 + 0.7                                                4.7 M in other institutions
I                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Male 10.7 M   Female 6.8M
15                                                     4-0 +1.21                       2.6+0.7          ln                                         Total 17.5 M
|;||.4.6                                      )  JUNIOR SECONDARY EDUCATION                      C
3 Fi  |   .   } t   |    |       t 46.1 M in regular institutions
10.1 + a3                                                 + 0.21                                      1.5 M in other institutions                   I
I I 1Q4+04|  |   ]73+02   |   |   )       Male 28.1 M   Female 19.5 M
1 2                           10.4 + 0.                                                 7.310.4+00.                                      Total 47.6 M
E                      ~~~~~~~~~12.8 +2,                                                  -        2 +1 1                          i
10____________ 141______                           _ +2 1 1  15+|                      |PRiMARY EDUCATION
1 0                  1 5 .6_                             _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _     1 4 6 6   M   in   re g u la r   in s t itu t io n s
g                    56+31.                                                                                                                    12Mi other institutions
-                                                                                                           MaIe~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~94.8 M   Female 73.0OM
p;   17.5 + 3    S               j                           |                           j           14.3+ 2.1                     Total 167.8 M
7  20.8 + 4                                                                                                                       0 +    J
S            I   I   l   I   4   I~~~~~~~~~ I I I
5           t           , l            |           11            1            1#           1             1       \(KINDERGARTEN
4                                                                                                            B.  |  8.79 M Children                       0
20          1 5           10           5            0             5           t0           15           20
U Regular institutions
OTHER (Spare-time Students, Adults, etc.)
Grade Distribution of Girls and Spare-Time Students is estimated by the Bank Mission from Aggregate Data in primary and secondary                                        World Bank-22430
education. No sex distribution estimates have been made for preschool and higher education.
Source: Ministry of Education and World Bank Estimate



CHINA
AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
STRUCTURE FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
| State Agri-lt-ral 
|    -ceead! Ed.cto 
Education              |Scence and Tecolohogy
DivisiOn                              Division     J
Mi. niy of          Minty f              Ministry of       Ministry of State     General Bureau          Central                                                Piojnut R-ev
Mlitr  f     inistry of   |   Water  Farms and Land         of Aquatic         MOtorological             Pro.int Office        j          Corocrimsso
Agriculture             oresry           Conserancy          Reclamation            Products              BureuC im
I l   l     _        I                                        I l               Coordinmlors for        I        Chairman
Colleges             Colleges            Colleges            Colleges                                 Colleges               I Eq.ipm   and                  -    tia Eq.,-t
-Shenyang               Beiling            East China          South China          Shanghai            Nanjmg                   Civil Works                     Analytical Equipment
Agricultural         Forestry           Technioal           Tropical Crops        Aqnait              Meteorulogical       2 Staff Development              - Computnr Science
College              College            Un--ersity           College              Products            College                                               - Library/Audio -isual
-Northwester                             of Water                                 College                                     Other St.ff:            4        Equipment and Staff
College of         Iastitutes           Resoorces                                                                                 ... -A utin
Agriculture          Center for         Institutes                              Institutes            Meteorology              Prouremet
-Nanjng                Monitoring          Water                                     Leke Tadhu          Data Service                c ff D-oen
Agricultural         Forestry            Conservancy                              E.perimental        Center
College              Reso,rces           Research                                 ease
Central Chiea                            Cnt-
Agricultural
College_                                                                                    __           
-South China
Agricultural
College
South-estern
Callege of
Agr-culture
institutes
CAAS Library
aed
Infurmation
Center
CAAS Aieral
Husbandry
Research
Institute
18 Institutional Prolect Umts              - -      ---
Director
Representatives from each       Project Office
specialiaation assited           Administrative
in Proiect                      Equipment
World Bank-23642



-   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   __________________________________________________________________________________________                                          IERDRD   6260
7f '  >       9q                            Qtt3                          1 jEU                           130                           \   t>l,   1  \    SFEERU8RY  IE'8i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FEBRU Y,IQ
I'cn- LEGES TO R- Sl RE01.2HFNED>                                                                                                                     *2"i   *'01; "
1. celrd C;:naAqrro 1 ra1222           C>li BS 0  V  I E T                     U  N   I 0   N
'N2--l - 2A1'212  '1.21- 15 C                                                                                                                     7          ""'9
:'5-1.1lV   Ist   n   krcutt    CII 'gIs.                                                                                                                                                                                     SX. 
>-    i C a C ri  12 -al C.228g,2                                    ,0                                                                                                                   /?
S., lh Chj,,l T-,l c11, cro s call-g    ;t/j :j\1  j
R 21;2FS F A EC H   N ST  T IJ0TE S   T   EF   srR [N G T l  EN E D                                                                                                             F  /  L   O  N   G   J i    A   h  C
iCAAS L b - V ad nfr tC--rtr(t                                                                                                                           
z 2AAS Aj -1 1 usba-1d, A -2-2212h I"'ULAA" NVx' r                                                                                .    .     >,                                ,     r        2
'I e- f1 24  2  22 f  <           'T, , j:                   , - R--
22                                        / LGOLAk.T8AA i                          l                                                                            < 00A
01>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
,_               > yk  J / L I NL          RAT  C
N                                                                                   'N   I I  V  0  h   G                    .122          1210  L.""                                2.                          .
22 Lake9 anum 22 22111 222                                                             MO        2C r      gl>   0    L   I    A            A      '           . 
XI,              I A I x I IS Aj  2222-1
eU g AX%-Xs A W / DS 10 t S t k                                                                                                   >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S,A vD  ' 
'111 A., X     _I
6D NEVI  "I.H  x   z A  I r,    u I                                                              u I~~~~~~~~,~          j'',,                                        1   .                  1 
*THIMPHUvr                                                                           i A V C,i X I
N    D"N A                                                                                                                                                           E   E  RPBI
AFOANSTAN                                                           2>       5~       525o 2>2           82021        Tr>tfS       >'<    ~     2>    OP'KQKA                                          0
... ..                                                                                    DEMOCR"AT<  2I                                      ' C''~.2                                           
""  ""u    22.~~RE       _VIE~25                                                   ,'    2   RPBL(                                 2
2122ll2~~~~1                                                                  2,       842~~~.~~hiar  2    2121.2122.             I                          2'22'122'22THAI AND02ILN2



