DaaMint of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Rqot No. 12573
PROJECT COMPLMEION REPORT
TURKEY
SKALL AND MEDIUM SCALr INDUSTRY PROJECT
(LOAN 2647-TU)
DECEMBER 1, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:        12573
Type: PCR
Country Operations Division
Country Department I
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
This document has a rsticted distrbution and may be used by reipients only in the perfonance of
ther officia dudes. Its contents may not othewnise be dilosed widhut Wodd BDak auriation.



FZRlS-      Foreign Exchange Risk Insurance Scheme
Ft    -     Financial Intermediary
as    -     Halk Bank
MIS   -     Management Information System
PCI   -     Participating Credit Institution
PCR   -     Project Completion Report
S100  -     Small Industry Development Organization
8MS   -     Small and Medium Scale Industrial Enterprises
SMIDO -     Small and Medium Scale Industry Development organization
SYXB  -     Industrial Investment and Credit Bank
SSI   -     Small Scale Induotrial Enterprises
TA    -     Technical Assistance
WPI   -    Wholesale Price Index



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BWK
Wangton. D.C 504
USA
Offic . Dttoo4na
Om" of      ao
December 1, 1993
SUBJECT:        Prect Compledon Report on Turkey
Small and Medium Scale Indutr Prol  (Loan 47-T[
Attached is the Project Completion Report On Turkey - Smal and Medi Scale Idusy Project
(Loan 2647-TU) prepared by the Europe and Cental Asia Regional Office. Par I, c iutd  by 91e
Borrower, sggess that the level of credit subsid tion under the project was minimal.
The objes of the project were to ()  2Mce lbor Inteive sm  and medium scab  nUSties
(SMIs), epecialy veqr small ind es, where Turley has a comparative advantg, (i) srqte
instional capabilidies of pardtipating Developme Finance Insituions (DFIs), and (I) st  a rtiona
program of tcncal asisan  to SMI The target for the number of sbpojec to be financed wasmet
Howeve, the mor specific objective of directing some of the lead   to very ma wtezle wau only
pardy achieved. The finnca Institution building of one DPI was met, wIh    Ban  finced techical
assistance. About balf of the TA progam to SMI was impleted, with the remainig ud Aids
reallcatod to a DPI for sub-project financing.
The project was implemented durmg a period of mac o        instabWity. As a resut, te
objecive of acieving positive onlending int    rates to beneficiaes was not met SMI itvestnn may
not be sustained and fiaci iemdWs may not be able to provide suitab  fiancing If unstabl
macroeconomic conditions peist
Overall, the project outome is rated as satsfctry, its sustalnability as unertain and its
Intitionl development impact as partial.
The PCR prvides a f&an and informative account of project oucomes and derives mean
lessons of experience on project design.
No audit is phnned.
Attachment
I ri docum e teiclsd diurlbutlad amy b     by ipany I tim p    eofkofiat_ Ion_a
amy ,a o*mwIm be diacd wiA WoeA ,w* _mhaika.                                           I



FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
QRJS  CNPETON REIMR
SMALL AND MDIUX SCAME INDUSTRY PROJECT
LOA (2647-ZUI
Table of Contents
Page No.
RVALUTIONSaU i
PAMII   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BINK'S&RSPECTIyJ  . . . . . . . . . . .         1
A.  Project Identity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     1
S. Background  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      1
C. Project Objectives and Description    .       . . . . . . . . . .  2
Project Objectivoe   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    2
Project Description . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     2
D.  Project Design and Organization . . . . . ..   . . . . . .    3
3.  Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . .    . . ..  ..     4
credit Component  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             4
Tchnical Assistance Component  ............                 6
P. Project Results . . . 7. . .  * . . . . .* . . . .  .          7
credit Component  . . . . . .  . . . . . . . .   . *  . .   7
Technical Assistance Component  . . . . . . . . . . . .     7
G.  Project Sustainability  . . . . . . . . . . . ..  . . . .     8
H* Bank Performance  . . . . * * *       .  .      . .   . .      8
I.  Borrower Performance  . . . ,. . . .  . . . . . . . . . .     9
J.  Lessons and Recommendations . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..    10
PART II  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . . .    11
This documt tas a rstict distribution and may be used by mcipients ny in th pwefome
of their ffiecl dutis. Its contonts nmy not otherwis be disclosed without World Bak authoriaton.



Table of Contents (continued)
PART . x      STIIQ ALS iF.MgION ... . . . . . . . . . .*.*. .*.*.*.      15
1. Related Bank Loans/Credits  . . .  . . ..... . ...           15
2. Projeft Timetable . . . . . . . , . .        .*   . . .    16
3. Loan Disbursements  . . . . . . . . * * .,, *. .*    16
4. Project Zmpl_mentation  ................ .                   17
5. Project Costs and Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    18
6.  Project Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    19
7. Status of Covenants .a.t.s. .  .  .  .  .   ...................  19
8. Use of Bank Resource ...................                     20
ANNEXE8
Annex ls Sectoral Allocation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    23
Annex 2: Averagse 7RI8 Interest Rates vs. Average WPI ...  .    24
Annex 3s Geographic Distribution of Subloans  . . . . . . . .    25
Annex 4: Subsectoral Distribution of Encouragement
Certificates in Manufacturing Sector . . . . . . .    26



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
LOAN 2647-TU
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Small and Medium
scale Industry Project in Turkey, for which Loan 2647-TU in the amount of US$100
million was approved on January 7, 1986. The loan was closed on December 31,
1992, six months later than the date planned at appraisal. The loan has been
disbursed to the extent of US$98.51 million, and the residual amount of US$1.49
million mostly comprises the unused amounts for technical assistance.
The PCR (preface, evaluation summary, and Parts I and III) was
jointly prepared by Country Operations Division and Resident Mission in Turkey
of Country Department I in the Europe and Central Asia Region and the Government
of Turkey, SYXB and Halk Bank (Part II).
The preparation of this PCR was started in December 1992 and was
based, inter alia, on the Executive Project Summary, the Staff Appraisal Report,
Staff Appraisal Reports of associated projects, Loan and Subsidiary Loan
Agreements and Supplementary Letters, Supervision Reports, Project Correspondence
Files, Internal Bank Memoranda, Subproject Files and interviews with the managers
of Participating Credit Institutions (PCI) and Bank staff.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(LOAN 2647-TUI
EVALUATION SUMMARY
(i)        Obiectives and Design.  The Bank provided this loan to the
Government of Turkey for financing small- and medium-scale industrial
enterprises (SKI), focussing particularly on smaller enterprises, to assist in
reducing urban unemployment. Related to this objective, the project also
aimed to help develop financial intermediaries that are proficient in
providing term finance to SMIs. The project included technical services for
SNIs through the Small Industry Development Organization (SIDO), which was
then the only government agency respon ible for providing promotional and
extension services to SMIs. To attain these objectives, the Bank extended to
the Government the equivalent of US$100,000,000. Of this amount, $98.4
million was to be used for financing eligible SMI sub-projects while the
remaining $1.6 million was for technical assistance to financial
intermediaries and SMIs.
(Ii)        Imlementation  Experience. Loan effectiveness was delayed mainly
due to protracted discussions between the Bank and the Government about the
Foreign Exchange Risk Insurance Scheme (FERIS), the credit program under which
on-lending under the project was to be undertaken. There were also delays in
the preparation of necessary legal documents by the Government. After loan
effectiveness, however, the level of commitments and disbursements quickly
reached a much higher level than appraisal estimates. However, rapid
commitment and disbursement could I ve been due to the favorable interest rate
offered under FERIS.
(iii)      The Bank and the Government had agreed that the FSRIS interest
rate would be adjusted every six months for new subloans in line with market
conditions. However, in the period between January 1986 and December 1989,
adjustments were less frequent than agreed, and average interest rates were
usually negative when compared to the average Wholesale Price Index (WPI). At
the beginning of 1990, the FERIS rate was indexed to the re-discount rate of
the central bank to make it more responsive to market conditions. However,
this rate was also negative in real terms. Thus, the lending rate under the
project continued to be a preferred rate throughout the life of the project.
FERIS was io be reformed under a follow-up project (Second SMI Project) when
the interest rate was made a variable rate tied automatically to the three-
month Treasury bill rate. Finally, under the Private Investment Credit
Project approved in May 1991, the Bank and the Government agreed to wind down
the FERIS program altogether.



- iii -
(iv)        The appraisal targets in terms of the number of subprojects to be
financed were met, indicating the existence of stronger than expected demand
from medium scale and small scale industrial enterprises for the loan, at the
interest rate offered. However, the objective of directing some of the
lending to very small industrial enterprises was only partially realized.
Halk Bank (HB) was required to direct 70% of its allocation to very suall
enterprises. Only about half of this target was achieved.
(v)         The allocation of funds for TA had to be revised during
implementation mainly because of implementation problems and changed
conditions. Originally, US$0.35 million was allocated for technical
assistance to HB. Subsequently, HS decided to use its own funds for the staff
training and other institution building components envisioned under the
project. Upon the request of HE and the Government, US$0.30 million were
reallocated to sub-project financing through HE. The major portion of the TA
funds (US$ 1.25 million) were originally allocated to SIDO. It was expected
that SIDO would utilize about 60% of this allocation for consultants*
services, and the remaining for equipment, reference materials and training.
S1DO successfully implemented the recommendations of its consultants for
developing a Management Information system (MIS), and improved its
infrastructure by installing a computer system and acquiring personal
computers. However, the component providing for technical services to SMIs
did not proceed as well, as a result of changes in SIDO's organizational
framework and mandate. The residual amounts of SIDO's allocation (US$0.6
million) were reallocated to the Industrial Investment and Credit Bank (SYKB)
for sub-project financing.
(vi)        Proiect Results and Sugtainabilitv.  The project was successful in
supporting the SMI sector and increasing SMI's access to financial assistance,
and in encouraging the two financial intermediaries to expand their SMI
portfolios. However, unless macroeconomic stability is attained, it is
unlikely that SKI investments will be sustained. Likewise, it is unlikely
that financial intermediaries would continue to provide an uninterrupted flow
of funds to SMI under unstable conditions.
(vii)       Almost 20,000 direct jobs were created at an investment cost per
job of approximately US$17,000. The number of direct jobs created has
exceeded the appraisal estimates of 18,000 which indicates the success of the
project in achieving one of its primary objectives, that is, job creation. on
the other hand, the actual cost per job of US$17,000 was above the expected
level of US$10,000, indicating more capital-intensive subprojects were
financed than expected at appraisal.
(viii)      The changes in the organizational structure and management of SIDO
and an expansion of its mandate within the Ministry of Industry led to major
budgetary changes and altered SIDO institutional needs and priorities. Thus
the institution building objectives for SIDO under the project were not
achieved. On the other hand, although the TA funds for HB were not utilized,
this was principally because HS decided to use its own funds for TA. The
agenda for staff training and other institution building components for HB
proceeded as expected.



- iv -
(ix)        Lessons Learned and Recomm1endaLtons.   While the credit component
of the project provided financial assistance to more SNI units than expected
at appraisal and helped build SMI lending capability in SYKB and HB, it has
not helped develop alternative sources of funds for SKI lending because of the
preferential interest rate offered. By distorting the credit markets, FERIS
may have prevented the development of an SMI lending program that is
sustainable for the long-term. The Bank should take issue with preferential
and subsidized credit programs and work toward their elimination or, at least,
reduction to levels that minimize distortions in credit markets. (Further
reform and subsequent winding-down of PERIS were achieved under subsequent
operations.) Provision of technical assistance for SMIs by a government
agency, such as SIDO, will succeed only if there is close collaboration with
the private sector. Without private sector involvement, such programs quickly
become bureaucratic and unresponsive to the needs of the sector they are
supposed to assist. Technical assistance for HS was more successful since
objectives were not only clear but shared by both the Bank and HB. This led
to a ,ecision by HB to use its own resources, indicating the value it attached
to the TA.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
LOAN 2647-TU
Part Is PROJECT REVIXW FROM THE ANK'S P-RSPECTIVE
A. Project Identity
Project Name            Small and Medium Scale Industry Project
Loan No.                2647-TU
RVP Unit          s    EcA Region
Country                 Turkey
Sector                  Finance and Industry
B. Baclkbrggng
1.          Turkey did not make the necessary adjustments to the economic
disruptions that were caused by the general unfavorable conditions in the
world economy in the 1970s. As a result, Turkey developed a large external
debt burden which led to balance of payment crisis, a sharp deterioration in
credit worthiness, shortages of imports, disruptions in industrial production
and a rise in unemployment. Starting in 1980, the Government of Turkey
adopted a new economic development strategy, including a wide ranging program
of structural reforms. In this context, one of the major objectives of the
government was to stimulate growth, employment and exports through
strengthening the private sector. Numerous studies of Turkey's industrial
sector had shown that factor productivity was significantly higher in private
than in public industry, and that privately owned small and medium scale
enterprises (S1I) offered high returns per unit of capital invested, while
being more labor intensive.
2.          As part of the new economic strategy, a large devaluation of the
Turkish Lira and major policy reforms such as trade liberalization, and export
promotion had been enacted. These reforms led to a large shift of production
from domestic to export markets. Over the medium term, total factor
productivity was increased. However, lack of access to institutional finance,
particularly to financing machinery, plant, and adequate working capital was
still a serious problem for SMIs.  Also, SMIs faced bottlenecks in benefiting
from then existing sources of technical assistance. This was particularly true
for those in the private sector who failed to resolve various technical,
management, marketing problems both because of lack of information on the
availability of such services and the high costs involved.
3.          Given the important role of SMIs in the manufacturing sector and
their potential to contribute to employment creation and export growth, the
government's Fifth Five Year Development Plan enunciated a strategy and
accompanying policy measures specifically to promote SMI. These included
strengthening the Small Industry Development Organization (SIDO) to develop
appropriate strategies, policies, and technical extension activities to assist



- 2 -
in SKI development and enlarge the flow of investment and working capital
loans.
C.  Proiect Oblectives and Descrintion
4.          iroject Obiectives.  In line with the government objectives to
promote SMIs and thereby contribute both to job creation and growth in
manufactured exports, the Project aimed at building on the Bank's first
project in this area, Labor Intensive Industry Project (Loan 1952-TU), and
provide further assistance for the development of the small and medium scale
manufacturing sector. In this context, the project was expected to place
special emphasis on assistance to small scale industrial enterprises (88I)
particularly those that are located in remote areas of the country. Also,
parallel to this, the project intended to assist in developing financial
intermediaries (PI) capable of providing term finance and financial services
to SMIs in an efficient manner and thus improve SMI's access to term finance.
Another objective was to help initiate a national program of technical
assistance to provide a range of technical and management services to SMIs in
a cost effective manner.
5.          Proiect Descrintion.  The Bank extended to the government the
equivalent of US$100,000,000 for the development of labor intensive SMIs with
special emphasis on small scale enterprises. US$98.4 million of this amount
was to be used for financing eligible sub-projects and the remaining US$1.6
million for technical assistance. Sinai Yatirim Kredi Bankasi (SYUB) and
Balk Bank (HZ) were the two FIs which were found eligible to on-lend the
project funds. $80 million was allocated to SYKB and US$18.4 million to HB to
be utilized in financing sub-loans. The project was estimated to create
18,000 direct jobs through approximately 700 sub-projects, of which 500 were
to be financed through HB. HB would finance only SSIs# and within the SSI
category 70% of HBl's share for sub-loan financing would be channeled to very
small enterprises'. On the other hand, SYXB was allowed to utilize up to 20%
of the project funds for financing non-SMI projects which satisfied the cost
per job criteria3 and were considered export-oriented based on certificates
of Encouragement. SYXB was required to finance SMI4 projects with at least
80% of its portion of the loan proceeds and: within this limit, minimum 30% of
the loan would be on lent to SSIs. The onlending terms for tthe sub-loans were
a maximum of 15 years including a grace period of 3 years. For sub-loans that
1 For an investment to be considered an SSI, the maximum investment limit
for new projects should be $500,000 and $650,000 for expansion projects.
2 Very small enterprise was defined as an enterprise whose total fixed
assets excluding land and buildings was less than US $200,000.
3 All eligible subprojects would have a maximum average capital investment,
excluding land and buildings, of $18,000 per job.
4 For investments to be considered SMI, maximum investment limit should be
US $2.5 million for new investments and $3.5 million for expansion projects.



were overed under the Foreign Exchange Risk Insurance Scheme (UERIS),
subs rrowers paid the fixed FERIS interest rate and the maximum terms were
eight years with three years grace period. SYKB and HB received the funds
from the GOT with a rate which vas decided to be FERIS minus an intermediation
fee of 4%. The government was to beaz the foreign exchange and lntereet rate
riske.
6.          For technical assistance (TA) to HB $0.35 Million was allocated to
institutLonal strengthening of BB. In addition to thie, $1.25 Million was set
aeide to develop inetitutlonal capabillty to provlde extenslon services to
SMIs and to facLiltate subcontracting on a national basis. For this purpose,
8100 was expected to bulld up a decentralized network of branch offLces
staffed with multldlsclpllnary extension teams. Each branch office would
promote TA by visiting and undertaking diagnostlc surveys of SMI firms tc.
assess their problems and needs and refer firms needing speclalized assistance
to appropriate experts or LretLtutions capable of provlding such services.
Upon completion of the TA program, 810D was expected to provlde assistance and
guidance to about 350 SMI enterprLses, train about 200 entrepreneurs, and
develop about 900 company proflles annually.
D. Proiect Design and OraanLxztion
7.          The SMI project was designed with a larger scope ln terms of
financial and technical assistance than Loan 1952-TU.   The latter was
provided to SYKB for supportlng the development of labor intensive SMIs,
whereas the coverage of SMI project was enlarged by adding a TA component and
expanding the credit delivery wlth increasing the funds and by including HB as
an additional PI. The SNI project also aimed to support the government
efforts to develop SMI as stated ln their fifth five year plan.
S.          Although, under its previous industrial credits to Turkey, the
Bank had endeavored to diversify lts assistance on a geographlcal basis and to
intensify support to sSIs, these objectlves were met wlth limited success.
The major reason for this was the limited access of DFIs to the less developed
regions of Turkey. In order to be more effectlve in the promotion and
extensLon of the loan, the SKI project lntroduced a commerclal bank (HB),
whlch had a vast branch network spread all over the country and which was
specialized ln loans to small enterprlses. Towards this end, the Bank also
required RB to focus on the smaller end of SSI.
9.          Interest rates and foreign exchange rlsk was one of the major
issues ln project preparation. In contrast to the then existing fixed
lnterest rates under the forelgn exchange risk lneurance scheme (UERIS), the
Bank supported the LntroductLon of floating lnterest rates which would be
adjusted on a six monthly basli in relation to an inflation based reference
rate. The aim was to ellminate subsidies and move to positive interest rates.
Also, the Bank lnsisted that the FERIS should be transitional ln nature and
should be self-financlng. The Bank and the government agreed that the FERIS
would be admLnLstered by the Central Bank of Turkey, the FERIS interest rate
would be adjusted every six months and the prevaillng lnterest rate at the
date of the TL contract would be applled until the end of the maturity of the



sub-loans. It was also agreed that the future of the FERIS should be
discussed appropriately under the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan, which was
then under preparation.
10.         The financial assistance part of the project was to be carried out
by SYKB and Ha. Both Flo would only lend to investment projects defined as
the project whose investment cost per job created would not exceed US$18,000.
SYRK was required to calcula*. economic and financial rates of return only for
investment projects whioh were estimated to cost more than $750,000 each. In
this category, SYRB would finance investment projects which had economic
internal rate of return not less than 12% and financial rate of return not
less than the prevailing rediscount rate charged by the Central Bank of Turkey
for medium and long term loans for industrial investments, both in nominal
terms. A 5Qs50 debt/equity ratio requirement was established by FERIS
administration for sub-loans to be covered under this scheme. Establishment
of financial performance measures like minimum current ratio, debt equity
ratio and debt service coverage ratio as eligibility criteria for the
investment firm were recommended at the appraisal stage. However, they were
not included in the later stages of the loan processing.
11.          The maximum debt/equity ratio for SYXB was set as 10:1.  For
further strengthening the institutional capacity of HB, agreement was reached
for HB to carry out a program of restructuring in terms of their overall
organization as well as their information systems to improve their efficiency.
Also, HS agreed to appoint and train additional staff, especially in project
identification, appraisal, and supervision.
12.         $1.25 million was earmarked for the technical assistance component
of the loan to be utilized by SIDO mainly for organizational development and
staff training. SIDO was expected to develop a decentralized program of
extension services and an efficient system to utilize other resource
organizations and consultants to be effective in the improvement of the
operations of SRI.
Z. Prolect Implementation
13.         Credit Component. Loan negotiations and effectiveness were not on
schedule mainly due to protracted discussions between t.: Bank and the
Government about FERIS, the interest rate which would be applicable to the
loan, and also due to some delays in the preparation of necessary legal
documents by the Government. After loan effectiveness, within one year, the
level of commitments and disbursements reached a much higher level than the
appraisal estimates. By the end of 198. disbursements amounted to US$35.99
million, 300% more than the levels anticipated at appraisal. About 87.5% of
the loan amount was disbursed by the end of the following year. As of
December 31, 1992 US$98.97 million was fully disbursed, six months later than
the original closing date.
14.         one of the critical issues raised in the preparation of the loan
was the introduction of an interest rate structure and a foreign exchange risk
coverage which would help to maintain an active demand for foreign currency



loans, but would eliminate subsidies. For this purpose, the Bank advocated
the idea of setting floating interest rates in relation to an inflation based
reference rate that is to be adjusted every six months. The Government's
stated intention was to set FERIS interest rates which would be positive over
the life of the sub-loans, and also would be in line with interest rates for
similar maturities under the Central Bank's rediscount facility for industrial
lending. After intensive discussions, the Bank and the Government reached an
agreement on the application of FERIS. According to this, the FERIS interest
rate would be adjusted every six months to new commitments. In spite of this,
in the period between May 1984 and the last quarter of 1989 the FERIS was
adjusted for differing periods (3 months to eleven months) and most of the
time, the average interest rates were negative when compared to average WPI
(Annex 2). This situation could be one of the determining reasons of the
substantially higher than expected level of actual disbursements especially
between 1987 and 1990. Only after the introduction of a floating rate for
FERIS which is adjusted every month according to the auction determined
interest rate of three month T-bills, did the FERIS interest rate become
positive in real terms, especially in 1991 and 1992. However, FERIS
administration decided to grant the right of making a choice between fixed and
floating UERIS rate to the investors for subprojects which would be financed
by then existing credit lines, including SMI I. For this purpose, in February
13, 1990, the reference fixed rate of FERIS was announced as the interest rate
applied to the advance transactions by the Central Bank. This rate, which is
a version of Central Bank discount facility, has been 54.5% since then.
I5.         It was estimated that a total of 700 sub-projects, 500 by HB and
200 by SYXB, would be financed from the Bank funds, for a total of US$98.4
million. More than 47% of this total amount would be directed to 8SI, of which
27.60% would be on lent to very small enterprises through HB. In other words,
13.09% of the total amount allocated for sub-project financing was earmarked
for very small enterprises.
16.         Towards the end of 1987, the commitments of HS were below the
expected levels and there was agreement between the Bank and HB that
commitments would have to be speeded up to meet the submission deadline of
June 30, 1988. One of the reasons stated by HB for low commitments were the
lack of demand from very small scale industries to which seventy percent of
the loan had been allocated. As a result of this development, HB committed the
remaining funds to SS1, without being very particular about the distinction
between 8SI and very small enterprises.
17.         As of end 1992, a total of 387 firms have been financed by the
financial intermediaries. SYKB provided funds to 185 firms and HB to 202
firms. Almost 44% of the total amount disbursed for financing these sub-
projects was utilized by SSI and only 5.95% of the total disbursements was
directed to very small enterprises. HB's non-compliance with the requirement
of directing 70% of its allocation to very small enterprises, was one of the
main reasons of the variance in disbursement percentages for very small
enterprises, as well as the variance between the projected and actual number
of sub-projects financed. 94% of the funds under the loan were disbursed for
financing small and medium scale enterprises, which is a better performance



- 6 -
than anticipated in the appraisal stage where this percentage was estimated to
be around 87%. These results also indicate the existence of better than
expected demand from medium scale and small scale industrial enterprises.
18.         The project funds were mainly directed to the financing of
enterprises in the textiles subsector (42.6%). This subsector was followed by
chemical industry (11.4%), metals (9.9%), electronics (5.8%), and food
industry (5.7%). However, since the loan funds were not evenly distributed
among the two Fla, the above listing is mainly affected by, and reflects the
exposure of SYKB (45.9%).
19.         Technical Assistance Component.  The allocation of funds, which
was done at the appraisal stage, had to be revised during implementation
mainly due to the problems which are related to the technical assistance
component of the loan. US$0.35 million was allocated to HS for TA. USS0.05
million of this amount was allocated for training purposes and USS0.30 was
allocated for payments to consultants for their services for organizational
development of HB. However, during the execution of the project no
significant progress was apparent in HB's preparation of its technical
assistance program and in the utilization of TA funds. Following the
management changes, BB indicated that it would be prepared to use its own
resources for the implementation of an institution building technical
assistance program. Upon the request of HS and the Government, US$0.30
million and the unutilized portion of the amount allocated for training were
realloceted in order to make these funds available for sub-project financing
through HB.
20.         The major portion of the TA funds (US$1.25 million) were allocated
to SIDO. It was assumed that, SIDO would utilize about US$0.75 million for
consultants' services, US$0.42 million for equipment and reference materials,
and 0.08 million for training. SIDO successfully implemented the
recommendations of its consultants for developing an efficient MIS system,
improved its infrastructure by installing a computer system and by the
acquisition of PCs. However, especially the technical assistance component of
the project did not proceed as well, due to changes within SID0 resulting from
management turnover and a redefinition of its role within the Turkish Economy
in a broader context as SMTIDC. The intention was for SMIDO to have a
broader policy coordination and advisory role, while at the same time
maintaining its role as provider of general extension and consultancy
services.  SMID0's organizational framework and budget had been changed such
that the remaining funds allocated were no longer required. At the same time,
SYRB's original allocation under the loan had been fully committed and
extremely tight credit market conditions continued to exist. Therefore,
SMIDO's allocation for consultants' services was decreased to US$0.19 million
and its allocation for training was decreased to US$0.038 million, and the
residual amounts were reallocated to SYKB for sub-project financing.
5 SNIDO: Small and Medium Scale Industry Development Organization. SIDO
was merged into S0IDO.



-7-
F. ProIect Regults
21.         Aredit Comqonent.  S8I I was partly successful in achieving its
lending objectives.  The project was successful in supporting the Government
to assist the SMI sector and also helped to increase SMI's access to financial
and technical assistance, and to encourage the two financial intermediaries to
expand their SMI portfolios. The credit component was fully disbursed to sub-
projects of 387 enterprises of which 384 are in the SNI category. These sub-
projects have created 20,000 jobs as compared to l80O00 estimate at appraisal.
The actual number of direct jobs has been above the appraisal estimates which
indicates the success of the project in achieving one of Its primary
objectives, that is, job creation. on the other hand, although the cost per
job was expected to be US$10,000, the actual cost was US$17,000. These
figures were US$9,000 and US$22,850 for HB and SYKB respectively. SYKS
explained this high cost per job as the result of lower capacity utilization
in some sub-sectors. According to SYXB, an increase in the capacity
utilization ratios of the companies would also increase the employment
figures, and thus decrease the average cost per job. In addition to high
concentration of SYKB's lending to certain subsectors, the exposure of SYKB to
medium scale or larger industrial enterprises which tend to be more capital
intensive than 88I, could be another factor to explain the difference between
cost per job figures of the two FIIs.
22.         Another objective of the project was to particularly assist 88I,
especially those located in the remote areas of the country and it was
estimated that around 47% of the funds that were made available for the credit
component would be on-lent to 88Is by the FIs.   However, due to factors such
as lack of efficient promotion, lack of investment demand from distant or
lesser developed areas most (89.43%) of the sub-projects were located in the
three most developed regions of the country: Marmara (65.41%), Eagean
(20.29%), and Mediterranean (3.73%). The objective of financing particularly
small scale enterprises was barely achieved as 44% of available funds went to
this segment of the sector. The project was not fully successful either in
meeting the objective of utilizing 70% of H8's allocation to finance very
small enterprises. Although it was estimated that around 13% of the funds
available for the credit component would be disbursed for this category, only
6% was.
23.         Technical Assistance Cormonent. For the execution of the
technical assistance component of the project, US$1.25 million was allocated
to SIDO and U8SO.35 million to HB. However, nearly US$0.6 million of SIDO's
allocation and US$0.3 million of HB's allocation was not utilized, and
therefore, was reallocated to sub-project financing.
24.         8IDO was the implementing agency which was to provide more
comprehensive technical assistance to SMrs, another major objective of the
project. In addition to assisting SMIs through SIDO, technical assistance
funds were also allocated to 8IDO to strengthen its organizational structure
and capability to carry out its role. 8IDO utilized the latter portion of the
TA funds to establish an efficient MIS system and to procure main frame and
personal computers. To improve its effectiveness in providing TA to SMIs,



SIDO was expected to expand its extension services. For this purpose, SIDO
was supposed to open six more branches in addition to its centers in Ankara
and Gaziantep. SIDO opened three more branches in Istanbul, Bursa, and Konya.
Beyond these steps, SIDO was not able to carry out the task envisioned for it
under the project because of a series of structural problems and
organizational changes that occurred during the implementation period of the
project. SIDO's failure to implement an extension service meant that the
project failed to improve SMI's access to technical services as envisioned.
However, the credit program did proceed and may have alleviated this problem
by providing SMIs with the financial resource to procure technical services
without SIDO assistance.
G. Proiect Sustainabilitv
25.         One of the objectives of the Bank's strategy for SMI lending to
Turkey was to assist the Government of Turkey to promote labor intensive SMIs
and thus contribute to job creation. Due to continuation of high inflation,
which leads to high cost of investment funds and higher uncertainty in project
financing, it is unlikely that the uninterrupted supply of funds for financing
SMI investments can be achieved. The same considerations apply to the demand
for funds by SM.I. As a result of the scarcity of available resources for
term financing and high interest rates, sustaining the desired level of
private SKI investments is even more difficult. Despite the environment, the
overall collection ratios related to the loan funds of the Fl's have been
93.9% for SYRB and 89% for HB. It would appear therefore that the financial
viability and sustainability of the sub-projects financed under the loan is
above average. The repayment performance of the sub-projects indicate their
ability to generate expected benefits over their useful life, testifies to the
efficiency of the project selection system put in place by the FIs and to
their effort to monitor project implementation.
26.         SKI I has achieved some success in enhancing the institutional
structure for financial assistance to SKI. It was the first Bank project in
Turkey which introduced a commercial Bank (HS) as a financLal intermediary.
The project sought to take advantage of the vast branch network of HB in
reaching a wide range of SKIs, while assisting US in its structural and
organizational strengthening. HE successfully implemented a series of
institutional and organizational development programs. Thus, HB added a new
department for project evaluation and reorganized its fund credits department
to follow up the performance of the existing medium and long term loans in
their portfolio. The sustainability of the performance of the two FIs has
been achieved through improvements in both the quality of the balance sheet
and the operational structure. SMI II, which is the follow up Bank loan in
the same sector (Loan 3067-TU), has also benefitted from the improved project
appraisal skills in both FIs.
H. Bank Performance
27.         At the preparation and appraisal stages of the project the Bank
emphasized the development of efficient SMIs to help alleviate urban
unemployment and increase exports of labor intensive industrial products. The



- 9 _
project met or exceeded the targeted employment estimates. However, the
project could not meet the cost per job estimates. The exposure of SYUB to
relatively more capital intensive projects, and the lower than expected
capacity utilization ratios could be counted as the reasons of this outcome.
It should also be added that, another cause of this result could be the
underestimation of the expected average cost per job by the Bank at appraisal
of the project.
28.         Although, from project identification to board presentation, the
Bank sought assurances that there would be a balanced geographical
distribution of the loan proceeds, this was not realized. On the contrary,
almost 90% of the funds for sub-loans were utilized by three relatively more
developed geographic regions, and only the remaining 10% was disbursed to the
lesser developed four regions. The Bank tried to emphasize this condition by
requiring 70% of the allocation of HB to finance very small SSI. This issue
was also dealt with as a covenant of the Project Agreement between the Bank
and HB. However, HB failed to comply with the covenant. Only about 32% of
HB's allocation were disbursed to very small SSI. Unfortunately, the
supervision missions did not forcefully address this matter and there was
little reference made in the supervision reports.
29.         The Bank was successful in introducing a new financial
intermediary (HB), to assist improving SMIs access to term finance. HE
utilized the segment of the loan which was earmarked for training, to train
its staff especially in the area of project appraisal. These events induced
institutional and organizational developments in HB. In addition to this,
both FIe expanded their medium and long term credit portfolios, especially in
favor of SMIs.
I. Borrower Performance
30.         At all stages of the project cycle, the Government indicated its
agreement that, the introduction of an interest rate structure, FERIS, which
would help to maintain active demand, but would eliminate subsidies, was
essential for the success of overall policy of the economy relying
increasingly on market for_.es. To this end, the Government issued the decree
and regulations that specified how FERIS would operate in 1985, and also
stated that the FERIS fund should be self financing. However, the government
could not achieve this objective. The PERIS rate was negative, some years up
to 25 percentage points, in real terms from 1984 to 1991, with the exclusion
of the year of 1986. Of course, this situation perpetuated distortions in the
credit market.
31.         Also as a result of the incentive policy of the Government, the
even distribution of project funds among subsectors could not have been
realized. The largest portion (43%) of the project funds were employed for
financing textiles subsector, which is a reflection of subsectoral breakdown
of investment incentive certificates given to manufacturing sector (Annex 4).
32.         The decisions of the Government to change the organizational
structure, and enlarge the area of responsibility which lead to major



- 10 -
budgetary changes in SIDO, altered the needs and priorities of this
institution. This development had a negative impact on the technical
assistance component especially related to extending TA funds to SKI. As a
result of this development, project funds which were earmarked for this
purpose had to be reallocated.
J. Lessons and Recommendations
33.         The credit component of the loan has been disbursed earlier than
anticipated at appraisal and the collection ratios of the Participating Credit
Institutions (PCIs) have been above acceptable levels. The negative interest
rates that have been charged to the sub-loans could be one of the notable
reasons for this positive outcome. Also, another determinant would be the
advancements realized by the FIs in terms of their project evaluation and
follow up capabilities.
34.         On the other hand, the same success has not been achieved in
developing alternative long-term resources for financing SKI investments, thus
increasing SMIs' access to term finance. one of the main reasons of this
failure have been the distortions in the credit market created by negative
real FURIS interest rates. The existence of such subsidized interest rate
prevented development of competitive interest rates, and thus, deterred the
development of alternative resources for term financing. Therefore,
elimination of preferential and subsidized credits, regardless of their degree
of association with the Bank loans, would be a requisite for the success of
future Bank loans especially in their efforts to assist the Government to
secure and improve the availability of alternative resources for term
financing of SM? investments.
35.         Provision of technical assistance for SMIs by a government agency,
such as SIDO, wvil succeed only if there is close collaboration with the
private sector. Without private sector involvement, such programs quickly
become bureaucratic and unresponsive to the needs of the sector they are
supposed to assist. Technical assistance for financial intermediaries was
more successful since objectives were not only clear but shared by both the
Bank and the institutions concerned. In the case of HB, this lead to a
decision to use its own resources indicating the value it attached to the TA.



- 11 -
Part Ils PROJECT REVIW rROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
36.         The following comments on the draft PCR were submitted by the
Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade of the Prime Ministry of the
Republic of Turkey.
37.         We would like to extend our deep appreciation for your invaluable
contributions and kind cooperation during the implementation period of the
referred project and also for well prepared Project Completion Report.
38.         The small and medium scale industry is the one of the key sector
of our economy and has a great impact on the industrialization process of
Turkey. In this context, I would like to firstly convey some comments on the
Borrowers Performance Section and then on others.
39.         Concerning the implementation of Foreign Exchange Risk Insurance
Scheme (FERIS), there is no doubt that this scheme made positive effects on
the acceleration of the disbursement of funds. As a result, the loan amount
have been disbursed earlier than anticipated at appraisal. The main purpose
of establishing such a system is to protect small scale investors from the
devaluation of the Turkish Lira when they borrow long-term foreign exchange
loans. It is a matter of fact that high volatility of interest rates and
currency values in financial markets has created an important degree of
interest and currency exposure which can not be managed by small scale
enterprises on their own. At the beginning of the FERIS implementation, FERIS
rate was determined by the Central Bank's rediscount rate applied to preferred
investment. If the Central Bank rate was not selected as a reference rate,
there was no chance to attract investors to use the Loan proceeds. For this
reasons, eventhough the FERIS interest rate became negative level at the
beginning of the implementation period, it had prevented competition with
respect to Central Banks rediscount facilities for preferential credits.
Actually, as a consequence of elimination of Central Banks rediscount
facilities, FERIS interest scheme passed to floating interest rate adjusted
on a monthly basis according to last three month arithmetic average of
auctioned interest rate of three-month Treasury Bill. Within this framework,
FERIS interest rate have been reached to positive real level and caused to
Loan proceeds much more expensive than all preferential credits. In fact,
although the Loan Agreement of SKI I stated that subborrower pay FERIS
interest rate to the intermediary banks and these banks pay FERIS rate minus
an intermediation fee of 4% to the FERIS, the intermediary banks actually paid
current FERIS rate minus an intermediation fee of 4% to the FERIS, the
intermediary banks actually paid current FERIS rate without cutting
intermediation fee to FERIS according to the decision of Money and Credit
Board. For these reason, intermediary banks collected the intermediation fees
from subborrowers thus increased the real cost of funds to subborower by 4%
Nevertheless, after the introduction of floating FERIS rate, the average rate
implemented during the project approximated to real level and disbursement
rate of the loans under FERIS slowed down as observed such Loan like 3067-TU,
3077-TU.



- 12 -
40.         Furthermore, the largest portion of the project funds were used to
finance textile sector projects. But it is not only reason for that textile
sector is favored by Government on the distribution of the incentive
certificates but also that Turkish manufacturing sector has a comparative
advantage on textile because of mainly low labor cost and accessible foreign
markets. Nevertheless, it is true that the even distribution of project funds
among geographic region was not be realized. There is no adequate investment
demand in those region, although heavily subsidized preferential credit shave
been given.
41.         In line with restructuring of SIDO as SMIDO, has dealt more
effectively with small and medium scale e.nterprises through providing
technical assistance and consultancy. However, due to reorganization, SMIDO
was delayed to use the technical assistance component (T.A.) of Loan. In this
regard, Treasury indicated a quick response and reallocated the unused part of
T.A. component to SYKB for relenting this component to the eligible projects.
Thus the whole amount of Loan have been almost disbursed until the closing
date.
42.         on the other hand, both of the intermediary banks have failed at
some degree to achieve the target of cost per job which became US $ 17.000
contrary to estimated US $ 10.000 at appraisal. However the most important
aim of the project, job creation has been largely achieved roughly 20.000 jobs
have been created as compared to 18.000 estimated at appraisal. In fact,
through the capacity utilization ratio increment, overall cost per job will be
certainly diminished. Since very small project projects create more cost
efficient job opportunities, one of the other reason for higher cost per job
may be counted as the low level of very small project financing by Halkbank.
43.         Furthermore, SMI I is the first World Bank Loan in Turkey which
introduced a commercial bank, Halkbank, as a financial intermediary. The
successful project implementation of Halkbank lead to the participation of
several commercial bank in some following Bank Loans such as 3067-TU, 3346-TU.
44.         As a consequence, it is clear that the Project has been quite
successful in increasing SMI's access to suitable financial sources and
encouraging the participating intermediary banks to expand their SMI
activities.
45.         The individual comments of SYKB and Halkbank regarding the Project
Completion Report are also conveyed in the enclosures.
COMMENTS OF SYRB
46.         The small and medium scale industry sector plays an important role
in the industrialization of Turkey. The SMI firms are crucial in the economic
and social achievements of Turkey in the sense that, they are mostly labor
intensive, need less capital for unit of output and have good export
prospects. The SMI firms also contribute to the performance of larger
enterprises through sub-contracting, as well as they develop themselves and
constitute a backlog to prospective larger scale industries.



- 13 -
47.         SYXB, in the utilization of the SMI Loan 2647-TU was also
successful as in the case of IBRD Loan 1952-TU. The projects were generally
located in developed regions and textiles continued to be the leading of
finance. The amount allocated to SYKB, out of the proceeds of this loan, was
originally 80 million USD equivalent. Pursuant to the amendment dated April
15, 1992, made to the subsidiary loan agreement of April 14, 1986, signed
between Treasury and SYR8 this allocation was increased to USD 80,584,250
equivalent.
48.         Total withdrawals made by SYKB amounted to USD 79,640,F43.26 which
included the residual amount at the Special Account after the closing of the
books. After making the refund of the deposit of USD 7,056.01 at the Special
Account the final withdrawals amount to USD 79,633,487.25. References made to
these in the statistical information section of the draft project completion
report we think, need revision.
49.         our further remarks on the Project Completion Report relating to
SKI Loan (2647-TU) are as follows:
50.         In connection with the FERIS interest rates applied to sub-loans
falling under this loan, rates applied by the Central Bank for the fixed
investment rediscount loan was used. The main reason why the Central Bank's
rediscount rate was chosen as reference was to prevent a competition.
Meanwhile, as the consequence of the Central Bank's new approach in the
direction of terminating its project finance, Loan 2647-TU was not facing
competition from the rediscount facility from on 1989.
51.         During the loan negotiations Treasury insisted on reducing the
level of loans proposed to SIDO and in order to facilitate the actions and
performances to be taken by SIDO, SYRB and HB offered their financial support
which would partially make up the reduction in the proposed IBRD loans. In
this respect as agreed SYKB donated TL 90 million through Dec 31, 1986- Dec
31, 1988.
52.         The data SYKB presented regarding the actual job created by sub-
projects financed is likely to increase as sub-projects approach full capacity
utilization. Accordingly overall cost per job will be reduced
53.         Towards the later years of the availability of the loan, projects
matching the criteria of the loan regarding the cost per job were decreasing
and perhaps it was an indicator of the new trend in the business circles
avoiding manpower.
COMMENTS OF HALNBANK
54.         We would like to inform you that we have reviewed the Project
Completion Report of Small and Medium Scale Industry Project Loan No. 2647-TU
which had been enclosed in you letter dated 04.03.1993, no. DEI-VI-I-105/28996
and mall changes have to be made in page 14, article 5/A;



- 14 -
*     HB's allocation for on-lending to eligible subprojects
actual (US$) should be 18,126,714.24.
*     The figures written for SIDO'e allocation consultant
services should be written for HB's allocation for
training.
*     The figure. written for SIDO's allocation consultant
services should be written for HB's allocation for
training.
55.         However, we have no objection on the general evaluation of the
Project Completion Report of Small and Medium Scale Industry Project (Loan
No.2647-TU).



- 15 -
Part IIIs STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.   Related Rank LanslCredits
LasnICred1t Tftle                      Purpose              Date of              Status/Comnts
_                                  dfpt~~~~~~~~Wovat_                  _
Loan 1754-TU and 1755-TU   To assist financing of            09/04/79   Closed or 12131/85. Reuaining
Private Sector Textiles    subprojects to eontribute to                  balances of USS0.13 N and
Project                    the development                               US$1.32 N were cancel led from
modernization, increase in                    Loans 1754 and 1755 TU
productivity and expect                       respectively.
capacity of the private
I____________________ textiles sector of the country
Loan 1952-TU Labor         To provide credit to support      03/03/81    Closed on 06/30/86. USS39.54 N
Intensive Industry         the development of Labor                      was disbursed. balance of
Project                    Intensive Small and Nodium                    USS0.46 N was cancelled.
Scale Enterprises
Loan 2714-TU First         To create a more efficient        06/10/86   Closed on 06/30/91.  Fully
Financial Sector           financial sector by developing                disbursed.
Adjustment Loan            a greater variety of financial
instnments which would
contribute to a revival of
_ _ _ _ _ private investment
Loan 2901-TU tndustrial    To support the efforts for        03/22/88   The loan closing date is
Export Oevelopment         expanding industrial export by                06/30/93.  However, the loan is
ProJect                    providing financial support to                already fully disbursed.
private expect-oriented
projects" and improving the
institutional framework for
l ______________________    expect  finance.
Loan 2964-TU Second        To suport the developoent of      06/21/88   Closed on 12/31/92. US$100 N
Financiat Sector           a more efficient and deeper                   was not disbursed.
Adjustment Loan            financiat sector which woutd
mobilize end allecate funds
more efficiently this
generating a higher level of
investments as well as a
higher rate of return
To promote and support            05/23/89   The closing date is 06/30/95.
Loan 3067-TU Second        efficient SNI investment and                  Disbursements are ahead of
small and Nedium Scale    operations; to improve credit                  schedule.
Industry Project           access for SNI by increasing
the number of financial
institutions that can serve as
efficient intermediaries for
SNI finance and by providino
credit at efficient market
prices; improving SN! product
quality and expending their
markets by providirg technfcal
________________________    and  marketing  assistance.                            _



- 16 -
LoanVCredit Title                        Purpose                Date of               Status/Comments
_______                                                                    ~_ _._I
Loan  3077-TU               To provide funds through             06/15/89    The closing date is 12/31/95.
Agroindustry Project        participating Credit                                                                 I
Institutions to financialty
and economically viable
private sector agroindustry
projects for Increasing the
agroindustry output.
Loan 3346-TU Private        To finance financially and           06/13/91    The closing date is 12/31/96.
Investment Credit           economically viable private                      Disbursements are slower than
Project                      investments, especially export                  forecasted.
oriented activities, to thel
country's productive capacity:
to continue to assist the
private development banks in
their business and resource
diversification programs: to
support sustained
imptementation of the
Government's banking reforms
at the intermediary level.
2. Project Timetable
Item                 Date Ptwened                Date Revised                   Date Actual
Preparation                                                                        09/13/84 to 09127/84
Appraisal Mission        11/19/94 to 12/07/84                                      11/20/84 to 12/06/84
Loan Negotiations              04/29/85                    11/06/85                11/06/85 to 11/22/85
Board Approval                 06/18/85                                                  01/07/86
Loan Signature                                                                           01/17/86
Loan Effectiveness             04/17/86                                                  05/14/86
Loan Closing                   06/30/92                    12/31/92                       12/31/92
Loan Completion                03/31/93                                                  09/30/93
3. Loan Disbursement
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursement (by fiscal year)
(US$ Millions)
__________________ 1986      `1987       1988       1989      1990        1991        199         1993
Appraisal Estimate                    12.0      39.0       66.0      85.0         96.0       100.0               l
Actual                   5.93         35.99     70.31      87.48      95 .87      98.34       98.91    98.97
Actual as X of           N.A         299.91    180.31    132.5X    112.8#        102.4X       98.9%
estimate             a____ I_               -                                              



- 17 -
4. Proiect Implementation
_ndicators         ,                     A1aisal Estimte           |             Actual
X amount of SSI financed                        47,43                             43,68
X amount of very smali                          13,09                             5,95
enterprises financed
X amount of enterprises targer                  16,26                             5,12
than SW  financed
HuWber of subprojects financed                   200                               185
by SYKS
Number of subprojects financed                   500                               202
by HB
TotaL Number of subprojects                      700                               387
financed
Number of SHIs benefited from TA                 350                                6
funds if SIDO (per year)
(financed by project funds)
Number of SXis received                           50                                3
assistance from SIDO for export
promotion (per year)
(financed by project funds)
Number of additional branch                       8                                 5
officer to be established by
SIDO



- 18 -
S. Proiect Costs and Financina
A.  pKigc  ggts
Appraisal Estivate (uS)        Revised           Actuat
._________ _________ _________   _____________ _U SS)  (U S$)
SYKlBs allocation for                     80,000000            80.682,700         79,522,5?4.62
on-ending to eligible
subproJects
NBPs allocation for                       18,400,000            18,620,000         18,126,T4.24
on-lending to eligible
subproJects
NHis altocation to be utitlzed              300.000                  0                   0
for consultants' services for
organizational development
NB s allocation for training                 50,000                 45,750             45,749.40
SD00's allocation for                       7466000                190,000            188,441.52
consultants' services
SlDOs allocation for equipment             424,000                424,000            395,251.93
and reference materials.
23,889 .70
SI00's allocation for training               80,000                 37,550
B. Project Finance (USSl
Source                                       Plamed               Revised                F Final
IGeD E eniture Categories                  100.300,000                               986966,491.15



- 19 -
6. Proiect Results
,_.*wrval                                                                      Actual
Indicatora                   Estivate         _
(Total)              Totat            SYK8             N8I
UNmber of direct jobs created                     18,000           19,997          11,594          8.403
Average cost per job tUS5)                        10,000           17,039         22,858e          9,009
7. Status of Covenants
Legal _ats                 ont Description               Deadline for coplianer             Status
Loan Agreement         SIDO's report on Ankara and           December 31,1988                    O.K
Section 3.05           Gaziantep Centers
Loan Agrement          Audits Annual Financial               Not later than 6 months             O.K
Section 4.01 (a)       Statements                            after each fiscal year
ProJect agreement      SYKB Debt/Equity ratio of 10.1        Project Completion                  O.K
section 4.02 (a)
Project agreement      Hm witl provide 701 of the finds                                     not complied
section 2.08 (b)       for the subproject financing, to                                        with
,;______________I finance very small SIS
Notes: O.K: Covenant complied with
6 To be eligibte for financing alt subprojects should have a maximun average capital investment, excluding
land and buildings of USS 18,000 per job. However, the SAR estimate for average cost per job was USS 10,000.
7The reason for this hish cost per job, according to SYKB, is the lower capacity utilization than excepted
in some sub-sectrs. Increase of capacity utilitzation would increase the eWployment created and thus, decrease
the average cost job.



8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
Sta   Of            FST        FY          FYN      FY87       FY8     FY89      FY9O      FY9      FY92      FY93     Total
Project CSte         -          -
Preappraisal        1.6        19.7                                                                            -        21.3
Appraisal                      54.9       2.2                                                                           57.1
Negotiations                              11.8                                                                          11.8
Surervision                               4.5       12.1     11.4       6.4       4.6       6.1     11.7       3.7      60.5
PCR (Planned)                          _                                                                       9.0       9.0
._____________ ,    - ____                                                            --______  ________               159.7
B.  Missions
Stage of Project Cysle    Period/Report Date         Nuiber of          Days in Field    overalt Project                        Comts
|_.__ _______              ___.____  _. _ _._ __ ._A __   Persons                         Rating
Preparation                09/13/1984-09/27/1984         N.A."                14                  N.A.          Project objectives and design was
I ___.___._______________                                                              _.   _____________     _ .  . discussed
Appraisal                   1112011984-12/06/1984        N.A.                 16                  N.A           The institutional and financial
aspects were reviewed with the
financial intermediaries, and terms
and conditions to be applicabte to
| ____________________ .     __________________      ______________              _________________                  the   proposed   loan   were  discussed
Supervision                 11/03/1986-11/10/1986           2                  7                   1            There were no major problems. Loan
amount was almost half comnitted and
disbursements were ahead of schedule
e N.A: Not available



stage of Project Cycle    PetriodReport Date      OMber of          Pays in Fietd   Overall Project                     - nis
-_________________   Person                         Ratin                                      -
Supervision               04/13/1987-05/01/1987          1                18                 1            No problems were identified.
Commitments and disbursements of the
credit component were ahead of
schedule. SYK8 and NO performed
satisfactory in handling the Bank
|__________________   loan.
Supervision               10/12/1987-10/16/1987           1                4                 1            Disbursements and commitments were
ahead of schedule of the subproject
component. However, the technical
assistance coWponents for both SIDO
and HB were behind schedule. These
delays are mostly due to
organizationaL chantes in HB and
delays in submitting the consultants'
I _______________________   ____________________   _  _______________ _                                    recommendations   for   SIDO.
Supervision               06/06/1989-06/16/1989            2               10                I            The loan was fully comnitted.
S300.000 which was allocated for He's     N
organizational study was not
utilized.  This amount was
reallocated to lending (S220.000)
and training ($80.000). The training
an consultancy services components
I _______________________  _____________________                                    ___________________    for    SIO0    were     to    be     redesigned.
Supervision               02/26/1990-03/09/199M            4               11                 1           The disbursements were higher than
the SAR estimates. There was
agreement between the Bank and S1DO
to reallocate the uncommitted TA
funds for subproject lending to SYKB
or HO.
Supervision               04/01/1991-04/13/1991            5               12                 1           The progress of the project was found
satisfactory. The project was
expected to be completed on time and
funds would be fully utilized with
the extension to the commitment
deadline and the reallocation of TA
______ ______ ______ _____ _   ____ ______ ______ _____   ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ _fun d s.



Stage of Project Cytet       Period/Report Date        Nuder of            Days In Field    Overall Project                           Cmoonts
,____,_________    .___    Persons                               Rating
Supervision                  12/02/1991-12/13/1991               7                 11                    1            The loan was altost fully comuitted.
The TA couponent of the project did
not proceed as well due to an
overestimation of demand for
consultant services to SI through
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  :__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  S I D O .



- 23 -
Annex 1
PROJECT COXTION RRT
-TURKEY
SMALL AND MDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
LOAN 2647-TU
Sectoral Allocation
(Percentage Distribution and Number of Projects)
S_botor                       Total        _                                STO
_ _ _ber   Amont       Nuwber     Amlt        Numer
Agriculturat             0.6         3          1.5         2          0.4          1
Autmtive                 1.8        14         4.9          12         1.1          2
Cmnt-Clay                3.9        29         12.4        23          1.9         6
aCbeical Indtry          11.4       53         9.8         20         11.8         33
Elttrmnics               5.8        10         2.5          4         6.4          6
Food                     5.7        41         12.4        34         4.0          7
Forestry                 1.4        15         5.8         13         0.4          2
Leather                  0.8         8         1.0          5         0.7          3
Achines and wachine      2.3        21         6.3         18          1.2         3
spares
Netal                    9.9        36         7.8         16         10.4         20
Ninig                    2.3        21         5.7         15          2.0         6
Press and Printing       1.9        13         1.7          5          1.9         8
Tatiele                 42.6        98         28.2        35         45.9         63
Tourism                  1.3         1          -           -         1.6          1
others                   8.3        24                                10.3         24
Total                  100.0      387         100.0       202       100.0        185
Source of Basic Data: Reeords of FIs.



- 24 -
Annex 2
PROJCT -OMPLETION REPORT
SMALL AND MEDIUI SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
LOAN 2647-TU
Average FERIS Interest Rates vs. Average WPI
I 1984-1992)
TIea               FERIS Interast Rate            WI                   Difference
1984                     26X                     50.3X                  -24.31
1985                     35X                     43.2X                   -8.2X
1986                     351                     29.6X                    6.6X
198?                     32X                     32.1X                   -0.1X
198a                     43X                     68.3X                  -25.3X
1989                     44X                      64X                   -20.0X
1990                    42.466                   52.31                  -9.84X
-s:;i S63.84X                                    55.3X                   8.54X
1992                    71.73n                   62.1X                   9.63X



- 25 -
Anngx 3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
SMALL AND MEDIUM  SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
LOAN 2647-TU
ftoraphic Distribution of Subloans
Tota l                      B                        SY S
Raglan                                   x                                                    x
mber       Aaomut        mudber       Aaut    _ ul_       _      A wunt
Narmra                      236          65.41        91          47.23          145         69.68
aeean                        63          20.29        43          25.14          20          19.15
Nedfteranean                 5S           3.73        11           3.60            4          3.76
Niddt. Anatolia              31           3.01        24           9.90            7          1.39
Btack Sea                    26           2.79        24           8.88            2          1.38
Eastern Anatolta             10           1.24         8           5.06            2          0.34
South-East Anatolfa           6           3.53         1           0.19            5         4.30
| tOtAL                     387         100.00        202        100.00         185         100.00



- 26 -
Annex 4
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
LOAN 2647-TU
Subsectoral Distribution of Encouragement
Certificates in Manufacturing Sector
SECTORS                                   1987            1968           1969             1990           1991
Food & Beverage                           6.93%          5.08%          10.7            11.19%          11.31%
Textile & Clothing                       31.40%         45.53%          46.48%          44.77%          32.11X
Forestry Products                         1.87%           1.42X          1.04%           2.33%           1.59X
Paper                                     1.43%          3.86%           0.62%            1.31%          0.64%
Leather & Leat. Pro.                      1.87%           1.02%          1.66%            1.31%          0.96X
Rubber                                    4.00%           2.03%          1.66%            2.03%          1.59%
Chemicals                                 4.00%          5.89%           3.52%           4.80X          16.08%
Glassware                                 2.93%           1.83X          0.62%           0.58%           0.96%
Iron & Steel                              2.93%          2.03%          3.52%            5.52%           2.55%
Non-Ferrous Metals                        0.80%          0.41%           0.41%           0.29%           2.17X
Transport Vehicles                        3.75%          5.69%          17.70%           6.69%           7.48%
Metal Goods                               5.44%          3.46%           1.66%           3.92%           4.46%
Measuring Devices                         1.07X           2.85%          0.83%            0.29%          0.58%
Machinery                                 1.87%           0.61%          1.24%            0.44%          1.27%
Electrical Machinery                      0.80%           1.63%          1.04%           2.03%           1.75%
Electronics                               1.07%          0.41%           0.42%           3.20%           1.27%
Cement                                   14.50%          6.91%           1.66%           3.20%           7.03%
Clay and Cement Prod.                     9.60%          5.69%           1.66%            1.74%          1.43%
Ceramics                                  1.60%           1.63%          1.86X           2.18%           2.55%
Others                                    2.13%          2.03%           1.66%           2.18%           2.23%
TOTAL                                   100.00%         100.00%        100.00%         100.00%         100.00%
Source: SPO.



