Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8084
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LAOS
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 924-LA)
OCTOBER 13, 1989
Asia Region
Country Department II
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reci.ients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Name of Currency                    Kip (K)
Appraisal Year Average (1979)       US$1.00 - K 400 (old Kip)
Completion Year Average (1987)      US$1.00 - K 380
Current (January 1989)              USS1.00 - K 450
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout this report.
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
ARDP II  -    Second Agricultural Rehabilitation and Development Project
EEC      -    European Economic Community
EECSAA   -    European Economic Commission Special Action Account
ER       -    Exchange Rate
ERR      -    Economic Rate of Return
FAO/CP   -    Food & Agriculture Organization/World Bank Cooperative Programme
GOL      -    Government of Laos
IDA      -    International Development Association
Lao PDR  -    Lao People's Democratic Republic
NEO      -    New Economic Order
OED      -    Operations Evaluation Department (World Bank)
O&M      -    Operation & Maintenance
PCR      -    Project Completion Report
SAR      -    Staff Appraisal Report
TA       -    Technical Assistance
UNDP     -    United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
Government of Lao PDR Fiscal Year: January 1 - December 31



Vo OFCaxL usI ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Ghkc of D,uvtm-Gwal
October 13, 1989
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report - Laos Second Agricultural
Rehabilitation and Development Proiect (Credit 924-LA)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled 'Project
Completion Report - Laos Second Agricultural Rehabilitation and Development
Project (Credit 924-LA)", prepared by the Asia Regional Office and the Food
and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations. No audit of this
project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COHPLETION REPORT
LAOS
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REHAUILITATION AND DEVELOPHMNT PROJECT
(CREDIT 924-LIA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pate No.
Preface .                                                                  i
Basic Data Sheet .                                                        ii
Evaluation Summary .iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT .1
I. Introduction ..                                                  3
A. Gene-al.                                                    3
B.  Experience with ARDP I (Cr.760-LA).                        4
II. Project Formulation            ..                                5
A. General.                                                    5
B. Detailed Features.                                          7
III. Project Implementation           .          .                    9
A. Project Works.                                              9
Na Phok Seed Farm .v
Veune Kham .11
Smallholder and Cooperative Farm Development              13
B. Technical Assistance .14
C. Procurement and Disbursement .14
D.  Accounts, Audits and Monitoring & Evaluation              15
E. Project Cost .15
IV. Performance and Impact    .                .16
A. Institutional Performance .16
Impact of Government Policies .16
Institutional Performance .17
ILA Performance .17
B.  Financial and Economic Results .19
Production and Financial Results .19
Economic Re-evaluation .20
V. Conclusions   .                      .21
Lessons Learne .22
TABLES
1. Estimated and Actual Project Cost
2. Estimated and Actual Disbursement
3.  Actual and Estimated Implementation Schedule for the Na Phok & Veune
Kham State Farms
4. Key Indicators: SAR and Actual Estimated Cropped Area & Gross Yields
5. Na Phok - Paddy and Maize per ha Financial Crop Models
6. Derivation of Economic Prices of Main Outputs and Inputs
7a. Estimated Achieved Results of Rice Intensification Program as per 1984
7b. Estimated and Actual Purchases of Agricultural Inputs Under Cooperative
Farm Development Component
8. Na Phok Seed Farm - Economic Costs and Benefits
MAPS
IBRD 13979R1
IBRD 14134
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-  
TAOS
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REHAILITATION AND DEVPLOYWT PROJMCM  (CEDDIT 924-LA)
PROJECT CONPLETIOR REPORT
PREFACE
This Project CoWpletion Report (PCR) reviews Implemntation oi the
S-cond Agricultura1 Rehabilitation end Development Project in Laos, for
which Credit 924-LA in the amount of US$10.4 million was approved in June
1979. The credit closing date was originally December 31, 1984, but this
was extended to December 31, 1986. The final disbursement was made on July
24, 1987. The undisbursed balance of US$0.03 million was cancelled at that
time.
The PCR was prepared by the FAOICP. The Asia Region agrees with
the findings and conclusions of the PCR.
This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED).
The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower on June 7, 1989, for cosuents by
July 25, 1989, but none were received.



- ii. -
LAO PCOPLECS DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
SECOND A0RICULTURAi.  anmmza.aau,.   u Imiucurqxt   PROJECT (CR 924-LA)
PtOJECT COMPLtTION REPORT - SASIC DATA StHEET
1. KEY PROJECT DATA
Item                     Appralual Estimate  Actual       Actual as % of
Appraismi &sx&ute
total Project Cost (USS million)                       14.4           14.7            xuZ
Credit Amount (USS million) 11                         t4.4           14.4           100
Dato Pbysical Component Co-pTSted:
- Sed frn  developent  Na Phok                         10183          6/88 2'
- Frd grain farm development: Voune Khan               10184          12/85 -
- Smaliholder and cooperative farm development         10/84          12/87
- Technical easistance                                 10/83          1t86
Economic Rate of Return (s):
- Whole project                                          61          na.
-Me Phok se-d farm                                      121           4
11. PROJECT DATES
Original Plan     Actual
Identification                   -            10177
Follow-up Preparation            -             6'78
Appraial                         -             S1178
Board Approval                   -             6/79
Cr dit Signing                   -             6/79
Date of Effettivenesa           9179          10179
Cloaing Date                   12184          12i86
III. CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS 31
Fiscal Years:                           FY80  FY81  FY82  FY83   FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87   FY88
Appralsal Estimate (USS million)         0.7   3.2   5.9    7.9   9.9  10.4
Actual (USS million)                     0.4   4.7   7.2    8.1   8.3   8.4   9.6 10.1   10.4
Actual as X of appraisal                 57    147   122  102.5    84   SI       92 9/        0
Date of Final Disbursement:           July  24, 1987
TV. MISSION DATA
Itea          Month/Year  No. of Days  No. of Persons  Man-weeks  Date of Report
Identiftrt?ion         sTO              -             -              -             -
Preparatlon               6178          -              -             -             -
Appraisal                I1/78          -              4             -            S/79
Supervision 4/: 1        10179         4/24 5S         2            1.6          11/79
-   II       4180         5/5  -          I            1.0           6/80
III     I1/80         6117           4             4.8          1l81
IV       5/81         7121           5             7.0           6/81
V       1i/81         4114           5             4.0          12/81
VI       5/82         5116            1            1.0           5/82
VIl      6/83         5114           3             3.0           6/83
Vill     2/84         6117           6             7.2           5184
IX       9/84         3114           4             2.4          10/84
X        2185         3114           4             2.4           5/85
Xi       9185         5/17           3             3.0          10/85
XII     11/85         114             1            0.2            -
Xiii     1186         1/4             1            0.2            -
XIV     10/86         4118           2             1.6          10/86
V. OTHER PPOJECT D4TA
Borrower:                         Govornment of Lao PDR
Executing Agency:                 Ministry of Agriculture
Fiscal Year:                      1 January to 31 December
Name of Currency:                 Kip (K)
Currency Exchange Rate:
- Appraisal Year 1979 Average:  USS1 a K400 .old Kip)
- Intervening Yeara Average:
Year    Official 6/    Official 7/Commercial    Market    Private Remittance
.~~~~~prr~  USS7
1980       to                      14                25              -
1981       to                      14                60              -
1982       to                     35                105              -
t983       to                     35                140             108
1984       to                     35                250             108
1985       to                     95                400             189
1986       to                     95                410             270
1987       to                     95                380             380
1988 8'    to                    360                360             360
Follow-on Project:  Agricultural Rehabilitatton and Development Project III (Cr 1021-LA)
Credit Amount    : USS13.4 million
1/ IDA USS10.4 million: EECSSA USS2.7 million: UNDP USS13 million. 2' Installation of seed
Itorags and drying  quIp ent. 31 Relate to IDA credit only.  41 Durinif 1980-82 and more
frequently during the 1984-87 period. short missiona were carfied out by staff of WS Regional
Misiton in Bangkok in between regular supervision missions. The data are not available for
1980-1982. but Regional Mission project staff made 2. 2 and 5 short missions in 1984. 1985
and 1986 reapectively. 5/ First number refers to number of days spent on project; second number
rofers to total number Vf days spent in country. 6/ Used for IDA disbursements. 7t The
Government usod an accounting rate of K95 between1985 and May 1988. 81 The sepafate official
commercial, markot end private remittances *xchange rates have been uhnfied. The 'fficial
exchange rate still exists but Is applied only to disbursements and repayments of l3ans from
the convertible currency area (May 1988).



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LAOS
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 924-LA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Proiect Objectives and Components
The project had three major objectives namely, increased
availability of improved rice, feedgrain and vegetable seeds to
farmers; increased production of feedgrains (maize, sorghum, soybean
and groundnuts); and easing of constraints on the availability of
technical services and the supply and distribution of agricultural
inputs. Accordingly, the project components included development of
the Na ?hok state farm into a national seed production center;
development of the Veune Kham state farm for the production of
feedgrains; development of sLlallholder and cooperative farms through
training of agricultural teclmicians and funds for agricultural
inputs; and 114 man-months of technical assistance (to be funded by
UNDP).
Implementation Experience
Project implementation was slower than anticipated at
appraisal. The credit closing date was extended from December 31,
1984 to December 31, 1986. The final disbursement was made on July
24, 1987 at which time an undisbursed balance of US$0.03 million was
cancelled. Project implementation was slow principally due to delays
in the survey and design of irrigation works, in land clearing and in
construction of seed processing and storage facilities. Construction
of irrigation works on Na Phok seed farm was completed in late 1987
and seed processing and storage facilities in late 1988 compared to
April 1982 and early 1983 respectively envisaged at appraisal. Land
clearing at Veune Rham, stopped in 1983, was only 1600 ha compared to
3,000 ha envisaged at appraisal. Of this, only about 165 ha were
under cultivation in 1988 though potentially 400 ha of maize in the
uplands in the rainy season and 160 ha of irrigated crop production
(mostly paddy) in each of two seasons can be cultivated.
Results
Overall, the project was a failure. Almost none of its
objectives has been achieved so far. Only the Na Phok seed farm has
the potential to provide significant benefits to the agricultural
sector. Even assuming these benefits in the future, the ERP. of the Na
Phok component is estimated to be only about 42 compared to 121? at
appraisal. The ERR for the Veune Kham and smallholder/cooperative



- iv -
farms development components cannot be recalculated due to paucity of
data, but the ERR for the former is likely to be negative. Under the
latter component, agricultural inputs were distributed but the core of
a future agricultural extension service envisaged at appraisal was not
established.
Sustainability
Only the Na Phok seed farm component is potentially
gustainable. This, however, will require a seed policy, which would
help determine the type and quantities of the seed to be produced and
the distribution mechanism; adequate pricing of improved seeds to
ensure financial viability and encourage contract seed multiplication
by private farmers; an adequate operation and maintenance program for
irrigation works; and some technical assistance.
Findings and Lessons
Project failure was principally due to inadequate
preparation. For the Na Phok farm, only a sketch design of the
irrigation system was available at appraisal. The final detailed
design was expected by mid-1980 but was available only in 1983 and was
entirely different from the original one, mostly due to topographical
considerations.   At the end of Lonstruction, irrigation facilities
were available for only 350 ha compared to 500 ha envisaged at
appraisal; for the rest 150 ha the topography of the farm does not
allow further levelling without excessive cost and serious disturbance
of the top soil. This area is, therefore, available for rainfed maize
or other crops during the rainy season only. For Veune Kham, the site
was selected without sufficient knowledge about the topography and the
characteristics of the soils. It was later found that most of the
proposed 3,000 ha was prone to frequent flooding and, therefore, only
about 400 ha were actually suitable for upland farming of feedgrains.
However, 1600 ha were cleared. At present, most of those cleared
lands are prone to erosion. Soils were also unsuitable for the
proposed crop mix of maize, soybean and groundnuts and no suitable
varieties of soybean and groundnut have been found to date for those
areas. The choice of large-scale highly mechanized crop production
technique, which was made at appraisal in view of labor shortage in
the area, was inappropriate due to its high recurrent costs, extreme
shortage of skilled manpower and topographical and soil conditions on
the farm. Most heavy earthmoving and agricultural equipment on the
Veune Kham farm is no longer serviceable. IDA's efforts in 1984 to
restructure the component did not succeed and no further major
disbursements were made for the component thereafter.
Project failure was also due to an unfavorable policy
environment.  The project design reflected the Government's policy
during the late 1970's and early 1980's to encourage large-scale
mechanized agricultural production as a model for the development of
collectivized and cooperative farming. Nf,wever, apart from the lack
of technical expertise to operate the farms, the low official prices
prevented the state farms from operating at a profit and, since
l



- v -
operational budget allocations from the Government were insufficient,
the farms were not in a position to sustain production. With the
gradual liberalization of the economy since 1985/86, the policy
environment has become highly favorable and augurs well for the
susteinability of the Na Phok seed farm.
Considering the difficult environment and scarcity of
technical manpower in the country, project supervision was inadequate
in early years. It also failed to achieve coordinated decisions by
the Government and cofinanciers. 3upervision greatly improved in
later years but could not overcome the deficiencies in project
preparation and appraisal.
The timing and nature of technical assistance, which was co-
financed, led to some implementation problems. The TA had been
programmed for the first three years. However, due to delays in
irrigation works and land clearing, the main project activities
started only towards the end of that period. Though follow-up TA was
eventually provided, the interval caused delay in construction of seed
drying and cold storage facilities qince expertise was needed for the
preparation of design and specifications. The expertise mix of TA was
heavily biased towards purely technical fields such as land clearing,
engineering and machinery maintenance. Complementary agro-economic
and farm management expertise would have benefitted project
implementation.
The project failed in its institutional objectives. The
Government's planning, programming and budgeting capabilities to
support project operations remained extremely weak. The pilot
agricultural technical service was not established. The monitoring
and evaluation unit of the project and a credit system for
distribution of inputs envisaged at appraisal did not become
operational. No audit report has been issued for the project and most
accounts and records that we;e prepared have been lost as a result of
frequent changes in project management.
The main lessons which emerge from the project's
implementation experience are as follows:
(i) deficiencies in preparation and design are almost certain to
lead to project failure;
(ii) projects are unlikely to succeed and be sustainable if the
policy environment, particularly pricing policy, is
unfavorable;
(iii) given an unfavorable policy environment and scarcity of
technical manpower, intensive project supervision, particularly
in the early years, is essential;
(iv) problems in ensuring timeliness and appropriateness of TA,
particularly when it is cofinanced, should not be
underestimated; and
(v) the institutional objectives are unlikely to be achieved
without serious and sustained efforts.



- 1-
Report No: 75/88 CP-LAO 7 CR
Dated: 7 Ncvember 1988
UPDATED DRAFT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 924-LA)
FAO/World Bank Cooperative Prograne
Irvestment Centre
FOOD AND AGRICULTURE ORGANIZATION OF THE UNITED NATIONS
ROM



-3-
LAD FEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
SECONO  AGRICULTURAL REIABILITATION * DtVELOPMENT PROJECT
C'red1t 924-LA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
A. General
1.1      This  draft  project  completion  report on the Second Agriculturil
Rehabilitation and Development Project (ARDP II) was prepared at the request
of the Lao People's Democratic Republic (Lao PDR) and the International
Development Association (IDA), by the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme
(CP). A CP mission <1) visited Lao PDR in May/June 1988 to collect data and
discuss with project and other government officials the performance of
ARDP 11. Due to the extreme shortage of experienced manpower in Lao PDR - in
particular in the Ministry of Agriculture - and the transfer of some key
project staff, the project data and general information on the basis of
which this PCR has been prepared were fragmented and incomplete. The lack of
information was aggravated by the fact that only few project specific data
were available to the mission, while their completeness must be questioned.
However, sufficient data were considered to be available to enable a partial
economic analysis to be carried out.
1.2      ARDP II was the second World Bank group  credit  extended  to  Laos
after the country had been admitted to the World Bank in 1961 and to IDA in
1963. Contacts with the country were infrequent, however, until the end of
the civil war in 1975. A number of irrigation and other projects were
prepared, but no project was implemented until the First Agricultural
Rehabilitation and Development Project (ARDP I, CR 760-LA) was signed in
January 1978. ARDP I was designed to alleviate some of the constraints in
priority areas of the agricultural sector as identified by a World Bank
economic mission to Laos in 1976. The economic mission concluded that due to
lack of trained manpower, the weak institutional and technological base,
poor communications, lack of access to markets and the disruptions caused by
war, insu.ficient local food production had become Laos's major problem.
<1>      Consisting of Martin J. Elling (Economist, Mission Leader) and
Ahmad A. Ahmadi (Agriculturalist - Consultant).



-4-
1.3      Both AROP I and II were  consistqnt  with  government's  policy  of
restructuring   the  economy  along  socialist  lines,  which  involved  the
centralization  of  administrdtion  and  management   (including   planning,
budgeting  and  execution)  of  all  significant  economic  activities.  The
principal development objective of self-sufficiency in food, at both
national and regional levels, was to be achieved by the establishment of
state and cooperative farms. The rural population, until then charai:terized
by small subsistence holdings. would gradually be absorbed into the
cooperative  system  in  several  stages.  To  encourage  farmers  to)  form
cooperatives, an incentive system was established. The supply of farm inputs
(fertilizers and agricultural chemicals, fuels and machinery) and services
(extension and credit) were made a state monopoly and first priority in
obtaining these inputs and services was given to cooperatives and state
farms.
1.4      Pricing  and  marketing  of  agricultural products were also placed
under state control. State procurement companies were established for the
main  commodities  (e.g.  paddy  and  coffee), and private transactions were
officially prohibited. Procurement and retail  prices  of  almost  all  food
commodities  were  set  at  such  level to minimize losses to government for
procurement of basic food stuffs distributed  at  nominal  prices  to  urban
public  sector  workers  in  lieu  of  wages.  In  return, to offset the low
official prices paid to  agricultural  producers,  inputs  and  credit  were
subsidized.
1.5      Since  1985/86,  the  Government  has  begun  to  implement its New
Economic Order (NEO). Fundamental economic policy reforms are being pursued
to   liberalize  the  economy.  Key  measures  include  devaluation  of  the
commercia7 exchange rate to bring it more in line with the parallel market
rate, al'awing increases of official prices and wages. State enterprises a,'e
required to be financially autonomous and Central Government control has
been relaxed. More recently, private farmers have been allowed to have
access to credit and a number of budgetary subsidies and preferential
treatment of state farms and cooperatives have been abolished. Although the
final details of a NEO agricultural policy are still under discussion,
agricultural production is reported to respond vigorously to the new
incentives.
1.6      With an estimated per capita GDP of US$135 Laos remains amongst the
poorest countries in the world. Despite its considerable wealth of natural
resources, a large proportion of the population is still estimated to have
incomes well below absolute poverty levels.
B. Experience with ARDP I (Cr 760-LA)
1.7      ARDP I  <1> consisted of three components, all located in Vientiane
province. The first sought to develop or rehabilitate the irrigation and
drainage for some 8,200 ha of paddy land; the second component consisted of
the establishment of ten pig multiplication units; and the third, a rice
intensification component, comprised improvement in rice research, rice seed
production and the provision of an improved agronomic package, including
chemical inputs for some 2,500 ha of land under satisfactory water
management. Technical assistance for all three components was to be financed
--------------------------------------
<I>      Most of the information in this section is based on the ARDP I PCR,
which was prepared by IDA in early 1988.



- 5-
by UNDP and executed by FAO. The total project cost was estimated at USS11.9
million.
1.8      Project implementation started very slowly in 1978 due to delays in
the appointment of sub-project directors and in the arrival of the technical
advisers. The acute shortage of skilled manpower and the highly centralized
decision-making process, combined with a lack of leadership and coordination
at the central level severely constrained the implementation of the project.
Delays in procurement occurred because - ARDP I being the first World Bank
group project in Laos - Laotian officials and project staff were not
familiar with World Bank procedures. The situation was aggravated by
government preference to appoint technical advisers from certain countries,
which   greatly   limited   the  possibility  to  find  international  staff
experienced both in their technical field of competence as in World Bank
procedures, and who could, in addition, also communicate well in English and
French. As a result, procurement and project implementation were delayed by
at least two years.
1.9       In  spite  of  the  implementation  delays, the irrigation and rice
intensification components were succesfully completed. Ten gravity schemes
covering 2,250 ha and 16 pump schemes covering 5,500 ha were completed by
late 1987. Full development had not yet been reached however by that time.
The pig multiplication component was decreased by 50%, while its performance
was mixed, partially due to interruptions in high quality feed supply and
difficulties in maintaining a pure-bred herd under Laotion conditions. Total
project costs at completion were within appraisal estimates. The estimated
ERR for the entire project at completion was 8.4%, compared to an SAR
estimate of 25%.
II. PROJECT FORMULATION
A. General
2.1      ARDP II   was  identified/prepared  by  a  World  Bank  mission  in
November/December 1977 or about a year after the ARDP I had been appraised.
Originally, the proposed project had two primary objectives: (a) flood
control and small-scale irrigation in the flood plain of the Se Bang Fai, a
tributary  of the Mekong river which separates the two central Lao provinces
of Khammouane and Savannakhet; and (b) seed and feed grain production in the
Vientiane  plain  to  substitute  for  growing  import requirements. Soon it
appeared however, that the Se Bang Fai component was  insufficiently  backed
by  survey  data  and  needed further preparation. The component was dropped
from the project  design,  while  the  second  component  was  expanded  and
complemented with a Smallholder and Cooperative Farm Development component
similar to the one in ARDP I.
2.2      At appraisal, in November 1978. <1> the project consisted of  three
components:
<1>      SAR report dated May 1979.



-6-
i.)      Seed  Farm Development at Na Phok
which would develop 500 ha on a state farm to serve as a
national seed production centre; The development of the Na
Phok seed farm sought to establish a local capacity for
producing improved seed and to expand the availability of
improved rice, feed grain and vegetable seeds to farmers on
a regular basis and, in particular in times of crisis.
such as late rains or flooding. At full-development the
farm would produce seeds sufficient for planting some
100,000 ha of rice (15% of total area) and 50,000 ha of
feed grains per year (13-47.<l>
11.)     Feedgrain  Farm Development at Veune Kham
which would develop 3,000 ha state farm for mechanised
feedgrain production under rainfed conditions; At the time
of appraisal feed grain were in short supply, mainly due to
low producer prices and lack of seeds. Veune Kham would
supply two new feed mills established in the Vientiane
plain. The pig-multiplication component of ARDP I depended
heavily on a regular supply of quality feeds.
iii.)     Smaliholder and Cooperative Farm Development
which consisted of two sub-components: (a) training of 280
agricultural technicians who would form the basis for
developing a pilot agricultural technical service for
smallholder and cooperative farm development; and (b)
provision of US$0.9 million for the purchase of agro-
chemical inputs and farm implements for distribution to
some 2,400 farmers and/or farm cooperatives.
2.3      The total cost was estimated to be US$14.4 million, with a proposed
IDA credit of US$10.4 million (72%). In view of the extreme shorteje of
foreign exchange in the country and the general difficult budgetary
situation of the Government, 100% of the project costs were financed by
external sources, including all incremental local costs. To this end US$1.3
million UNDP co-financing was sought to cover the costs of technical
assistance proJect and a US$2.7 million EECSAA <2> grant was secured to co-
finance local costs.
<1>      Assuming that paddy seeds are replaced every three years and maize
seeds every two years.
<2>      European Economic Commission Special Action Account 3"ich is funded
by the EEC, but administered by the World Bank Group.



-7-
B. Detailed Features
2.4      Seed  farm  development  (US$5.0  million): At Na Phok (about 35 km
from VientianeT a national seed farm  was  to  be  established  through  the
development of 500 ha fully irrigated farmland. This was to be achieved by
providing infrastructure and seed processing equipment. Infrastructure
development consisted of a final clearing and levelling of land; the repair
and resurfacing of 7 km of internal roads; the construction of equipment
shelters and workshop facilities, processing and storage facilities as well
as housing, laboratory and other accomodation; the electrification of the
station by constructing 8 km of 22 Kw power ,line; and the establishment of a
pumping station at the Nam Ngum river and an open ditch distribution system.
2.5      The provision of equipment included equipment  required  for  fully
mechanized operation of the farm, such as tractors and a wide variety of
tractor implements. It was felt that the seasonal labour shortage in the
area warranted the heavy mechanization of the farm. The difficulty to
maintain the heavy equipment and machinery in Laos was recognised in the
project design by incorporating funds for the establishment of a fully
equipped workshop and by including 24 man-months of technical assistance.
2.6      Other equipment included seed processing (2 tons/hour) and  storage
(500 tons) equipment and batch type drying equipment capable of handling
1.000 ton/cropping season of seed. Details of the processing plant and final
design specifications were to be prepared with the assistance of the
specialists to be provided under the project. Laboratory equipment for
testing seed purity and viability were also to be included.
2.7      Finally,  it was decided that because of the non-commercial way the
seed farm was to be operated - following government policy at that time -
and in order to maintain reasonable levels of cultivation practices, that
the project would include all incremental operating costs of the farm:
mostly fuel, fertilizers and insecticides.
2.8      The  UNQP  contribution included the provision of 114 man-months of
technical assistance in the fields of seed production and processing (36
man-months), mechanical engineering for machinery and equipment maintenance
(24 man-months), feed grain production (36 man-months), engineering (12 man-
months) and some short-term consultancies (6 man-months). The UNDP project
included also some funds to assist in the setting up of the first phase of
the Na Phok seed farm. The agricultural engineer and construction engineer
would also assist the feed grain production component at Veune Kham. The
project would furthermore finance the training part of the Smallholder and
Cooperative Farm Development component. The UNDP project was to be executed
by FAO.
2.9      Feed grain production (US$7.5 milllion) The  project was to develop
a state farm at Veune Kham primarily to supply the nearby Tha Ngone and
Thong Toun feed mills with raw materials in maize and soybean in particular.
Thd two mills were under construction at the time of appraisal but it was
estimated that by 1982 the two mills would have a combined annual capacity
of 20,000 tons of feed. The pig-multiplication component of AROP I intended
to develop pig production in Vientiane province to such an extent that total
pig feed requirements in the province would be around 6.000 tons per year or
around 30% of the feed mill capacity.



-8-
2.10     Feed grain production by small farmers was not expected to  develop
sufficiently, mainly due to the low prices set by government for farm
products which did not render commercial feed grain production profitable.
Therefore, in order to meet the feed grain demand, and in accordance with
government policy directives, it was agreed to develop around 3,000 ha on
the 6,000-7,000 ha Veune Kham state farm, mostly for mechanised rainfed feed
grain production. At full development the farm would produce around 5,500
tons of feed grain of which 4,500 tons would be maize.
2.11     About  2,700  ha would be cleared of open forest cover. An internal
road network of 40 km would be built and two small dams constructed to
provide flood protection for about 300 ha, prone to flooding. Buildings
would include general accomodation, a general store, farm machinery and
workshop buildings. Finally, electricity would be provided by construction
of 5 km of 22 Kw powerline.
2.12     Heavy equipment for land clearing and road construction was  to  be
provided   in   addition  to  lighter  farm  equipment  including  tractors,
harvesters, shellers and threshers. The equipment cost was estimated to
total US$1.7 million or about one quarter of the component cost. The project
also provided for workshop and general transport equipment similar to those
of Na Phok to maintain the large equipment fleet. It was argued, as in the
case of Na Phok, that the high level of mechanisation was required because
of the labour shortage in the area.
2.13     The  project  would  include all incremental operating costs mostly
for fertilizer, pesticides and fuel, in order to achieve the yields which
were expected to be above average for Laos. The total cost was expected to
be US$1.7 million or almost 25% of the sub-component cost.
2.14     The component would benefit from  the  services  of  a  feed  grain
production specialist (36 man-months) and would furthermore benefit from the
agricultural machinery specialist and construction engineer included in the
Na Phok component. However, when it was found that it was not practical to
share the TA provided under the LAO/77/011 project between Na Phok and Veune
Kham, it was decided in January 1981 to fund a separate 4-year project,
"Veune Kham State Farm Development" (LAO/80/005). The project included the
services   of   24  man-months  of an agricultural specialist, 48 man-months
of a civil engineer and 24 man-months of a machine/equipment maintenance
specialist. The total cost was estimated at US$0.8 million.
2.15     Smallholder  and Cooperative Farm Development (US$1.2 million). The
third component included two sub-components: the first provided training to
agricultural   staff   and  the  second  provided  agricultural  inputs  for
distribution to farms and cooperatives in Vientiane province. The training
sub-component included mostly the provision of training to some 200 staff
and some training equipment to complement the basic agricultural training
facilities in the country. Higher level training would be provided to about
80 agricultural staff who would form the core of a group of subject matter
specialists to backstop provincial staff. Finally, short fellowships abroad
would be made available to some ten ministry staff to acquaint themselves
with research, technical support and management practices. It was agreed
that the details of operation of a core technical service would be prepared
during project implementation.



-9-
2.16     About US$0.9 million were to  be  provided  under  the  project  to
finance   agricultural   chemicals  and  small  farm  equipment  to  support
smallholder and cooperative farm development. A similar component had been
included in the ARDP I project and basically consisted of balance of
payments support. Ultimately, these inputs were to be distributed under a
credit system to be developed during project implementation.
2.17      In  addition,  as  already  noted  (para  2.8X,  114  man-months of
technical assistance, to support the above components, was included,
amounting to US$0.7 million.
111. PROJECT IMPLEPhTATION
A. Project Works
3.1      The project became effective on 17 October 1979 after the  deadline
for credit effectiveness had been extended by one month to allow government
to conform with the conditions of the Development Credit Agreement. (1> The
original closing date of the credit was 31 December 1984. The credit period
was extended twice by one year so that the actual closing date was 31
December 1986.
Ka Phok Seed Farm
3.2      Already  before  the  Credit  became  effective  in  October  1979,
adequate staff had been assigned to the Na Phok farm and a number of
cropping trials were carried out during the second half in 1979. Three of
the four expatriate technical advisers were appointed without significant
delays and procurement was initiated soon after project start-up. Yet, a
number of factors delayed project implementation. The most important factor
was related to the survey and design of the irrigation system. At the time
of appraisal only a sketch design was available, which had been prepared in
1975 by a private consultancy firm. It was assumed at appraisal that a final
detailed   design   would  be  available  by  mid-1980  in  order  to  allow
construction to commence late 1980/early 1981. In practice, the first design
was finalised by the Bureau of Survey and Design in 1981, but the full
design was approved by the Irrigation Department only in 1983. The final
design covered 500 ha on the assumption that extensive land levelling was to
be carried out on about 150 ha of upland. The final design was entirely
different from the original one, mostly due to topographical considerations.
3.3      Construction   started  in  1983  and  by  late  1987  95%  of  the
construction works had been finalised. <2> A main canal of 540 m and 5,211 m
of primary canals were constructed. The pumping station was installed in
1984 and became operational in 1985. Secondary and tertiary canals were
constructed in three phases. Phase I (72 ha) was finished in 1985, Phase II
(168 ha) in late 1985. and Phase III (250 ha) late 1987. In total 8,228 m of
lateral canals were excavated.
<1>      In particular paras (b) and (c) of Section 6.01 stipulating the
appointment of technical specialists and the opening of a Special
Account.
(2>      With the construction of 20 small concrete structures the system
should be considered complete.



- 10 -
3.4      On the basis of the capacity of  the  pumps  and  the  primary  and
secondary  canals,  a total area of 490 ha could at present be irrigated, if
levelling were to be carried out on the entire farm. So far however, only
250 ha have been levelled for paddy, while the total area that in actual
fact can be irrigated without additional heavy investment, is estimated at
around 350 ha. The topography of the farm does not allow further lewelling
without excessive cost and serious disturbance of the topsoil. Conseqluently.
the remaining 150 ha is available for rainfed maize or othe- crop
cultivation during the rainy season. However, water availability would allow
this area to be irrigated under sprinkler systems, if this were financially
attractive. Thus, at the end of construction, which was only completed in
1987, irrigation facilities were available for about 350 ha. While the
condition of canals and banks is still adequate, a maintenance programme
needs to be started to prevent their future degradation so as to maintain
the irrigation potential. The quality of concrete work has, to a certain
degree been defective; while the control structures, mainly of the laterals,
need to be repaired. The pumps have broken down in the past and remained
idle for long periods for want of repair; a thorough maintenance programme
needs to be implemented.
3.5      Roads  and  electricity  supply  were  constructed  without   major
problems. The construction programme for housing and other accomodation was
modified and somewha- reduced in extent in order to suit the farm's needs.
Construction of seed processing and storage works was only initiated during
the last stages of implementation. After appraisal, GOL negotiated for some
UNCDF financing for seed cleaning equipment. IDA agreed to re-allocate the
credit funds originally reserved for this equipment to finance seed drying
and cold storage facilities. The latter facilities were under construction
in May 1988 and are expected to be operational in late 1988.
3.6      With the completion of the seed processing and  storage  facilities
in late 1988, the seed farm infrastructural development can be considered
finished. This compares to the original completion date for this component
envisaged for in early 1983. In the past, the seed farm's operations were
severely  constrained  by  the  lack  of   mechanical   drying   facilities.
particularly for corn cobs, which resulted in substantial spoilage of seed
quality and viability. This also forced the farm to limit its planting area.
3.7      While the physical capability of producing  and  processing  larger
amounts of good quality seed has now been established, the objective of
producing improved quality seeds cannot be considered as having been
achieved to date. The main reason for this are the lack of a seed policy and
insufficient operational farm budget. Without an integrated seed policy,
which would provide clear signals regarding the type and quantities of the
seed to be produced or how they should be distributed, farm management will
continue to operate in a policy vacuum. Linkages with research institutions
regarding varieties to be promoted and seeds to be multiplied are essential
and this should be easy to establish, given the presence of a research
station with at least two externally funded projects adjacent to the farm.
Establishing clear guidelines regarding the distribution of the seeds to
farmers should form part of such a seed policy, whereby especially the use
of the emerging private sector marketing channels should be considered, as
the lack of an extension service in Lao PDR further impedes the promotion
of improved seeds to farmers through public sector channels. Adequate
pricing of improved seeds is a prerequisite for this. At present, improved
paddy seed is made available to farmers at Kip 22/kg through the provincial
authorities, while rice is sold at around Kip 50-55/kg. A significant
increase in the price of improved seed should also allow the possibility of
attracting private farmers in the vicinity of the farm to participate in



- 11. -
seed multiplication on a contract basis. This would furthermore permit the
seed processing and storage equipment at Na Phok to be used to its full
capacity. IDA and other multilaterial agencies such as the EEC and UNDP
involved in improved seed development have raised these policy issues during
project implementation but no action has been taken by Government.
Veune Kh.
3.8      Extensive  land  clearing  was  required   on   the   farm   before
agricultural  production  at  any  scale  could  take  place.  Land clearing
proceeded well during the initial stages of project implementation but then
slowed down rostly due to higher than. anticipated land clearing costs
(US$1,500/ha as compared to an SAR estimate of US$400/ha). The following
land  clearing  and  macro  levelling was carried out as compared to the SAR
estimate.
S i    II0  1981  1982  1983 1384 1985-197  Total
.............    ......... (b) ........................
Cluriw.t)
E anti tA 300  100  X00  600  100  700         -    3,000
Acs"300 it -0    0    5    5    - t
VI 300 a clearefor. Wm project started.
3.9      Land clearing  was done by a team of three bulldozers pushing/pulling
a heavy chain. Most of the cleared land was subsequently rough levelled.
Precision levelling - not envisaged at appraisal because no irrigation had
been anticipated - was restricted to 145 ha within the irrigation system (see
para 3.12). A total of 470 ha of land above 168 m contour (not prone to
flooding) has been prepared for wet season cultivation. On 220 ha of these
lands, erosion control measures have been taken.
3.10     The  technical  specialists  reported  already in 1980/81 that only a
fraction (around 500 ha) of the original target of 3,000 ha was actually
suitable for upland farming of feed grains due to frequent flooding (see
below). However, clearing of unsuitable land continued to take place. By 1983
1,600 ha had been cleared, under technical assistance supervision. At present,
most of those cleared lands are prone to erosion - in some areas the topsoil
has completely disappeared - while in other areas forest or other original
vegetation has re-appeared, protecting the land from erosion, but which would
have to be re-cleared if crop cultivation were to be undertaken again.
3.11     The  construction  of civil works, roads, bridges and the electricity
supply were implemented without significant delays. By 1984 all agricultural
processing and storage equipment had been delivered to the farm. At present,
poor maintenance seriously affects the structures, in particular the bridge
and road network. Most heavy earthmoving equipment is no longer serviceable,
while  the  same  applies  to  most  of  the  agricultural   equipment.   Some
agricultural equipment, such as hydraulic maize planters, are still in a
relatively good condition however and, if it were to be decided that large
scale feed grain farming would not be attempted again on Veune Kham, an
inventory of the remaining equipment should be made and serviceable equipment
should be transferred elsewhere.



- 12 -
3.12     Although  it  had  not  been  envisaged  at  appraisal,  in  1981  an
irrigation study for irrigating 1.200 ha of low land was completed with
bilaterial assistance. Some project funds were made available for irrigation
system earthmoving works. 8.3 km of main canals, 12.9 km of secondary canals
and 7.3 km of drainage ditches were completed. The pumping stations were
constructed   under   Australian   bilateral   assistance,  while  the  Mekong
Secretariat completed the construction of two weirs with flood gates. The
total area that may now be irrigated is around 160 ha.
3.13      In  recent years, due to a shortage of operational budget and lack of
management and technical skills, production has been minimal (see paras 4.16
to 4.19 and Table 4). At present only about 1.0 ha of maize, and somewhat over
100 ha of irrigated paddy and some fodder crops are grown on the farm. Most of
the paddy is cultivated by farmers living on or adjacent to the farm.
3.14     The  most  important  reason contributing to the failure of the Veune
Kham component appears to have been insufficient project preparation. In
particular three aspects can be identified. F;rst. the site was selected
without sufficient knowledge about the topography and the characteristics of
the soils. The original study, carried out in the mid-1970's contained
inconsistencies in the topographical assessment, while the water level of the
Nam  Ngum  River  is  reported  to  be  'igher  than was assumed in the study.
According to the technical data available on the farm, a flood level height of
168 m occurs once every three years and a height of 169 m every ten years,
while the lowest contour level of natural grounds (paddy fields) is 165 m. At
appraisal it was assumed that the entire farm, with the exception of 300 ha.
would be above flood level. As a result, only a maximum of 400 ha to 500 ha,
instead of the 3,000 ha anticipated at appraisal can be considered as suitable
for upland farming.
3.15     The problem of frequent flooding of large areas  with  poor  drainage
was compounded by the fact that they proved to be only marginally suitable for
upland maize, groundnut and soybean production. The soils in the higher area
are mainly of the laterite (ferruginous) type with also a small proportion of
podsolic type soils (a total of about 70% of the farm). Chemical analysis
shows that the soils contain little organic matter (1.13% of humus), while the
soil is acid, with the subsoil having a pH of less than 4. Although maize
could be produced on the non-flooded areas with relative success if high input
crop husbandry practices were applied, no suitable varieties of soybean and
groundnut have been found to date, notwithstanding extensive crop trials. The
proposed crop mix of maize, soybean and groundnuts should therefore be
considered  as  inappropriate.  In  view  of  this  position,  IDA supervision
missions had strongly recommended since 1984, that the project area should not
be  limited to the boundaries of Veune Kham farm in order to take advantage of                       r
more suitable upland soils outside. This proposal was, however,  not  accepted                       L
by Government.
3.16     A  second aspect of poor project preparation relates to the choice of
crop production technology. The highly mechanized production techniques were
inappropriate for a number of reasons, whereby the most important was the high
recurrent costs and skilled manpower requirements of operating and maintaining
the equipment. Both financial and skilled manpower resources being scarce in
Laos, the farm could not sustain production after the external project budget
and TA assistance ceased. The technology proved also inadequate in view of
the topographical conditions of the farm, which is in many places too hilly to
allow, for example, the multi-row hydraulic calibrated maize planters to be
used. This was aggravated by the easy erodability of the soils on these
steeper slopes.



- 13 -
3.17     The third aspect of poor  project  preparation  was  the  failure  to
recognize the seriousness of the lack of management capacity of the farm to
carry out the large-scale mechanized operations, due to the non-agricultural
background of most staff. Although the SAR referred to this weakness, it was
felt that the TA and training component would alleviate most of the
constraints. This proved to be too optimistic.
3.18     Finally,  implementation  of  the  project suffered from the national
pricing policy prevalent at the time, which rendered maize production
financially unattractive, and therefore proved to be a disincentive to the
farm's management to expand production. This was reinforced by the requirement
of the farm to feed itself by producing rice. The latter condition was not
sufficiently recognized during project design.
Smaliholder and Cooperative Far. Development
3.19     The  Smallholder and Cooperative Farm Development component consisted
of two sub-components: (a) training of agricultural staff and (b) provision of
agricultural inputs. No accurate data are available but it appears that around
130 agricultural officers have benefited from 3 to 6 month courses in subjects
ranging from general agronomy to seed processing. In addition, an unknown
number of staff participated in short-term training courses and seminars. Five
staff travelled abroad to undergo 3 to 6 months training in farm management
and irrigated agriculture, while an additional five staff undertook short-term
study tours.
3.20     It  is  impossible  to  measure the benefits of the training provided
under the project. A pilot agricultural techical service was not established
however as had been anticipated at appraisal, so that also the benefits that
should have accrued due to the functioning of these trained staff as subject
matter specialists in the proposed pilot agricultural service, did not
materialize.
3.21     The Smallholder and Cooperative Development component also sought  to
finance inputs to cover the implementation of an improved technological
package on 3,600 ha of wet season paddy, 600 ha of dry season paddy and 1,200
ha of wet season maize at full development. Similar components were included
under the  ARDP I  and  ARDP III  projects.<1>  The  agricultural  inputs  and
equipment were to be distributed by the provincial authorities (Table 7).
Project accounts were not always kept separately identifying the source or
beneficiaries and no monitoring or evaluation of the distribution of these
inputs was carried out. While the inputs were supplied as part of a national
input supply programme, which pooled supplies from other bilateral and
multilateral sources, the project areas for each source were defined.
3.22     The agricultural inputs were purchased and  distributed  through  the
provincial authorities as projected in the SAR. It had been anticipated that
the inputs would eventually be distributed through a credit system. Such a
system was never established.
<1>,     A total of 8,100 ha of wet season paddy, 1,300 ha of dry season paddy
and 2,700 ha of wet season maize over a three year period.



- 14 -
B. Technical Assistance
3.23      In view of severe shortage of qualified and trained manpower  in  Lao
PDR, technical assistance for project implementation was obtained from UNDP
with FAO as the executing agency. Unlike ARDP I, no serious delays occurred in
the appointment of expatriate technical advisers and, due to relaxation of
previously  stringent  government  policies  regarding  the   nationality   of
potential candidates, the performance of the specialists was generally
satisfactory.
3.24     The main thrust of the TA component had been programmed for the first
three years of project implementation. However, due to delays in irrigation
works and land clearing which delayed the agricultural production, the main
project activities started only towards the end of that period. Follow-up TA
support was obtained, in the form of a separate project for Veune Kham
(LAO/80/005) and the Integrated Rural Development Project (LAO/82/011), but
serious gaps in implementation and in expertise occurred. This latter project
provided for both long-term and short-term technical assistance to Na Phok
Seed Farm for seed production, the preparation of a national master plan for
seed and the organization of national seed campaigns. The assistance was not
provided due to recruitment problems. This also delayed construction of the
seed drying and cold storage facilities as there was no local capability for
the preparation of design and specifications, and to assist in procurement.
Technical assistance was eventually provided and funded under another IDA
project.
3.25     Another aspect of the TA support  which  may  have  hampered  project
implementation was that the expertise mix was rather heavily biased towards
purely technical fields such as land clearing, engineering and machinery
maintenance. Complementary assistance in the form of agro-economic and farm
management expertise would have benefited project implementation, especially
in the case of Veune Kham, where the lack of agricultural experience was most
evident.
C. Procurement and Disbursement
3.26     Extensive land clearing and levelling activities were to  be  carried
out by the project and all equipment for these activities had to be imported.
Equipment also had to be imported for the construction of the irrigation
system. Early procurement was therefore critical for a timely implementation
of the project. In view of the fact that detailed equipment requirements   had
to be assessed during project implementation, that tender documents had to be
drawn up only after the start of the project and given the relative
inexperience of the authorities of Lao PDR with IDA tender procedures, the
delays in procurement during the initial stages of the project were minimal.
Most equipment and materials (with the exception of the seed processing and
storage equipment) were received within the first two years after rredit
effectiveness and 45% of all reimbursed expenditure categories were received
during 1980 and 1981.
3.27     By the end of FY 1982 69% of the IDA credit had  been  disbursed  and
78% by the end of FY 1983 as compared to 57% and 76% projected in the SAR
(Table 2). Disbursement slowed down in 1984 and 1985 (2% and 1% respectively)
mostly due to a slowing down project activities after the technical assistance
components had finished and general uncertainties about the future of the
Veune Kham component. Disbursements picked up again in 1986 and 1987 assisted
by more frequent supervision missions. At the official closing date an



- 15-
undisbursed balance of US$29,437 was cancelled from Cr.924-LA. At that date
the equipment and materials category had been overspent by USS281,000 and the
OM category by US$29,000. The special accounts and civil works categories
were underspent by US$100,000 and USS240,000 respectively.
3.28     The credit provided for partial reimbursement of  local  expenditures
(e.g. labour and local construction materials included in the "civil works"
category at the official echange rate of US$1 = K10). At that exchange rate,
reimbursements of the labour and local materials portion of civil works
resulted in an over-payment of their actual cost in Kip. A substantial share
of the amounts allocated for civil works was, therefore, reallocated to the
"equipment and materials" category to limit reimbursement for labour aiid local
materials.
D. Accounts. Audits and Monitoring * Evaluation
3.29     Proper  and  accurate  accounts  have  not  been  kept  for the three
components. With IDA's assistance, an acceptable accounting system for the
ongoing projects was at one stage established. However. most accounts and
records that were prepared have been lost as a result of frequent changes in
project management. Thus, no accurate analysis of project costs is possible.
As the project included 100% financing arrangements, the data compiled for
this report on the basis of disbursement accounts, can be considered to be
fair estimates however. Project accounts were scheduled to be audited by state
auditors. However, no audit report had been issued for the project, although
proforma accounts and audit guidelines were provided to Government.
3.30     It was required under the project that a  monitoring  and  evaluation
unit would be established with staff of the Directorate of Agriculture and its
Department  of  Planning  who  would  report  to  the  Director   General   of
Agriculture. The functions of the unit were to monitor and evaluate the
implementation of the project and the benefits derived from it. The unit was
not established.
E. Project Cost
3.31     At  appraisal,  total  project cost was estimated at US$14.4 million.
Due to several changes in the exchange rate (ER) during project implementation
and the existence of several ER's at any one time depending on the purpose of
the transactioi, only the US$ cost estimates have any significance. The
project featured 100% external financing of project costs including all iocal
costs. In the absence of project expenditure accounts, the disbursement
schedules have been used to estimate project costs. Additional government
inputs  which  might  have  occurred  have  not  been  taken   into   account.
Disbursement of local costs was done on the basis of an exchange rate of Kip
10 per US$.
3.32     The estimated actual project cost as compared to the SAR estimate  is
shown  in Table 1 and summarazed below. Due to the high pe centage of external
financing, total project cost was close to appraisal estimates. Although price
contingency   rates   were  somewhat  overestimated,  the  delays  in  project
implementation absorbed these contingencies.



- 16 -
hti.
_h~uaet            0*M Eattt 1  Actual 2*  Actual MW.7U  get.
.................. Ojs   n11llium............
K nu so" fez            5.0       6.0              S.m
laei,rala pu_et1m       7.5       7.3              0.07
Cu_uratiw d.le_mat       1.2      1.4             i.*s
Tehuleal esiltm         *.7        - 31            *.-.
T474     T477 -           r W
1*  :maa: Table 1.
23  Is1e d la thu otbhr .p.e.ets.
3.33     It appears from the disbursement accounts that  the  equipment  and
materials   categories  were  slightly  overspent,  while  the  civil  works
categories were somewhat underspent. Land clearing and levelling costs were
underestimated at appraisal. To accommodate these higher costs, funds
originally intended to cover agricultural production operating costs were
made available for this purpose.
3.34     The  EEC  Special  Account  grant  was entirely disbursed. The UNDP
contribution, originally limited to one three-year project, was complemented
during implementation by a second project aimed at providing assistance to
Veune Kham. This increased UNOP's contribution from the SAR estimate of
US$1.3 million to US$2.1 million.
IV. PERFORMANCE AND IMPACT
A. In5titutional Performance
Impact of Goverment Policies
4.1      A number of government policies  have  adversely  affected  project
implementation. During the late 1970's and early 1980's the policy to
promote collectivization of the agricultural sector induced the project
design to opt for large collective farms which were highly mechanized.
Operating these farms proved difficult in terms of technical expertise in
farm operations. The collective management of the farms and their dependence
on the central government budget for their operations proved cumbersome and
led to inefficient performance. The latter was reinforced by the policy of
subsidizing inputs and taxing agricultural output. As subsidized inputs were
in short supply due to budgetary constraints, this did not allow the farms
to operate profitably or generate adequate income to cover production costs
after the project funds for farm operations had been exhausted.
4.2      The  s ed  production  component was most seriously affected by the
lack of a seed policy (para 3.7). while the feed grains policy, keeping
output prices low and thereby severely reducing marketing opportunities of
the output, seriously hampered the Veune Kham operations.



- 17 -
4.3      The recent policy changes pursued  in  the  framework  of  the  New
Ecomonic Order, seek to address some of the more important conditions which
hampered project implementation. Continued efforts to further liberalise
agricultural input and product marketing would particularly facilitate
future implementation of the Na Phok seed farm component as it would allow a
realistic pricing for the seeds produced on the farm and consequently
provide a sound financial basis for continued supply.
Institutional P*rfor once
4.4      The  Ministry  of  Agriculture was. made  responsible  for  project
implementation. Although adequate staff had been appointed to  ttle  Na  Phok
farm, the implementation of the Veune Kham component was initially hampered
by the uncertainty of the administrative control of the farm, as it had
originally been under the Ministry of Interior. Although at the start of the
project, management of the farm had formally been transferred to the
Ministry of Agriculture, friction between staff and the Ministry remained
for a long time. This situation was also reflected by the lack of trained
agricultural personnel on the farm, which was limited during the initial
phases of implementation to one agricultural officer out of a total number
of 720 staff.
4.5      In   general,   delays   in   the  appointment  of  key  personnel,
particularly at project start-up, affected implementation of ARDP II,
although to a lesser extent than ARDP I. Higher priority should have been
given to the timely appointment of key staff, such as the project
coordinator and subproject directors, although this should be seen in the
light  of  the  extreme  shortage  of  experienced  manpower  in  Lao   PDR.
Insufficient counterpart funds slowed down civil works at crucial stages
during project implementation as local expenditures had to be incurred first
before they could be reimbursed from the external funds. There was little
planning,  programming  and  budgeting   capability   to   support   project
operations, while the coordinated supervision of the technical advisers was
inadequate.
4.6      The Department of Planning could not adequately fulfill its project
coordination and monitoring and eveluation role. There were delays in survey
and design work carried out by the Department of Irrigation.
4.7      Covenants were only partially complied with. Annual work programmes
were not prepared in a timely manner. Project accounts were not properly
maintained and audits were not carried out. Other covenants which covered
the establishment of a project monirring and evaluation unit, the provision
of institutional credit and the establishment of a revolving fund (for the
rice intensification component) were also not complied with.
IDA Performance
4.8      The project design reflected government's insistence to borrow  for
large scale mechanized agricultural production to serve as a model for
development of the collectivized and cooperative agricultural sector as
proposed at that time. With the benefit of hindsight it could be argued that
the size of the project, albeit small for IDA, was large for Laos, while the
technology proposed, especially for the Veune Kham farm, was far too
sophisticated to be successfully introduced in Laos at this stage of
development. The allowances made in the SAR for the low absorbtive capacity
and substantial operational constraints in the country, such as the



- 18 -
technical assistance component and the alleged flexibility in design by not
requiring detailed pre-project engineering studies, were not adequate
4.9      Other flaws in project design included  the  failure  to  recognize
that large parts of Veune Kham were subject to frequent flooding and that
the soils were not well suited for the proposed crop mix (paras 3.14 -
3.15). It should be noted here however, that the difficult political and
security situation at the time of preparation/appraisal rendered the
carrying out of site inspection visits extremely difficult, while the
government was furthermore strongly pre-disposed towards the selection of
the Na Phok and Veune Kham sites to be developed under this project.
4.10     The  frequency  of  supervision  missions  was  low for a difficult
environment, while their mix of staff skills was not always appropriate to
assess fully the difficulties being encountered during implementation, nor
to successfully attempt to rectify them. Supervision missions were carried
out on a six-month basis between 1979 and 1981. From 1982 to 1984, however,
missions were carried out on an annual basis, which was inadequate during
this crucial period of project implementation. In 1982 only one man-week was
reportedly spent on supervision of the ARDP II project. More systematic and
uniform   reporting  by  the  supervision  mission  would  have  facilitated
subsequent supervision, especially in absence of the establishment of an
effective 0 & M system. Transfer of responsibility for project supervision
to the Regional Mission in Thailand in 1984 had a positive impact on project
implementation. Yet, throughout the project implementation period, IDA
supervision failed to achieve a coordinated decision by all parties
involved,  including  government,  UNDP  and  FAO  to  (1)  bring  about the
necessary   policy   decisions,   which   were   necessary   for   succesful
implementation of the seed production and smallholder and cooperative farm
development components, and (2) to take the necessary action to adjust the
direction and extent of the Veune Kham component after it had become known
(in 1980/81) that only a fraction of the farm could actually be cultivated
due to flooding. Although especially in the latter years of project
implementation, the coordination of IDA, UNDP and FAO was effective, this
was not always the case in the initial years.
4.11     Execution of the "Coordination Advice and Logistic Support Project"
by IDA in 1980 was an excellent initiative to address project administration
and management problems. The presence of a specialist in the country to
provide assistance to project management staff on planning, programming,
budgeting, accounting, procurement and disbursement at project start-up
proved to be a cost-effective way of addressing implementation bottlenecks.
4.12     In 1984 IDA tried to address the poor performance of the Veune Kham
farm by sending a mission to review project performance in-depth and to
recommend project restructuring and/or cancellation of the trouble-prone
component. The mission recommened to change the objective of the component
by creating a land clearing agency on the farm, using the heavy equipment,
which had been underutilised so far. For a number of reasons, such as lack
of counterpart funds, shortage of trained personnel and poor coordination of
government agencies, as well as the overall Government's reluctance for
policy reasons tc accept this proposal, the initiative did not succeed.
Subsequently,   IDA   decided   that  further  major  investments  were  not
economically justified and no further major disbursements were made under
the credit.



- 19 -
B. Financial and Economic Results
Production and Financial Results
4.13     Na  Phok  Seed  Farm. At  appraisal  it was projected that the farm
would produce around 2,255 ton of various seeds on 500 ha of fully irrigated
land at full development; mostly paddy seed (1,155 tons), maize seed (535
tons) as well as smaller quantities of soybean, sorghum, groundnut,
vegetable seeds and some root crop tubers. These quantities of seed were
considered adequate for the planting of almost 150,000 ha of crops, amongst
others 100,000 ha of paddy and 43,000 ha of maize.
4.14     During  the  years  1986-1988  respectively  50, 75 and 143 ha were
cultivated in the rainy season (Table 4). In 1986, from the 50 ha of maize
and paddy a gross total of 111 tons of seed were obtained. In 1987 146 tons
were produced. The 1988 production data were not available at the time of
preparation of this PCR. Yields obtained at the farm so far have been low.
mostly  due  to  inadequate  application  of  fertilizers.  herbicides   and
pesticides.  Since 1985 dry season irrigated production has teen minimal due
to recurrent breakdowns of the irrigation pumps. <1> Production  during  the
wet season also decreased due to a shortage of operational budget after :he
IDA Credit disbursements for this category ceased.
4.15      Presently, the irrigation network has been virtually completed  and
350 ha could be cropped to paddy in each of two seasons in the low lana.
provided that operating funds are available and if further levelling were
undertaken. wiuring the wet season 150 ha of upland could also be brought
under maize. It is assumed that under good cultural practices, including the
application of adequate amounts of chemical fertilizers, pesticides and
herbicides and after taking into account assumed reject/damage of 20%. 275
tons of improved maize seed and 1.700 tons of rice seeds could be produced.
This amount of seed is sufficient for planting 140,000 ha of rice (assuming
seed rates of 35 kg/ha and replacement of seed every three years) and 22,000
ha of maize (25 kg/ha and replacement every two years). These estimates are
similar to the original SAR estimates.
4.16     At  appraisal it was expected that the farm would operate at a loss
due to the official pricing policy at that time, requiring substantial
government subsidies to operate effectively. Indicative crop budgets for
paddy and maiz2 show that even with substantial productivity increases and
using today'a somewhat improved prices, the farm cannot or only marginally
operate at a profit (Table 5). thereby requiring continuing government
subsidies. <2>
4.17     Veune Kham. The SAR estimate for feed grain production on the Veune
Kham farm at full development was 2,000 ha of maize (4,500 tons) and 450 ha
each for soybean (585 tons) and groundnut (383 tons) production. In addition
100 ha of food crops were to be cultivated. All production was supposed to
take place during the wet season under rainfed conditions.
<1>.     These have since been repaired and are oprational.
<2>      The per ha input/output models, as shown in Table 5, should be
considered as entirely indicative, as they assume significant yield
increases, which, although they are considered as attainable on the
farm if farm management and cultivation practices were to improve,
have not been attained to date.



- 20 -
4.18     Although during the earlier years of implementation up  to  400  ha
had been cultivated, in 1988 only about 165 ha were under cultivation of
which 10 ha was upland maize (assisted by a bilateral project). Around 120
ha were under irrigated paddy mostly for food production. The cultivation
of some fodder crops is being a,tempted on the uplands. Due to flooding and
the limited area that is precision-levelled, it is estimated that without
further major investment in the irrigation system the maximum area that can
presently  be  cultivated   is  400  ha of maize in the uplands in the rainy
season and 160 ha of irrigated crop production (mostly paddy) in each of two
seasons.
4.19     At  present  the  potential output of the upland area is around 480
tons, with maize yields not expected to be much higher than 1.2 tons/ha, due
to the lack of adequate nutrients in the soil, high acidity and weed
problems. Soybean, groundnut and mungbean production potential appears
extremely limited as no suitable varieties have yet been found during
variety trials that were carried out on the farm. Potential production
therefo"e appears to be limited to the 400 ha of upland maize and 160 ha of
mixed irrigated cropping in two seasons, or about 25% of the appraisal
estimate. 160 ha of paddy production under two seasons should give a
production of about 640 tons of paddy in lowland area (assuming around 2
tons per ha).
4.20     As  far  as  the financial attractiveness of the Veune Kham farm is
concerned, the SAR did not anticipate that the farm would operate at a
profit for the same factors that applied to the Na Phok operations.
Substantial increases in prices of maize would be required (of at least 50%)
in order for the farm to cover its current operating costs on a per ha
basis. Without significant and continued government subsidies however, it is
not anticipated that the farm could operate sufficiently efficient to
finance its equipment replacement needs and 0 & M programme, even under
these improved conditions.
Economic Re-evaluation
4.21     At appraisal it was estimated that the overall project would  yield
an  ERR  of  61%.  Some  delays  in implementation were expected which could
decrease the ERR, but still quite satisfactory rates were expected. The
component individual rates were 121% for the Na Phok seed farm and 14% for
Veune Kham.
4.22     Although agricultural production on the Na Phok  farm  has  so  far
been limited, an ERR was re-estimated for this component because the
infrastructure established under the project could in the future support
improved quality seed production, as envisaged at the time of SAR, if a
number of conditions are satisfied (para 3.7). The ERR estimate (Table 8)
has been based on the following assumptions. Benefits have been estimated on
the basis of the financial crop models for paddy and maize (Table 5). It
should be noted here that the crop models are entirely indicative, assuming
that higher input use and improved management practices would lead to higher
yields than so far have been experienced on the farm. It has furthermore
been assumed that by 1989 the cultivated area would be 350 ha of paddy in
two seasons and 150 ha of maize, or 8 times more than the average area under
cultivation in recent years.



- 21 -
4.23     Financial prices have  been  converted  to  economic  prices  using
economic parity prices for outputs and fertilizers as shown in Table 6. A
conversion factor of 0.5 has been applied to local labour costs. Although
the analysis was 1990 prices in constant 1987 USS. actual rice world market
prices have been used during the 1980-1987 period. The  re-estima,:e  further
assumes - following the original appraisal estimate - that each 35 kg of
improved paddy seed produced on the farm, would give an additiona; 166 kg of
grain (without other additional inputs) and that each 25 kg of maize seeo
would give 250 kg of grain production in the country. These benefits have
only been included from 1989 onwards, because it is considered that the lack
of seed drying and processing facilities, so far, has not allowed the farm
to produce significant quantities of seed of adequate quality to claim
benefits before that year (see para 3.6). <1.
4.24     All project costs for the component have been taken into account in
the analysis (Table 1). To avoid double counting, on-farm production costs
have not been included during the 1980-1987 period because the project
included all recurrent costs during that period (see para.2.7). It has
furthermore been assumed that annual equipment replacement costs and 0 & M
would total around 5% of total investment costs (of about US$6 million) or
US$300,000 per year. Investment costs were discounted to 1987 constant
prices using the World Bank MUV index. On the basis of the above assumptions
the re-estimated ERR for the Na Phok component is around 4% over a 25 year
period.
4.25     Due to the scarcity of data on the Smallholder and Cooperative Farm
Development component, no ERR was re-calculated. Also no ERR was calculated
for the Veune Kham component due to the long delays in the benefit streams,
the additional investment required to increase production and overall
limitations in production potential. It is felt that such a re-calculated
ERR would be negative however. <2>
V. CONCLUSIONS
5.1      The  Second Agricultural Rehabilitation and Development Project was
implemented - as were ARDP I and ARDP III - during a prolonged period of
institutional and economic instability. In addition, the fragility of the
governmental institutions, the acute shortage of experienced manpower and
the lack of familiarity with IDA procedures heavily impeded project
execution.
5.2      The three components of the  project  have  been  implemented  with
varying degrees of success. The Na Phok Seed Farm has - although somewhat
delayed  -  achieved  its  objectives   In,  terms   of   establishing   the
infrastructure for producing improved quality seeds in Laos. In order to
achieve the potential benefits, the farm must be able to operate within a
<1>      If the benefits were included from 1983 onwards the ERR would
improve to 6%. A similar increase in the ERR would be obtained if
the estimated 0 & M costs would be reduced to US$50,000 p.a.
<2>      In 1984 an IDA supervision mission re-estimated the ERR for Veune
Kham and came to similar conclusions.



- 22 -
well-defined government policy for seed production and distribution and be
provided with adequate staffing and operating budget arrangements. An
overall national seed policy is essential in order to determine which type
of seed would need to be produced; in what quantities; how it could be
distributed. Realistic pricing of improved quality seeds could wean the farm
from the central government budget for its operational budget requirements
and would furthermore allow contract seed multiplication by nearby farmers.
thereby increasing the output of the farm and allowing the seed processing
equipment to be used to capacity.
5.3      The  farm  furthermore  requires  some  replacement of agricultural
machines and possibly some additional technical assistance in the fields of
farm management and agronomy as well as seed processing and storage, which
could be provided within the framework of the ongoing research projects
which are presently implemented adjacent to the farm.
5.4      The  Veune  Kham  feed grains component has failed to attain any of
its objectives. Of the proposed 3,000 ha mechanized rainfed feed grain
production, virtually none has been realized so far, although somewhat more
than 100 ha irrigated paddy production takes place on the farm on a scheme
(around 160 ha) partially constructed with the assistance of other agencies.
The reasons for this failure are several, but the most important appear to
have been the frequent flooding of large parts of the farm and poor soils.
The SAR identified 3,000 ha, but soon it became clear that at most only 500
ha of upland was actuallj well-suited for agricultural production, due to
frequent flooding of large areas of the farm and poor soils. The lack of an
appropriate policy for feedgrain production and insufficient counterpart
funds prevented the application of intensive crop husbandry practices
requested to attain adequate yields.
5.5      The  main  opportunity  to re-direct the project by using the heavy
farm equipment to clear and develop better lands outside the farm in
Vientiane province, as proposed by IDA, was not pursued by Government.
Although a large part of the equipment is in a poor state of repair, some
equipment still has some potential value for future farm and development
activities elsewhere.
5.6      The rice intensification component was  implemented  more  or  less
according to plan but the training of staff failed to provide the core of a
future agricultural extension service as envisaged at appraisal.
5.7      The Credit was fully disbursed after the  disbursement  period  had
been extended twice from 31 December 1984 to 31 December 1986. The economic
performance was adverse.                        -  
Lessons Learned
5.8      The  main  lesson learned is that sound preparation is essential to
successful implementation and too great flexibility in project design is not
appropriate when site specific features such as topographical and soil
surveys and irrigation system designs are concerned. Basic technical studies
and surveys such as soil analyses and topographical surveys carried out
before appraisal should have led to the recognition that Veune Kham was not
well-suited for the type of development proposed by the project. Similarly,
in-depth appreciation of cropping possibilities and constraints would have
indicated that the sophisticated, large-scale mechanisation proposed for the
farm was inappropriate, especially in the light of the extreme shortage of
experienced manpower. However, these problems could have been overcome had
the IDA proposal to go outside the farm been accepted by Government.



- 23 -
5.9      Another lesson learned is that successful project implementation is
nearly impossible without a policy environment conducive to the type of
development promoted by the project. In this project, the low official feed
grain prices and restrictions on private trade led to the concept of large
scale public sector feed grain production. Yet, the same low feed grain
prices did not allow the state farms to operate at a profit and in absence
of government commitment to ensure sufficient operational budget allocations
to the farms, they were not in a position to sustain production.
5.10     The  experiences  with  this  project  show  further that effective
supervision is important for successful project implementation. Adequately
manned and sufficiently frequent supervision missions are useful to assist
government and project staff in solving procurement and administration
problems   hampering  project  implementation.  Experience  also  shows  the
importance of the timely planning and holding of tri-partite reviews
consisting of the government, the financing agencies and the executing
agency. Such reviews, in which all agencies are well represented, are the
most   practical   way  of  solving  particularly  difficult  implementation
problems. Yet, experience also shows that, as a result of the procedural
arrangements between the institutions involved (both between the financing
institutions and the technical agency, and between the UN agencies and the
government), it is difficult to induce radical changes in project design
even when these are quite obvious. Frequent supervision and technical
assistance can therefore not substitute for sound preparation.



LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
SECONO AGRICULTURAL RE8TAT1ON  AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated and Actual Proiect Cost
Component:                         1979     1980    1981    1982        1983    1984    1985       1986    1987           total
A.  sa Phok Seed Farm:              .................................           000. . ................................USS.
e    nstill4lo 4- A          pment           III      114      A
van  c|ai9   uit   fuel?u21'                           6S2      32        2        18       8B       3       29ii+
a   s     a1                                                           6
r cu  ura    p  s                           12
Total:                                0      545   1 039       403        26       61      389      161      so0         3 131
2. D lbvrsemepts EEC 16/LA: t
2. v 'wo rgsanf Ctnslruct on                   13       161                                 617               310          1 117
ecitrica I nsa  at ion
Eat2unua  i3ys428                                                                                                           4
bour and  an c earing                          5                         27                57               40
Total:                                         70      161        0       27        0      674        0      738          1 670
3. UNOP,Coribution (LAO/77/011)
Total LAO/77/011                        171      683      210      156        1        0         0        0        0         1 221
Total expenditure Na Phok:                171   1 298   1 409        559       54        61   1 063       161   1 246          6 022
B.tVeune        24ha    LAs:r 924-LA:
t  e5t.j nstllaa  1on a d2uipment          I        1 7                            2                                      S
r   g, Apn S ?ue34u
grCu  gtra   pusl
Total:                                0   2 087   2 771        812       293        2        0        0        0         5 965
2.  Oisbursements EEC 16 LA:
IVil workS  an?  tnS ruction                  93       41       ?5                                                          2
emtrtca1  ins a  a ti on
uan Cc Jearinq  mnc   fuel0                            133      100                                                          23
Total:                                         96      174      209        0        0                                       479
3. UNOP Contribution (LAO/80/005)           0        0       83      203      237      148       113       29       IS           828
Total Veune Kham component:                 0   2 183   3 028   1 224         530       150      113       29       15         7 272
C.   Cooperative development:
Firtili2er1c                             0        0        _      1IQ       60                        470
tu ipmenT                                              u       zu       110        0                 9
Total                                 0         0        5      120      170        0      S90      479        0          1 364
Grand   eta~94-LA                       0 2 f         3 1 1 Ij            411       61      ?f         4        1
[R)067LA                         17l     6i6      2                28       148       13        2u      5                                                      -4
t * * *  Grand total * * * * * *          171   3 481   4 442   1 903         754      211   1  66        669   1 261         14 657



LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 924-LA)
Estimated and Actual Disbursement
199       190       1981       1982       1983      1984     1985      1986      198W
..................................... .000 US...
Disbursement ........................... 
CR924-LA              IIr
SAR Estimate
Annual disbursement   --         700      2,500     2.700      2,000     2,000       500      --
Cumulative             --        700      3,200     S,900      7,900     9,900   10.400   10,400    10,400
Actual
Annual disbursement   --         400      4,300     2,000        900       200       100    1,220        780
Cumulative             --        400      4,700     7,200      8,100     8,300    8,400    9,120    10.400
-4
r0



LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REIMMITATIQNA14 DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credil t94 -LA)
Actual and Estimated Imolementatton Schedule for the Na Phok and Veune Kham State Farm
1979          121              91      92   19821                        19B4           1985 liii      19B711         11
I +  4 1 W4  W  4l  Y   W  4 1 +Y 4a S +Yea 4 +Y 4
Component
A. Seed Farm Develooment Na Phok
1.) Irrlaation Scheme
Detailed survey                     SAR
Actual
Procurement of pumps                SAR
Actual
Pump installation (3 pumps)         SAR
Actual-
Irrigation/drainage works          SAR
Actual                                                                  _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _
ii.) Farm Additional Infrastructure
Land clearing                      SAR
Actual
Electricity supply                  SAR
Actualm
Access road                         SAR                     _
Actual                  _
BuildIngs   storage, drying         SAR___________
facii ties                       Actual                        _                      ?         ?      ?  ?  ? ?_? ?________
B. Veune Kham State Feed Farm
Land clearing                      SAR
Actual                                                                             -               -
Electricity supply                  SAR
Actual
Access road and bridge              SAR
Actual
Bulidings  grain processing         SAR
and storage fac ilties           Actual                                                                                ?
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
tr
Bait: Questionmark (?) indicates that implementation status of project activity during this period is unknown to the PCR mission.



LAO PEOPLE S DENOC  TIC 4EPUBUIC
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND OEVELOPIENT PROJECT
(Credit 924-LA)
Key Indicators
SAR and Actual Estimated Cropped Area and Gross Yields
...........................ACTUAL ESTIMATES .Appraisal Estimate
at full evelomt
Caledar tear:             1979   190   1981   1212   122   1983   198318    1984 IDil   19881    19S7   19S7   12                          1943l1         19S4
Cronnina Season:           lil  .US1  .L1   tWSI   iDii   IDI                                      Iii   IUSI  I[SI   lDSl   1i1           lil           Liii
(Preproject)
Na Phok Seed Farm
Total are        :h           S   261    460      210    10    240       72       214      14          53    SO       75     -    143       470            SOO
ofwhich irrig.  bA          -      -      -        -     10      -       72        72      -if         53     -        -     - 3f   -       470            SOO
Paddy             ba         -    220    360      100     5    110       32       100      14          28    25       35     -     86       130            3S0
tons       -    550    988      130      -     60       64       80       -          Si    43       76      -      -      364            790
Naize            :ha          4    30     60      110     5    130       40       114      -           25    25      38      -     40       160            120
tons        9    30    135      199      10    46       80      110       -          45    68       66      -      -      320            216
Sorghum          :ha        -      -      -        -      -      -       -         -       -           -      -        -        -  10                       10
tons       -      -      -       -       -     -        -        -        -          -       -       -      -      -        -              16        N
Soyabeans        :a           I     1.5   -        -      -      -       -         -       -           -      -        -     -       -       90             40
:tons      -     n.a    -        -       -     -        -        -        -          -       -       -      -              t 108          42
Groundnut        :ha        -      10     20       -      -      -       -         -       -           -      -        -     -       -       90             40
tons       -      8.5  20        -       -     -        -        -        -          -       -       -      -      -        72            27
Nungbean         :ha         -     -      -        -      -      -       -         -       -           -      -                              -              -
:tons      -      -                                            -       -                                           -
Sugarcane        -ha         -     -      -        -      -      -       -         -       -           -      -        2     -       2
:tons cane -      -      -       -       -     -        -        -        -          -       -     100      -      -                       _
Veune Xbam Feedarain Fra
Total Cultivated
AM:               ba       111    84.5  301       386     75   405      101       380     135         325     -        -     -    130        -           3.000
maize             ha        48    42    140       300     13   300        6       301      11         111     -        -     -      10 21    -           2.000
tons       -      6 It 215      450      33   208       11      366       -          -       -       -      -      -        -          4.500
Soybeans          ha          S     7     40       -      -       2      -         -       -           -      -        -     -       --                    450
tons       -      -      52      -       -     41)      -        -        -          -       -       -      -      -                     SSS
Groundnut        :ha         -      0.5    I       -      -      -       -         -       -           -      -        -     -               -             450
tons       -      0.5    1                   -       -      -                                                      _-       -            383
Paddy            :ho        58    35    120        86     62   103       9S        79     124         214     -        -                     -              SO
tons       -     53    300      189    186   204        -       203       -          -       -          -      -       -                  115
1/ 39 ha were washed out due to heavy rains.
21 Due to lack of funds and Inputs only few hectares were planted with the assistance of o bilateral project.
J/ No production stnce Irrigation was stopped due to break down of pumps.
0r



- 29 -
Table 5
SAD somr'S ininCTIc * nzLc                                  Page 1
S~W A .COC UAL *        ILITATIGM AM  .VHMIT NMOJICT
IUm  t 924-LAT
us             A" -  .    POi  Par ha lssial Crop 1od-la
U it      Quantity    Lt cost  Total
ra     t leasm
ara  Iscoms:
pr. tlo                 kg          2600.00        0.143   371.43
wratise cots:
A   a.  requiremts
Ind preparatios  It      ml             0.00       1.50 21   0.00
woroerles        -                      C.00        1.50      S.00
Tr _pluatlng             -             25.00        1.50     32.50
. tering                 ad            2.00        1.50       3.00
(mltiwntioa              ad            15.00        1.50     22.50
Porveuting               md            30.00        1.50     45.00
Subtotal              Ed            76.00        1.50    117.00
* aterials
aud                      k g           35.00       0.27       9.45
Pertiliser               by            t5.00 31    0.23     45.05
PestclIe.d               bgIl        45L Kr        4.01      40.10
water cbrms              an a                       0.01     28 .6
guI elaneous            1.-.                                 5.00
Subtotal                                                 125.40
C   cblm bir./e-d proe. b               12.00       5.50      66.00
Total oparatloml cost:                                     311.40
o-- beOmfit prr ha                                           60.03
Dry season
ne come:
production              kg          3500.00        0.143    50.00
Opration cost.:
^ Labe r requiroeenta
lend preparation It      ad             0.00       1.50 21   0.00
Warseri-s                ad             6.00        1.50      9.00
Transplantlog            ad            25.00        1.50     37.50
Waterlo                  a d            4.00        1.50      6.00
Cultivation              _d            15.00        1.50     22.50
Uarvesti                Ed            30.00        1.50     45.00
Subtotal              Md             0.00        1.50    120.00
materials
$u4dms                   kg            35.00       0.27       9.45
Pertlll-zr               bg           265.00       0.23      61.22
testicides               kgIl                      4.0       60.15
water arge               au a        a 131 .0-Q    0.01    106.60
miscellaneous            l.a.                                 5.00
SUbtotal                                                 244 42
C. Tr..cTr hire            b             12.00       5.50      66.00
Tot.j eoparatlnel cost:                                   430.42
Co  bos it par ha                                            69.59
us Pot seaso
Income:
prodetiton              kg          2300.00       0.10    236.67
tincoats:
Lab b  rewq irmat
land preparatin to       a              0.00       1.50 21   0.00
Sowlng                   a d            5.00       1.50 -    7.50
BosdU ya_                              25.00        1.50     37.50
O-rvesting               Id             5.00       1.50       7.50
Ptst marv.tim            Ed             5.00       1.50       7.50
Subtotal              Ed            40.00        1.50     60.00
O_terlas
Su-d                     kg            25.00       0.26       6."
rertlilxr                g           350.00 41    0.23      6.65
Pestleldes               ZIl           10o.0 -      1 .20    12.00
Uiue llamus              l.a.                                 4.00
Subtotal                                                 103.73
C. Tractor hre             b             15.00       5.50      32.50
Total eparatiol costs:                                      246.23
are  benefit per         I        I                             9.S6



- 30 -
Table 5
Page 2
I/ Land is mechanically prepared. See plowing, harrowing and
fertilizing.
2/ Source Na Phok Farm.
3/ Fertilizer is based on 130 kg of urea and 65 kg of P.05 per ha.
4/ Fertilizer is composed of of 100 kg of urea. 115 kg of TSP and
135 kg of KCL. The price of fertilization is based on world
price c.i.f. Vientiane.
5/ Using an exchange rate of USS1.00 = Kip 350.



- 31 -
TabLe 6
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 924-LA)
Derivation of Economic Prices of Main OUtguts and Inouts
(In constant 1987 USS 1/)
ZI9Q
ComnodiLtx                              .(USS/ton)
FOB Bangkok, 5% broken rice 2/                               224
CIF Thanaleng - glutinous rice .3I                           225
- glutinous paddy A/                          129
Transport and handling                                        _0
Farmgate price                                               fl9
Fertilizers
Urea, FOB Europe 2/                                          182
CIF Thanaleng                                                257
Transport and handling                                        10
Farmgate price - urea (45%)                                  267
Maize
FOB Bangkok 2/ 5l                                             86
CIF Thanaleng                                                115
Transport and handling                                       A10
Farmgate price                                               1D0
1/  Using current open market exchange rate of US$1   Kip350.
2/  World Bank's Commodity Price Forecasts, January 1988.
3/  0.85 times of 5% broken rice plus US$35/ton for transport.
Al  0.57 times glutinous rice. Wet processing costs assumed to be nil,
as the value of by-products should equal processing costs.
./ Average f.o.b. price.



0t.11 FF?L'S_ bVW1ATIrt REThLI
s T.cTa. lrA,Tt!AUQY MII 1E                  ,ttO Lh tDECI S  Pf1O1E1
Et3enrer Achtlve RP'u.jtln-,Ttlet levD ri.i.atio, P FFjnn an e [l9 s fl
MPASA    SINCES                                                                      AHE~T
0S7D9         t0S5~~DS          ttS---  tS        It0---' Dr.   jh96~ tS          t$--- DE tWS   1S De.   us--D- Isit9--                  t55  e us---           PUs1S
C-Nlil                                        ~ ~~~~~~~~~~(451012!
Ltrnped r-e; INal' VVIl)              !s      5t1       MIOe  t0 500 3   19) (101l0   :10l1 t11t0 ) (11te0  (19111) !Itl!?   (lgo)  319    V2'S    29741  1'C7                -               -       -     n.a      e.
lite  Ite1Inrbal                      2.5    3.5        2.5    3.5           -       -        -      -       -       -       -        -    2.5    3.1    2.7 -    2.5         -       -       -       -      n.a    Da.
itsal prerm:w  (Itan)               VtX      1750 2     51 tl   t7'0 2'      -      -        -       -       -       -       -        -    9&   2556    5S         351f      -                                     B.A - e  ..
t        rOused   (-F e -.!V1)         -       -         -        l211 'Vt                                 ISol It  et) (30091  ( 6901   -           -      -         -    121)    15Z1   1?   25&    n. st.
(i!pC  I                                     -         -      3.9        2.1    3.0       2.0    3.C      7.1      -                -             -                 -      2.9    !.'    3.1    3.5    e.a    e.a.
Tt1a pl t:nrc 'tn.1                    -       -         -      StP       3'.'l   I:, 'i71    10e 11                 -       _        _      _       _      _         -    546t   52'   4923   9121    e.a    n.a.
t~~~~~  ~~~ tCe M_t IM                                                                 IM       M 
E-#eid re; iha) O9T)                   -   _             -      4D S      1509      7)9   ,;90    715    0599    725   41Pt         In               -      46       223    125   3MU         25    V't ?     .a  D .a. 
i-f  (1nnP.  e-'7    .                -2i -ib                                     -or s^          ne      >e ^3!           *       i                      3,5                i          .3              i.r. e al
na1 rici~~~~~~~ ~~  .r)  -  -  ~~~~~~                 49)        4                0 ~4         3j               7.              -       .3120    ISt    195    ii.a    P~..
tre';Fd  awe-  :i.) 1'O.)              -       -         -       -                   -        -      -               -     W                 -      7      54                M -  -                   -      e.a    n.a.
tieid (ts'!'.r                                 _         _       _                  _                _       _       _       -               ,       _       ,  S       I                                    n.e    n.a.
rortl 9?S     1t                                                                                                                                           1 - --  -  -  -  -    11tt  -  -  -  -     -     i.e    A.S.
'    . 9;!4: ^A
r-Xped area        W.T)                -       _         _       _          _       _                                        _        _      _       _      _         -    3590e       -           05        s.c    n.h.
wlelt {tn'hwl   -  -   -  -     -  -    -        -       -        -       -           -       -       -          -             -      1,7      -      1t.7     -       .e.$  n.1.
blat l            pt c l.Iten)         -       -         -       -          -       -        -       ---  -  -           -                   -               -         -    5950      .   13t.'.      -      f.c    fi.c.
ettCIr_l.|iS'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5s                                                                                    11I ^
C-snpaed av a; t';l  (! T                                -       -          -                        -                                                      5B         -     414      -      624      -      n.a    A.A.
9us1  (ttin/;)                         -       -         -       -          -       -        -       -       -       -       -        -              -     2.2         -     t.F      -      1.9      -     s.a    f S..
'tieR  plem-.   r wI-                               -        -         -         -       -       -           -       -       -        -      -       -      129             22 mC           1 195     -      a.,    D.#.
1/ tat bevene 14 fre nit ow'dlse to tse ton)e  s.
I IS trectze; ;,12- correTpiene to f?694ps"e  vowte    reh,tbibutatr or estat'll-hp" erF, the irr,t:it nwpntp
FiVeres jD trxke, i-e e-t;r tes D@S! sn air-;ihl sha.en'tS
VTclClec IS' 'Je tw   'Vmninre.                                                                                                                                                                                                                  is t     1ssC9    M'. is ?.
99r    : S.a,rrQ1   Pn;( rme.
St,' s,air usB 5-.ronc



- 33 -
Table 7b
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPBLIC
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 924-LA)
Estimated and Actual Purchases of Agricultural IngUts Under Cooogrative
Farm Devg..,fl gnet Comoonent
Val*ue__
Date           US Eguivalent        DescriPtion of Goods
1981                4,702              Urea, 12.5 tons
1982              102,500              Ammophos, 385 tons
1982               11,512              Diazinon, 5 tons
1983               60,715              Urea, 200 tons
1983               51,180              Rice thresher, 30 units
1983               50,130              Rice harvester, 30 units
1983                8,310              Rice mill, 3 units
1985               34,984              Hand sprayer, 300 sets
1985               87,111              Native plough, 10,000 sets
1985              176,050              Plough and harrow with spare
parts, 200 sets
1985              194,680              Furadan 20 ton; Fosdrin 25 Ton;
Sevin, 30 tons
1985                5,400             Wheel barrow
1985               31,000              Diazinon, 20 tons
1987              386,000              Ammophos, 200 tons
1987               88,500              Urea, 600 tons
1987                9,300              Slide sprayer, 3,000 units
Source: Banque de Commerce Exterieur de Laos.



(AS2AG/BDV/TB 924LA/SH/01-28-89)
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 924-LA)
Na Phok - Seed Farm
Economic Costs and Benefits
1m tO
1980  1981   1982  1983   1984   1986   1986  187  1988  1989  1990  1991 _  00
Incremental
Area cultivated (he) s
PA cdy tS                                   220   380    100   110    100        28     25    35    86   100   250   300   360
Pddy DS                                        0     0      6    32      14       0      0     0      0    60   260   3008  60
Maize WS                                     26    s6    111   166    110       21      21    34    36   100   150   150   160
Total *r a  (ha)                           WS   43B    216   306  2-24i  -49          40 -69  -122   260  660   760 --60
--------  ---------000 US$ -------------------
Gros  Revenue:                                181   363     99   141      94      17     13    20    38    16    44    51    i8
Operating Costs /                               0     0      0      0      0       0      0    17    Si    68   194   226   265
Gross Operating Profit:                      18  -3653    99    141    i                 1   -         7 --U  -160 -M   -200
Additional Benflt. from Sed J/                 0     0     0       0     0        0      0     0      0   469   978  1116  1264
Total Benefits:                           !81   353    99 -141    94 P        17      13     3      7   416   828 -941  1064
Investment Cost:  /                         1469  1409  569       64    61    1063    161  1246   300   300   300   300   800
Eq. value in constant 1987 USS  /          1845  1781   709       70    81    1393    178  1248   300   300   300   300   300
Net Benefits:                        -1664 -1408  -610      71    13   -18376   -16 -1243  -293 --116  ..28   64    76*4
ERR:               83.8
1   As per Tabl- 4.
P   As per ha crop model as shown In Table 6.  Production valued at projected Import parity prices as shown In Table  .  1980/87
prioces hvo beem adjusted to reflect actual prices during that period. From 1989 onards, only 20X of production has been
included (mm footnote 4).
/  As per ha crop model as shown In Table 5.  Financial value  have been adjusted to rflect economic value  using the economic
parity prices as shown In Table 6, and a conversion factor of 0.6 for unskilled labor.  Operating costs have not been included
between 1980-80 as they hav  b    assumed to havo been entirely covered from project funds (shown under invostment coxts
below).
J As per SAR. Benfts have been Included from 1989 onward assuming 80X of production In of seed quality and 20X sold as grains
(included under Gross Revenue). Every 36 kg of paddy seed produced has been assumd to yield 166 kg of paddy and every 26 kg
of maize seed 260 kg of maize. Had sed of adequate quality been produced from 1983 onwards, the ERR would have Improved to
6x.
/  As per Table 1. Equipment and civil works OM and replacement costs have been *ssumed at 6% of total project costs (USO 
million). If the amount is reduced to US560,000 p.a., the ERR improves to 6X.
!/ World Bank W V index (1987=100) as per December 1987 updating. The Index is 79.6 for 1980, 80.0 for 1981, 78.9 for 1982, 76.9
for 1983, 75.6 for 1984, 76.8 for 1985 and 90.3 for 1986.



MAP SECTION



I st'  '2'.                               4040          Tha -p hs' b- oe,d        lOby    .N \ts .
W     k' 1taff -1,- et,                     a             A
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h '-p -. ''d ''" WY_ foua     t
18s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bd. 'A. - th - 
LAO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t, PEPESrMCAI  RPBI  hananepot to VotC too atsco
1.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~doooto 000 and OVER                                             SUSNAk   9  b ~ t     ;/_*
eo  -o  -pRly Os the P."t oft
PROV~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ NCIALa'o otNARE  'oy OOo.dasset                                     p    / ,      
1S1111111111 MINRCEPODUINAREA                                           '                                                           MV     b t i     s
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~jd=                                                             s. lli . ?ak                  x  
V, .-pt- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ k                 .--
-20       Pa                                                                                                                                                 20E 4<-  X4|2   
BURM                                                                                                                                                     1 EORTI  APCEA'9    
102"   j  104                                   106                                       _
L  I~ ~ ~ / 
18'                                                                                                   (   N                                               180~~~~~.N h.
La Th.o ~ ~ ~  ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     os on      
THAILAND                      KTh.k.k)o               '
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
ELE VATItON IMeI-o
-16'                                                                                                                                                                61
PROPOSED ROADS
EXSTN  PAV EDROADS
-    EXISTING GRAV EL OR LATERATE ROADS
-        ROADS UNDERI CONSTRUCTION OR BEING UPGRAOEO
4, AIRPORTS
PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
-INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
IIIIlIiI If V'N R ICE PRODUC11I NG ARIEAStor
0   50        10092                                        04                                        160(



IBRD 1413
1023S'.                            1@102                               1024S                      MARCH 1979
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT 11
PROJECT LOCATION
*7 ' ,_STATE FARMS
.   PROPOSED SMALL FLOOD CONTROL STRUCTUR
-181F                                                  -.        \                  X    PROPOSED PUMPING STATION         le1o-
f/  r  1            \              '        NEW PAVED ROAD
08an T#h4|o                                  - !                    PRIMARY PAVED ROAD
- .    \ PRIMPARY  GRAVEL ROAD
---,--- TRACK OR FOOTPATH
f-)                                                                  170 METER CONTOUR LINES
RIVERS
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
KILOMETERS
X  X J    t    \                X            -         ~          }         an  ongba 9 V \ an             lbhr
-180                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~18010.
THANGARE  Ban                          , ,s                P1kxan
/   COOPRATIVE FAMLtkh..y, 
Ban~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Oa
/  X f     _ jX    \                   , \    ~~~~~~~~~~DonnakkhaV/           _      
oN
NaxayTon   \ T
gan Noth,ngnxnG
\ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W  8& -d \                                     M8n &ltw%/ 
___   \  i / < j L . ' <; h CCINA
%                                                                                        3P   X/       otoLe sl 
San9e Noty                  -                   -                  wontho -   yfot
\   Z   \   | VIEN1 IAJ2L  /                                             to o "  . o
'-                                                         Th0 doOoIOoH Hakhoa    THAILAND 
_ - - - - - -    -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ono wl.0 I*ojw .f fto
_._~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _o g n lo                                        O  Iod    OWf,,.  of.
THAILAND                                                             Bn NakhosyltOMOPAI 
1"S5                              102040                             Ia204s               KAMIPUCHEA  
'I~~~~~~~ 



