Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY               FILE  COPY
Report No. P-2560-LA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
AND EEC SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT
TO
THE LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOR THE
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 23, 1979
This douent is a resticted distbution sd may be _md by rcipients only in the perfomce of
their offiil dties. Its eotents mY no otheerwise be dicled withot World Dak athorito.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
$1.00        =   KL 400
KL 1.00      =   $0.0025
KL 1.00 million  =   $2,500
KL 1.00 billion  =   $2.5 million
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)                =   2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)                  0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (sq km)   =   0.3886 square miles
1 meter (m)                   =   39.37 inches
1 kilogram (kg)               =   2.2 lb
1,000 kilograms               =   1 metric ton
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
EECSAA    -    European Economic Community Special Action Account
FAO       -    Food and Agriculture Organization
PGNU      -    Provisional Government of National Union
OPEC      -    Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
UNDP      -    United Nations Development Programme
UNHCR     -    United Nations High Commission for Refugees
UNICEF    -    United Nations Children's Fund
GOVERNMENT OF THE LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:         Lao People's Democratic Republic
Amount:           $10.4 million (IDA); $2.7 million (EEC Special Action Account)
Terms:            Standard
Project
Description:   The project, to which the UNDP is contributing $1.3 million
on grant terms, would directly benefit about 42,500 poor
farm families (or nearly a quarter of a million people) by
raising their farm production by 10-40%. The project would
improve nutrition by helping increase the production of
rice, feed grains and vegetables in the Vientiane Province
through the provision of improved seeds to about 40,000
smallholders and the development of a state feedgrain farm.
Smallholder and cooperative activities would be further
supported by an improved technology package provided to about
2,400 farm families. In addition, the project would extend
the improved technology package to many more farmers in the
Vientiane and other provinces by training agricultural
technicians and specialists, who would in turn train extension
officers in the future.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                                                           Foreign
--------- S million -------    exchange
Local    Foreign    Total            (%)
Seed farm                           1.1        3.0       4.1            73
Feedgrain farm                      1.(        4.9        5.9           83
Smallholders and
cooperatives                     0.1        0.9        1.0            93
Technical assistance less than   0.1           0.6       0.6            96
Total Base Cost               2.2        9.4       11.6           81
Physical contingencies              0.1       0.4        0.5            82
Expected price increases            0.5        1.8       2.3            78
Total Project Cost            2.8       11.6       14.4           81
Financing Plan:
…-------- $ million -------        % of
Local    Foreign    Total           total
IDA                 -        10.4       10.4           72
EECSAA             2.7         -         2.7           19
UNDP               0.1        1.2        1.3            9
Total                    2.8       11.6       14.4          100
Estimated Disbursements from IDA Credit:
----------------- S million -------------------
IDA FY      1980     1981      1982      1983    1984    1995
Annual                0.7       2.5       2.7       2.0      2.0     0.5
Cumulative            0.7       3.2       5.9       7.9      9.9    10.4
Economic Rate of Return:                61%
Project Risks:  The major project risk is that the implementation capacity of
the existing agencies would not be sufficient for works to
proceed as planned.  Simple project design and technical
assistance should minimize these risks: however, frequent
supervision would also be needed.
Estimated Project Completion Date:   December 31, 1984
Staff Appraisal Report:                 Report No. 2354-LA, Dated "lay 14, 1979



PFPORT AND RECOTMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMIENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AND EEC SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT
TO THE LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOR THE SECOND AGRICU3LTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit of $10.4 million equivalent, on standard IDA terms, and a
proposed EEC Special Action Credit, expressed in the currencies of the nine
EEC Mfember States equivalent to S2.7 million on standard terms for the EEC
Special Account, to the Lao People's Democratic Republic, to help finance the
Second Agricultural Rehabilitation and Development Project. The United
Nations Development Programme (UNDP) would contribute the equivalent of $1.3
million on grant terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "Socialist Transformation in the Lao
People's Democratic Republic," in two volumes (2282-LA), was distributed
on Mlarch 20, 1979. Country data are given in Annex I.
Recent Political Events
3.        Since the signing on September 14, 1973, of the Vientiane Peace
Accord, which ended nearly three decades of war, Laos has undergone political
and social changes that have major implications for its future socioeconomic
development. In April 1974, the Provisional Government of National Union
(PGNU) was established, bringing the former adversaries into a short-lived
coalition. Soon after the changes of government in neighboring South Viet Nam
and Cambodia in the spring of 1975, the year-old coalition in Laos began to
weaken. Finally, the Prime Minister resigned, the King abdicated, and, on
December 2, 1975, a National Congress of People's Representatives proclaimed
the formation of the Lao People's Democratic Republic, thereby abolishing the
PGNU and the monarchy.
4.        The present Government's principal objective is the socialist
transformation of Lao society. During 1975/76, the new regime focused its
attention almost exclusively on establishing and consolidating an administrative
apparatus capable of maintaining law and order; short-term management of the
economy was neglected.  Since 1977, the Governnent has turned to the difficult
task of developing the economy.
Development Constraints and Priorities
5.        Laos, with an estimated per capita income of $90, is one of the
poorest nations in the world. Miost of the country's 3.2 million people live
in absolute poverty. Laos consumes nearly all it produces and has practicallv
no national savings, so that the cointrv is almost fully dependent on the
world communitv to finance its development needs.



6.        Laos' poverty results partly from geographic factors:  the country
is landlocked and generally mountainous, so that transport within the country
and to the sea is costly and difficult. The country's sparse population is
overwhelmingly rural, and the small dispersed markets preclude economies of
scale in production. While vast forestry, mineral and hydropower resources
have been identified, exploiting especially the latter two would require large
investments.
7.        Laos' current economic structure is the product of centuries of
weak government and foreign domination. More recently the country suffered
not only the physical destruction of a war but also profound structural
distortions. In the rural areas, the war damaged some of the most productive
lands, resulted in the loss of tens of thousands of draft animals and forced
400,000-700,000 persons (or up to a quarter of the rural population) to
migrate to the cities. Agriculture did not keep pace with population growth,
and Laos became a food-deficit country. Economic activity in the urban areas
was dominated by a disproportionately large service sector geared to the war
effort. The major source of urban income was foreign aid, but this did little
to improve the productive capacity of the country or to develop exports, and
it therefore tended to perpetuate foreign dependence. The new Government
started to deal with these problems as rapidly as possible. At the same time
it has taken many steps to restructure and develop the economy along socialist
lines, one of which involved the settlement of a large part of the nonproductive
urban population on new or abandoned land. As a result, Laos is gradually
moving from a service-oriented economy to one whose structure reflects the
country's internal resource potential and is geared towards long-term develop-
ment.
8.        The main economic activity in Laos is agriculture, in particular
the cultivation of rice, the main staple. Cropping intensity and yields are
among the lowest in Asia, due primarily to the shortage of irrigation and
flood control infrastructure. As a result of this and the abandonment of some
cultivated land, many parts of Laos are not self-sufficient in food production.
Moreover, marketing and transport problems make food distribution difficult
between surplus and deficit regions. There is also a major shortage in meat
production, due partly to the shortage of feedgrains, with the result that the
daily food intake contains less than the normal daily caloric and protein
requirement. Top priority is given to the rehabilitation and development of
irrigation infrastructure, and to increasing rice and feedgrain production.
9.        In the short and medium term, timber and wood products are the
country's most promising foreign exchange earner. However, timber production
and exports have declined steadily since the mid-1970s, due primarily to the
lack of equipment and fuel, inadequate price incentives, weak management of
processing industries, internal marketing difficulties, inadequate coordination
between logging and processing activities, and border disputes with Thailand.
With foreign assistance, the equipment constraint has been largely overcome.
Now that relations with Thailand have improved, timber exports can be substan-
tially expanded once the internal organizational, management and marketing
problems are solved.



- 3 -
10.       The industrial sector in Laos is still at an early stage of devel-
opment. Except for rice mills and wood processing factories that utilize
domestic raw materials and produce for export, most industries established
during the war produce simple consumer goods, are relatively capital intensive
and rely heavily on imported raw materials. Capacity utilization is very low
due to shortages of raw materials and spare parts, and to managerial problems.
The present shortage of basic consumer goods at reasonable prices is one of
the main difficulties in encouraging farmers to increase their surpluses. The
immediate priority is, therefore, to rehabilitate selected plant and machinery
that can efficiently produce basic commodities (rice mills) and agricultural
tools, and earn or save foreign exchange (coffee processing). With regard to
minerals, Laos is producing and exporting minor amounts of tin. Large deposits
of potash and especially iron ore of high concentration have been identified,
but the economic net value of these minerals needs to be established and
would depend primarily on the substantial transport costs involved in marketing
them. If exploitation is found economically viable and financing arrangements
are negotiated with buyers, these minerals could provide Laos with substantial
foreign exchange revenues for its long-term development.
11.       The transport and power networks did not suffer greatly from the
war. Overall, the national main road network, including the sections currently
under construction, is adequate for the present light traffic volumes. For
the immediate future, road development should concentrate on the repair,
maintenance and upgrading of the existing network. In addition, priority
should be given to a rural roads program in agricultural surplus areas or in
conjunction with major agricultural projects. The Government also intends to
open an alternative link to the sea through Viet Nam. In the case of power,
the construction of the Nam Ngum hydroelectric scheme has made Laos a net
exporter (to Thailand).
Planning and Management
12.       The Government is progressively implementing its policy of socialist
transformation. State ownership still applies to a relatively small part of
the economy; although the state manages all external trade and banking, many
industrial enterprises and some internal marketing of basic products, most
agricultural production and the retail trade are still in private hands.
Although an official distribution network of basic commodities sold at low,
stable and subsidized prices is being developed, a parallel free market
exists where prices are substantially higher. Laos faces a formidable
challenge in creating appropriate institutions for effective socialist
economic management, but already a new decentralized administrative structure
is emerging. A planning and management system has also been evolved and is
being progressively introduced. These are impressive achievements for
a young republic emerging from decades of conflict, facing an acute shortage
of food and trained manpower, and confronting the difficult problems of
consolidating the revolution and preserving political independence. Neverthe-
less, in addition to ongoing reforms, the following measures, which are
designed to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the planning and
management system, need to be considered: less centralized planning; closer
linkage between planning and budgeting; greater autonomy for enterprise
managers; increased managerial accountability; introduction of economic cost
accounting and profit incentives; and pricing policies that better reflect
scarcity costs, lead to more optimal resource allocation and provide incentives
for growers to increase production of priority crops such as food and feedgrains.



-4-
Development Strategy and Prospects
13.       During most of the past three decades, wartime exigencies and
insecurity precluded the formulation, let alone the effective pursuit, of
a long-term development strategy. The country is now, at last, ready for
planned economic development. Some problems that will have to be faced are
common to most low income countries: low agricultural productivity, a weak
industrial sector, and shortages of capital and foreign exchange. Others
relate to the structural distortions and dislocations caused by war and to the
managerial aspects of socialist transformation. The authorities intend to
deal with these problems within the framework of long-term planning. This
process is just beginning, and has the objective of developing five-year plans
supplemented by more specific, annual plans.
14.       In the meantime, the Interim Three-Year Development Plan, 1978-80,
provides a temporary framework. Its main thrust is to transform and develop
agriculture and forestry, and the role of other sectors is to support agricul-
tural development. In 1978, agricultural projects accounted for more than 50%
of development expenditures financed by the counterpart funds of commodity
aid. Top priority is given to making every province self-sufficient in food
production by 1980. Given the country's geographic and transport constraints
but also the good potential for growing food crops in practically every
province, this policy appears reasonable. Nevertheless, this is an ambitious
target, the achievement of which would depend on: further rapid land (re)devel-
opment in the (re)settlement areas; successful implementation of ongoing
investments in irrigation, on-farm and other infrastructure development;
improvements in marketing and distribution; and the Government's willingness
to adopt pricing policies that provide incentives to producers. In the
long term there is a need to focus on crop diversification, that maximizes the
comparative advantage of each region.
15.       In elaborating the first five-year plan, systematic consideration
will need to be given to the optimum use of Laos' scarce investment funds,
foreign exchange and skilled manpower. Loas should compensate for these
scarce resources by maximizing the use of its two most abundant resources:
land and, at least to some extent, unskilled manpower. Development programs
should therefore continue to emphasize simple, easy-to-implement, low-cost
projects that are primarily designed to achieve agricultural self-sufficiency
and expansion of agricultural exports. Since current yields are low, limited
investments should be able to increase productivity, for instance, in the many
areas that could benefit from small irrigation and flood control schemes.
16.       By 1985, Laos could become a net exporter of agricultural products,
and industrial crops may also be developed to support agro-industries.
With a comprehensive forestry development plan, the production and export of
wood could probably expand rapidly. In infrastructure development, emphasis
would initially have to be on small projects; large, capital-intensive under-
takings such as railroads, hydropower and mining development should be pursued
only if they do not pre-empt more urgent and more remunerative uses of the
limited foreign capital available to Laos. On the other hand, increased
accessibility to rural areas through (low cost, labor-intensive) rural roads
(together with other incentives) could become a major stimulus to each area's
agricultural production and exports.



-5-
Recent Economic Developments
17.       During 1975/76, the Lao economy suffered from severe instability,
inflation, unemployment, and shortages of food and foreign exchange. Foreign-
financed, war-related expenditures declined rapidly and eliminated a major
source of income to the economy; the failing PGNU and establishment of the
Republic accentuated this problem. Faced with a serious food shortage
and unemployment in the urban areas, the Government launched a food distribu-
tion program at low subsidized prices to prevent starvation. In addition, the
Government began a massive program to resettle persons displaced by the war.
The subsidies, combined with the cost of resettlement and the maintenance of
minimum services, led to large budget deficits, which were financed by the
banking system. Supply shortages and monetary expansion drove up prices on
the free market.
18.       Since early 1977, the Government has progressively introduced
measures to increase supplies, improve budget discipline, reduce public
enterprise deficits and thus control monetary expansion. As a result,
monetary expansion fell from 170% in the second half of 1976 to 33% in 1977
and to 23% (annual rate) in the first half of 1978, and inflation slowed
considerably. Although the disastrous end-1977 harvest again threatened to
cause severe food shortages and rising prices, the timely response of the
world community to an international food aid appeal assured reasonable food
supplies in 1978. The trend of rising free market prices was reversed in
mid-1978 and the prices of several commodities actually declined in the latter
half of the year. However, major flooding damaged the 1978 crop and unless
the world community again responds promptly, the food situation is likely to
become serious in 1979. The budgetary situation remains weak; foreign
assistance (commodity aid, cash grants and project aid) accounts for about 80%
of total revenues, and domestic revenues are insufficient to meet even current
expenditures. In May 1978, the Government devalued the exchange rate by 50%.
As part of a stabilization program agreed with the IMF, it is also taking
additional measures, including price incentives, to stimulate production and
exports, reduce unemployment and stabilize prices.
Balance of Payments and the Need for Aid
19.       Laos' balance of payments situation is weak.  In 1976-78, exports
averaged about $9 million and imports about $60 million.   The current account
deficit averaged about $70 million in this period and was covered by cash
grants, credits and project loans from abroad. Laos will continue to need the
world community's assistance in preparing and financing development programs
for the foreseeable future. Anticipated improvements in export earnings are
likely to cover only food and other consumer imports in the medium term.
Therefore, nearly all the medium-term imports required for rehabilitation and
development projects - raw materials, and intermediate and capital goods -
will have to be financed through external assistance. If a reasonably sized
investment program is to be implemented in line with the above strategy,
foreign aid averaging $10.0 million per annum will be needed in the medium
term.



- 6 -
20.       The Government is seeking foreign aid from any source, provided the
aid is offered without political conditions. It has recently concluded long-
term aid agreements with its major socialist donors (e.g., the Soviet Union
and Viet Nam) and has received new commitments from Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia,
the German Democratic Republic and Romania, the OPEC Special Fund, and several
voluntary and relief organizations. In 1978, some countries and private and
public organizations made special commitments in response to the emergency
appeal for food./l In addition, the Government is seeking concessional aid
from international organizations such as IDA, the Asian Development Bank
(ADB) and the UN agencies. In 1978, the Government obtained about $11
million from the IMF through a purchase in the first credit tranche and a
trust fund loan. Aid from nonconvertible currency areas is expected to
provide roughly half ($50 million) of the required net annual external
resource transfers, as well as considerable technical assistance over the
next five years. The balance and additional technical assistance would need
to come from the convertible currency areas and international organizations.
21.       Given the country's poverty, lack of savings, and the difficult
budgetary and balance of payments situation, external aid should be on the
softest possible terms including, in the first few years, commodity aid or
cash grants to finance imports of food and basic necessities, and to stabilize
the budget. Assistance will also be needed to finance nearly all of the local
currency costs as well as foreign exchange requirements of projects, since
domestic revenues, which at present do not even cover current expenditures,
are unlikely to increase considerably in the medium term. Laos' external debt
position is not serious. Debt outstanding and disbursed, the bulk of which is
on soft terms and of long maturity, amounted to about $75 million at end 1977.
The debt service ratio, which in 1977 was estimated at about 18% of exports of
goods, is expected to decline in the near future, since current exports are
considerably below their medium-term potential levels and the Government's
policy is not to undertake short-term borrowing on commercial terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
22.       Laos joined the Bank in July 1961 and the Association in October
1963; the proposed credit would be the Bank Group's second operation in the
country.  During the wartime period, the Bank Group's contacts with Laos were
limited.  In 1966, at the request of the former Vientiane Government and
bilateral donors, the Bank agreed to act as administrator for the Nam Ngum
Development Fund, which was established with grants from Australia, Canada,
Denmark, France, Japan, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Thailand and the United
States to help finance the first stage of the Nam Ngum hydroelectric scheme
located about 60 km north of Vientiane. The project was successfully completed
in 1972 and has recently been expanded. Electricity from Nam Ngum is now
serving the Lao grid and is being exported to Northeast Thailand. During
/1  World Food Program, UNHCR, UNICEF, EEC, Australia, Burma, Canada, Denmark,
German Federal Republic, India, the Netherlands, Norway, Switzerland,
Sweden, Thailand, the United States of America, etc.



1972-75, under the general sponsorship of the Mekong Committee and in coopera-
tion with the ADB and the UNDP, the Bank helped identify the Casier Sud and Se
Bang Fai pioneer irrigation projects in Laos. The Bank is currently acting as
the executing agency for feasibility studies by the Mekong Secretariat
for the Se Bang Fai project. In April 1975, the Bank co-sponsored an Aid
Meeting on Laos, chaired by the ADB. In early 1976, after the political
transition and the establishment of the Republic, the new Government requested
IDA to begin lending operations along the lines discussed in a preliminary way
at the time of the Aid Group Meeting. Since March 1976, several Bank staff
members from Headquarters and the Regional Mission in Bangkok have visited
Vientiane to identify and develop proposals for IDA assistance.
23.       The first IDA credit to Laos for the Agricultural Rehabilitation
Development Project (Credit 760-LA) was signed on January 5, 1978, and became
effective on April 5, 1978. Of the $8.2 million IDA credit for the project,
$0.1 million had been disbursed as of March 31, 1979. The initial delays in
disbursement resulted mainly from the lack of familiarity of the Lao officials
with IDA's procurement procedures and the late arrival of technical specialists
financed out of a $1.7 million grant from the UNDP. The project's implementa-
tion pace has improved considerably, and invitations to bid are expected to be
issued in June 1979 for equipment costing about $1.5 million. As was antici-
pated, there is a need for frequent supervision to work with Lao officials in
resolving issues relating to IDA procedures and to strengthen the implementation
capacity of project managers. Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA's
lending to Laos as of April 30, 1979, and a note on the execution of the first
project.
24.       Our relationship with Laos has gradually strengthened.  The approval
of the first IDA credit, the work of the economic mission to Laos in June
1978, the discussions of the draft economic report in December 1978, the
appraisal of the proposed project and the identification work for future
projects have helped to create an atmosphere of increasing mutual confidence
and understanding between IDA and the Government. Improving relations are
indicated, for instance, by the invitation to the economic mission to visit,
for the first time, the Plain of Jars in the north, where thousands of displaced
persons have been resettled, and the Boloven Plateau in the south, two areas
where future IDA projects might be located. While a generally sound basis for
IDA operations has been established, it will take time to build a working
relationship that can enable Laos to achieve the maximum benefits from its
membership in the Bank Group.
25.       A primary objective of our strategy in Laos is to continue to
improve our knowledge of the economy so that we can maximize the contribution
of limited IDA resources to meeting Laos' development needs. Until we have a
better understanding of the country's priorities and constraints as well as
the workings of the new management system, important issues (such as pricing
policy) can probably best be addressed as part of our project work backed by a
continuing dialogue on economic policies. In line with the country's problems
and priorities outlined in Part I above, and in view of the scarcity of
technical cadres experienced in project planning and implementation, IDA staff
will seek priority projects for financing that are clearly defined, simply
designed, easy to implement, and promise fairly quick returns. Since the



- 8 -
most basic problem now facing Laos is its inability to feed its population,
IDA is concentrating on projects that can increase food production through
integrated rural development schemes, including assistance for irrigation,
drainage and flood control, for feedgrain development, and for rehabilitation
and development of agro-industries. Projects that assist coffee production,
forestry development, livestock (particularly to increase the number of draft
animals) and new land settlement schemes may also be proposed for IDA financing.
26.       Laos faces unusual difficulties in mounting a sustained development
effort and in mobilizing resources to finance productive investments. While
opportunities will be sought to coordinate IDA activities, both in project
preparation and financing, with bilateral and other multilateral aid programs,
we should be prepared to make a relatively large commitment of staff time and
to finance a high percentage of total project costs, including local costs, if
IDA is to play a meaningful role in Laos' development effort. This investment
of staff time seems justified because Laos is among the poorest countries in
the world and has good long-term development potential.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
27.       The Lao economy is predominantly agricultural.  Approximately
four fifths of the population derive the bulk of their income from agriculture.
However, production is largely at the subsistence level. The sector currently
accounts for more than 60% of the national product and for a comparable
percentage of export earnings (in the form of timber and coffee). It also
provides the basis for Laos' agro-industries such as saw mills, rice mills
and wood processing factories.
28.       Most agricultural production in Laos is by small cultivators, who
till about 2 ha of land to which they have customary settler and cultivation
rights. Recently several cooperative and state farms have also been established
in accordance with the Government's policy of introducing socialist production
methods. Most cultivators produce glutinous rice, the staple food, on about
three quarters of the cultivated area, of which nearly two thirds consists of
lowland paddy fields and the other third of upland soils under slash-and-burn
techniques of cultivation. Less than 10% of the paddy area is irrigated and
double cropping is practiced on less than 2% of the area planted. Paddy
production is therefore dependent upon wet season rainfall (June-November),
which is unreliable and often insufficient, and the cropping intensity is low.
In addition, excessive flooding, interspersed with periodic drought, often
destroys a substantial portion of the wet season crop. Where precipitation
is low and unreliable, the returns to modern inputs are low and farmers have
developed a low-input, low-risk system of traditional cultivation. Conse-
quently, average yields are low for all major crops and paddy yields are among
the lowest in Asia. These low yields, together with the abandonment of more
cultivated land during the war, have made Laos increasingly dependent on food
imports to feed its population.



- 9 -
29.       About 120-130 kg of rice per capita is available for human consump-
tion in an average year, whereas the normal requirement is about 160-180 kg.
As a result, Laos imports 100,000-125,000 tons of rice per annum. The second
most important nutritional need is animal protein, but at present, there is
also a major shortage in meat production. While the country's livestock
subsector, mainly pigs and poultry, has the potential for rapid expansion,
development is seriously hampered by a shortage of feedgrains. Maize, the
most important feedcrop, is grown on only about 25,000 ha and in widely
dispersed parts of the country. Production is of the order of 35,000 tons,
but only about 1,000 tons pass through official channels for the production of
mixed feed.
Government Objectives and Strategy
30.       Government efforts to achieve food self-sufficiency have largely
centered on the expansion of rice land under irrigation. Development priority
is being given to the Vientiane Province, which has the largest food deficit
and where nearly a fifth of the country's population live. The Vientiane
Province also has a higher standard of rural infrastructure and a better
quality of provincial technical cadres than other areas, thus facilitating
rapid project implementation and early realization of benefits. Furthermore,
the province is to be used to obtain administrative and technical experience
in project implementation for later replication in other parts of the country.
Small-scale irrigation schemes are the main type of development; IDA is
supporting this approach and about 70% of the proceeds of the first IDA credit
were allocated for irrigation development. While further expansion of the
irrigation network is still needed, particularly in other provinces, the
country's technical capacity to undertake additional schemes is limited.
31.       The Government's other major food program, also supported by the
first IDA project, is the rapid expansion of the livestock subsector, par-
ticularly with regard to pigs and poultry. The first IDA-assisted project is
designed to provide pig multiplication units with an expected output at full
development of 14,400 weaners each year. Complementing the livestock expansion
program, the Government recently increased the feed-milling capacity. The
Government recognizes the urgent need to increase feed crop production, and
the development of the Veune Kham state feedgrain farm under the proposed
project forms the main thrust of the Government's development strategy in the
feedgrain subsector.
Overall Constraints
32.       As mentioned in Part I above, the war retarded expansion of cul-
tivated areas and inhibited improvements in productivity over the past two
decades. In the drive towards self-sufficiency in food, several additional
constraints exist: (a) the lack of feasibility studies on which to base
development projects; (b) the shortage of qualified and experienced staff to
prepare and manage development projects; (c) inadequate institutions for exten-
sion, farm inputs and credit delivery; (d) poor land communications in rural
areas; (e) weak marketing arrangements; and (f) inadequate price incentives.



- 10 -
33.       The Government's objective is to develop cooperatives as a basis
for organizing agricultural production. According to government policy,
the cooperatives would have to sell their produce through the state marketing
channels at official prices and would have access to consumer goods through
similar channels at fixed prices. Although general guidelines have been
developed, few cooperatives are fully operational due primarily to: the
lack of detailed procedures and technical cadres capable of explaining these
procedures to the cooperatives: and an inadequate marketing and incentive
system. The present agricultural pricing system is based on the official
price of rice, which is the keystone of the Government's price and wage
system. Yet the price of rice bears no obvious relationship to the import
parity price and the free market price. The dualism of a controlled market
and a parallel free market for rice and other goods with substantial price
differentials is a major issue. Nevertheless, it may not be feasible to make
major changes in the official wage and price structure at this time due to
obvious inflationary and political consequences. The Government is, however,
reviewing the prices of several key commodities, including maize, with a view
to making adjustments that encourage increased production. On March 21,
1979, the Government raised the official farm-gate prices of some commodities,
including maize, coffee, soya and other industrial crops. Since 1977, the
official farm-gate price of maize has been nearly doubled and the Government
is considering another upward adjustment. The authorities are also taking
steps to increase the availability of basic consumer goods at official prices
(under barter arrangements) to the farmers, particularly during the harvest
season, to provide an incentive to the growers to increase surpluses and
market them through official channels. We intend to address the pricing
issue in the context of our project work as well as through our dialogue with
the Government on economic policies.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
34.       The project was identified by a Bank mission in November/December
1977. Originally there were two major components: (a) flood control and
small-scale irrigation in the flood plain of the Se Bang Fai, a tributary of
the M1ekong, which separates the two central Lao provinces of Khammouane and
Savannakhet; and (b) seed and feedgrain production in the Vientiane Plain
to provide for the rapidly growing requirements. However, due to insufficient
survey data for the Se Bang Fai component, the project was reformulated to
expand the second component. The project was appraised in November 1978.
Project content and implementation procedures were further discussed with the
Government in February 1979, and negotiations were concluded in Vientiane from
April 23 to 25, 1979. The government delegation was led by Mr. Oudone Pholsena,
Directeur Adjoint de Cabinet in the Ministry of Finance.  The staff appraisal
report (No. 2354-LA, dated May 14, 1979) is being circulated separately to the
Executive Directors. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
Project Description
35.       The project would helo increase the production of rice, feedgrains
and vegetables in the Vientiane Province by providing improved seeds to about
40,000 smallholders and developing a state feedgrain farm. Smallholder and
cooperative activities would be further supported by an improved technology
package provided to about 2,400 farn families.  In addition, the project would



- 11 -
extend the improved technology package to many more farmers in the Vientiane
Province and other provinces by training agricultural technicians and special-
ists, who would in turn train extension officers in the future. The project
would consist of three components, i.e. seed farm development, feedgrain farm
development, and smallholder and cooperative farm development.
36.       Seed Farm Development.  This component would increase the produc-
tion of improved paddy, feedgrain and vegetable seeds by developing the Na
Phok farm into a national seed production center. At full development, the
farm would produce sufficient improved seed to plant about 50,000 ha of
feedgrains (or 140% of the area currently planted to feedgrains) and about
100,000 ha of paddy (or about 15% of the total paddy area) annually. The
component would include the following works and activities:
(a) construction of one pumping station on the Nam Ngum River, and
distribution and drainage facilities to irrigate about 500 ha at a
cost of about $2,500/ha; clearing of about 100 ha of rainfed land;
repair and upgrading of a 7 km access road and the internal road
network; construction of workshop, processing, storage, housing
and laboratory facilities, and 8 km of a 22 kV transmission line and
a substation;
(b) procurement of agricultural, processing and workshop equipment,
vehicles and materials; and
(c) provision of technical assistance for seed farm management, machinery
operation and maintenance, and design and construction.
37.       As explained in Part III above, crop yields in Laos are among the
lowest in Asia. One of the quickest and least expensive ways of increasing
yields is to provide farmers with improved seeds. A steady supply of improved
seeds would decrease output fluctuations due to shortages of seed and delays
in seed dissemination. In addition, the use of non-lodging rice varieties to
be developed under the project would reduce the impact of heavy rains, wind
and flooding on the crop. Furthermore, sufficient seed would be stored at
the seed farm to facilitate replanting after crop disasters such as floods
and droughts. The use of improved seeds for the project is estimated to
increase yields by an average of 166 kg/ha for paddy, 250 kg/ha for maize, and
75-150 kg/ha for other feedgrains. Much larger yield increases are expected
to result from the use of modern inputs and improved agricultural services
(provided under another component of the project) in conjunction with improved
seeds (see para. 42 below).
38.       Feedgrain Farm Development.  This component is designed to increase
feedgrain production through the development of 3,000 ha of rainfed land at
the Veune Kham State Farm. The component would include:
(a) clearing 2,700 ha of open forest cover at a cost of about
$400/ha; construction of an internal farm road network of about
40 km, a 50-ton bailey-type bridge, two flood control dams, housing
and farm machinery and workshop buildings, and about 5 km of 22 kv
transmission line and a substation;



- 12 -
(b) procurement of agricultural equipment, vehicles and materials; and
(c) provision of technical assistance for large-scale farm management,
design and construction, and machinery operation and maintenance.
39.       Demand for feed is growing rapidly in Laos and, by 1982, require-
ments for the livestock production schemes supported under the first IDA
credit alone will probably reach around 6,000 tons per annum. To supplement
the capacity of an existing small feed mill at Tha Ngone, the Government has
recently completed the Thong Toun feed mill with French and German assistance:
by 1982, these two mills will have the capacity to produce 20,000 tons of
compound feed. However, maize production in the Vientiane Province is insuffi-
cient to supply the raw material requirements of the two mills, and marketing,
pricing and transport constraints also limit the volume of feedgrains passing
through official channels. Furthermore, production is unlikely to increase
sufficiently in the near future through smallholder and cooperative develop-
ment, due to: the relatively low official farm-gate price of maize; and
the priority given by farmers to growing the main staple, rice. Therefore,
the Government is developing the Veune Kham farm to assure a stable supply of
feedgrain for the two feed mills.
40.       By 1982, after completion of the first phase (3,000 ha) of Veune
Kham's development, the farm would produce about 5,500 tons of feedgrain
annually. This, together with the 1,000 tons to be produced by smallholders
supported under another component of the proposed project (see para. 42
below), would represent about 70% of the raw material requirements of the two
feed mills.
41.       In Laos, where land is abundant but technical skills scarce, the
development of government-run farms as nuclei for industrial crop production
provides a very effective means of maximizing use of the country's few techni-
cians. At the same time, these farms provide opportunities for productive
employment of people displaced as a result of the civil conflict and now
unemployed. Although the authorities are promoting cooperatives, arrangements
for providing them with the necessary technical services are yet to be developed.
Thus development of the Veune Kham farm would also provide an applied research
and training station for the agricultural technical service (see para. 42
below), which would be strengthened under the project to promote crop and
livestock production by cooperatives and individual farmers.
42.       Smallholder and Cooperative Farm Development.  This component would
comprise expansion of the existing training program for agricultural techni-
cians; establishment of an agricultural technical service consisting of a core
of specialists, who would focus on developing working models of cooperative
management and marketing, and who would backstop and train provincial techni-
cians; and (iii) distribution of an improved technology package (cultivation
techniques, farm tools, agricultural chemicals, etc.) over 5,400 ha of paddy
and feedgrain land. Most of the training would be carried out initially
at the Salakham and Hat Dok Keo research stations, where modest training
facilities have been provided under the first IDA credit. This component
would include the following works and activities:



- 13 -
(a) additional training facilities, equipment, vehicles, fertilizers,
pesticides, insecticides and agricultural tools; and
(b)  780 man-months of local training for some 280 agricultural
technicians and 40 man-months of fellowships abroad.
43.       Laos  agricultural credit system is at an early stage of development.
The credit system is being assisted under the first IDA credit through a
revolving fund that can be used by farmers to finance modern input require-
ments. The credit system would be further strengthened under the proposed
project by including credit specialists on supervision missions. To avoid
delays in project implementation, however, the proposed project would allow
for interim measures to distribute the improved technology package, should the
credit system not be fully operational when needed. These procedures follow
those currently in operation, whereby the Ministry of Agriculture procures
inputs and then sells them to the provincial authorities at cost. The provin-
cial authorities then distribute inputs to the farmers through their transport
department and in accordance with the guidelines established by the provincial
agricultural technicians. The farmers reimburse the provincial authority in
cash or in kind. The use of the improved technology package is estimated to
increase yields by an average of 800 kg/ha for wet season and 1,200 kg/ha for
dry season paddy, and 900 kg/ha for maize.
Pricing Policies
44.       As explained in Part III above, the existing agricultural pricing
system in Laos does not provide adequate incentives to producers. The system
has several implications for the successful implementation of the proposed
project. First, at the official prices prevailing at the time of appraisal,
the government-run farms would operate at a loss, thereby requiring subsid-
ization. If prices of seeds and feedgrains were adjusted towards border
prices, the farms would be financially viable. However, since the provision
of animal feed and improved seeds at prices that encourage their use would
contribute considerably to increased rice and meat production, temporary
subsidies for government farms may be justified. Second, the project analysis
in the staff appraisal report indicates that at current official prices for
seeds and farm-gate prices of rice and feedgrains, net farm incomes of small-
holders and cooperatives using improved inputs would increase by not more than
5%. Therefore, unless farm-gate prices are adjusted, smallholders may not
have sufficient incentive to use the improved technology package provided
under the project.
45.        Since at present the prices of agricultural commodities are all
interrelated and pegged to the official price of rice, any change in the
price of one commodity would require careful study because of its impact
on the relative prices of other commodities. Accordingly, the Govern-
ment will undertake such a study and IDA supervision missions would focus
on this problem during project implementation. The farm budget analysis
presented in the staff appraisal report would thus serve as a basis for
discussions between IDA staff and the Government. Assurances have been
obtained that the Government would set and maintain farm-gate prices at
levels that would: (a) provide government-run farms with a rate of return



- 14 -
acceptable to the Association; and (b) provide individual farmers and cooper-
atives with sufficient incentive to promote the use of improved seed, the
adoption of an improved technology package and the production of feedgrains
(Section 4.04 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Implementation and Coordination
46.       The project would be implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture,
Forestry and Irrigation. For each farm, the Ministry has already appointed a
project director who, together with two deputies, is fully responsible for the
day-to-day operations of his farm. Administratively the Na Phok Seed Farm
Director reports to the Director of the Department of Agriculture, while the
Veune Kham State Farm Director reports to the head of the Directorate of State
Farms.
47.       The Directorate of Irrigation would be responsible for implementing
the irrigation works under the seed development component. Assurances have
been obtained that the irrigation works provided for the Na Phok Seed Farm
under the project would be carried out in a timely manner and completed by
April 30, 1982, to enable intensive cropping of the seed farm (Section 3.03 of
the draft Development Credit Agreement).
48.       Each government farm would be responsible for preparing annual work
programs. The Director of Planning of the Ministry of Agriculture would be
responsible for overall project coordination and for submitting audited
accounts and work programs to IDA each year. The farm directors would be
responsible for coordinating the work of their machine workshops to maximize
use of facilities provided under the project. In addition, not later than
January 31 in each year, the Government would present an annual work program,
acceptable to the Association, detailing the proposed activities of the coming
year (Section 3.06 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
49.       The Director of the Department of Agriculture would have overall
responsibility for the implementation of the project's training, agricultural
extension, and smallholder activities. Technicians selected for training
under the project would primarily be graduates from the agricultural school at
Na Bong. The proposed training would be conducted mainly at the Salakham and
Hat Dok Keo research stations, supported under the first IDA credit, and at
the Veune Kham and Na Phok farms as they are developed under the project.
Technical Assistance
50.       To assist project implementation, the Government, UNDP, and the Food
and Agriculture Organization (FAO) have entered into an agreement, dated
April 14, 1979, under which UNDP will provide $1.3 million to finance about
9.5 man-years of technical assistance, at an average cost of $66,000 per
man-year, and support equipment. The following specialists would be appointed:
(a) one seed production and processing specialist for three years to assist
the director of the Na Phok seed farm in farm management and in procurement
of equipment and materials; (b) one feedgrain production specialist for three



- 15 -
years to advise the director of the Veune Kham feedgrain farm on agronomic,
procurement, and financial matters; (c) one agricultural machinery engineer,
who is familiar with equipment available from international machinery suppliers
and distributors, for two years, to advise the two farm directors on the
technical aspects of equipment to be procured and to oversee the setting up of
workshops on both farms; (d) one construction engineer with experience in the
design and construction of farm buildings, and the calibration of seed process-
ing and storage equipment. This specialist would be responsible for preparing
technical specifications of needed materials and equipment and for assistance
in drawing up draft bid documents; and (e) short-term specialist services in
seed processing, feedgrain milling and compounding, and procurement to help
overcome occasional technical constraints. All specialists, except the
short-term consultants, would be required to train Lao counterpart staff. In
addition, the rice production specialist appointed under the first project
and the feedgrain production specialist appointed under the proposed project
would be responsible for advising the Director of Agriculture on the organi-
zation and content of training courses. The recruitment of specialists
in seed processing and feedgrain production who are acceptable to the Associa-
tion is a condition of effectiveness (Section 6.01[b] of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). In addition, assurances have been obtained that an agri-
cultural machinery specialist and a construction engineer who are acceptable
to the Association would be recruited not later than December 31, 1979
(Section 3.02[b] of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
51.       Total project costs are estimated at about $14.4 million, with a
foreign exchange component of $11.6 million or 81%. Project costs are net
of all taxes and duties since, according to government policy, imports under
the project would not be subject to taxes or duties. Foreign exchange costs
totalling $2.6 million (18%) have been included to cover the cost of agricul-
tural chemicals, and the operation and maintenance of equipment during the
five-year development period for the government farms. The financing of
recurrent foreign exchange expenditures during the development phase of the
project is justified by the very severe shortage of foreign exchange in Laos.
Laos' foreign exchange situation is, however, expected to improve before
completion of the proposed project. Given the Government's commitment
to increase food production, we are confident that the authorities would
allocate the necessary foreign exchange to meet recurrent foreign exchange
expenditures after the project completion date. A physical contingency of 10%
is included for equipment, services and civil works. Expected price increases
due to inflation amount to about 16% of the total project cost and assume
annual inflation rates (1979-84) of 8% for civil works and 7% for materials,
equipment and services. Despite the current high inflation rate in the free
market, the above international inflation rates are appropriate because:
(a) nearly all equipment and materials would be procured abroad; (b) local
procurement would be through official shops where prices are stable; and
(c) official salary levels and wage rates are controlled and linked to the
official price of rice, which is expected to increase at about the same rate
as the import parity price at the official exchange rate. Detailed cost
estimates are shown in the credit and project summary which appears at the
front of this report.



- 16 -
52.       Total project costs would be fully co-financed by IDA ($10.4 million),
EECSAA ($2.7 million), and UNDP ($1.3 million). The proposed IDA credit of
$10.4 million would finance 72% of the total project cost and cover about 90% of
foreign exchange expenditures. Parallel financing by UNDP would cover the
balance of foreign exchange costs and a small amount of local costs for
technical assistance and support equipment. Joint financing by EECSAA would
cover the balance of local project costs. Full external financing of local
costs is justified because first, as explained in para. 21 above, Laos is
one of the poorest countries in the world and has practically no national
savings. Second, the Government is strongly committed to development which,
combined with a favorable natural resource base, should lead to a marked
improvement in the internal and external financial situation once the difficult
restructuring problems of the transitional period are resolved.
Procurement
53.       Procurement would generally be on the basis of international competi-
tive bidding in accordance with the Association's guidelines. Where contracts
are estimated to cost more than $100,000, the Association's prior approval
would be required before invitations to bid are issued and contracts awarded.
Equipment and materials to be purchased under the project amount to about
$11 million. Where equipment and materials are needed in small quantities,
and individual units or orders do not exceed $10,000 each and the total of
such orders does not exceed $500,000, procurement would be in accordance with
prudent shopping practices involving at least three quotations. To permit
flexibility in the procurement of specialized items and items purchased in
small quantities, such items costing not more than $50,000, but not exceeding
$1 million in total, could be procured in accordance with local competitive
bidding procedures acceptable to the Association. A growing number of
international firms are establishing sales representatives in Laos. Civil
works in conjunction with both the seed and feedgrain farms would amount to
about $4.5 million and involve a wide range of activities from land clearing
to farm roads and buildings construction. These works would not be suitable
for international competitive bidding in view of the small size and phasing
of work, as well as the high cost and difficulty of setting up workshops and
hiring of labor in the country. Instead the works would either be carried out
on force account or be executed under contracts awarded after local competitive
bidding among a small number of joint venture construction companies in the
country under procedures acceptable to the Association. For procurement under
the project, each government farm would be responsible for drawing up detailed
specifications for equipment and materials required. The procurement coordinator
in the Department of Planning would be responsible for arranging and following
up procurement by the Import-Export Corporation, which is the sole agency
authorized to engage in external trade.
Disbursements
54.       Disbursement of the IDA credit would be made at the rate of 100%
of the foreign exchange cost of directly imported equipment; 100% of the
ex-factory price of locally manufactured equipment; 75% of expenditures for
imported equipment and materials procured locally; and 75% of expenditures for
civil works and 50% for operation and maintenance during the implementation



- 17 -
period. Disbursements from the Special Action Credit would be made at the
rate of 25% of expenditures for civil works and 50% for operation and main-
tenance. Disbursements for equipment, vehicles, construction materials,
fertilizers, insecticides and for works carried out by contractors would be
supported by standard documentation. Disbursements for force account work
would be made against statements of expenditure, certified by the Project
Coordinator, with the supporting documentation retained by the Borrower and
held available for inspection by IDA supervision missions. It is expected
that disbursements would be completed by December 31, 1984. Because of the
country's shortage of foreign exchange and to ensure the timely start-up of
project activities, an arrangement would be made similar to that under the
first project, whereby a Special Account of the Borrower would be established
at a commercial bank. From this account, the Borrower could finance the
foreign exclhange costs of small items of equipment and supplies during the
first six months of the project. On credit effectiveness, an initial disburse-
ment of US$50,000 would be made from the credit account into the Special
Account, which could then be replenished up to a maximum of $50,000 upon the
Borrower's request supported by documentation satisfactory to IDA. Total
disbursements from the credit account would not exceed $200,000.
Accounts and Audits
55.       Each implementing agency would be subject to normal government
control and auditing procedures. Each government farm would maintain a
separate project account for its activities. Project accounts would be
audited by the State Auditors, and supervision missions would work closely
with the authorities to improve the quality of audits, if necessary. IDA has
furnished the Government with auditing guidelines, proforma accounts and
reporting requirements. Assurances have been obtained that: (a) separate
accounts would be maintained for each of the two state farms and for the
equipment and materials procured under the "smallholder and cooperative
development" component of the project (para. 43); and (b) audited project
accounts would be sent to the Association within four months of the close of
each financial year (Sections 4.01 and 4.02 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Project Benefits and Justification
56.       The project would directly benefit an estimated 42,500 rural families
or nearly a quarter of a million people whose incomes are among the lowest in
the world. Average per capita incomes in Laos, let alone rural incomes, are
below the absolute poverty line. Net farm incomes in the project area are
about $270 per family (or S45 per capita). The seed production and smallholder
development components of the project would increase the farm production of
about 40,000 families using improved seeds by about 10%. The farm production
of an additional 2,400 families using the improved technology package would
increase by about 4,0%. The effects on farm incomes would be in line with
production increases but would depend on price adjustments discussed in
paras. 44-45 above.
57.       Aside fron raising farm incomes, the project would contribute
significantlv towards attaining the Government's objectives of self-sufficiency



- 18 -
in food production, better nutrition and meeting the basic needs of the
population. The caloric intake of the population is generally below the
minimum recommended levels and the diet is deficient in protein content,
primarily due to the shortage of pork meat, the main source of protein in the
local diet. At full development, the incremental annual paddy production
(about 14,000 tons) resulting from the project would meet about 50% of Vientiane
Province's present annual rice deficit. In addition, by 1982, the incremental
feedgrain production from the project would supply 70% of the raw material
requirements of two nearby feed mills and produce sufficient compound feed for
the pigs produced in the multiplication units to be developed under the first
project.
58.       The estimated economic rate of return for the whole project is 61%.
The estimated economic rates of return for the different components are also
satisfactory: 121% for seed farm development and 14% for feedcrop development.
The latter includes the investment costs of some infrastructure to be used
under the second phase in which an additional 3,000 ha would be developed.
Sensitivity analyses indicate that the economic rate of return: (a) for the
entire project is likely to be at least 24% under a wide range of assumptions;
(b) for the seed component would be about 28% even with 50% cost overruns and
a 50% decline in benefits; and (c) for the feed crop component would be
reduced to 7% with a cost overrun of 20% and to 10% with a one-year delay in
achieving benefits.
59.       The project has substantial benefits in addition to those described
above. It would create 250 jobs for operating the state farms as well as
some 250,000 man-days of field labor per year, equivalent to about 1,000 full-
time jobs. The experience gained and the core group of technical specialists
trained under the project would be used to develop similar projects and
extend the improved technology package in other provinces. Finally, at full
development, the project would result in annual foreign exchange savings of
about $4.9 million.
Risks
60.       The major project risk is that the implementation capacity of the
executing agencies would not be sufficient for works to proceed as planned.
Experience with the first project indicates difficulties in: (a) coordination
of agencies; (b) timely procurement of necessary items; and (c) project
management. The simple project design and technical assistance should minimize
these risks; however, frequent supervision would also be needed. Another
project risk is that the pricing structure adopted would not provide the
necessary incentive for small farmers to grow feedgrains or to adopt the
improved technology package. If demand for the improved seed were less than
expected because of inappropriate incentives, or if the project management had
difficulty in managing the seed production, processing and marketing aspects
of the project, then seed might be consumed as grain and much of the potential
benefit lost. Hlowever, because of the high demand for seeds, especially
following crop failure due to frequent floods, droughts, etc., the supply of
seed produced under the project should be readily marketable. Furthermore,
since production of feedgrains from the proposed Veune Kham State Farm could
meet the country's needs during the first four years of the project, there
should be sufficient time for the Government to resolve major pricing policy
issues and to determine ways of stimulating crop production by smallholders,
without limiting the impact of the proposed project.



- 19 -
61.       In addition, because Laos is a landlocked country, exogenous factors
could have adverse implications for the project. Trade restrictions by, and
border disputes with, neighboring countries could interrupt the normal inflow
of imported goods required under the project and thus delay project implemen-
tation. The Government plans to open alternative links to the sea as soon as
possible, but these are not likely to materialize before the early 1980s.
Past experience indicates that while trade may occasionally be interrupted,
these interruptions are of short duration and should not jeopardize the
long-term benefits of the proposed project.
Environmental Impact
62.       To the extent that the project promotes improved farming practices,
particularly in rainfed lands where soil conservation and the maintenance of
fertility are critical, it is expected that the project would promote consider-
able and lasting improvement of the environment.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Lao People's
Democratic Republic and the Association, the draft Special Action Credit
Agreement between the Lao People's Democratic Republic and the Association
acting as Administrator of the EEC Special Action Account, the Recommendation
of the Committee provided in Article V, Section I (d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association are being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors.
64.       Features of special interest in the draft Development Credit
Agreement are listed in Sections II and III, Annex III. In addition, the
draft Development Credit Agreement provides as additional conditions of
effectiveness that: (a) the Special Action Credit Agreement has become
effective (Section 6.01[a]); (b) two of the advisers provided under the
project under technical assistance arrangements between the Government and
UNDP have been appointed (Section 6.01[bl); and (c) the Special Account has
been opened (Section 6.02[c]).
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and that the proposed
Special Action Credit would comply with the Agreement between the Association,
the EEC and its Member States dated May 2, 1978.



- 20 -
PART VI - RECOMM.ENDATION
66.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit and the proposed Special Action Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 23, 1979
Washington, D.C.



- 21-                                                ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                              Pg.  1 of 4   pgs.
LAO PDR - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAO PDR                      REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUISTID AyERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. Rb.)                                                       - AOST RE CENT EE'ST.,TE)    -
TOTAL             236.8                                                        SAME         SANE      NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL        17.6                                   MOST RECENT       GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME        INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                      60.0 /f      70.0 /f   90.0 /f          616.0        182.9        432.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)         18.0         98.0       63.0             522.0        88.9        251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                            2.3          3.0        3.7
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)   ..            15.0        15.0             30.1         15.0         24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                          10.0         13.0       14.0             156.8        46.8         42.7
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    131.0           171.0      193.0             794.8       254.1         95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                            41.1         41.7       42.1             40.8         43.6         44.9
15-64 YRS.                            56.5         55.7       55.2              55.4        53.3         52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                      2.4          2.6        2.7               3.2         2.9           3.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  ..          2.4        2.3               2.3         2.4           2.7
URBAN                                  ..           ..         2.5              5.1         4.0           8.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        44.8         44.5       44.6              34.6        44.3          42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        23.7         22.7        22.8              8.7         19.7         12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  .,           3.0        2.5              2.6         2.9           3.2
PAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..           ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..              ..         ..              22.1        14.6          14.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)                72.1        100.0       91.4             106.8        96.4        104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                      81.0         96.0       94.0             108.7        92.3         99.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             39.0         46.0       58.0              57.7        50.0         56.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE            ..           ..       12.2              17.0        13.9         17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE          ..           ..          ..              4.0           ..          7.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    40.4            40.4       40.4              59.0        45.8          53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                 ..          ..      283.0              44.0       102.7          82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..         ..              21.9        26.4         31.1
URBAN                                  ..           ..         ..              58.3        63.5         68.5
RURAL                                  ..           ..         ..               9.8        14.1          18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..         ..              28.6        16.L         37.5
URBAN                                  ..           ..         ..              66.6        65.9         69.5
RURAL                                  ..           ..         ..              14.8         3.4          25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            38000.0 /1  16540.0   30769.0              4103.1    13432.7        9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON             ..      4530.0    3480.0             1520.2      6983.3        2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              2400.0 /g   1180.0    1150.0               657.1      1157.e        7848.5
URBAN                                  ...                      ..145.5                   183.3        278.4
RURAL                                  ..           ..         ..            1011.8      1348.8       1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED               ..           ..         ..             19.0         19.5         19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF 8OUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                  ..           ..         ..               5.2         5.2
URBAN                                   ..          ..         ..               5.2         4.8            .
RURAL                                   ..          ..         ..               5.4          5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL
URBAN                                                                                        1.8          2.3
RURAL                                  ..           ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..         ..              39.1        25.9          28.3
URBAN
RURAL                                  ..           ..         ..                ..         8.7          10.3



-22 -                                           ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                         Pg. 2  of 4  pgs.
LAO PDR - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
LAO PDR                       - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) a
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 lb     1970 /b ESTIMATE Lb      REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP Ie
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 25.0         54.0      84.8            95.6        62.9        75.8
FEMALE               16.0        40.0       47.0 /h         93.7       45.9         67.9
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  1.0          3.0      18.0            43.3        14.4        17.7
FEKALE                0.4         2.0        3.0 /h         38.6        8.8         12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY)  9.0         14.0      14.2            11.3         6.6         7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           32.0         36.0      40.0            30.0        38.5        34.3
SECONDARY                         18.0         17.0      27.0            25.4        19.8        23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        28.0 /g       ..        ..            84.0        36.7        63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         1.4          3.7       4.3             9.3         3.1         7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        11.0         17.0      38.0            97.6        31.1        71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..         ..         ..            21.8         2.8        14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 12.0 /A        *-        ''            25.9         6.0        16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.2 /A       0.3        ..             4.6         1.4         1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     1300.0       1500.0    1600.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  47.0         45.1      44.7            33.2        24.2        28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             83.1         78.8      85.0            48.4        60.7        54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                13.0         15.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               54.8         50.5      49.6            38.9        39.8        37.8
MALE                                57.1         54.8      51.0             48.6       53.3        50.3
FEMALE                              52.4         46.0      48.2            28.4        19.6        20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              0.8          0.9       1.0              1.2        1.3         1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         ..         ..             17.3       20.3        19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          ..         ..            45.6        45.1        48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         ..         ..             6.5         5.7         5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          ..        ..             17.3       16.8        15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..        ..            140.8       88.5       155.9
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..            112.8       71.9        97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..        ..               ..      100.8       143.7
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..             76.8       42.0        87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..           ..        ..             27.7       46.0        22.9
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..            40.4        48.0        36.7
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    East Asia and Pacific;  /d  Law Income ($280 or less per capita 1976);  /e  Lower Middle Income ($281-550
per capita, 1976);  /f  National accounts are not compiled in Lao; data are staff estiates;   j1A  1962;
/h 1972.
September 1978



- 23 -
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                     ANNEX   I
Pg. 3 of 4 pgs.
Snot; The adjusted group averages fur each indicator are pupulation-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and the most
populated country in each group. Coverage of coustrias am.og the indicators depends en availability of dats and is not uniform. Due to lack of data,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of access to water and excreta disposal, housing, income distribution and puverty are
simple population-weighted geometric means without the exclusion of extreme values.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. kb)                                                                Population per hospital bed - total. urban, and total - Population (total,
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters                           urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
Agricultural - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                    available in public and private general and specialized hospital and re-
or permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                      habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed b'
lie fallow.                                                                               at least one physician,   Establishments providing principally custodial
care are not included. Rural hospitalo, however, include health and medi-
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                     cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical  s-
calculated by same conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                 sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accommodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                                provide a limited range of medical facilities.
AdMipsions per hosPital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of commercial energy                       frn  hospitals divided by the number of bed-
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                     HOUSING
Average sice of household (persons per household) - total, urban. and rural-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                               A household consists of a group of individuals who chaur  livng quarters
Total population, mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                      and their main meal.   A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                             the household for otatistical purposes.    Statistioal definitions of house-
Urban population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                       hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                     Average number of persons per room - total, urban, and rural - Average nue-
of data among countries                                                                   ber of persons per room in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                          dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structureo  and
Per  so. km. - Hid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                     unoccupied parts.
of trtal area.                                                                          Access to electricity  (percent of dwellings) - total, urban. and rural -
Per sq. klm  agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                    Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                     of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population age structure (percent) - Children (0-1  years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-                EDUCATION
year population                                                                        Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                     Primary school - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of a11 ages
growth rates of total sod urb-n mid-year populations for 1950-60,                         at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-_7, and 1970-75.                                                                     populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth ratm (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                        different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edu-
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                      cation enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for moast recent estine.                        above the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                      Secondary school - total, and female - Computed as above; secondary edoca-
year population; tan-year arithmetic av-rages ending in 1960 and 1970                     tion requires at least four yearo of approved primary inst-uction; pro-
and five-pear average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate,                            vides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Gross reproduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                     nsually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in her normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-                         secluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                    Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                           clude technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independently
family planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                          or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                  Popil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program.                                                                         primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
Family planning - users (percent of married women) - Percentage of                          sponding levels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control                 Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices to all married women in same age group.                                           a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                       CONSUMPTION
Index of food production per capita (1970;100L - Index number of per                     Passenger oars (per thousand population) - Passenger cars comprise motor cars
capita annual production of a11 food tommodities                                        seating less than eight persons; excludes ambulances., hearses and military
Per capita supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed from                   vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita                 Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less                 broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
emports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,                receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets cao  in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.   Re-                   effect; data foe recent years may not be comparable since most countries
quireMents were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-                  abolished licensing.
ma-  activity and health considering environmental temperature, body                   TV receivers (per thousand pepuletiun) - TV receivers for broadcast to genera
weights, age and sex distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                    public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coon-
cent for waste at household level.                                                        trios asd in years whas registration of TV oats coo in effect.
Per caPita supply of protein (grams par day) - Protein content of per                    Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) - Shown the average circola-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                      tion of 'daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical pUbli-
above.   Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide for                   cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It is considered tc
a minimum allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams                     be "daily" if it appears at least foor tises a week.
of animl and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.                Cinema annual attendaoce per capita per year - Eased on the nobser of ticketo
These standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                     sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cine-na  and eobilo
23 grams of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                       units.
FAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food                EMPLYHENT
derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.                                      Total labor force (thousands) - Econooi-ally active persons, including armed
Child (agse 1-I) mortality tote (pee thousand)  - Annual deaths per thous-                  forces and unemployed but eocluding housewioes, students, etc.   Dfini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                                tions in various countries are not comparable.
Fenale (percent) - Female labor fonce as percentage of total lubor force
HEALTH                                                                                    Agriculture (percent) - Labor forte in farming, forestry, hu-ting and fiohing
Life expectancy at birth (yearn) - Average number of yearn of life                          as percentage of total labor force
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages soding in 1960, 1970,                   Industry (percent) - Labor force in coning,  nconrtuction,  -adufacturing cod
and 1975.                                                                                 electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                    Participation rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, mole, and
une year of age per thousand live birhts.                                                'real  labor forTe no perce- rufeu of their r-spe-tile popuiatins.
Access to safe water (percent of pupolation) - total, urban, and rural -                     These are ILO's adjusted porticipotic  araes re fleuttnr  atc-sec
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                      strct-ure of rho pop-larioc,  nd Tony  itie trend.
safe  oter supply (includes treated surface waters or untreatedhut                     fon ic depedency ratio - R.tao  ot prplultio- u.der 15 urd 65 aod  oo.t
uncontaminated water such as that from protected boreholes, springs,                      the labor force in age group of 15-64 yeas.
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
In no urban area a public fountain or standpost located not more                      INC025E DISTRIBUTION
than 200 meters from a louse may be cos.idered as being sithin tea-                    Percentage of private inone  (both in cash end kind) receined by richest S
ounable access of that house,  In rural areas reasonable access would                     percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
imply that the housewIfe or members of the household do not have to                         f  households.
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the fanily's
water needs.                                                                          POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to eucreta disposal (Percent of population) - total, urban, and                   Estimated absolute poverty income level (1S$ per cupita) - urban ard rta)-
rural - NSmber of people (total, urban, and rural) served by eereta                         Absolute poverty income level is that income level below which a mmmdl
disposal as percentages of their respective populations.    Excreta                       nutritionally adequate diet pica essential non-food require--tos IS not
disposal may include the collection and disposal, with or without                         affordable.
treatment, of human exireta and waste-water by water-borne systems                     Estimated relative poverty income bevel (i5$ per capita) - urban and tutu   -
or the use of pit prviles and similar installations.                                      Relutive poverty income level c  that inoose level less thun one-third
Population Per physician - Population  divided by nunher of practicing                       per capita persona1 iscome of the country
physiclans qualified from a medical school at university level.                        Estimated population below poverty income level (percent) - urban and rural -
Population per nursing person - Poyplation divided by number of                              Percent of population  (urban and rural)  ho ore either "absolute pour" c
practicing male and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                          "relative poor" whichever is greater.
assistant nurses.
Ecos..ic and S-cial Data Division
Eco.nomi  Analysis and Projeotions Department



- 24 -                                                                   ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS |1
AREA                            POPULATION (1977)                               DENSITY
236,800 sq km              3.2 million (annual growth rate 2.4X)                  13 per sq km
which  Urban           10%
Labor force  50%
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (1977)              GNP PER CAPITA (1977)             LABOR FORCL (1977)
US$290 million /2                           US$90 /2                  1.6 million
GOVERNMENT-FINANCE (Fiscal Years)                        MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1975      1976     1977
State Budget                                                                 (billion KL outstanding
1977         1978 /3                                                               end fiscal period)
(Billion KL)
Iotal Expenditures           49.0          65.6          Money and Quasi Money                                 4.75       8.30      11.1
Total Receipts                 8.2         11.5          Baak Credit to Public Sector (net)                    4.30        7.20     11.1
Deficit                      40.8          54.1          Bank Credit to Private Sector                         0.32       0.18       0.3
Erternal Assistance          35.7          50.3
Central Bank Borrowing         5.1           3.8                                                            (Percentages or Index Numbers)
Cost of Living Index - Vientiane /4 (1970-100)  913             2,820       5,320
Annual percentage changes in:
Cost of Living Index - Vientiane                           210         90
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)                           67        54
Bank Credit to Private Sector                              -33         67
Money and Quasi Money                                        75        34
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS /5                                                                              MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1976-78)
1974      1975      1976     1977       1978                                                          US$ million           %
(Us$ million)
Timber and wood products                    2.2              23
Merchandise (net)                   -59.6    -50.0    -41.5   -55.0    -64.0                        Tin-in-concentrate                           1.1              12
Exports                             9.5        3.0       6.5      9.0      11.0                   Coffee                                      3.5              40
Imports                            69.1      53.0       48.0    64.0       75.0
Services (net)                      -17.3     - 8.0    -15.5   -20.0        -20.0                   All other commodities + electricity    2.3                   25
Receipts                           20.7        8.0       4.5      3.5       6.5                         Total                                 8.8             100
Expenditures                       38.0      16.0       20.0     23.5      26.5
Current Balance                     -76.9    -58.0    -57.0   -75.0    -84.0
Capital and Transfers /6             89.5       48.0      52.0    70.0        82.0                  EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1977
Overall Balance /7                    10.0    - 7.0    - 1.    - 4.8           1.3                                                       USS million
Change in Reserves (-increase)  - 2.0            3.1     - 2.8      4.8    -12.3                    Public Debt, incl. guaranteed              75.0
IMF Borrowing                           -        3.9       3.8       -       11.0                   Nonguaranteed Private Debt
Total Outstanding and Disbursed
Gross Reserves (end year)             10.9       7.8      10.6      5.9       18.3
Petroleum Products Imports           14.0       12.0       3.8      6.0        8.0                  DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1977 /8
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                    Public Debt, incl. guaranteed              17.8
Nonguaranteed Private Debt
March 1975-June 30, 1976                 July 1976-May 1978                                         Total Oustanding and Disbursed
US$1.00 = KL 37.5                        US$1.00 = KL 200
KL 1.00 = USS0.027                       KL 1.00 = USS0-005                                         IBRD/IDA LENDING.  February 1979   (Million US$)
IBRD         IDA
Since June 1978                                                                                     Outstanding & Disbursed                  -          0.1
USS1.00 = KL 400                                                                                    Undisbnrsed                              -           8.1
KL 1.00 = USS0.0025                                                                                 Outstanding incl. Undisbursed            -          8.2
/1  Available data is very limited.  Population, labor force, GNP and per capita GNP figures are estimates.  In June 1976, the kip (K)
was replaced by Kip de libEration (KL) at a conversion rate of K 20 = KL 1; all figures in local currency have been converted to
KL equivalents.
/2  Based on staff estimates for 1977 in local currency and converted at average 1977/78 exchange rate (KL 300/$).  The lack of data
precludes the use of Bank Atlas methodology.
/3  Preliminary.
/4  End of calendar year index; for 1976 and 1977, indices adjusted to reflect near zero inflation on the offical market.
/5  Balance of payments accounts are not compiled in Laos; table constructed on the basis of staff estimates and data provided by Lao
authorities; trade figures limited to official transactions only; 1975 for the Vientiane zone only; 1976-77 for the whole country.
/6  Includes commodity aid.
/7  Includes errors and omissions, and, in 1974, capital exports.
/8  Ratio of debt service to exports of goods.
.. nt available
- nil



ANNEX II
-25-                             Page 1 of 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN LAO PDR
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of April 30, 1979)
Loan or                                                         Amounts ($ million)
Credit                                                          Less Cancellations
Number  Year    Borrower                 Purpose            Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
760-LA  1977    Lao PDR                  Agriculture           -     8.2       8.1
Total                                               -     8.2       8.1
of which has been repaid                          -      -
Total now outstanding                               -      8.2
Amount sold
Total now held by Bank and IDA                      -     8.2
Total undisbursed                                         8.1
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
None: Lao PDR is not a member of IFC
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Cr. No. 760-LA    First Agricultural Rehabilitation and Development Project:
$8.2 million Credit of December 27, 1977; Effective Date:
April 5, 1978; Original and Current Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Project implementation is about 6 months behind schedule due primar-
ily to: (a) the lack of familiarity of Lao officials with IDA's procurement
procedures; and (b) the late arrival of technical specialists financed out of
a $1.7 million grant from the UNDP. All specialists under the project are now
in the field and the pace of project implementation has improved considerably.
Invitations to bid are expected to be issued in June 1979 for equipment
costing about $1.5 million. Standard designs and specifications for the
irrigation schemes are being prepared for submission to IDA for approval.
The work program for 1979 has been submitted and approved by IDA.



- 26 -                       ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
SECOND AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) IDA staff visited Laos in November 1977 to help the Government
identify and prepare the project.
(b) Project prepared by Government (Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry
and Water Resources), with IDA staff assistance.
(c)  Time taken to prepare the project:   12 months
(d)  Preappraisal mission:                   May 1978
(e)  Appraisal mission:                      November 1978
(f)  Follow-up mission:                      February 1979
(g)  Completion of negotiations:             April 26, 1979
(h)  Planned date of effectiveness:          September 1979
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Actions
To relieve the shortage of foreign exchange in Laos and to ensure
the efficient and timely start-up of project activities, IDA would, immediately
after credit effectiveness, make an initial disbursement of $50,000 into a
Special Account, which the Borrower will open at Banque de l'Indochine et de
Suez in Singapore (para. 54).
Section III: Special Credit Conditions
(a) The Government has agreed to:
(i) set and maintain farm-gate prices at levels that would:
provide government-run farms with a rate of return accept-
able to the Association; and provide individual farmers and
cooperatives with sufficient incentive to promote the use of
improved seed, an improved technology package and the produc-
tion of feedgrains (para. 45);
(ii) ensure that irrigation works provided for Na Phok Farm would be
carried out in a timely manner and completed by April 30, 1982
(para. 47);



ANNEX III
- 27 -                       Page 2
(iii) submit annual project work programs to IDA for approval
(para. 48); and
(iv) recruit an agricultural machinery specialist and a design
engineer acceptable to the Association not later than
December 31, 1979 (para. 50).
(b) Conditions of credit effectiveness would be that:
(i) the Special Action Credit Agreement has become
effective (para. 64):
(ii) a seed and a feedgrain specialist acceptable
to the Association have been recruited (para. 50);
and
(iii) the Special Account has been opened (para. 64).






kOTh,. to  h-a bees prprd5  Ih 160
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ol Bank stA extatl  '-ee
fte r-v,eo of the red-r oI
th, rep-r to wnh~ I a .tt-hed          -
Th dnMiatsS n -dt h
THAILAND                   {Th~~~~~~~~~boaderie eteo on this trap'i: :0 
dI so -p& - tht p *f th
CHINA                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Weld Bank and lts affifiates any
-22'\                                                                                 W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pdyt-at sn the legal nasott of2
-ea terittoyo an.y -td--etet      22
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~narpac of Ourt,CI                                              bonens
02°2j0104°                                                                                                                                       206
Ch,gt Khoe
THAILAND                             (hkk
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
200 - 9" ~  ~     ~      0
14~~~  ~~ain         OADSDEMOCRATICUTIO    ORAEINUUPGADA
RIVERS ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o.
~02                                                   l4Iao 






IBRu) 141v
102°85                              102040                                102045                     MARCH 1979
LAGD PEOKPLE` SLEM O'RAT C REPUBL(
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT 11
PROJECT LDCAT ON
STATE FARMS
I    PROPOSED SMALL FLGOD CONTROL STRUCTURE
'-18615'                                                                                     PROPOSED PUMPING STAl ION          18015
NEW PAVED ROAD2
)an Tanpa.o                                                         PRIMARY PAVED ROAD
PRIMARY GRAVEL ROAD
----\-- TRACK OR FOOTPATH
IZ g  b f  f 170 METER CONTOUR LINES
f Nd C X /|r /r ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIlVERS
P   rs       <                <   /(;,   /<                   - -  - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATI')NAL BOUJNDARIES
K LOMrTERS
C<f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TH NGONE B
|   /             5             /  j>g~~~~~~~~~~~~~RAVIVE LARIV  Let hoa _b<  N2         eK<i
Na on A    tural
!  <  X  ,.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                          2 4 '      A        DE, , 'C RATI
1X   ,<     >  r   \   d \   V  )  \    Ean        f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Doigan         Sc
\xy Thotig                     >/                \ax                                                          X 
|  \   |            J,,;/J/)   A~~~~~~~an Nathom  |     C 9 < |(    >!W-drmrsSff
\   !zw   (;     g      \        X  /8an ~~~~~~~~~Donnoun                             b-\ /d--otim h- th, -pt f h
| s t 0 e ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-zy  ;      \ _- O..
= = z _ c  _   ,   _     M  <Ban houagua   \                                            rHAlvAND      <       2~~~Ban  1000'
11tilLALsL / 0 lQ2040 9 s B~~~~~~~~an Nakhoay10°5tKMUHA\ 



