ZoAoV bqt? -SP  FILE  Copy  RESTtICTED
t Rport No.   PE- 14a
This roport was prepared for use within the Sank and its affiliated organizations.
They ao not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCIION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF AN
EDUCATION PROJECT
IN
SPAIN
May 22, 1970
Education Projects Department



CURIUCY ItUIVALlNTS
US$1   a    Pt". 70
Pta. 1  -    US$0.014
Pt". 100  -    US$1.43
)ASURES
1     a2   .  1.20 *q yd
in2   , 10.76 eq ft
1 kaM - 0.38'sq ailes
1 hectare a 2.47 acres



GLOSSARY
Basic Education:          The first level of general education under
the reform program extending over Grades 1-8
and comprising a lower school (Grades 1-5)
and an upper school (Grades 6-8) superseding
the present primary school (grades 1-8) and
the lower secondary school (Grades 5-8) (Charts
1 and 2).
Lower Bachillerato:       Certificate awarded on successful completion
of year 4 of the present secondary school
(Chart 1).
Bachillerato:             Secondary education leaving diploma
after completion of Grade 10 in the
existing system, and of Grade 11 in the
reformed system. It provides access to
the pre-university course (Charts 1 and 2).
Higher Engineering
Schools or
Higher Technical
Schools:                  University level schools, each providing
instruction in only one of the following
technical fields: civil, aeronautical,
electromechanical, naval, telecommunications,
industrial (i.e. mechanical, electrical,
chemical, textiles, etc.) engineering, agro-
nomy or forestry, and architecture. It is
intended to integrate groups of these schools
to form Polytechnics thus combining a range
of courses within one institution.
Institutes of
Education:                Teacher training institutions to be orga-
nized within the universities to train and
retrain personnel for the reform; they will
also conduct education research (Chart 2).






TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ....i...........................         i
I.    INTRODUCTION .......................................             1
The Request      ........................................   l
Socio-Economic Background ..................                1
Education and Training .............................         2
II.  EDUCATIONAL PLANNING AND ECONOMIC GROWTH      .      .            4
Sources of Economic Growth .              .                 4
Manpower Needs.....    5
Educational Planning and the Educational Reform             6
Financial Projections                    .       .8
Strategy for Educational Development .         .            9
III. THE PROJECT   .....10
General .10
The Basic General Education and Secondary Schools          11
The Institutes of Education and the National
Research Center for Educational Development              12
Cost of the Project .14
IV.  IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENTS..                               18
V. RECOMMENDATIONS..  19
APPENDIX - THE EDUCATIONAL REFORM
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission
which visited Spain during October-November 1969. The mission
consisted of Messrs. F. Lethem (economist), C. Germanacos (general
education), K. Thint (architect) from the Bank, and Messrs. W. Kunsela
(agricultural education) and B. R. Teare (engineering education), consul-
tants.






LIST OF ANNEXES AND CHARTS
ANNEXES
1    Spain - Enrollments, Graduates and Teachers by Level and
Type of Education, 1967-68
2    Spain - Distribution of Employed Graduates from Engineering
Schools, by Economic Sector and by Type of Training Received
3    Spain - Flow of Students in Basic General Education, General
Secondary and Higher Education Establishments
4    Spain - Estimated Teacher Requirements, 1980-81, Basic General
and Secondary Education
5    Spain - Projection of Education Expenditures
6    Spain - Enrollment Structure of Project Schools and Graduates
A.   Basic General Education
B.   Secondary Schools
C.   Institutes of Education
7    Spain - Project Schools.  Teacher Requirements
8    Spain - Outline Scheduling of Technical Assistance Needs for
the Project
CHARTS
1    Structure of Education and Training System, 1969
2    Proposed Structure of the Education and Training System
3    Organization of the Ministry of Education, 1969
4    Educational Pyramid, 1967-68, by Age and Level of Education
5    Spain Educatlion Project - Implementation - Expenditure -
Disbursement
M{AP






SPAIN
BASIC DATA
General
Size of country                         504,75o kma2 (including Balearic and
Canary Islands)
Total population (1968)                 32.8 million
Annual rate of population growth        0.9% (after emigration)
-1951-67
Population de.qity (per h2n2)           65
Gross domestic product - 1967           US$ 21,h93 billion (at factor cost)
GNP per capita          - 1968 (est.)   US$770
GNP growth rate         - 1962-66       7.9% p.a.
1967-68       3,.8% p.a.
GDP by sector           - 1967          Agriculture            16.5%
Mining                 1.1%
Industry (including
construction)        33.6%
Other                 48.8%
Central Government budget
revenue as % of GNP   - 1968           13.3%
Educa.tion (1968)
Age Group          Population           ---Percent Enrolled----
Primary       Secondary
Education     Education
6 - 9             2.4 million           87%             -
10- 13             2.2 million           57%             25%
14 - 16            1.6 million            4%             23% (all types)
Literacy rate                           94%
Percentage of GYP spent on
education                              3%
Education expenditure per capita        US$23.6 (including estimated private exp.)
Percentage of Government current
revenues spent on education            12%
Manpower (1968)
Active population                       12.5 million
Distribution by sector                  Agriculture    31%
Manufacturing  26%
Construction    8%
Commerce       11%
Other          24%
Women as % of active population         24%
Estimated unemployment                  2%






SPAIN
APPRAISAL OF AN EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This project is designed for the construction and equipment in
Spain of educational institutions and the provision of related services
to launch the first phase of a fundamental educational reform.
ii.       The reform would change the present complex and rigid system,
which tends to perpetuate educational, social and economic inequalities,
into a modern, flexible and efficient vehicle of economic and social pro-
gress. Broadening of educational and occupational opportunity would re-
sult in a more readily trainable labor force. This would be essential to
ensure Spain's continued economic growth which depends on rapid increases
in productivity, to be generated by structural reforms in many sectors of
the economy, and also by better use of human resources.
iii.      The proposed project would consist of:
- 19 demonstration basic general education schools which
would supersede in the reformed system the present pri-
mary schools (grades 1-8) and the lower secondary schools
(grades 5-8) (Charts 1 and 2);
- 20 demonstration secondary schools;
- 8 higher education institutions for teacher training,
teacher upgrading and education research to support
the general education schools, including the above 39;
and
- related technical assistance.
iv.       The basic level schools would eliminate the present disparity
between low quality post-primary education, which leads almost exclusively
to unskilled employment, and lower middle or secondary education. Hence all
students would be exposed to a common course of basic general education
(Grades 1-8) before having to choose between further education and further
training leading to employment. The secondary schools would offer a wide
range of academic and technical subjects and would guide students in their
choice on the basis of their abilities. This reform in the structure of
the academic system would be reinforced by necessary administrative reforms.
v.        The second phase of implementation of the reform - for which Bank
financing may also be requested - would start within one or two years, and
its implementation would take, as for the firsst phase, about 10 years. It
would cover the vocational aspects of the reform at secondary and higher
levels and would involve farmer and industrial worker training, technician
and professional engineering education, and technical teacher training.



- ii -
Becavee of a proposed complete integration of vocational training and
general education* students would receive adequate training preparatory
for employment, fegardless of the grade at which they might have to leave
the geferal education system.
vi.       The fnctdIieit of the basic general schools in the present proj-
ect is consistefft With the Bank's policy to support educational reform
and innovation, iceluding reform at the primary level, on an experimental
basis. In earliet projects, primary level education was assisted only in-
directly either by financing teasher training institutions or, more recently,
within the ftarework of an instructional television scheme. Broadly speak-
ing, the entite ptoject would be an integral part of the Bank's policy in
Spain to suppott structutal reforms, as already implemented in such fields
as agticultiitr and transportation.
vii.      The prdject institutions would have adequate staffing and flexi-
bility fOt experiMentation with alternative curricula, teaching methods
and Adiinistrative practices.  They would be dispersed throughout the
countty to pilot and demonstrate the reform principles, with heavier con-
centration in Galicia, as a case of regional implementation. New construc-
tion methods and standards to be developed should have lasting effects on
future school buildings in Spain. To assist in the implementation of the
project, cotisultitg architects would be appointed and an administrative
uuit *dUld be established within the Ministry of Education.  Construction
would be completed within three years of signing of the loan agreement.
Ptocurement would be under international competitive bidding.
viii.     The estimated total project cost is US$24.0 million equivalent,
50% of which would be financed by the proposed loan of US$12.0 million
equivalent. Depending on the outcome of international bidding, a loan
of US$12 million would finance all foreign expenditures, ranging from
$4.0 million to $8.0 million (33% to 67% of the loan), and from 25% to
40% of total local expenditures. The goverunment ohould not have difficulty
in meeting its share of the capital costs and the resulting recurrent ex-
penditures.
ix.       The proposed project is suitable as a basis for a Bank loan of
US$12.0 million equivalent, for a period of 20 years including a 5-year
grace period.



I. INTRODUCTION
The Request
1.01      In response to a government request in mid-1968, an IBRD/Unesco/
FAO mission visited Spain in October/November 1968 to review its educational
reform and development plans and to outline priority areas for investment.
As a result, the Government of Spain approached the Bank in August 1969
with a request, prepared with the help of Unesco, for the financing of the
first phase of the educational reform. An appraisal mission, consisting
of Messrs. F. Lethem (economist), C. Germanacos (general education and
planning), K. Thint (architect), W. Kunsela (consultant, agriculture edu-
cation) and B. R. Teare (consultant, engineering education), visited Spain
in October/November 1969.
1.02      Following the appraisal, the project request was modified: (a)
to take into account the need for more detailed planning of higher engineer-
ing education, and (b) to ensure successful implementation of the reform
plans. It now consists of:
(a)  construction and equipment of:
- 19 basic general education schools (Grades 1-8)
- 20 diversified secondary schools (Grades 9-12)
- 8 Institutes of Education
(b)  equipment of the National Center for Educational Research for
the coordination of the Institutes of Education;
(c)  related technical assistance and establishment of an admin-
istrative unit.
The total estimated cost is US$24.0 million and the foreign exchange com-
ponent, US$4.0-8.0 million.
Socio-Economic Background
1.03      Spain's population of about 33 million is growing at the low
rate of 1.2% per year. This rate is reduced to 0.9% after allowance for
substantial emigration. The population is widely dispersed, with about
30% in centers of less than 5,000 inhabitants. These centers, which lack
economic opportunities and social services including education, are ex-
periencing a continuous decrease in their population, part of an overall
internal migratory movement involving between 1 and 1.5% of the total popu-
lation every year and directed mainly towards the economic growth centers
of Barcelona, Madrid, Valencia and Vizcaya, but also to provincial capi-
tals and other bigger towns.
1.04      The literacy rate is about 94%.  Of the total labor force of
about 12.5 million, about 35% are engaged in manufacturing and construc-
tion and about 31% in agriculture. Women represent an increasing share



of the active population, altlhough at 24% their participation is still
low by European atandards.  The participation rate of young men in the
labor force is declining as a result of longer schooling and emigration.
Unemployment is only about 2%. Since the early 1960's agricultural em-
ployment has decreased by about one million, with the former agricultural
workers moving iuually as a fi.rst step to th-e construction and hotel in-
dustries or temporarily emigrating to other European countries with higher
wage levels. On-the-job-training and upgrading.courses organized by the
Ministry of Labor lhave facilitated the movement.
1.05      Between 1961 and 1966 economic growth averaged about 8% p.a.
in real terms, with industrial production growing at 12%.  Important
factors were also the growth of tourism receipts and remittances of
workers airoad.  In view of the interruption in the pace of growth of the
economy in 1967,.the 1968-1971 Second Development Plan projects annual GDP
growth at 5.2%, resulting from an annual growth of 3.9% in the output per
worker,and of 1.3% in employment. This would imply that over this period
another 420,000 workers would leave agriculture and one million jobs would
be.created in.the other sectors of the economy.
Education and T.raining
1.06      The present Spanish education system and its administration are
complex,irigid and generally outmoded. The system.tends to perpetuate
inequalities of educational and occupational Qpportunity, inconsistent
with the social and economic development objectlves of the nation as ex-
pressed in the Second Development Plan.  The following paragraphs sumr-
uarize,the salient facts, underlining themneed for a change.
1.07      Basically, the present education system is four-tiered with some
overlapping:
(i) infant education, for the 2 to 5-year age group;
(ii)  primary education, Grades 1-8, for the 6 through
13-year age group;
(iii)  middle level education (or aecondary), Grades 5-11, for
the 10 through 16-year Age ,group, divided into
lower (Grades 5-8), and upper (Grades 9-10-), and
a pre-university year (Grade 11),;
(iv)  higher education, comprising., in tiIte umain, 5-6 year
courses at the universities and tIhe engineering
schools.
1.08      Overlapping occurs between privAmmy And mO4Aae level .educatiLon at
grades 5-8.  It also occurs between viddle -Isaeve4lnd i'ghr edusetJion *ince
technician training and primary teeacherxtraining (4g(L,en at grades ;.11-,4) are



- 3 -
classified as middle level (Chart I). This complicated structure results
from piecemeal attempts in the last decades to add employment-related
courses to the traditional, elitist and university-oriented system.
1.09      The education system is also rigid.  Students wishing to transfer
from less academic to more academic types of education are required to ex-
tend their schooling by two to four years - which few actually do. Any
change to the structure of the system has to be effected by law.
1.10      Another major weakness of the system is the excessively theore-
tical nature of, and approach to, the content of education, due to im-
balance in the curricula, professional inadequacy of the teachers and also
inadequacies of the physical facilities and equipment.
1.11      The administrative organization of the Ministry of Education
is complex and also results in overlapping and duplication (Chart 3).
Coordination and modernization are now being attempted by a recently
strengthened technical secretariat, but a major effort is still needed to
improve personnel management, administration for the construction of school
buildings and establish school building standards. While the primary
education inspectorate has performed extremely well at national and local
levels, the middle level inspectorate needs strengthening. Both corps
would benefit from improved coordination and reorganization.
1.12      Chart 4 and Annex 1 give the basic data concerning 1967-68
enrollments, distribution of students, outputs and teachers. In summary,
enrollments are distributed as follows:
Age Group             Enrollments as percent of the relevant age-groups
(by level of education)
Primary             Middle level            /Higher  Total
General  Vocational  Technician-
6 -  9                87%                                                  87%
10 - 13                57%        25%                                       82%
14 - 16                 4%        17%        5%           1%                27%
17 - 22                            3%        1%           3%         3%     10%
1/   includes primary teacher training.
1.13      Because of the wide population dispersion, primary education
is often given in small school units. In Grades 5-8, which are attended by
those who failed to gain admission to secondary education, the quality of edu-
cation is low and the numbers of drop-outs are high. The prevailing high
enrollment rates at primary and middle level education conceal regional
disparities in further educational opportunities between urban and rural
areas and the affluent and needy. Improvement can be expected from the on-
going program of equalization of opportunity which is providing more and
better educational services in the "under-privileged" areas through central
schools, combined with bursaries, transportation and welfare services.



-4-
1.14      Admission to public academic middle level education depends on
availability of places in the public system which caters for only 26% of
total enrollment in this form of education, up from 18% in 1960. Recognized
private schools cater for about 42% and students who are not admitted to
the public system and cannot afford private education register at govern-
ment institutions for only the examinations, while learning on their own
or at unrecognized private tutoring institutions. These "free" students
represent about a third of middle level enrollments and wastage rates among
them are high. Vocational and technician education, including primary
teacher training, represents 27% of total middle level enrollments.
1.15      Enrollments have increased in uuniversities  by 90% and in the
engineering schools by 160% since 1960. The five existing university
schools of education offer first degree courses in pedagogy for prospective
inspectors of schools and primary school teacher trainers, but no institu-
tion provides systematic secondary teacher training programs. Research in
education is virtually non-existent. Efficiency of higher education is
low, especially in the engineering schools where, owing to drop-outs and
repeaters, about 27 student-years in average are spent per graduate of a
5-year program.
1.16      Recognized private schools, most of which belong to the Churcil,
are an important element of the Spanish education system. While repre-
senting only 4% of higher education enrollments, they enrolled about 30%
of primary and middle level general education in 1967-68. Therefore, the
success of government efforts to modify the structure of the education sys-
tem is dependent upon obtaining full cooperation from the private sector -
in particular, their willingness to eliminate the educational, social and
economical shortcomings resulting from the present overlapping between
grades 5-8 of primary education and years 1-4 of secondary education.
II. EDUCATIONAL PLANNING AND ECONOMIC GROWTH
Sources of Economic Growth
2.01      Because of the slow growth of its labor force, Spain's rapid
economic growth depends mainly on increases in productivity. In recent
years, this was achieved through changes in economic policies, especially
the liberalization of the economy, and through mwbilization of the reser-
voir of under-utilized manpower in the rural areas.  BUt futture prowth And
future gains in productivity will requiro' Ntructural raformn Ini inatly OVC,
tore of the economy. Some reforms are well underway, as in the transporta-
tion sector, while major sectors of industry still require modernisation
and consolidation. In agriculture, output needs, reorientation towerde
products in strong demand; further productivity gain8 depend on increased
mechanization and use of fertilizers, larger farm sizes, and i=proved re-
search, extension and training.  In employment policies, inprovetent in
the allocation of human resources is necessary, implying further labor



transfers from agriculture to the other economic sectors, from less ef-
ficient industries to more efficient ones, from lower to higher occu-
pational levels. Altogether, further economic development in Spain will
depend on, and result in, a high occupational mobility.
2.02      Such mobility requires adaptability of the labor force and can
only be achieved if the present structural rigidity of the education and
training system is removed. A fundamental reform is therefore required
at all educational levels, but especially to avoid too early channeling
of pupils which now occurs after completion of grade 4 (Chart 1). Hence-
forth it is proposed that every child, regardless of his origin, social
condition or sex, should complete eight grades of education (basic gen-
eral education, Chart 2) before having to choose between further educa-
tion and further training leading to employment. Adults who left the
system to go into employment could then, through a continuing educational
process, return to formal schooling or training at any point where they
left off, to reach a higher academic level or, through short courses, to
be retrained in alternative specializations at the same occupational level.
To achieve these targets nation-wide, schooling opportunity would also
need to be equalized geographically through a rational policy of construc-
tion of new and consolidation of existing facilities, school transportation,
boarding and scholarships.
MLanpower Needs
2.03      Spain does not suffer as much from a lack of academically qua-
lified manpower as from a lack of managerial, organizational and entre-
preneurial talent. For instance, in training of agriculturists the man-
agement aspects tend to be neglected and the graduates are prepared for
entering public administration which employs more than 50% of Spain's
agronomists (Annex 2). Most engineering schools, until recently, were
not involved in scientific research, nor, the higher agricultural schools
with extension services. The government is considering ways to develop
managerial talent, especially in post-secondary and higher education.
2.04      With an active population expected to grow at only 1.3% per
year, projected manpower needs for industry and services can only be
met through further decrease in the agricultural labor force. No unem-
ployment exists at the lower bachillerato level (Grade 8) and none is
expected for graduates of the basic general education schools.
2.05      For middle level employment, annual requirements may be in the
order of 100,000 by 1980 for both growth and replacement. These are likely
to be met either by the outputs at bachillerato level (Grade 11) and by
students who complete Grade 12 but do not continue their studies, if access
to higher education is controlled; or, if it is not, by the smaller number
who enter the labor market after Grades 11 and 12 supplemented, as at pre-
sent, by higher education dropouts. The latter alternative is undesira-
ble on economic, social and educational grounds.



- 6 -
2.06      Higher education planning is weak, especially in the engineering
schools which train engineers, architects or agriculturists. Present out-
put of architects is adequate to meet annual needs, but engineering graduates
increasingly face unemployment both because of structural deficiencies in
industry, which may over-rely on foreign technology, and because of their
often too theoretical training. Thus, as agreed with the government during
the loan negotiations, planning of the entire engineering education system
to improve its relevance to the economy (see also para. 2.03) and to improve
its efficiency (para. 1.15) has to be completed before any Bank financing
of the proposed Polytechnic Institute.
Educational Planning and the Educational Reform
2.07      In view of the weaknesses of the present education and training
system (Chapter I and para. 2.02) and on the basis of a widely circulated
educational policy paper (White Paper), the Spanish Government has drafted
a bill, now before the Cortes, to provide for fundamental educational re-
forms. Its emphasis is on quality, flexibility, and efficiency. The law
itself would provide a framework to be translated into ministerial regula-
tions as needed. The system is looked at as an organic unit; the re-
definition of objectives and the proposed plans for reform of the manage-
ment, organization, structure and content of education, irrespective of
the level or controlling authority, are comprehensively integrated; the
inter-relationships of change and development in the various sectors is
foreseen (See also Appendix).
2.08      The new law would modify the structure of the system as a whole
to improve educational opportunity as shown by a comparison of Charts 1 and
2. Channelling of students would begin at age 14 instead of 10 and there
would be complete integration of vocational training and general education.
Since all school leavers could enter a vocational school at an appropriate
level, waste of resources due to drop-out would be minimized. Higher edu-
cation would have two cycles of education, thus improving the career pros-
pects of students unable to complete a five-year course. Technician courses
and primary teacher training would run parallel to the first cycle, lasting
three years.
2.09      Basic general education would extend over the entire compulsory
school period (grades 1-8). Practical subjects - handicrafts, industrial
arts, agriculture and home economics - would form an integral part of the
curriculum at grades 6-8. Mathematics and science would be given new
emphasis. A revision of the curriculum of the primary school teacher
training colleges to reflect these changes is already underway.
2.10      Secondary education would offer a common core of studies, sup-
plemented by a wide range of academic and technical subjects. Students
would receive instruction in one or two technical areas such as industrial
technology, commerce, agriculture and home economics. Through provision
of testing and counselling services, students would be guided in their
choice of subjects and further study or training. At the same time, the



- 7 -
student workload would be increased from 24-27 to 32 hours a week and from
180 to 210 days per year.
2.11      Teaching methods at all educational levels would be improved
and would include use of modern education technology. Examination prac-
tices would be revised, and the flow of students made smoother by improve-
ment of the promotion system.
2.12      The above mentioned changes can only be achieved progressively:
they require research, experimentation, and teacher training. There is,
therefore, a need for appropriately staffed and equipped experimental and
demonstration schools at the basic general education level and at the vo-
cational and secondary education levels. These schools would provide an
opportunity for a number of education research and training institutions
to experiment and to disseminate their findings.
2.13      The education law, therefore, would provide for the establish-
ment of 15 Institutes of Education within the universities and under the
coordination of a National Research Center for Educational Development.
These institutions would train and retrain personnel for the reform, pro-
vide educational advisory services at national and regional levels, and
conduct research in all aspects of education.
2.14      Implementation of the reform requires a larger degree of admin-
istrative decentralization at the regional level. It also requires adapta-
tion of the existing school buildings and programming of the construction of
new facilities needed, for which designs should be studied and norms and
standards developed. A program to consolidate small uneconomic primary
schools into larger units and to adapt them for the basic level is already
underway and courses for training provincial office personnel are being
organized. The Ministry of Education administrative structure is also
undergoing change to eliminate duplication, improve coordination, and re-
lieve technical personnel of routine duties. Support of specialists in
facility planning, education programming and in management will be neces-
sary.
2.15      Enrollment projections are shown in Annex 3 and can be summarized
as follows:
Level of                  Enrollment in           Index       1980/81 Enrollment
Education       Age     1980/81 (in '000)   1967/68 = 100  as % of age group
Pre-Primary    2-5             1047                167               40%
Basic           6-13           5000                117              100%
Secondary      14-17           1010                293              43%
Higher         18-23            360                158               10%
Vocational    13-23             440                120                7%



- 8 -
To meet the 1980 teacher demand, required average annual outputs of the
teacher training establishments in the period 1973-1980 would be as fol-
lows (Annex 4):
- 12,000 primary teachers from the primary teacher training
colleges;
- 3,500 secondary teachers from the Institutes of Education;
- 1,000 teachers for practical subjects in secondary schools.
2.16      The primary teacher training colleges can meet the need, but
would have to introduce new courses for training of teachers of the practi-
cal subjects in the basic general schools or make alternative arrangements.
The secondary teacher output indicated above can be achieved provided that
15 Institutes of Education are in full operation by 1972; the Institutes
will require buildings, equipment and trained staff. Programs for training
technical teachers will have to be organized and during negotiations, the
Spanish authorities presented a satisfactory proposal. Until such time as
more permanent arrangements are made, diploma-level technicians with some
job experience could be trained jointly by the Institutes of Education and
selected technician schools.
Financial Projections
2.17      Total public education expenditures have grown at the high average
rate of about 23% per year (15% in real terms) between 1962 and 1968, from
1.3% of GNP in 1962 to 2.2% in 1968. Including private expenditure, whose
share of total education expenditure declined from 39% in 1962 to 29% in
1968, total expenditure on education represented 3.0% of GNP in 1968, which
is still low compared to other European countries (e.g. Sweden 6.5%; Italy
5.2%; UK 4.9%; France 4.3% - all for 1965). Capital expenditures on edu-
cation by the central government amounted to an average of Ptas. 2.3 bil-
lion per year during the last five years, with Ptas. 3.6 billion spent in
1968.
2.18      Financial projections of the education system were made on the
basis of: (a) the projections mentioned in para. 2.15 verified through use
of an econometric model developed by the Ministry of Education with the
assistance of Unesco, and (b) revised student:teacher ratios related to
the new curricula and to more realistic space standards than in the 1968-
71 development plan. The financial projections, which were inadequately
dealt with in the development plan, have now been incorporated in the
education reform law.  They indicate that, by 1980, total recurrent expendi-
tures on education may reach about Ptas. 115 billion in constant prices,
corresponding to an average annual increase of 15% above the 1968 level.
It is unlikely that private expenditures for education could sustain such
a high growth rate and it is reasonable to expect, therefore, that their
share of total education expenditures would further decrease to about 18%
by 1980, leaving about Ptas. 95 billion to be financed from public funds.
This amount would provide for a reasonable increase in the transfers to



- 9 -
the private education sector to assist its adaptation to the reformed
structure, and assumes that introduction of a fee-free secondary educa-
tion in the private schools will be only very gradual.
2.19      By 1980, total education expenditures would reach about 4% of GNP,
which would be more in line with Spain's economic and social development
objectives and its level of economic development. Including capital ex-
penditures, the Ministry of Education expenditures would reach about Ptas
101 billion, or between 15% and 23% of the central government budget re-
venues, depending on the actual rate of growth in the revenues (Annex 5
and table below).
1962        1968         1980
(in billions of Ptas.)
1.   Ministry of Education expendi-
tures                        8.1         28.4          101
2.   Total education expenditures    17.8           53.4         134
3.   GNP                              816.7     1,757.0        3,320
4.   Central Government budget
revenues                    95.0        234.0        442 - 660
(1) as proportion of (4)               8.5%        12%         23 - 15%
(2) as proportion of (3)               2.2%          3%          4%
2.20      To meet the need for additional places above (para 2.15), capital
expenditures over the period 1968-1980 are expected to average Ptas. 5.7
billion per year, mostly financed from public funds. About 40% of the total
would be required for secondary education. The cost of adapting existing
facilities to the needs of the reform, of concentrating primary schools,
and of building new schools for migrating populations can be estimated
roughly at about Ptas. 2 billion per year for 10 years but more accurate
projections will be made by the Ministry when programming of the reform is
completed.
Strategy for Educational Development
2.21      In summary, Spain is modernizing its education system to make
it more dynamic and responsive to the economic, social and educational
needs of a modern, rapidly growing country. As an initial phase, general
education will be reformed at basic and secondary levels, supported by the
creation of higher education institutions for teacher training, teacher
upgrading and education research. The second phase, to start within one
or two years, would consist of the planning and programming, in cooperation
with other ministries and agencies, of the vocational aspects of the reform
at secondary and higher education levels and would involve farmer and in-
dustrial worker training, and technician and engineering education; it
would also include the setting up of a technical teacher training institu-
tion. Financing of the education reform and education development plans



- 10 -
would not be a major constraint; the whole reform process will require
at least 10 years to complete.
2.22      The present project would assist in achieving the objectives of
the first phase of the reform on a nationwide basis. The buildings to be
provided would be designed and equipped for the restructured system and
for experimentation purposes (para. 2.12). Compared to 1967/68 enroll-
ments, they would add only 0.4% at the basic level and 4% at thte secondary
level. But the project would play a significant role to ensure success of
implementation of the reform plans: it would meet 64% of the teacher train-
ing needs and provide technical assistance to promote curriculum develop-
ment, programming of the reform plan, establishment of norms and standards
and the training of education planners, administrators and supervisors.
The project would also demonstrate the implications of implementing the
reform at regional level, using the region of Galicia as a test case.
The appropriate development of the proposed second phase of the reform
could form a potential second project for the Bank.
III. THE PROJECT
General
3.01      The proposed project would include:
(a) construction and equipment of 47 educational institutions
as follows (Annexes 6-7):
Teaching
Staff
Type of Insti-                  Enroll-    Staff    Annual        Require-
tution        Grades  Number  ment       Houses   Output          ments
Basic general   1-8        19   16,720        19       2,660         532
Secondary        9-12     20   14,220         25      3,740         636
Institutes of
Education         18        8    2,800        -       2,250          94
(b) equipment for the National Research Center for Educational
Development;
(c) about 190 man-months of specialists, 45 man-years of
fellowships and establisbmemt of an adlAtstrative unit
to ensure satisfactory implemmtatiee of the project.
3.02      The facilities provided for the proj~ect isstitutions would be
used from 79% to 92% of a school week of 3Q-32 hours, which is economical.
No provision for boarding is needed and housing is provided only for the
caretaker of each basic and secondary school and for each agricultural
section of a secondary school.



- 11 -
The Basic General Education and Secondary Schools
3.03      The proposed 19 basic general education and 20 secondary schools
would be designed, equipped and staffed (a) to serve as pilot and experi-
mental schools for implementing the first phase of the education reform;
and (b) to meet requirements of the school consolidation program (para 2.14).
Tne flexibility built into the accommodations would permit experimentation
in school administration and organization to secure an optimum use pattern.
Thiis would entail, however, careful scheduling, and directors of schools,
especially at secondary level, would be trained accordingly. The facil-
ities, especially the workshops, would also be used for pupils from neigh-
boring schools and for working youths in the evenings. The upper cycle
(Grades 6-8) of the basic schools would serve as central schools for stud-
ents from feeder schools in which numbers justify only the lower level
(grades 1-5). Similary, the secondary schools would be fed by a number of
satellite basic schools.
3.04      Location.  The proposed locations of the project schools have
been carefully selected in relation to the proposed Institutes of Education
and/or in strategic points in various parts of the country to pilot the
reform. Where a project Institute does not include attached basic and
secondary schools, suitable schools are already available or about to be
constructed. During negotiations the government gave the assurance that
basic and secondary schools attached to the proposed project Institutes
of Education at Granada, Valladolid, Valencia and Zaragoza would be equipped
and staffed to project school standards. The concentration of 20 of the 39
project schools in Galicia is part of a consolidation program designed to
take care of the rural exodus to the larger towns in the region and to af-
ford experience in translating plans into action in a particular region.
3.05      The curricula, consistent with the reform objectives, would ade-
quately balance academic and practical subjects at both levels, with 20%
of the timetable in the secondary schools devoted to practical options and
20% to elective subjects which may include technical subjects. Each proj-
ect secondary school would offer the elements of industrial technology and
commerce, and either home economics or agriculture as a third option. Dur-
ing negotiations, the government confirmed that over the three-year course
students may be exposed to two or even all these options.
3.06      Technical assistance is, however, required to define more pre-
cisely the objectives, the content and the construction and equipment
requirements in each of these practical subjects. A technical education
curriculum development specialist would coordinate the studies of short-
term consultants to be appointed for each subject and the training of
their counterparts later to assume responsibility for the subject areas
in the appropriate directorate of the Ministry.
3.07      Staffing.  The staffing needs, overall and by discipline, are
shown in Annex 7. The teacher-student ratios are economical at 1:32 in the
basic and 1:23 in the secondary schools. The total needs of 532 teachers



- 12 -
for the project basic schools and 636 for the secondary are small relative
to the present teaching force and the output of the teacher training col-
leges, the university science and humanities faculties and the various
post-secondary vocational schools. Pending the establishment of full-time
pre-service courses, in-service courses are now being held to prepare tea-
chers of the practical subjects for basic general education. In view of
the pioneering and experimentation roles of the project schools, and to
ensure full-time high-caliber directors and teachers imbued with the spirit
of the reform, the government will ensure that:
(i) the project schools' directors and teachers would be
appointed on a full-time basis;
(ii) the project schools' directors would undertake teaching
loads only at their discretion, and would be given respon-
sibility for supervision of the school educational program
and staff in cooperation with the responsible school in-
spector and Institute of Education;
(iii) if necessary, special regulations would be drawn up
governing the selection and appointment of directors
and teachers to the project schools and also to other
schools, outside the project, designated as affiliated
to the project Institutes of Education;
(iv) special training and/or retraining courses would be
given to the directors and teachers of the schools in
(iii) above in accordance with the requirements of the
new programs of study. These courses would also make
them thoroughly conversant with modern teaching
techniques and education technology. The courses
would be conducted by the Institutes of Education, in
conjunction with other appropriate institutions.  They
would continue at least until the Institutes and the
re-organized primary teacher training colleges are able
to meet the demand through pre-service courses.
The Institutes of Education and the National Research Center for
Educational Development
3.08      This project item includes eight of 15 Institutes of Education
planned in the public universities and equipment for the National CGnter
(para. 2.13). The Institutes would provide courses principally for to&-
chers of Spanish, modern languages, social studies, mathematics and sci-
ences; intakes by discipline need to be planned at the national level.
Annual output of 2,250 secondary teachers of academic subjects would be 64%
of total need (Annex 4). Each Institute could accommodate annually 600
teachers in-service (4-6 weeks' courses) in addition to providing short
courses, seminars, workshops and conferences.



- 13 -
3.09      Curricula would include about 8 weeks of teaching practice.  The
remaining 28 weeks would provide a balanced blend of pedagogy and specialized
methodology (40x), private studies (40%) and workshop practice including use
of modern technology such as teaching machines, and preparation of visual
aids (20%). A science laboratory is provided to ensure that prospective
science teachers gain practical knowledge of modern science teaching tech-
niques. The schedules of accommodation, the equipment and the furniture
would have the flexibility needed for the varied activities of the Institutes
including their research department. Construction would be on the open plan
basis (i.e. with nonstructural partitions) to permit easy and rapid re-
division; closed circuit television and other audio-visual aids would be
made available. A teacher-student ratio of 1:30 is proposed for the full-
time teaching staff. The proposal to supplement the teaching and research
staffs of the Institutes with personnel from the universities could favor-
ably influence the professional education programs of the universities.
In addition to about 40 man-years of fellowships, which may be obtained
from the Ford Foundation, about 45 man-years of fellowships are needed
for the training abroad of the staff who are academically qualified, but
inexperienced in current concepts of secondary teacher training.
3.10      The National Research Center for Educational Development is to
coordinate research activities and prepare and administer the training pro-
grams for the staff of the Institutes. It would also be responsible for
allocating the equipment provided for each of the research departments of
the Institutes. The Center's premises are ready in Madrid, and technical
assistance of about $1.5 million is expected from UNDP. In addition, equip-
ment estimated to cost approximately US$640,000 is needed and is included
in the project.
3.11      During the loan negotiations, the government gave assurances re-
garding the selection and appointment of the directors and permanent staff
members of the Institutes. Assurances were also given that the National
Research Center for Educational Development would:
(a) participate in the selection of the directors and
staff of the Institutes;
(b) prepare and administer training programs for Institute
staff, including the fellowships program (paras. 3.09; 3.10).
3.12      Technical Assistance.  The proposed project would include the
cost of the following specialists and fellowships needed to ensure satis-
factory implementation of both the reform plan and the project items:
(a) - 48 man-months of specialists to assist in the development
of the practical subjects at secondary education level
(para. 3.06);
- 56 man-montlhs of specialists in facility planning (para.
2.14);



- 14 -
- 10 man-months for a specialist in education programming
to help study the consolidation and adaptation needs of
existing scihools to meet the objectives of the reform
plans (para. 2.14);
- 10 man-months for a specialist in education administration
to advise on regulations subsequent to passing of the edu-
cation reform law, to ensure proper implementation (para
2.07);
- 66 man-months of management consultants to help modernize
the Ministry of Education administration and its dependent
units including the public universities (para. 2.14).
The work of the above specialists would be coordinated by the
unit in the Ministry of Education in charge of implementing
the reform. They would advise the Ministry and the appro-
priate departments, and initially, the project administrative
unit. They would also provide training assistance to the
National School of Administration and to their counterparts.
Phasing of their services is illustrated in Annex 8.
(b) 45 man-years of fellowships to train part of the staff needed
for the Institutes of Education (para. 3.09).
3.13      Project Administrative Unit.  The operating cost of a unit to
administer the implementation of the project over a 3-1/2 year period
(Chart 5) would be included within the project total cost.
3.14      Legislation.  The text of the new education law, as approved by
the Education Commission of the Cortes, provides a sound basis for the
implementation of the reform. Because the nature of each proposed proj-
ect item is related to the new law, enactment of the law by the Cortes,
without substantive changes from the bill approved by the Education Com-
mission, is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan. The Bank's
agreement would be required for any future changes in the substance of
the law which would materially affect the attainment of the objectives of
the proposed project.
Cost of the Project
3.15      The construction cost estimates for the proposed project have been
derived from recent school building costs in Spain. The unit area prices
have been adjusted to accommodate improvements in the design and construc-
tion of school facilities to meet the requirements of the new programs of
study, and for the introduction and use of sodern teaching techniques and
education technology. The estimated average unit area costs for basic general
education and diversified secondary education schools are about $62 per m2
and for the Institutes of Education about $76 per m2, which are reasonable.



- 15 -
3.16      For implementation of the project a systems approach to building
and design would be adopted, which would involve the use of industrialized
school construction methods. This would include industrialized production
of building components, bulk purchasing and competitive bidding. Compared
with traditional methods and practices for school building and design, the
proposed method would talce full advantage of Spain's already mechanized
building industry. Thus, the savings in construction time and costs would
permit the introduction of improved performance standards within the above
cost limits.
3.17      The estimated costs and minimum foreign exchange component of the
various parts of the proposed project are summarized below:
Pesetas (millions)       U.S. Dollars (millions)
% of
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total   Total
1. Basic General
Education         488.7    70.7   559.4      6.98    1.01    7.99    33%
2. Diversified
Secondary
Education         571.0    94.5   665.5      8.15    1.35    9.50    40%
3. Institutes of
Education         177.8    31.5   209.3      2.54    0.45    2.99    12%
4. National
Center for
Educational
Research           31.0    13.3   44.3       0.45    0.19    0.64       3%
5. Technical
Assistance          5.6    53.2   58.8       0.08    0.76    0.84       3%
6. Project
Administration    14.0       -      14.0     0.20      -      0.20      1%
7. Contingencies    111.9    19.6   131.5       1.60    0.28    1.88       8%
Total        1,400,0   282.8 1,682.8    20.00    4.04   24.04   100%
3.18      The costs by various types of expenditure would be as follows:



- 16 -
Pesetas (millions)        U.S. Dollars (millions)
% of
Local  Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign   Total   Total
1. Construction
Academic &
Communal
Facilities        729.6    90.3   819.9    10.42    1.29   11.71    49%
Staff Housing      15.7      2.1    17.8      0.22    0.03    0.25       1%
Site
Development       134.7    16.8   151.5       1.93    0.24    2.17       9%
Professional
Fees               69.4       -     69.4      0.99      -      0.99      4%
Sub-total       949.4   109.2 1,058.6    13.56    1.56   15.12    63%
2. Furniture          88.4    21.7   110.1       1.26    0.31    1.57       7%
3. Equipment         230.7    79.1   309.8       3.30    1.13    4.43    18%
4. Technical
Assistance
a. Fellowships       -      23.8    23.8       -       0.34    0.34      1%
b. Specialists      5.6    29.4    35.0       0.08    0.42    0.50       2%
5. Project Adminis-
tration          14.0       -     14.0      0.20      -      0.20      1%
6. Contingencies    111.9    19.6   131.5        1.60    0.28    1.88       8%
Total         1,400.0   282.8 1,682.8    20.00    4.04   24.04   100%
3.19      The cost of the project includes:  (i) a price increase allowance
of 8% included in the construction cost estimates to cover likely rise in
construction costs above 1969 prices during project implementation based
on the 3.5% annual average increase in recent years, and (ii) a contin-
gency allowance of 10% for unforeseen events in the construction, fur-
nishing and equipping of the project schools. School sites are to be
provided by the government without cost to the project.
3.20      The foreign exchange component has been calculated (i) for build-
ings and site development at 11%, furniture 20% and equipment 25% - includ-
ing imported materials, the import component of locally produced materials
and depreciation on imported plant; (ii) for fellowships at 100%; and (iii)
for specialists at 85%. Altogether the foreign exchange amounts to $4.04
million, 17% of the total project cost. If all furniture and equipment
supply contracts were won by foreign producers, the foreign exchange com-
ponent could go up to 34% of the total cost. Depending on the outcome of



- 17 -
international bidding, a Bank loan of US$12 million would therefore finance
all foreign expenditures, ranging from $4.0 million to $8.0 million (33% to
67% of the loan), and from 25% to 40% of all local expenditures.
3.21       Furniture and equipment estimates were reviewed for all schools.
Reasonable bulk costs for these categories of goods have been established
and included in the cost of each school, but detailed lists with itemized
costs would be compiled during design stages and presented for bank approv-
al before procurement.
3.22      Estimated costs per student place, excluding professional fees,
price increase allowance and contingencies, are reasonable, especially in
view of the flexibility needed in the project schools for experimentation
with the new curricula (para. 3.03):
Area                      Unit Cost (in US$)
Site
Type of Facilities        (m2)      Development Building Furniture Equipment Total
1. Academic & Communal
(area and cost per student place)
Basic General         4.5            50        280         37         53      420
Diversified
Secondary            5.4            60        335         52        142      589
Institute of
Education            6.7            76        509         74        316      975
2. Staff Housing
(area and cost per housing unit)
Basic and
Secondary           80             967      5,370         -          -    6,337
3.23      Because the Bank/IDA has not financed comparable education proj-
ects in European countries, the following costs per student place provide
only a rough measure of comparison: $825 and $656 for diversified second-
ary education, respectively in Trinidad and Colombia; $6,500 per staff house
in Colombia. As the Institutes of Education include provision of space and
equipment for their research department and as the basic general schools
would be the first to be financed by the Bank/IDA, a comparison of their
costs is not possible.
3.24      lRcurrent Costs per student have been estimated at $120 equivalent
for the basic level, $200 for the secondary level, and $730 for the Insti-
tutes at 1968/69 prices. Altogether, when operating at full capacity, the
project would add Ptas. 630 million per year, corresponding to about 1% of
the 1975 recurrent expenditures by the tMinistry of Education which are
manageable in terms of the projected government budget revenues (para. 2.19).



- 18 -
IV. IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENTS
4.01      General.  The construction industry in Spain is proficient and
competitive, with impressive productivity. It is supported by competent
professionals in architecture and engineering. The annual workload due
to the project is not likely to be more than 1% of the industry's annual
capacity.
4.02      Admin-istration.  A special unit would be established within the
Ministry of Education for (a) supervision of the project's implementation,
(b) coordination with the Ministry's several directorates and other interested
parties, and (c) liaison with the Bank. The Director of the unit would re-
port directly to the Under-secretary. The unit would include, on a full-time
basis, the following staff: (a) a Project Director and an architect both
already selected, and an educator, and (b) a qualified accountant to keep
sepa-rate accounts of all project disbursements. The officers under (a)
would be acceptable to the Bank. The project unit would be provided with
adequate supporting staff and other facilities. Establishment of the proj-
ect unit would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan.
4.03      Professional Services.  The need (a) to evaluate and establish
economic standards, (b) to introduce a systems approach to building and
design (to integrate use of either prefabricated or industrialized comr-
ponents) for the project schools and for long-term reduction of school
building costs, and (c) to supervise closely all aspects of implementation
requires the employment of professional manpower and expertise beyond the
existing resources within the Ministry of Education. Therefore, the Minis-
try has agreed to select and engage consulting firms, acceptable to the
Bank, on terms and conditions also acceptable to the Bank. In addition,
56 man-months of technical assistance are included in the project costs
for specialists in educational facility planning to advise the project
unit for the 47 project schools and the development group (Gabinete de
Normalizacion) within the Ministry on the development of schools at all
levels for the entire system.
4.04      Site Acquisition.  Suitable sites have been selected for all the
Institutes of Education and for 85% of the basic general education and di-
versified secondary education schools, and no difficulty is foreseen in
selecting the remaining sites.  The government has given assurances that
it will take timely action to acquire ownership of all sites.
4.05      Procurement.  All contracts for the supply of equipment and
furniture and for construction of schools would be awarded under interna-
tional competitive bidding. Itemn would be grouped to the extent practic-
able to form sizeable bid packages and to permit bulk procurement as neces-
sary to encourage such competition. Procedures for the pre-qualification
of civil work contractors and registration of interested suppliers and
manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be subject to agreement
with the Bank. It is unlikely that many foreign bidders, except for cer-
tain items of furniture and equipment, would be interested since Spain has



- 19 -
a well-developed furniture manufacturing industry, a progressive school
equipment manufacturing firm and a large, highly competitive construction
industry. Domestic manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be ac-
corded a margin of preference which would be the existing rate of customs
duty applicable to competing imports or 15% of the c.i.f. price, whichever
is the lower. Imports of didactic equipment not locally produced are duty-
free.
4.06      Disbursements.  The proposed loan would finance $12 million or
50% of the total actual cost of the project whichever is the lower. Ex-
penditures would be reimbursed on the basis of 50% of each cost category.
The funds would be disbursed over a 4 year period (Chart 5); construction
would be completed in about 3 years. Undisbursed funds would be available
for cancellation.
V. RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      During loan negotiations, agreement was reached with the Borrower
that it would:
(a)  implement its plans to reform the education system and its
administration and establish suitable programs for this
purpose (paras. 2.06; 3.05; 3.14);
(b)  ensure that the project institutions are provided with ade-
quate staff and adequate opportunities for experimentation
(paras. 3.04; 3.07; 3.11); and
(c)  appoint consultants acceptable to the Bank for the execution
of the project (para. 4.03).
5.02      Conditions of effectiveness of the loan would be the enactment
of the Education Law by the Cortes without substantive changes from the
bill approved by the Education Commission (para. 3.14) and the establish-
ment of a project unit (para. 4.02).
5.03      The proposed project is suitable as a basis for a Bank loan of
US$12.0 million equivalent to Spain, representing 50% of the total esti-
mated project cost. It is recommended that the loan should be for a period
of 20 years including a 5-year grace period.






APPENDIX
THE EDUCATIONAL REFORM
The Reform Proposals
1.        On the basis of a widely circulated policy paper (White Paper)
which diagnoses the present education system, a fundamental educational re-
form has been proposed by the Government in a bill now before the Cortes.
The bill deals only with the broad issues, leaving administrative and oper-
ational directives to be dealt with through ministry regulations. When the
bill becomes law, a malor task of the Ministry of Education will be to
revise the existing regulations and draft new regulations in the spirit of
the reform philosophy. This may require the assistance of foreign specia-
lists.
2.        The basic aim of the reform plan and the bill is to modernize
and rationalize education and training to ensure an efficient and productive
system, responsive to the economic and social needs and to the aspirations
of the nation in the last decades of the twentieth century. The system is
looked at as an organic unit; the re-definition of objectives and the pro-
posed plans for reform of the management, organization, structure and con-
tent of education, irrespective of the level or controlling authority, are
comprehensively integrated; the inter-relationships of change and develop-
ment in the various sectors foreseen.
3.        The emphasis is on quality and flexibility, on increased edu-
cational opportunity, and on increased benefits for the outlays. The
development strategy allows 10 years for implementation. The quality
factors will be introduced progressively but simultaneously with provi-
sion of new resources and re-deployment of existing resources.
4.        A comparison of Charts 1 and 2 shows the ironing out of the
complexities of the present system and the application of more enlighten-
ed educational, social and economical views on educational opportunity.
Discrimination between post-primary and lower middle or secondary edu-
cation would disappear. All students in the compulsory school period
would have a common course of basic general education (Grades 1-8); chan-
nelling of students thus would begin at age 14 instead of 10. This struc-
tural change would be accompanied by a change in the curriculum of the
second stage of basic general education (Grades 6-8). Practical subjects
- handicrafts, industrial arts, agriculture and home economics - would
form an integral part of the curriculum and mathematics and science would
be given new emphasis.
5.        There would be complete Integration of vocational training and
general education: after every level of education all school leavers
could enter a vocational center for more specific and intensive skill
training. Thus economic waste through drop-ouL would be minimized since
all leavers may enter an appropriate level vocational school (Chart 2).



APPENDIX
Page 2
6.        Another innovation is the re-structuring and re-orientation
of secondary education. The proposed curriculum would be student-centered,
catering for the varying aptitudes, interests and career prospects in the
student body. A common core of studies would be supplemented by additional
studies chosen by the students from a wide range of academic and technical
subjects. In addition, every student would receive instruction in one or
more technical areas which include the elements of industrial technology,
commerce, agriculture and home economics.  With testing and counselling
services also to be provided, students would be able to move more appro-
priately either into the university preparatory year with its science,
arts and technical branches (and later into the university proper, engineer-
ing or technician training), or into one of the numerous skill courses to be
offered in the second-level vocational centers, or directly into employ-
ment better prepared for on-the-job training.
7.        Higher education institutions of full university status, in-
cluding the engineering schools, would have two cycles of education.  Stu-
dents unable to complete a five-year course would have improved career
prospects on completion of the recognized first cycle of three years in
comparison with drop-outs of the present system. University level edu-
cation would become associated with scientific research. Again complementary
vocational technician training opportunities would be available. Regular
technician courses would run parallel to the first cycle of university
studies. The proposed new structure at university preparatory and higher
education may need further review especially in regard to ensuring the most
economic and educationally efficient articulation with the new secondary
school.
8.        Primary teacher training is to be upgraded and the curriculum
is being revised satisfactorily to meet the demands of the new basic gen-
eral education schools. A further innovation is the establishment of 15
Institutes of Education within the universities to train secondary and
higher level teachers, to undertake educational research under the aus-
pices of the coordinating body, the National Center for Educational Re-
search, and to provide educational advisory services at the national and
regional level. However, inadequate attention has been given to the
question of teacher training for the practical subjects in the basic gen-
eral education, secondary and vocational schools.
9.        At all levels active teaching methods would be used and the
potentialities of modern education technology would be systematically ex-
plored. Examination practices would be revised and the flow of students
within any level made smoother by the application of a system of promo-
tion akin to automatic promotion. These changes would reduce repetition
and drop-out. To maintain or improve academic standards well-trained
teachers and remedial and guidance services would be provided.
10.       To further improve efficiency the workload of the students is
to be increased from 24-27 to 32 hours a week and from 180 to 210 days
per year and the full-time teaching concept generalized in the secondary
schools.



APPENDIX
Page 3
11.       The rationalization program already in operation has required
the provincial primary education inspectorates to elaborate plans for
the consolidation of existing facilities. Central locations for new
consolidated schools have been well selected. This commendable planning
operation, however, must now be reviewed; it was done before the struc-
tural reform needs were known and consequently could not consider the
re-deployment of middle level education and training resources and the
future secondary school and vocational center needs.
12.       In administration, the proposal is to achieve a greater degree
of decentralization and to establish provincial offices with delegated
powers and services to administer, supervise and plan the educational ac-
tivities of the province. Courses for training provincial office person-
nel are to be organized at the National School of Public Administration.
13.       At the Ministry of Education a major overhaul of the administra-
tion is under way with a view to eliminating duplication and ensuring co-
ordinated and efficient services, and relieving technical personnel of
routine administrative duties thus enabling them to concentrate on the
professional and operational functions of implementation of the reform.
Much of the present time-consuming routine operations of the Ministry will
shortly be computer-processed. However, assistance from management spe-
cialists will be necessary to help the Ministry's staff in its task.
Implementation of the Reform
14.       If the reform is to be implemented and its objective is to be
achieved there is an immediate and long-term need to develop and sustain
purposeful educational research activities and to train and retrain per-
sonnel for the reform. The crucial nature of these two requirements has
been recognized in the establishment of the National Research Center for
Educational Development and the commencement of operations of Institutes
of Education, albeit in provisional premises and without equipment. These
institutions would carry out research in all aspects of education, includ-
ing curriculum development, sociological and other factors affecting edu-
cation in Spain, textbook and supplementary material preparation, applica-
tion of education technology, and appropriate testing devices and services.
15.       The Institutes should be in a position to experiment and to
disseminate their findings. They must have easy access to experimental
schools appropriately staffed and equipped, with authority to experiment
responsibly with alternative school administrative practices and orga-
nization structures, curricula, teaching nethodologies and techniques
including the use of new media.
16.       The National Center and the Institutes are the main institutions
for training of personnel. The National Center would elaborate programs
for the training/re-training of the staff of the Institutes, and the In-
stitutes for training of secondary school teachers. Since all primary



APPENDIX
Page 4
teacher training colleges are to be affiliated to the Institutes of Edu-
cation, the Institutes would oversee the training of the teachers of the
basic general education schools.
17.       To program the plan necessitates the conduct of detailed and
technically sound studies of present resources. These would then be re-
lated to the total facilities required to meet the qualitative objectives
and quantitative targets. In addition, in connection with new facilities
it will be neceYsary to carry out design studies and develop norms and
standards for schedules of accommodation, equipment and furniture. The
government requires technical assisttance for these purposes.



ANNEX 1
S P A I N
ENROLLMENTS, GRADUATES AND TEACHERS
BY LEVEL AND TYPE OF EDUCATION, 1967 - 1968
E N R O L L M E N T S                          T E A C H E R S
% IN PUBLIC     %    GRADUATES}         ESTIMATED FULL-TIM
TOTAL    EDUCATION   FEMALES            I TOTAL      EQUIVALENCY
Pre-Primary              626,293
Primary                3,552,393
Total Pre-Primary      4,178,686       70%         50               122,775         120,000
and__P  imary_____ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  ___ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Middle Level Ueneral
Secondary General
(Lower)       930,313       26%         45%      98,056
Secondary General
(upper)       154,945       25%         35%      44,479
Pre-University            34,545       35%         35%      23,506
Total M1iddle Level Gen. 1,119,803     26%         43%       n.a.   34,119           24,000
Total Middle Level Tech    61,946      64%         ...       7,673    4,750           3,000
Middle Level Vocational
Vocational Industrial    135,942       33%         ...         ...
Arts and Crafts           44,628                   ...       1,872 j 1,594            1,200
Commerce                  24,280       23%         20%       1,858 |
Para-Medical               8,625       60%                     ...   ...
Engineering Middle        65,380       41%          2%       4,567    2,788           2,500
Others                     5,225       ...         ...       ...
Total Middle Level Voc.   284,o80      ...         *--       ...      -
Higher
Universities             116,440       95%         30%       7,941    7,039           4,500
Higher Engineering        38,692       78%          2%       1,467    3,536           1,800
Primary Teacher Trg.      69,110       90%         60%      13,487    2,548           2,000
Others                     3,221       70%         50%                  281             200
Total Higher             227,463       90%         35%               13,404          8, 500
n.a.: not applicable
not available
Source: Compiled from data provided by Ministry of Education Statistics Services



ANNEX 2
SPAIN
Distribution of Employed Graduates from Engineering Schools,
by Economic Sector and by Type of Training Received
(December 31, 1965)
Elec -
Agri-          tro-   In-                         Tele-
Sector of     Aero-    cultur-         mecha- dus-           Fores-        communi-
EBnployment    nautical  al      Civil nical  trial Mining  trY   Naval cations   Total
Agriculture       -      155      _     _       _      _       81    -       -        236
Fisheries         -      -        -     -       -      -      -      -       -        -
M'ining indus-
tries            -      _        _     _        39    688   -       -       -         727
Manufacturing
industries:
Food           -       60      -     -       198    -        9    -       -        267
Apparel        -       26        9     4    492    -       _      _       _        531
Paper & Wood  -       -        -     -      180    -        43    _       _        223
Chemical         4     26       22     4    516      86    13      13    -         684
Metal          202    -35       48   220   1949    185   -        482    116      3237
Construction      39      60     670    13    333    163    99        13    -        1390
Electricity,
water and gas  -        17      270    56    555      60   -       -        13      971
Trade                     4 43     13   -       86    -      -       -        4       146
Transporta-
tion             73       9      151    43    310       9      9     21     20       645
Other services:
Administra-
tion         115    880       717     1    512    144   480        7      95     2951
Education       42    182      128     2    202      62    58      38      41      755
Research        55    115       73     1      43     19    12       2      39      359
Other           29      9      105   -      244      50    52    -         76      565
Total         559   1617    2206   344   5659   1466   856    576    404    13687
Source: J. L. Matut, Necesidades y Recursos de Ingenieros Civiles
Instituto de Ingenieros Civiles de Espana, Madrid, 1969.



SFA I N
FLOW OF STUDENTS IN BASIC GENERAL EDUCATION.* GFENRAL SECONDARY AND0
HIGBU EUXCATION ERTAHLI5NHRTS
(in '000)
Enrollnnt equivalent
_____              AGE                  1967-68        1970-71       1971 -2       1972-7        19374         1747           997           967           977           987           998            908
Pro-Primary                                                626                                                                                 877                                                                   10147        26%       30%       140%
A. BASIC GENERtAL EDUCATION
1                 6                       ..           595           600           605           610            615           621           626          631            636            6142          6147
2                 7                       ...           ...          5914          598           6014           609           6i14          619          625            630            635           6140
3                 8                       ...          ...           ...           593           598            603           608           613          61 8           6214           629           6314
14                9                       ..            ..            ....                       592            597           602           607          612             617           623           628
5                10                       ...           ...          ...           ...           ...            591           596           601          606            611            616           622
1-S    Sub-Total 6 thro I 1 0            29314                  ...           ...                  ...          3015          30141         3066         3092           3118           31145         3171         98%      100%       100%
6                11                       ...           ...          523           5140           ...           560           590           595          600             606           610           615
7                12                       ...           ...          ...           520           ...            5140          560           590          595             600           605           609
8                13                       ...           ...           ...          ...            ...           520           5140          560          589             5914          599           6014       _ _________
6 - 8 Sub-Total 11 thiro' 13               1326                         ..             .*..                       1620          1690          17145       17814           1800          1811          1828         81%   6%             99%
1 -8   Total   6thro,o'13                  14260          ...           ...           ...           ...           14635        14731         4141         148W6          4143           14"9 -         4999        90%      98%        100%
B. SECONDAR
9                114*.    ...                                         ...           ...           ...            ...          263           280          295             300           300           305
10                15                       ...           ...           ...           ...            .....                      290           260          280             290           290           295
11                16*.    ...                                          ...           ...           ...            ...          210           290          2140            260           270           270       ___________
9 -11 Sub-Total 114 thre' 16                 310           ...           ...           ...           ...            ..763                       800          815            850           860            870        20%      143%        149%
C. 12 Pre-University  sVTotal 17                            35           ..    ...            ...           ...                   ...            80           100          1140          1140           1140          1140         7%       13%        214%
9 -12  Total B+C 14throl 1734                              ...                  ...   ....83900                                                               5599                       1000          1010          16%      35           3
D. HIGHER (AU- types indluding technician
and Primary Teacher Training)                 227           ...           ...           ...           ...            ...           300           310          320            3140           350           360         7.2%     9.1%      10.3%
18 thro' 23
TOTAL A +B +C +D              6 thro 23               14832           .....                       ...           ...            ...         58714         6031         6151            62148         6309          6369        149%       56%       59%
X. VOCATIONAL EDUCATION
First Level                                            257            ...           ...           ...           ...            ...           23)           2140         250            260           270           280
Sezwnd Level                                           110            ...           ...           ...           ...            ...            80           195          110            120           130            135
Third Level                                                           ...           ...           ...*.                        ...            16            18           19             20            22             214
Total B                    13 thro' 23               367           ...           ...           ...           ...             ...          326           353          379            1400           1422          14140        6%.      5%         7%
aR)ANII TOTAL                  6 thm' 23              5199                                                                                  6200         63L6L        6530            66148         6731          6810o        53%      60%        63%



ESTIMATED TEACHER REQUIREMENTS - 1980-81
Basic General and Secondary Education
Teacher/    A               B             C
Projected  Student    Total                       Estimated   Required to  Requisite
Level         Enrollment   ratio    Teacher      Teacher Stqck   Wastage    be trained   annual average
1980      1980    Requirement    1967-68 L/     1968-1980   (A-B+C)        output
Pre-School              1,047,000   1:25      42,000 )
)      118,000        72,000       87,000        7,000  /
Basic General (Lower)  3,171,000   1:35       91,000 )
Basic General Upper     1,828,000   1:30      61,000           2,000          6,ooo      65,oo0         5,00O
194,000         120,000        78,000     152,000        12,000 .
Secondary               1,010,000   1:23      44,000          26,000        19,000       37,000        4,500
/ Estimated full-time equivalency.
/ Average annually for period of 1968-1980.
/ Average annually from 1973 to 1980 i.e. assuming
Institutes of Education in full operation in 1972,
but including 1000 teachers of practical subjects
to be prepared per year by other institutions, or in
conjunction with other institutions.



SPAIN
Projection of Education Expenditures
A. Ministry of Education
--1980 Projected---------     1967-1980
Recurrent       Total Capital
Expenditures     Expenditures
Level of Education       Enrollments   (Ptas. billion)   (Ptas. billion)
W   Un '00O)   Total   Public
Pre-primary                 10W47         9.8      4.9         14.7
Primary (grades 1-5)        3,171        28.0    26.5
Primary (grades 6-8)        1 828        25.7     24.5
Total - basic general                 r53 7      51.0         16.2
Secondary (grades 9-12)     1,040        23.0     13.8         32.2
Post-secondary & Higher       360        17.8     16.9         11.6
Vocational                    460        10.3      8.2          4.3
114.6    94.8          79.0
B. Total Education Exp)enditures
(Ptas. billion)
1968              1980
Ministry of Education
- recurrent expenditures      19.7               94.8
- capital expenditures         8.7                6.2
Total expenditures                 28.4              101.0     (1)
Other estimated public
education expenditure.                   9.3              13.2
Estimated private
expenditure                             15.7              19.8
Total education expenditures          53.4              134.0     (2)
GNP                                    1,757              3,320      (3)
Central Government budget revenues       234.2           442-660      (4)
Government revenues (k) as
% of GNP                              13.3             13.3 - 19.8
Total education expenditures (2)
as % of GNP                             3.0               4.0
Ministry of Education expenditures (1)
as % of Government revenues (4)       12.1             22.8 - 15.1
Source: Ministry of Education, Project request and staff estimates.






SPAIN
ENROLIMZNT STRUCTURE OF PROJECT SCHOOLS AND GRADUATES
A. Basic General Education
TOTAL                                                 TOTAL                   ISTIMATED
LOCATION                      GRADE 1      GRADE 2       GnADE 3       GRADE 4       RAlDE 5      LowER       GRADE 6       GRADE 7       CRADE 8       UPPER        TOTAL      MAXIMUM
Town                Province            ____                       _SCHOOL                                                __                                      SCHOOL                   GRADUATES
Madrid               Madrid                 80 (2)       80 (2)        80 (2)       80 (2)        80 (2)    400 (10)       160 (4)       160 (4)       160 (4)      480 (12)    880 (22)        140
Madrid               Madrid                 80 (2)       80 (2)        80 (2)       80 (2)        80 (2)    400 (10)       160 (4)       160 (4)       160 (4)      480 (12)    880 (22)        140
Salamanca            Salamanca              80 (2)        80 (2)        80 (2)       80 (2)        80 (2)    400 (10)       160 (4)       160 (4)       160 (4)      480 (12)    880 (22)        140
Orense              Orense                  80 (2)       80 (2)        80 (2)       80 (2)        80 (2)    400 (10)       160 (4)       160 (4)       160 (4)      480 (12)    880 (22)        140
Pontevedra           Pantevedra             80 (2)       80 (2)        80 (2)       80 (2)        80 (2)    400 (10)       160 (4)       160 (4)       160 (4)      480 (12)    880 (22)        140
Vigo                Pontevdra               80 (2)       80 (2)        80 (2)       80 (2)        8- (2)    400 (10)       160 (4)       160 (4)       160 (4)      480 (12)    880 (22)         140
La Corunia          La Coruna               80 (2)       80 (2)        80 (2)       80 (2)        80 (2)    400 (10)       160 (4)       160 (4)       160 (4)      480 (12)    880 (22)        140
La Corunia          La Coruffa             80 (2)        80 (2)        80 (2)       80 (2)        80 (2)    400 (10)       160 (4)       160 (4)       160 (4)      480 (12)    880 (22)        140
El Ferrol            La Coruna              80 (2)       80 (2)        80 (2)       80 (2)        80 (2)    400 (10)       160 (4)       160 (4)       160 (4)      480 (12)    880 (22)         140
E1 Ferrol            La Corufia             80 (2)       80 (2)        80 (2)       80 (2)        80 (2)    400 (10)       160 (4)       160 (4)       160 (4)      480 (12)    880 (22)         140
Santiago de
Comostela   La Corunia              80 (2)        80 (2)       80 (2)        80 (2)        80 (2)    400 (10)       160 (4)       160 (4)       160 (4)     480 (12)    880 (22)         140
Santiago de
Co-,ostela      La Ccr ua              80 (2)        80 (2)        80 (2)       80 (2)        80 (2)    400 (10)       160 (4)       160 (4)       160 (4)      480 (12)    880 (22)        140
Lugo                 Lago                   80 (2)        80 (2)        80 (2)       80 (2)        80 (2)    400 (10)       160 (4)       160 (4)       160 (4)      480 (12)    880 (22)        140
Bilbao               Bilbao                  80 (2)       80 (2)        80 (2)       80 (2)        80 (2)    400 (10)       160 (4)       160 (4)       160 (4)      480 (12)    880 (22)         140
Barcelona            Barcelona              80 (2)        80 (2)        80 (2)       80 (2)        80 (2)    400 (10)       160 (4)       160 (4)       160 (4)      480 (12)    880 (22)        140
Alueria               Aluer{a                80 (2)       80 (2)        80 (2)        80 (2)       80 (2)    400 (10)        160 (4)      160 (4)       160 (4)      480 (12)    880 (22)         140
Jaen                 Jaen                    80 (2)       80 (2)        80 (2)       80 (2)        80 (2)    400 (10)       160 (4)       160 (4)       160 (4)      480 (12)    880 (22)         140
Cadis                CadiS                   80 (2)       80 (2)        80 (2)       80 (2)        80 (2)    400 (10)       160 (4)       160 (4)       160 (4)      480 (12)    880 (22)         140
Badajoz              Badajoz                 80 (2)       80 (2)        80 (2)       80 (2)        80 (2)    400 (10)       160 (4)       160 (4)       160 (4)      480 (12)    880 (22)         140
TOTAL                        1520 (38)    1520 (38)    1520 (38)    1520 (38)    1520 (38)  7600 (190)    3040 (76)    3040 (76)    3040 (76)   9120 (228) 16720 (418)             2660
Alternative enrollsent structure under
different organizational pattern but
with no increase in facilities:
per school                                   80 (2)       80 (2)        80 (2)        80 (2)       80 (2)    400 (10)        200 (5)      200 (5)       200 (5)      600 (15)   1000 (25)         175
Total for 19 schools                1520 (38)    1520 (38)    1520 (38)    1520 (38)    1520 (38)  7600 (190)    3800 (95)    3800 (95)    3800 (95)  11400 (285  19000 (475)              3325
Indicates number of class groups in grade.



s P A I N
ENROLLMENT AND OPGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE OF PROJECT SCHOOLS AND GRADUATES
S. Secondary Schools                                                                                     SIAE
ESTIMATED
MAXIMUM11              GRADE 12                          MAXIMUrM      GRAND)
GRADE 9                            GRADE 10                            GRADE 11                  TOTAL            GRADUATES                        CENCES    TOTAL         GRADUATES    TOTAL
LOCATION          I        C       ffE       AG       I        C       TE        IG       I        C       HE        AG      GRADES 9-11    BACHILLERATO    LIBAItAL ARTS    AND MATHS   GRADE 12        GRADE 12  EIROLLMENT
Madrid                     90(3)   90(3)      60(2)      _     90(3)   90(3)   60(2)         -     90(3)   90(3)      60(2)      _       720(24)            220              30(1)         60(2)         90(3)         80        810(27)
Madrid (Univ. Campus)      90(3)   90(3)      60(2)      _     90(3)   90(3)   60(2)         _     90(3)   90(3)      60(2)              720(24)            220              30(1)         60(2)         90(3)         80        810(27)
Salasanca                  90(3)   90(3)      60(2)      _     90(3)   90(3)   60(2)         -     90(3)   90(3)      60(2)      _       720(24)            220              30(1)         60(2)         90(3)         80        810(27)
Orense                     60(2)   60(2)      60(2)      _     60(2)   60(2)   60(2)         -     60(2)   60(2)      60(2)      _       540(18)            160              30(1)         60(2)         90(3)         80        630(21)
Verin                      60(2)   60(2)        -      60(2)   60(2)   60(2)      -       60(2)   60(2)   60(2)        -       60(2)     540(18)            160              30(1)         60(2)         90(3)         80        630(21)
El Barco                   60(2)   60(2)        -     6C(2)   60(2)   60(2)       -       60(2)   60(2)   60(2)        -       60(2)     540(18)            160              30(1)         60(2)         90(3)         80        630(21)
Pontevedra                 60(2)   60(2)      60(2)      -     60(2)   60(2)   60(2)         -     60(2)   60(2)      60(2)      -       540(18)            160              30(1)         60(2)         90(3)         80        630(21)
Vigo                       60(2)   60(2)      60(2)      -     60(2)   60(2)   60(2)         -     60(2)   60(2)      60(2)      -       540(18)            160              30(1)         60(2)         90(3)         80        630(21)
L. Coru?a                  60(2)   60(2)      60(2)      -     60(2)   60(2)   60(2)         -     60(2)   60(2)      60(2)      _       540(18)            160              30(1)         60(2)         90(3)         80        630(21)
El Ferrol                  60(2)   60(2)      60(2)      -     60(2)   60(2)   60(2)         -     60(2)   60(2)      60(2)      -       540(18)            160              30(1)         60(2)         90(3)         80        630(21)
Santiago                   90(3)   90(3)      60(2)      -     90(3)   90(3)   60(2)         -     90(3)   90(3)      60(3)      -       720(24)            220              30(1)         60(2)         90(3)         88        810(27)
Sta. Eugenia de Riveira   60(2)   60(2)         -     60(2)   60(2)   60(2)       -       60(2)   60(2)   60(2)         -     60(2)      540(18)            160              30(1)         60(2)         90(3)         80        630(21)
Lugo                       60(2)   60(2)        -     60(2)   60(2)   60(2)       -       60(2)   60(2)   60(2)         _     60(2)      540(18)            160              30(1)         60(2)         90(3)         80        630(21)
Monforte de Lema           60(2)   60(2)        -      60(2)   60(2)   60(2)      -       60(2)   60(2)   60(2)         -      60(2)     540(18)            160              30(1)         60(2)         90(3)         80        630(21)
Bilbao                     90(3)   90(3)      60(2)      -     90(3)   90(3)   60(2)         -     90(3)   90(3)      60(2)      -       720(24)            220              30(1)         60(2)         90(3)         80        810(27)
Barcelona                  90(3)   90(3)      60(2)      _     90(3)   90(3)   60(2)         -     90(3)   90(3)      60(2)      -       720(24)            220              30(1)         60(2)         90(2)         80        810(27)
AlImera                    90(3)   90(3)      60(2)      -     90(3)   90(3)   60(2)         -     90(3)   90(3)      60(2)      -       720(24)            220              30(1)         60(2)         90(3)         80        810(27)
J"an                       90(3)   90(3)      60(2)      -     90(3)   90(3)   60(2)         -     90(3)   90(3)      60(2)      -       720(24)            220              30(1)         60(2)         90(3)         80        810(27)
Cadiz                      90(3)   9D(3)      60(2)      -     90(3)   90(3)   60(2)         -     90(3)   90(3)      60(2)      -       720(24)            220              30(1)         60(2)         90(3)         80        810(27)
Badajos                    60(2)   60(2)    60(2)    -         60(2)   60(2)   60(2)        -      60(2)   6t(2)      60(2)     -       1 540(8)            160              30(1)         60(2)         90(3)         80        630(21)
1470(49)1470(49)  90O(30) 3CO(10) 1470(49)1470(49) 900(30)   300(10 1470(49) 1470(49)   900(30) 300(10)  12420(414)               3740             600(20)       1200(40)    1800(60)      1600      114220(474)
indicates number of class groups
I - Induatrial Technology               C- Cornere               H.E. * Home Economics              AG - Ariculture/isheries
Note: All class groupse take coon  ore subjects plus 6 bours of electives and 6 hors of the practical options shown above.
The above division for practical options applies only where studenta are exposed to cne practical option throughout the three years course
leading to the Bschillerato; schools, however, may be rgsntzed differently in wder to expose all students to tw  or to three praotical
options in the cowse  of the thre years.
C. Institutes of Education
Total           Ent. Graduates
Univeraity         Pro-Service           Others         Trainee                fur
-              PCa8Si            Sec. Sohools
Madrid                 500                100             600                  475
Barcelona              350                 50             400                  335
Granada                250                 50             300                  240
Santiago               250                 50             300                  240
Salaanca               250                 50             300                  240
Valenoia               250                 50             300                  240
Valladolid             250                 50             300                  240
Zaragoma               250                 50             300                  240
TOTAL        2350                450            2800 t/               2250
1/ Doos not include in-service courses to be uoganioed duing vation periods  and while pre-serhn8e
trainees ore in,11fecandary schools for block periods of t-ochAng practice.



S P A I N
PBOJECT SCHOOIS - TEACHER RIWIRENTS
A. Basic General Education Schools
GOIRAL CLASS   LIBAT   MATHS-         FORIE(W      NUSIC AUD   ART/    IIWSTRIAL    NOM                         PHrs.            TcHI/STUDBUT
2fOBMIWNT   DIRlCTOR    TEACHERS        ARTS    SCIENCE    LANWIMAl       OlI9hUAL     CRAJTS     ARTS        BOONOMICS    RELIGION    F.D.   TOTAL         RATIO
Basic General Education
Items Nos.       Each School          880         1           10            3         3            2           1           1          2            2             1         2        28         1:32
Total for 19 schools      16720         19          190           57        57           38          19         19         38            38           19         38      532
B. Secondary Schools
SOCIAL     FOREGN    GENERAL       PHIL-   CLAS-          8C-   IND.               HOME           RM-  PHS.             STUDUT
DBMOLIUIT   DIBBCTOR   LITUATURB   STUDI           LANIGUAOlB  TUCHERS  OCOPHY   8ICS   MATiB S ICIS  TZMa COMMCE   30N . Ac.  oDN   ED. TOTAL    RATIO
Secondary Education
Itess Nos.
Each School         810          1             4          4          3           1          1       1       4      7      2       2         2      -       2     2       36      1s23
&ub-Total for 9 schools        7290         9             36         36        27            9         9        9     36     63      18     18         18      -     18    18      324
Items Nos.
ENach School        630          1             3           3         3            -         1       -       3      6     15    1         1       -      2     2       28      1:23
Sub-Tota   for 6 schools       37Bo         6             18         18         18           -         6        -     18     36       9      9          9      -     12    12      168
Items Nos .
Bach School         630          1             3          3          3           -          1       -      3       6     13    1i         -       15     2     2       28      1:23
Sub-Total for 5 schools        3150         5             15         15         15           -         5        -     15     30       8      8         -       8      10    10        4
Total 20 Secondary Schools          14420        20             69         69         60          10         20      10     69    129      35     35         27      8      40    4O      636      1:23



SPAIN:  OUTLINE SCHEDULING OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE NEEDS
1970              1971                1972
Quarter           Quarter             Quarter             Total
1st 2nd 3rd 4th   1st 2nd 3rd 4th    tst 2nd 3rd 4th        Man-Months
Bachillerato: Practical options
Specialists in:
Industrial Technology                      ..             ++                                       6)
Commerce                                    ++            ++                                       6)
Hame Economics                                    +++                                              6     4B
Agriculture                                ...           ..                                        6)
General Adviser and Coordinator              +++ +++   +++ +++ +++ +++    +++ +++                   24 )
Facility Planner:
Buildings                                  ++++++   +++ +++ +++ +++    ++                         20 )
Equipment                                  +.. ++.  +++   +++ +.+ +++      ++  +                  24 )  56
)
Other specialist services                  +++ +++           +++         ++                       12 )
Education Administrator
to advise on regulations
subsequent to passing of law               +++ .+.   +++ +                                        10
Specialist for progE Ming of
rdacaton refor+ and plans                   +..  +++   +++ +                                        10
Man%ement consultants                          . +++   ++.+ ++.+ +++ +++    +++ +.+                 24 )
(administration of NMinistry of            +.+ +++        +++ +++ +++     ... +++                   24 ) 66
Education and dependent units)               ++++++            +++ +++                              12 )
+++ +++                                                 6 ) 1
190



SPAIN: STRUCTURE OF EDUCATION AND
TRAINING SYSTEM 1969
SECONDARY   SCHOOLS
LOWER                                   UPPER                                             FACULTIES
Art.                                      Medicine, Phr-mocy Veterinry
0
Nursery ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ Sine KinderFocrten
T Loaer                                  Tochico   Sheols
Hig h., Sc                 F     eleArta
N,ey U         Kversir y -gnrt
MIDDLE    LEVEL   EDUCATION
PRIMARY   EDUCATION
G~ORADE                                      Ir    e      ,       c- -..               .     -
Note: Age - Grade relati n pplies onJy whn  twd-t etert  pprpriate age and  -r     tr-h  ys             ithat repetitio
IBRD - 4695 (2R)






SPAIN
PROPOSED STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM
TECHNOLOGY INSTITUTES
POLYTECHNICS
Fjr.t Cy.f.          SeC-nd Cy.l.
R  A S I C  G E N E R A L S C H A      O L S                                                                 UNIVERSITIES
_   F;r5  SFa9e    --SeCOnd  5tA9e---_                  SECONDARY SCHOOLS                                F;r-t CYCIe          SeCCn8 Cy.l.
COURSE YEAR
I  NFAN CTIS     AEDIUACAITONIP
o3D -0
UNIVERSITY SCHOOLS'
VO L T GVOCATIONAL TRAINING
P.-RENA.--Y OR UIEST                                                                                                                                                       -E:l
PR--IPL EXA-IAT-O P--TS2( { 
VOC:..ATIONTAL :..I-. IAI - EVIII..                                                          VOCATIONAL TRAINING
ER.g. PRi;Ry Te..h.r TrWRIR/g
L A 8 O R M A R K E T
C-EASIC  GENERAL EDUCATION                                                     SECONDARY  EDUCATION                                      HIGHER  EDUCATION                          >
GRADE I          2        3       4        5        6        7        8            9       10       11           12            13       14       15      16       17          18
,   ,        ,        I         .  I       I        I        II  I  I                          - I  I  I  I              I                       I                      I        I       I          I 
AGE OF ENTRY 2         3       4        5            6        7        8        9       10       11       12      13            14       IS 10                 17           18       19       20       21       22         23 1
IBRD - 4697 (21E) 






SPAIN: ORGANIZATION OF THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION,1969
M MINI STER R
C O   ODNATIONAL COUNICA L                                                                                                  DDER-SECRETARY
S CHOMISOL WELARE           DIRECTORATE               DIRECTORATE              SECRETARIAT             DIRECTORATE           SECONDRYANTHGERDCTO
L SCHOL WELFRE  X ARCHIVES AND LIBRARIES|        FINE ARTS           T  ECHNICAL SERVICES     P  RIMARY EDUCATION |  L VOCATIONAL    t        LADRSAC
SERVICES                                                                                                         EDUCATION              ANDFEDURESEARCH
SERVICES ANDD ERVCE
SCHOLARSHIPS  |           GENERAL SERVICES |          ART                    PLANNING               P  ERVCSOANNEL           CURRICULA                UNIVERSITIES
TECHNICAL                                                                  INSPECTION           HIGHE~~~~~~~~~~~  SHOO   CNSRUCTECHNIA
q WELFARE SERVICES          S i   TERHNICES    l  5  MUSIC      l       d    STATISTICS   l          ORI ENTATION IZT          SERVICES  AIT OEDUCATIONS,
NATIONAL FUND                                   INTERNATIONAL              SCH~~~~~~~~~~~RATOOL ARESERCHIAN
F  WELORTEQUALTYIV ARCHIVES L                       F  ARCHEOLOGY             TECHNICAL          PRIMARYTEUCTION             VORIENTATIONAL          A    RDlNARC
| EXTENSION                                          SCHOOLS'               INSPECTION          J    RADIO, TV                COUNCIL OF 
SERVICES                  IMUSEUS,ETC.            FACILITIES NORMS             SERVICES               EDUCATION                 RECTORS
i MICROFILM           | TECHNICAL              J ORIENTATION  |               IEAY       l      J    ADVISORY               OTHER ADVISORY|
SERVICES                                         PAI SERVICES                   ANAND GUIDANCE  LITERC  COUNCILS          COUNCILS
SCHOLARSHI PDOCUMENTATERIONS                                                                  INPECTIONNE
{ TDOCUMENICATION                                                                                                             TECADULT EDUCATION  TECE TRAIONIN  SCHOOL FACILITlES  PERSONNEL
WLPUSLICATIONS  | IDOCUMENTATION                 PRIVATE EDUCATION|
SERVICES                                                                 -1            SERVICESDCUMENTATIO
AND DOCUMETARCIVE S       MEDICAL SERVICES          OPERSONNEL              C
E   PROMOTION             SCHOOL FACILITIES 
qSCHOOL FACILITIES 
S                                                                      ILS7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
qTEACHER TRAINING
IBRD - 4701 (2R) A






BuumjU.L igoDal XADWEJd PuD IDuOI40:)OA EI/ AJDwIJd                                          dnojB-e6o ui uotpinoIfd jr,4o .L
(Sa]NvsnoHI Ni)
ooe        .        ooz        9        o'ot      01        0        0g        001      09S L     00'       09'       00oe
q:          z~~~
0 1
ZLI
v L
.   ......     ...     .....~L
9 1
Li
61
31VW3hi                                       .....           W
31vw                                   CZ~~~~~~~~O
. .....                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~vz
NOI1VJfl~~~~~ JO   1JAw:q    GNV wm           A
996L-L96L 'GIWV~IAd 1VNOIiV~flQJ :NIVdS






SPAIN EDUCATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION ** EXPENDITURE  DISBURSEMENT
F   ACTIVITY             IMYOEAR H201L1 _ L1L1L               ' 2 3                       12 3 | 4 5 6 1 7 3  9  12| 2 | 314 SI 6 | 71 4
1 113411671 9~01112   23115J1      91011121 2314 5161 78 9 1011112 11 2 3 14 15167  819 10111112
SURVEY AND PREPARATION OF SITES                                                                                                                           24TT TT T.015*f      
TTTT       T   TTTT                                                         21r524.0
IADMINISTRATION AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCe T 
PROGRAMMING AND ARCHITECTS BRIEF                         7                                                    0
PRELIMINARY DESIGN
CUMULATIVE EXPENDITUR-ES
ESIGN DEVELOPMENT                                                                                    US $ MILLIONS EQUIVALENT)
12.0
PREPARATION OF FURNITURE AND EQUIPMENT LISTS                   IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIAf  k-t    7                                                              l 
WORKING DRAWINGS AND CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS                              I                                                 !II18.7  IIIIIII
-CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTSI
US $ MILLIONS EQUIVALENT)
F URNITURE AND EQUIPMENT BID DOCUMENTS           i<1A                                                                USlLO:QIAET 
|TENDER AND AWARD CONTRACT   
CONSTRUCTION, FURNISHING AND EQUIPPING                     _J  /kJ i   T
0.7Defes and liability period                                                  (
IBRD-4712 (2R)






40~~~~~                                                      5*U                                                                0*0 ANANE
El FENSE            '-o         l                                       t.O$RONO, F  A Y                                                 NDORRA
40~~~~~~~~~~~~     
U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
t~~~~~~~~~ RW i                                                                                                               If HC  U E S CA    A
N: }QLEm `c0A\,                                                                                                       t /   z
Z                                 J'LoGR C wsONOy2--X~9w,$ ,v, S S fXs si                                                                                       EDUCATION  PROJECT
t       E RoE  I  D Ageneral  eodry      Education
\ HV-LVA .                                                                                                                      I X        .    e Madrid t\ MAdRid t. MRdrid
.~~~~~~~~~~~ E 5  V t L L A    ,F \                                   GrO_3min6du  f4  ALMERi'A.                     Pers,ons per sqUarie  6. Vian       tS El norca   6,, Gronada
\   2 J >trV/l   5/<   g  :    V  i . . /<-  /                 | iess tbon 15         8~~~~~~~~~~. La Caoran   8. Vigs  8. Valladolid
n5- Af/antic   COcao                              c     , , f                     MEDI TERRANEAN                                        A    i350135000            16 Borceionc    17 AlmerIo
CANARY   ISLANDS                                                                        i GIUARALTAR  SEA18oz                                                                  8c
V   Sonfo Crz   n        f                                                  O            SO           100                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~19 nsdaozo  ZO. Codajo
fdh Taner                                                                                                            MiLES                             _    Ga.icca boundary
_2dv             OO~~(~}rInat         on                                                                                0       5       100     5S0      200                  Snerrotd roads
f3   >                                /             X~~~~~~~~~~~~~MOROCCO                                            OILOMiETEnS                     ____- errvnphudre
a  as    cc   Ian Cii,.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ UEN  
b  .  .   4o   /          so x             \ rN         >                                              O                 _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~._._ Irterrwatxonai boundi rins
FE8RUJARY 1970                                                                                                                                                                                                  IR-70



