Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 1657
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
SPAIN FIRST AND SECOND EDUCATION PROJECTS
(LOANS 699-SP AND 832-SP)
June 30, 1977
Operations Evaluation Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FM OmaUIL UK ONLY
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
SPAIN FIRST AND SECOND EDUCATION PROJECTS (Loans 699-SP and 832-SP)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface
Project Performance Audit Basic Data Sheets
Highlights
Project Performance Audit Report
I. Project Summary             ,...                                    1
II.   The First Project and Its Implementation ...............          4
III.   The Second Project and Its Implementation ....        ..........  7
IV.   Major Issues Concerning Both Projects: .................          8
A. Differing Perceptions of Reform Held by Bank
and Borrover .......................................         8
(1)  Gaps in Understanding .........................         9
(2)  Bank/Borrower Differences on Particular
Project Items - ...............................        11
(a)  Workshops ................................        11
(b)  Vocational education .....        ................  11
(c)  Barcelona Polytechnic University ....     .....   12
(3)  Project Overspecification    .........     ...........  12
(4)  Accomplishments and "Failure" of Reform .......        13
B.  Project Management .................................         14
V. Conclusions              ..                      .............     15
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonrance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
SPAIN FIRST AND SECOND EDUCATION PROJECTS (Loans 699-SP and 832-SP)
Preface
This is a performance audit of the First and Second Education
Projects in Spain, for which Loans 699-SP and 832-SP, in the amounts of $12.0
and $50.0 million were made in June 1970 and June 1972, respectively. These
two loans were cancelled as of February 25, 1975, at which time disbursements
under the first loan totalled $472,000. No disbursements had been made under
the second loan. Because project implementation was so slight before the
loans were cancelled, normal project completion reports were not prepared.
This report is based on the Loan Agreements and Supplementary
Letters, the Project Appraisal Reports (PAR's), the Bank's correspondence
files, the project working papers, progress and supervision reports relating
to both loans, the UNESCO report on "Spain, Educational Reform", prepared by
a 1968 mission sent to Spain by UNESCO, the Bank and FAO, the White Paper on
"Education in Spain: Bases for an Educational Policy", published in 1969 by
the Spanish Ministry of Education and Science, the report on "The Spanish
Educational Reform and Permanent Education", published in 1976 by the General
Mediterranean Foundation and the UNESCO Institute for Education, and discus-
sions with Bank staff and with present and former officials of the Spanish
Government involved with the two projects. The audit thus places the Bank
supported projects in the wider context of developments in the sector as a
whole.
The audit report summarizes the objectives and gives a history
of the principal elements of the two projects, analyzes the reasons for
their lack of success and draws lessons for the Bank from this experience.






PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT BASIC DATA SHEET
SPAIN FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT (Loan 699-SP)
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal       Actual or
Item                                   Expectation   Current Estimate
Total Project Cost (US$ million)                    24.0              n.a.
Underrun or Overrun (x)                                             n.a
Loan/Credit Amount (US$ million)                                     12.0
Disbursed     ) 2/25/75                                              .472
Cancelled     ) 2/25/75                                            11.528
Repaid to     ) 5/15/75                                              .472
Outstanding to)  5/16/75                                            0.0
Date Physical Components Completed                9/30/73           2/25/75
Proportion Completed by Above Date (%)             100                1.5
Proportion of Time Underrun or Overrun ()           -                 n.a
Institutional Performance                          Good         Unsatisfactory
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Original                      Actual or
Item                  Plan        Revisions      Est. Actual
First Mention in Files or
Timetable                                                   8/8/68
Government's Application                                      8/2/69
Negotiations                                                  3/17-19/70
Board Approval                                                6/23/70
Loan/Credit Agreement Date                                    6/30/70
Effectiveness Date            9/30/70   12/31/70, 1/31/71     1/8/71
Closing Date                  6/30/74                         2/25/75 (cancelled)
Borrower                    Government of Spain
Executing Agency            Project Unit, Ministry of Education & Science
Fiscal Year of Borrower     January 1 - December 31
Follow-on Project Name      Second Education Project
Loan Number                       832-SP
Amount (US$ million)              50.0
Loan Agreement Date               June 21, 1972



PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT BASIC DATA SHEET (Cont'd)
MISSION DATA
Month,    No. of    No. of     Man     Date of
Item         Sent by     Year       Weeks-    Persons  Weeks-/ Report
Planning/         Bank/FAO/
Reconnaissance    UNESCO       10/68       4          3      12       2/69
Identification    Bank/FAO/
UNESCO       5/69        1          3       3       5/21/69
Preparation       UNESCO       6-7/67      5          5      25       7/28/69
Appraisal         Bank         10-11/69    4          5      20       5/22/70
Total            14                  60
Supervision    I Bank          12/70       1          1       1       1/6/71
Supervision   II  Bank         5-6/71      1          3       3       6/29/71
Supervision  III  Bank          7/72       1          2       2       7/24/72*
7/72       2           1       2       9/29/72
Supervision   IV  Bank         10/72       1          1       1      11/13/72*
Supervision    V  Bank          4/73       1          2       2       6/7/73*
Supervision   VI  Bank          6/73       1          2       2       7/30/73*
Supervision  VII  Bank          9/73       2          1       2       9/26173*
Supervision VIII  Bank          9/74       2          2       4      10/18/74*
Total            12                  19
* Also supervised Loan 832.  Of the total of 19 weeks of supervision of Loan
699, 13 involved supervision also of Loan 832.   Supervision of both totalled
21 manweeks.
CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES
Name of Currency (Abbreviation)               Pesetas (Ptas.)
Year:
Appraisal Report Year Average            Exchange Rate:  US$1   Ptas. 70
Intervening Years Average                                US$1   Ptas. 64
Completion Year Average                                  US$1 = Ptas. 58
1/   Number of 5-day weeks shown in the mission report plus travel time.
2/   Number of weeks times number of persons.



PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT BASIC DATA SHEET
SPAIN - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (Loan 832-SP)
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal       Actual or
Item                              Expectation   Current Estimate
Total Project Cost (US$ million)              152.5
Loan Amount (US$ million)                                      50.0
(Cancelled) 2/25/75                                           50.0
Date Physical Components Completed           12/31/76        2/25/75 (cancelled)
Proportion Completed by Above date (%)         100               0
Institutional Performance                      Good            Worse
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Original                       Actual or
Item                  Plan        Revisions       Est. Actual
First Mention in Files or
Timetable                                                  11/18/69
Negotiations                                                 4/5-11/72
Board Approval                                               5/30/72
Loan Agreement Date                                          6/21/72
Effectiveness Date             9/15/72  11/1/72; 12/29/72;   1/3/73
1/5/73
Closing Date                   6/30/77
Borrower                       Government of Spain
Executing Agency              Project Unit, Ministry of Education & Science
Fiscal Year of Borrower        January 1 - December 31



PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT BASIC DATA SHEET (Cont'd)
MISSION DATA
Month,    No. of     No. of    Man      Date of
Item         Sent by      Year      Weeks-     Persons  Weeks-/ Report
Reconnaissance     Bank        5-6/71       1          1        1      7/6/71
Appraisal          Bank        9-10/71      6          8       48      5/15/72
Post-appraisal     Bank        2/72         2          1       2       2/29/72
Total                  9                  51
Supervision     I  Bank        7/72         1          2        2      7/24/72*
10/2/72
Supervision    II  Bank        10/72        1          1        1      11/13/72*
Supervision   III  Bank        4/73         1          1        1      5/4/73
Supervision   IV   Bank        4/733        1          2        2      6/7/73*
Supervision    V   Bank        4/73         1          1        1        n.a.
Supervision   VI   Bank        6/73         1          2        2      7/30/73*
Supervision  VII   Bank        9/73         2          1        2      9/26/73*
Supervision VIII   Bank        9/74         2          2        4      10/18/74*
(also Completion)
Total                 10                  15
* Also supervised Loan 699. Of the total of 15 weeks of supervision of Loan
832, 13 involved supervision of Loan 699 also. Supervision of both loans
totalled 21 manweeks.
CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES
Name of Currency (Abbreviation)                Pesetas (Ptas.)
Year:
Appraisal Report Year Average - 1972      Exchange Rate:  US$1 = Ptas. 64
Intervening Years Average                                 US$1 = Ptas. 58
Completion Year Average                                   US$1 = Ptas. 58
1/   Number of 5-day weeks shown in the mission report plus travel time.
2/   Number of weeks times number of persons.



PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
SPAIN FIRST AND SECOND EDUCATION PROJECTS (Loans 699-SP and 832-SP)
Highlights
The first and second education loans to Spain (Loan 699-SP of
June 1970 and Loan 832-SP of June 1972) were provided to support the Bor-
rower's efforts to modernize and reform the Spanish education system. The
projects included new kinds of basic schools (Grades 1-8), secondary schools
(Grades 9-12) and vocational training centers and improvements to post-sec-
ondary engineering and agricultural education and training, educational re-
search and teacher training. In February 1975, at the Borrower's request,
both projects were cancelled; by that time, only US$0.5 million of the first
loan and none of the second loan had been disbursed.
The major faults lay in the original over-estimation, on the part
of both Bank and Borrower, of Spain's readiness for major educational change
and of the practical possibilities of achieving such reform. The Bank's
involvement in financing education in such a "high income" country depended
upon a strong commitment to reform and the projects were designed in rigid
conformity with agreed reform measures. When the Borrower's interest in
the kinds of reform agreed with the Bank declined,the basis for the
projects was destroyed.
The following points may be of special interest:
(a) the Borrower's reluctance to accept Bank procedures
(paras. 9, 17, 18, 23, 31, 34);
(b) the Borrower's changing view of reform and its impact
on specific project items (paras. 17-18, 30, 33-37,
41-42);
(c) project management (paras. 43-45);
(d) lack of continuity of Bank and Borrower personnel
(paras. 28-30, 37).






PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
SPAIN FIRST AND SECOND EDUCATION PROJECTS (Loans 699-SP and 832-SP)
I. Project Summary
1.        In 1970 the Spanish Government undertook a major overhaul of its
educational system and turned to the Bank for help in the form of loans - a
small one in 1970 and a large one in 1972 - and in the form of technical
advice and assistance.  The Bank was eager to help a major reform of this
kind and made loans of US$12 million and US$50 million respectively.
2.        The particular elements of the reform which were financed by the
Bank's loans encountered a number of delays. However, the Spanish Government
went ahead with many of the other elements, particularly an extensive building
program, reorganization of the Ministry of Education and Science and adminis-
trative regulations affecting the educational system. Over the years of the
project several changes took place in the leadership of the Ministry, and the
Minister and Under-secretarywho took office in January 1974 were less sympathe-
tic to the project-related institutional reforms than were their predecessors.
With a large part of its non-project school construction program completed,
the government refused to use, in building the project "demonstration" schools
(which were by then too delayed to be useful as demonstrations anyway), space
standards which the Bank considered adequate for the originally agreed programs
and which were higher than the standards in the schools already built, and
further insisted on change or deletion of a number of the loan provisions which
the Bank considered essential. In the face of this impasse, the government
requested that the two loans be cancelled, which they were as of February 25,
1975.
3.        Initial government inquiry into the possibility of obtaining Bank
assistance for educational expansion in Spain was made in 1963. Owing to
Spain's generally high level of development and to sizeable forecast Bank
commitments to the transport sector (mainly the modernization program of the
Spanish railways, for which the total loans ultimately extended amounted to
US$205 million), a formal request for education was discouraged. In 1968,
however, the Bank participated in a joint UNESCO-Bank-FAO mission which re-
viewed a proposed sweeping reform of the Spanish educational system, and, in
1969, appraised a government request, prepared with the help of UNESCO, for
financing the first phase of this reform. This loan was signed in June
1970.
4.        The reform itself was ambitious, touching all aspects of education
from kindergarten through university. It was elaborated in a widely circu-
lated White Paper prepared by the Technical General Secretary in the Ministry
of Education and Science, with advice and help from UNESCO, OECD, the Ford
Foundation and other sources.
5.        The broad concepts and issues of the reform were dealt with in the
new basic education law enacted by the Cortes in August 1970. The administra-
tive and operational directives which implemented this law were embodied in



-2-
decrees and ministry regulations issued from time-to-time. The principal
features of the reform were:
(i)  A complete restructuring of the educational system so a8 to
provide a compulsory school period of eight years (ages
6-14) for all students with a common course of basic general
education (Grades 1-8). Channelling of students was thus to
begin at age 14 instead of age 10 as previously. The cur-
riculum of the second cycle of basic general education (Grades
6-8) was to be expanded to include practical subjects and
mathematics and science were to be given a new emphasis.
(ii)  Vocational training as a bridge between general education
and the world of work. Since general education was to
include practical subjects and be of longer duration,
the vocational training itself could be more intensive and
shorter in duration. Following every major level of educa-
tion, school leavers would be able to enter a vocational
center for intensive skill training which took into account
their previous attainments and occupational demands.
(iii)  Restructuring and reorientation of secondary education.
Comprehensive secondary schools (Grades 9-11) catering for
about 70% of the relevant age group were to be established,
offering a common core of studies supplemented by additional
studies chosen by each student from a wide range of academic
and technical subjects. Every student was to receive instruc-
tion in one or more technical areas. Student workloads were
to be increased from 24 to 32 hours per week and from 180 to
210 days per year. Testing and counselling services were
planned to assist in channelling of students either into the
university preparatory year with its science, arts, and
technical branches (and subsequently into a unviersity),
or into one of the numerous skill courses to be offered in
middle-level vocational centers, or directly into employment
better prepared for on-the-job training.
(iv)  Restructuring and reform of higher education, including estab-
lishment of two cycles of education (one of three years' and
another of two years' duration, with a diploma at the end of
the first cycle), technician courses parallel to the first
cycle of university studies, greater involvement with scien-
tific research, greater use of full-time professors, direct
employment of professors by institutions (rather than by the
Ministry of Education).
(v)  Additional flexibility in the educational system, to include
adult education and compensatory training for persons in the
labor force who desired to return to formal education ("life-
long education").



- 3 -
(vi)  Improved selection and training of teachers, including the
provision of practice teaching and refresher courses; establish-
ment of Institutes of Education within the universities to
train secondary and higher teachers, to undertake educational
research under the auspices of a coordinating body (the National
Center for Educational Research), to provide educational advisory
services at the national and regional levels and to train teachers
in practical subjects; and a general modernizing of teaching
methods.
(vii) Reorganization of the Ministry of Education and Science.
6.        The government planned to construct new places for 3,373,000
students at the several levels, at a capital cost of over 200 billion pesetas
(more than US$3 billion). The financial requirements for public construction
to implement the educational reform over the ten-year period, 1970-1980, were
estimated by the appraisal team as follows:
Number of New       Capital Cost
Level and Type of                           Places (Public)        (P'ublic)
Education                                   (000's)      (mlns. of pesetas)
I.   First Level Education (Total)          2,203              106,736
1.  Pre-school                          145                5,800
2.  Basic General                      1,808              75,936
3.  Vocational Training 1                250              25,000
II.   Second Level Education (Total)           796               61,195
1.  Comprehensive Secondary             577               31,735
2.  University Orientation                98               5,390
3.  Vocational Training II               121              24,070
III.   Third Level Education (Total)            374               35,000
1.  First Cycle University              228               21,090
2.  Second Cycle University               76               8,010
3.  Doctorate                             45               3,400
4.  Vocational Training III               25               2,500
Total                       3,373              202,931
7.        At the same time, recurrent expenditures for public education were
expected to increase from 45,661 million pesetas in 1970/71 to 164,123 mil-
lion pesetas in 1980/81, or from 10.8% of total public recurrent expenditures
in 1970 to 13.9% in 1980 according to estimates of the appraisal mission for
the second project. Despite the substantial costs estimated to be required by
the reform, financing of these by the Spanish Government was not expected to
be a problem because the Spanish economy was booming.
8.        The reform was therefore expected to assist in a general national
effort at modernization, providing a compulsory general education for eight
years, reducing discrimination in early streaming, providing vocational



- 4 -
education as a bridge to the world of work, developing job-related skills
and later providing for adult education and re-entry into formal education
by persons from the labor market. With increased educational opportunities
and employment training for all, the human resource base needed for a modern
and productive society might be built.
9.        The Bank was attracted by the promise of the reform and in partici-
pating in financing this reform it departed from its usual policies in two
ways. Firstly, it agreed to finance an important part of the local currency
costs of the first project (up to 65% of the proceeds of the loan - para. 10).
Secondly, an important part (36%) of the total first project cost was for
basic general education (Grades 1-8) which included primary grades 1-6. Up to
that time, Bank policy had generally excluded the financing of primary educa-
tion, but the discussions of the first loan to Spain brought about a review of
this policy, with the eventual result that the Bank changed its policy in favor
of including primary education within the scope of its financing. A third,
and, as the events proved, more important policy issue was discussed in con-
nection with the second project - the wisdom of financing education projects
in a "marginal" country even for the purposes of assisting reform efforts. The
Bank's interest in making the first education loan to Spain did not derive
essentially from the need to transfer resources. The impetus for Bank involve-
ment was the opportunity to assist in lending expertise and independent judgment
to the reform, to assist in strengthening administration and establishing more
systematic approaches to school construction and to learn lessons from this
experience which might be of benefit to developing countries considering such
major reform. Spain's interest was also primarily non-financial. Even the
second education loan (US$50 million) was, in financial terms, minor compared
to the 30 billion pesetas (about US$500 million) spent each year in the Min-
istry of Education and Science.
II. The First Project and Its Implementation
1U.       The first project was appraised in October/November 1969, and the
loan agreement (Loan 699-SP) was signed on June 30, 1970. It provided a
loan of US$12.0 million for a project estimated to cost US$24 million equiv-
alent. The Bank loan was to finance the expected foreign exchange component
of US$4.0 million, US$4.0 million of local currency expenditures, and an
additional US$4.0 million which might be either foreign exchange costs or
local currency costs, or any combination of the two, depending on the out-
come of bidding for supply of the furniture and equipment. If local manu-
facturers were involved to the maximum possible extent, as much as two-thirds
of the loan would have been used to reimburse local currency expenditures.
11.       The project was to provide demonstration and experimental schools
and other elements necessary to implement the first phase of the reform. It
included:



-5-
Item                                                % of Project Cost
(a) Construction and equipment of:
19 schools for basic general education
(Grades 1-8)                                                36
20 schools for secondary education (Grades 9-12)                43
8 Institutes of Education                                      13
(b) Equipment for the National Research Center for
Educational Development                                       3
(c) About 190 man-months of specialist advisers, 45
man-years of fellowships, and operation and
establishment of an administration unit for
project implementation (the cost of this unit
to be reimbursed under the loan)                             5
12.       The buildings to be constructed were to be designed and equipped for
the restructured educational system and for purposes of experimentation and
demonstration by educational research and training institutions. They were to
add only minimally to the total number of primary and secondary school places,
but the Institutes of Education were to meet 64% of the reform's teacher train-
iiig needs and, with the National Research Center, were to provide technical
assistance to promote curriculum development, programming of the reform plan,
establishment of norms and standards, and the training of education planners,
administrators and supervisors. The project was also to demonstrate the impli-
cations of implementing the reform at the regional level, using as a test case
the least developed region of Galicia.
13.       The Institutes of Education (8 of which were included in the project
out of the 15 planned by the government altogether) were to provide courses
principally for teachers of Spanish, modern languages, social studies, mathe-
matics and sciences. The curriculum was to include about eight weeks of
teaching practice. The remaining 28 weeks were to provide a balanced blend
of pedagogy and specialized methodology (40%), private studies (40%) and
workshop practice including use of modern technology such as teaching
machines and preparation of visual aids (20%). The institutes were also
to provide in-service courses, short courses, seminars, workshops and con-
ferences; and provision was made for 45 man-years of fellowships to train
part of the staff needed by the institutes (Appraisal Report, paras. 3.08-9).
14.       Equipment estimated to cost approximately US$640,000 was to be
provided for the National Research Center for Educational development, which
was to coordinate research activities and prepare and administer the training
programs for the staff of the institutes. The center was located in Madrid
and was expecting technical assistance of about US$1.5 million from UNDP.
15.       Finally, technical assistance was included in the form of special-
ists to assist in the development of the practical subjects at the secondary
education level, in facility planning, education programming and educational



- 6 -
administration; and managementconsultants to help modernize the Ministry of
Education and its dependent units, including the public universitie!s.
16.       The General Education Law providing the basis for the reform was
enacted by the Cortes on August 4, 1970, and the decree establishing the
Project Unit was published (making it legal) on November 9, 1970, thus meeting
two conditions of effectiveness. However, satisfactory evidence and legal
opinions on these matters were not received by the Bank for some time, and
the loan became effective only on January 8, 1971.
17.       Several delays then followed.   The established Spanish system of
obtaining designs and contracting for the construction of public buildings was
not satisfactory to the Bank, and dispu':es about this system dragged on for a
whole year, being finally resolved in two meetings - in Madrid in October 1971
and in Washington in January 1972. The reluctance of the Bank to approve the
proposed sites caused further delay. Of the 45 sites proposed by the Borrower,
the Bank finally approved 43 in September 1972. In February 1973, the major
Spanish building contractors simply refused to bid for construction of the
buildings on the grounds that the design requirements were too strict and the
officially estimated costs were too low. Meanwhile, the projected costs of
the schools rose and officials in the Ministry of Education proposed both to
reduce the standards of the project schools and to eliminate some of the
planned spaces, particularly those for practical work. With regard to the
temporary postponement of construction of gymnasia and living accommodation
for watchmen, for example, the Bank agreed; however, the Bank resisted the
proposed elimination of workshops or their reduction to a size which appeared
to render practical work by the students impossible; the Borrower made some
concessions but insisted on the right to make changes it considered necessary.
Finally, the loan was cancelled at the Borrower's request, without construc-
tion having been started. Disbursements for procurement of civil works
(including design and supervision) amounted to only US$228,000.
18.       Other elements of the project were implemented in varying degrees,
however. Several technical assistance experts were recruited by UNESCO and
were assigned to posts in the Ministry of Education. Some were also recruited
directly by the Ministry from among Spanish nationals. The fellowships for
study abroad were all used. Management consultants made a study of the Min-
istry of Education but the Ministry was not interested in pursuing the reorga-
nization on the basis of their advice and proposed to the Bank a reallocation
of most of the funds provided in that category. Altogether, US$1.0 million was
originally allocated from the loan proceeds for fellowships, specialists, and
project administration and of this amount, about US$244,000 was actually dis-
bursed. Finally, the equipment list prepared for the National Research Center
for Educational Development centered around a computer system intended for use
in developing computer-assisted instruction. The Bank felt that the initial
draft list was insufficiently prepared and inadequately justified in the light
of the programs which the equipment would serve, that the economic and finan-
cial feasibility of computer-assisted instruction had not been sufficiently
demonstrated, that the proposed computer was too advanced and that Spain was
probably not ready for computer-assisted instruction. A final list was never
transmitted to the Bank.



- 7 -
III. The Second Project and its Implementation
19.       During the appraisal visit for the first education project, there
had been discussion of subsequent Bank lending for education, possibly a
second project in 1972 and a third in 1974. The Borrower was eager to move
ahead with the reform, and a proposed second project, to cost US$152.5 mil-
lion, was appraised in the Fall of 1971. Despite the slowness of progress
on the first project, an agreement for a loan of US$50.0 million was signed
on June 21, 1972 (Loan 832-SP). This was by far the Bank's largest single
loan for education until then.
20.       The project was to:
(i)  extend the coverage of the reform in general secondary
education to major population centers, and
(ii)  introduce the new concept of vocational, technical and
engineering education along with related teacher training.
The project included:
Item                                             % of Project Cost
(a) Construction and equipment for -
82 public educational institutions:
39 comprehensive secondary schools                       22
37 vocational training centers                           34
1 agricultural institute (at Palencia)                   1
1 polytechnic university (at Barcelona)                 35
4 institutes of education                                3
(b)  Equipping of the Valencia Polytechnic University                3
(c)  Technical assistance related to items (a) and (b)               I
(d)  Expenses of project administration                              1
21.       Of the three major components of this project, the first (39 sec-
ondary schools) was simply an expansion of the similar item in the first
project and the second (vocational training centers) was intended to carry
out a central element in the reform, namely, to provide a channel to the
world of work for those students who left the academic stream at the end of
their basic general education program, or dropped out of secondary school.
The four Institutes of Education were needed to train about 35% of the agri-
cultural and vocational teachers needed annually.    The third major component
was the Barcelona Polytechnic University (BPU), which would be constructed
and equipped as an integrated university at a new location some twenty miles
from the center of town, and would be a model for the upgrading of engineer-
ing education and for the production of engineers capable of solving the
practical problems of Spanish industrial development. A BPU project sub-
unit, responsible to the Project Unit, was to administer this component.



- 8 -
22.       One of the conditions for effectiveness of the loan had been "that
the First Project Unit has been expanded and the BPU Project Sub-Unit has
been established and is operating". This condition was not met until the
end of the year, and the loan became effective on January 3, 1973. Delays
then occurred in selecting architects and commencing design work.
23.       The Spanish officials were concerned that the Education Law of 1970
had to be adjusted with the passage of time and that rigid adherence to the
described projects was hampering this adjustment process. The under-secretary
and aides visited Washington in July 1974 and presented a number of proposals
for changes in both first and second projects and in the loan agreements;
these proposals envisaged:
(a) reduction in the number of project schools;
(b) reduction in the floor area and unit costs for the
Barcelona Polytechnic University and in the general
basic education schools to conform to national standards;
(c) deletion of stipulations in loan agreements regarding
(i) Bank approval of sites, designs, civil works
documents, contract awards;
(ii) international competitive bidding;
(iii) the Borrower's educational objectives; and
(iv) the Bank's right to take action for non-
performance, and
(d) in view of cost overruns, relating the amount of the loan
to the original rate of exchange (70 pesetas to the dollar
for the first loan and 64 for the second).
These proposals were generally not satisfactory to the Bank and a final mis-
sion visited Madrid in September 1974 in a futile effort to bridge the gap.
In view of this failure, the Spanish Government, rather than have the Bank
cancel the loans, requested their cancellation.    No disbursement had been
made under the second loan.
IV. Major Issues Concerning Both Projects
A. Differing Perceptions of Reform Held by Bank and Borrower
24.       One of the characteristics of the entire Bank/Borrower dialogue on
these projects is that there seldom appeared to be full consensus for a
sustained period of time on the conception and execution of reform.



- 9-
(1) Gaps in Understanding
25.       The Bank's involvement in this project hinged on the reform which
was planned. The Minister and Under-secretary of Education had invited the
Bank to participate not only in financing a small segment of the total reform -
namely, a part of the construction, equipment, and technical assistance needed
for the basic general education schools, the secondary schools, the institutes
of education, the vocational centers, the universities, the engineering
(polytechnic) universities, etc. - but also in helping with the conception and
elaboration of the reform.
26.       During the appraisal of the first project in late 1969, the Spanish
indicated the general directions in which they wanted to go. They wanted to
keep the educational system flexible, reduce elitism, eliminate cul-de-sacs
by permitting easy student transfer between academic programs and vocational
training at any time, equalize opportunities as between urban and rural popu-
lations and so on. However, the appraisal mission considered that the de-
tailed planning of several parts of the reform (and of the proposed first
project) had not advanced far enough to be made part of a formal, negotiable
project. In consultation with Spanish officials, therefore, it agreed to
include certain items in a small first project and to defer to possible sub-
sequent projects the less ready items. In the case of the second project,
the appraisal mission also encountered a state of unreadiness of proposed
project items and again had to be selective about items for inclusion. The
extensive working papers for both projects were a joint effort of Spain and
the Bank and clearly specified the objectives, content, and types of build-
ings for these projects. They attempted to give expression to the reform
objectives. However, they did incorporate many ideas which originated with
the Bank, and whether they were entirely understood and accepted by the
Spanish officials is not clear. Subsequent supervision missions reported
that few of the many officials whom they met appeared to know or understand
or to have been briefed on the original loan agreement provisions and the
ideas as developed in the working papers which may have been due partly to
the high rate of turnover of officials. Much time was therefore spent during
implementation in discussing and trying to achieve agreement on details con-
tained in the working papers.
27.       Both in 1971 and in 1976, some of the Spanish officials who were
involved in the projects levelled certain criticisms at Bank participation.
Among the more conspicuous complaints were that the Bank lacked an education
policy, that mission members furnished advice according to their individual
background and taste, that there was little continuity of personnel on mis-
sions with the result that each individual and mission inflicted new require-
ments and ideas upon the project, that missions had insufficient awareness of
and sympathy with Spanish conditions and to some extent lacked understanding
of the background, spirit, scope and difficulties of the reform, that mission
members were perceived as arrogant and pedantic and that there were too many
missions and exasperatingly slow progress.



- 10 -
28.       Some of these criticisms were valid; others were not.    While it
is true that the Bank's sector experience in Spain was limited, it is not
clear that any rigid Bank position on education policy would have been wel-
comed by the Spanish officials. It is true that the Bank sent a total of
15 missions over a five-year period - an appraisal mission for the first
project, two "reconnaissance" missions, an appraisal and a post-appraisal
mission for the second project and ten supervision missions for the two
projects. This was considerably more than was the case in most countries
and, to some extent, may be explained by the unusual implementation prob-
lems. These 15 missions involved 18 experts (two from UNESCO), of whom
nine participated in only one mission and only one expert participated in
more than three. Considering the importance of close contact and under-
standing between Bank and Borrower during a period of major institutional
change, this lack of continuity in mission personnel was unfortunate, not-
withstanding the continuity in direction from Headquarters provided by the
education project division chief, especially in light of the lack of con-
tinuity of Spanish officials. For example, within a few days of signing
of the second loan agreement, the under-secretary and most of the general
directors of the Ministry of Education and Science were changed.
29.       Undoubtedly, the Bank (as well as many Spanish officials) under-
estimated the difficulties of accomplishing such sweeping reform in Spain
and the extent to which compromise en route would have been needed. There
was no world expertise on implementing such drastic change.    It was origi-
nated, developed, and, at first, administered by a group of officials who
were committed to a program of modernization of the Spanish education system.
This group considered that the reform could be enriched by external partici-
pants and this was why the Bank and other international agencies were brought
in, and the contribution of these agencies was considerable. By means of a
brilliant public information campaign, contributed to by various people,
the reform gained some broad support and the Cortes, after extensive and
thorough discussion, enacted the necessary legislation.
30.       This reform effort attracted not just support; it also attracted
attention and opposition. The Bank's two appraisal missions looked into the
matter and concluded that support for the reform was wide and deep enough to
prevent the opposition (whose existence they recognized) from materially
thwarting it. However, when the leadership of the Ministry of Education
changed, particularly after many of the officials who had initiated the re-
form had been removed from office in the summer of 1972 and after the in-
stallation of a new Minister of Education in January 1974, support for edu-
cational reform, to the extent that it remained in the Ministry, was mainly
for quantitative expansion, not for qualitative changes of interest to the
Bank. It was not a question of total defeat of reform so much as a question
of a more blunted drive, but the projects as designed depended upon a much
more aggressive reform effort.
31.       On the Borrower's side, there appears to have been little readi-
ness for the implications of Bank project financing. The expertise and pol-
icy support which the Bank projects lent to the reform effort inevitably
entailed, on the Borrower's part, some confrontation with alien ideas and



- 11 -
Bank procedures. As it became increasingly clear that the price of such
external participation was that of accepting external influence on the re-
form and on local procurement procedures, the Borrower became increasingly
disinclined to pay this price.
(2) Bank/Borrower Differences on Particular Project Items
(a) Workshops
32.       Under the first loan, 19 basic general education schools (Grades
1-8), were to be constructed and equipped and under the first and second
loans, 59 comprehensive secondary schools (Grades 9-12). The project schools
were to serve for demonstration and experimentation and to include pre-tech-
nical courses in their curricula and the necessary workshops and specialized
rooms.
33.       In May 1971, the first architect's brief was received in the Bank,
showing changes in specifications which allocated less space for workshops
and more for other purposes (a gymnasium, counselling rooms, club rooms) than
originally agreed.
34.       The government defended the reduction in workshop standards as being
in accordance with standards in other schools being built outside of the proj-
ect and with norms in other countries in Europe. The Bank argued for using
the original standards for workshops and estimated that adherence to the
original plans would increase costs by only 10% over the non-project schools
then being built in Spain. The Spanish finally (in September 1974) agreed to
include in all new schools, project and non-project, some minimal facilities
for pre-technical courses. This was so late, however, that no construction
took place before the loans were cancelled. Furthermore, no firm plans were
developed for training the teachers needed for these courses. The last Bank
mission concluded that the government was insufficiently committed to pre-
technical courses and preferred the traditional academic type of education
for the primary and secondary schools.
(b) Vocational Education
35.       Under the second loan, 37 vocational training centers were to be
constructed and equipped essentially to provide short-term training programs
bridging education and the world of work. The Bank attached considerable
importance to this element of the project but, as a Bank mission pointed out
in June 1973, the vocational training component had not been exhaustively
dealt with in the Reform Plan itself, either during the publicity campaign on
behalf of the reform or, subsequently, during implementation. In April 1973,
a Bank mission was informed that the government was considering the idea of
establishing a system of vocational education running parallel with the
diversified secondary and higher education from Grade 9 right through to
university degree level, with outlets at various points. The vocational
schools of this system would consist of schools exclusively for tourism,
secretarial studies, computer programmers, or construction technicians



- 12 -
or engineers - technical schools rather than vocational training centers.
The mission pointed out that, among other things, such a system would be
expensive, duplicative of existing courses, seen as "second-class" education
and disadvantageous to students in smaller towns. The Spanish were uncon-
vinced and went ahead with the idea.
(c) Barcelona Polytechnic University
36.       The second loan also included funds for the construction and equip-
ment of Barcelona Polytechnic University at a new location about 28 kilometers
from the center of Barcelona. All administrative, teaching and research units
which were then scattered around Barcelona would, with the exception of the
Textile Research Institute at Terrasa, be brought together at the new site.
Commuting facilities would be provided. Innovative features included the
organization of teaching by departments, a 60% full-time staff, a new emphasis
on problem-solving through greatly expanded laboratory work, work experiences
in industry for each student, the establishment of three research institutes
to bring industry and the university together, the reduction of the usual
six-year engineering course to five years, and the provision of a three-year
course for technicians, much needed in Spain, where there was a surplus of
graduate engineers.
37.       After the retirement of the rector who had had discussions with the
appraisal team, a new rector was appointed who opposed moving the university
out of the city. The faculty and students also opposed the move. Many of
them were part-time and disliked the idea of commuting (even if commuting
facilities had been provided), and the idea of a plan for integrated develop-
ment of a new university on its own site was dropped. The new rector also
opposed the plan for a five-year degree, and apparently had the support of
the Ministry of Education in maintaining the six-year program. A lengthy
dispute with the Bank ensued, with the rector and the Ministry finally agree-
ing in principle on five years for the time being. The plan for the three-
year technician courses was dropped. Higher education, like vocational
training, had not been exhaustively dealt with by the government in the
period of preparation and implementation of the reform and it is clear that
several of the features incorporated in the university item of the second
project were unacceptable in the post-1972 climate.
(3) Project Overspecification
38.       Another problem was the overspecification of details of the reform
which the Bank thought to be necessary. The Bank's involvement was conditional
on the pursuit of genuine reform and on the Bank's own perception of that
genuineness. The loan agreements tied both projects closely to the General Educa-
tion Law of 19701/ (which embodied the basic reform philosophy) by providing for
1/   At the time of approval of the first loan the law had been passed by the
General Council of the Cortes. It was subseqently passed by the full
Cortes.



- 13 -
acceleration of maturity of the loan if the "Borrower shall have failed to
enforce or implement the General Education Law as necessary to carry out the
Project and enable the Borrower to comply with its obligations under the Loan
Agreement, or shall have modified the General Education Law in such a manner
as shall adversely affect the Project". The obligations in the agreements
also included establishing detailed targets and timetables for the development
of all levels of education and periodical review of the enrollment structure
of post-secondary, engineering and higher education institutions; increasing
the workload of students in all secondary schools to about 32 hours a week
and 210 days a year; reforming the administration of the service for construc-
tion of educational buildings and establishing suitable technical designs and
standards for such buildings; developing new curricula (on the basis of local
labor market demands) for the vocational centers and sending them to the Bank
for comment, triennial review of these curricula; establishing advisory boards
in relevant locations; establishing and operating placement centers for the
graduates of the vocational centers; using the best efforts of each vocational
center to maintain accurate records of the employment of its graduates for at
least five years after graduation and so on.
39.       The inclusion of some of these particulars in loan documents in so
specific a manner did limit flexibility in working out the details of major
educational reform over a period of years. The Spanish officials accepted
the loan documents during negotiations but later regretted the constraints on
their own expression and elaboration of (and, in some respects, retreat from)
the reform.
40.       The loan agreements provided for Bank approval of all specialists,
consultants, sites, contractors, plans, specifications, contracts and work
schedules for construction, and lists of equipment; these controls were not
simply over procurement; they were also over the details of the reform.     After
their initial experience with the first project, the Spanish officials began
pressing for a sector loan rather than a project loan for the second project
but among the reasons why the Bank refused to consider this was the fear that,
outside of the constraints of project lending, adherence to the basic objectives
of the reform might not be maintained.
(4) Accomplishments and "Failure" of the Reform
41.       When interviewed in November 1976, one former official said that
on the whole, the reform had been extremely successful and was still being
implemented, that it had an 80% record of success, but that there still
existed approximately 20% of crucial elements that were either distorted or
never implemented at all. The reform, he felt, had been quite successful in
introducing new teaching methods and textbooks, as well as a new pedagogical
spirit to the classroom and teachers. The structure of the education system
at primary and secondary levels was changed, and new curricula, new lists of
books, and new lists of equipment were prepared. For the first time in Spanish
history, parents were required to supply books for their children - a revolu-
tionary step forward. Teachers were trained for the new courses. They were
not trained for the proposed pre-technical courses, however, and these courses



- 14 -
were not yet being given by the end of 1976. The reform had intensified
national concern for educational quality and given an impetus to research,
to improved management methods, and to the use of computers in instruction.
The main hurdle was financial, but even so, the budget for the Ministry of
Education increased from 8% to 18% of the national budget. The General Edu-
cation Law of 1970 made great changes in educational philosophy and policy;
and a long series of implementing decrees and ministerial orders filled out
the details.  Various boards, commissions and advisory commissions were
established and the Ministry of Education and Science was reorganized. As
the last Bank mission, in September 1974, noted, the number of schools had
been greatly expanded.
42.       If, on the other hand, the reform is viewed in terms of the ele-
ments for which loans had been provided, it was clear, especially after 1972,
that government support for them had almost completely collapsed. The voca-
tional training center idea had been greatly altered; the whole concept of
opening up vocational training channels to those who chose to leave the
academic program at any level was lost. The pre-technical courses in the
primary and secondary schools had been reduced in importance and postponed;
and the plans for a new polytechnic university in Barcelona, even if a site
could have been found within the city, were no longer accepted by the Univer-
sity and Ministry. From the Bank's viewpoint, the reform, as expressed in
the projects, had not been implemented.
B. Project Management
43.       The Borrower's administration of the projects was affected by the
unfortunate separation of the project unit from the Ministry's regular phys-
ical implementation unit services. Early in the discussions on the first
project, it had been indicated by Spanish officials that these services were
incapable of coping with all of the expected additional workload of the proj-
ect and that a project unit should be created for financial and administrative
coordination of project implementation and for liaison with the Bank. The
eventual decision, taken at the request of the under-secretary, to place the
project unit directly under himself, isolated the project unit and deprived
it of the strong support which the Ministry's established services could have
provided. None of the experienced personnel from these regular services was
transferred to the project implementation unit and so all of its staff had
to be trained. It suffered from turnover of staff and some difficulty of
coordination and communication with other parts of the Ministry and from
doubts within the government about the legality of its powers. I'he Ministry
of Education itself was in need of administrative reform and the project
direction suffered from this deficiency. Very little decision-making ini-
tiative rested with the Project Director and the unit was insufficiently
autonomous from the under-secretary.
44.       A project director was appointed in February 1970, but resigned in
October 1970 partly because of opposition within the Ministry both to the
reform and to the administrative reorganization of the Ministry. A new
project director was appointed in November 1970 but was hardly effective
in moving the project along particularly as there was an almost immediate
impasse with the Bank over procurement procedures for civil works (para. 17).



- 15 -
45.       Popular pressures for more schools had been engendered by the wide
discussion of the White Paper, and the Ministry had adequate funds of its own
to enable it to move ahead. It therefore embarked on a massive building pro-
gram (2,000 primary and 400 secondary schools were built by 1974) that took
much of the attention and time of the Ministry officials. Other officials
were working on non-project aspects of the reform at the same time. In a
sense, the Bank-financed projects, with their delays, were simply overtaken
by the fast-moving construction program of the established units of the
Ministry.
V. Conclusions
46.       Although some educational reforms were accomplished by the Borrower,
the two projects as a whole were failures. They suffered from a lack of con-
tinuity of Spanish - and Bank - officials (paras. 28-30, 37), changes in edu-
cation policy and loss of momentum of the reform drive (paras. 17-18, 30,
33-37, 41-42), the Borrower's reluctance to follow Bank procurement proce-
dures (paras. 9, 17-18, 23, 31, 34), and the ineffectiveness of the project
implementation unit (paras. 43-45). The circumstances were unique but the
lack of progress with implementing the projects is instructive.
47.       In the case of these two projects, there was an over-estimation on
the part of both Bank and Spanish officials associated with developing the
two projects of (a) the readiness of Spain for radical educational change and
(b) the practical possibilities of implementing the large-scale reform and
the projects as originally envisaged. In this case, as the Bank involvement
was dependent on a strong commitment to reform in very specific senses, the
key judgment was the adequacy of the Government's commitment to these reforms.
In light of the evidence available at the time, there was ample basis for the
Bank deciding to go ahead. But there was also evidence of an opposition which
could become sufficiently strong to frustrate important aspects of the reforms.
Since the consequences of any significant later shortfall in reform would be
far-reaching for these projects - as was subsequently demonstrated - a more
explicit analysis of risks might have suggested that more modest targets would
have been preferable. Such risk analysis, not common at the time, is routine
in current Bank project analysis.
48.       The second major problem was related to Spanish acceptance of Bank
conditions and procedures. While it is not clear that the Bank officials
could have done anything to anticipate or avoid the country's change in attitude
towards the Bank, it is clear that major reform needed more flexibility than was
provided under the two loan agreements. This question of the extent to which
flexibility could have been built into the two projects, in such a way as to
retain both a reform complexion sufficient to justify Bank participation and
Spanish freedom to adapt reform en route, was not discussed in advance. Such
an advance discussion might have revealed whether there was sufficient common
ground (on such things as procurement, the powers of the project unit, reform



- 16 -
and the projects themselves) on which to base project financing, or whether
there was consensus only for the more loosely specified sector financing
which the Borrower wished. Although both the Bank and the Borrower were
pursuing the same ultimate objectives, there seems to have been a less than
complete consensus on the route to follow, notwithstanding the abundance of
dialogue that actually took place.
49.      Thirdly, the project experience emphasizes the need for project
implementation units (where they are deemed necessary) to be closely linked
with existing project services and appropriately staffed and directed (paras.
43-45).



