Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.  4362
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CAMEROON - PLAINE DES M'BO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 672-CM)
March 9, 1983
Western Africa Regional Office
Agriculture 2 Projects Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CAMEROON
PLAINE DES M'BO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit No. 672-CM)
Currency Equivalents
(average for project)
Currency Unit                                CFA Francs (CFAF)
US$1                                         CFAF 230
CFAF 1 million                               US$4,348
Weights and Measures
(Metric System)
1 ha                                         2.47 acres
1 km                                        0.624 miles
I kg                                         2.204 pounds
1 metric ton                                 2,204 pounds
Abbreviations
CCCE      CaisseCenitrale de Cooperation Economique
(French Economic Cooperation Agency)
CENEEMA   Centre Nationale d'Etudes et d'Experimentation du Mechinisme Agricole
(National Center for Development of Agricultural Mechanisation)
FAC       Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
(French Development Agency)
IITA      International Institute of Tropical Agriculture
ISH       Institut de Sciences Humaines
(Institute of Human Sciences)
IRAF      Institute de  Recherche Agronomicue et Forestiere
(Institute for Agronomic and Forestry Research)
MIDERIM   Mission de Developpement de la Riziculture dans la Plaine des M'Bo
(M'Bo Plain Rice Development Program)
SODERIM   Societe de Developpement de la Riziculture dans la Plaine des M'Bo
(M'Bo Plain Rice Development Company)
WARDA     West African Rice Development Association



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CAMEROON PLAINE DES M'BO RURAL DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
(CREDIT 672-CM)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface                                                                  i
Basic Data Sheet                                                        ii
Highlights                                                             iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Summary                                                                  1
I.      Background                                                       6
II.     Formulation                                                      7
III.    Implementation                                                  12
IV.     Agricultural Impact                                            17
V.      Rates of Return                                                 18
VI.     Institutional Performance and Development                       18
VII.    Special Issues                                                  20
VIII.   Changes in Repeater Projects                                    20
IX.     Bank Performance                                               21
X.      Conclusions                                                     23
Addendum                                                                27
Annexes:  I                                                             28
II                                                           29
Attachment                                                              30
Map
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






-i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CAMEROON:   PLAINE DES M'BO RU-RAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 672-CM)
PREFACE
This is a performance audit of the Plaine des M'Bo Rural Development
Project in the United Republic of Cameroon for which Credit 672-CM was approved
in December 1976 in the sum of US$2 million. The final disbursement in respect
of this loan was made on February 13, 1981.
The audit report consists solely of a Project Completion Report (PCR)
dated June 3, 1982, which was selected by the Operations Evaluation Department
for a pass-through audit. The PCR was prepared by West Africa Projects, Agri-
culture 2.
The completion mission visited Cameroon in March 1981, and the PCR
is based on a review of the relevant documents, discussions with government and
with officials at the project site, where field observations were made.
Copies of the French translation of the draft report were sent to the
Borrower on November 18, 1982; however, no comments have been received.
The valuable assistance provided by the Government during the prepara-
tion of this report is gratefully acknowledged.
A copy of the draft report was also sent to the co-financier of the
project from whom comments have been received. A translation of these comments
is reproduced as an attachment to this report.



I



- ii -
PROJECI COMPLETION RELPOR
C.AEROON
PLAINE DES M'BO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PIAASE I
(Credit 672-CM)
BASIC DATA SHEET
KEY PROJECT DATA                                     Appraisal Estimate                            Actual                         Actual as 7 of  popra-sal es-timat
Prri.ct Costs (USS n:lsloc:                                   2.6                                   3.6                                      1387      1/
Credit Amount _ISS mLllio-)                                   2.0                                   2.0                                      1007
CofisancisR    (usS  sillio.) - Caisse Csatrale de Cooperatio-  Economique (CCCE):
___________________________________0.5                                               0.3                                      1000
Date Board Approva,                                  _Z.zt.Iou
Date Effectiveness                                                                                  08.29.1977   2/
Date Phvsical Componests Co-pleted                                                                  NA - TA project
Proportion  then Completed                                                                      NA - TA project                      _
Closing Date                                         06.30.1980                                     06.30.1981                               129%    1/
Econo:ic Rate of Return                                                                             NA - TA project
Financial Rate of Return                                                                            NA - TA prolect
Institutional Performance                                                                           Adeqtate to Rood
Agronamic Perforoance                                                                               NA - TA project
Number of Direct Beneficiaries                                                                      NA - EA proiject
CLUULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS
Fl 78           FY 79             FY 80             FY 81
Appraisal Estimates (US$ million)                      1.0             1.5               2.0                -
Actual (US$ million)                                   0.4              1.D              1.6               2.0   1/
Actual as 7. of Appraisal                             40°4             73°/              80/.                __
Date of Final Disburse-ent                                                 02-13-1981
Principal Repaid to 12-31-81                                                   NIL
MISSION DATA
Mission                Date                 No. of              M-ndays             Specialization               Performance                                Types of
(mo./yr.)             Persons             in Field               Represented                  Rating                Trend             Problems
Identification         12/72                   2                    10             _economist
Preparation            04/74                   1                     4              agronomist
10/74                  2                    10              agronomist
12/74                  1                     4              economist
03/75                   2                    4              agronomist
_____________________________                                  e.c onomist
07/75                   2                   14                gronomist
12/75                  1                     3              economist
Appraisal              02-03/76                6                  110               agricultural economist
agronomist
agricultural engineer
____________________________           financial   analyst
_______ ______ ______ ______ ____   _ ____________health                specialist
Sobtotal                                      17                  159
Supervision 1          02/77                   2                    14              arEicultu=&l  temxir±
______ _____ _____ _____ _____ __   __ _____agrono                     ist
Supervision 2          10/77                   2                    18              agricultural economist
agronomist
Supervision 3          02/78                   1                    Lo              agronomist
Super-ision 4          09/78                   4                    28              agronomist                            2               2
___________________ __________   _______financial    analyst
_________________________________         I_______                               soil    specialist
Supervisio- 5          04/79                   1                    11              agronom ist                           3               2                P,T
Supervision 6          07/79                   1                     7              agriculturist                         2               I                T
Supervision 7          11/79                   1                     3              agriculturist                         2               1                T.F
Supervision 8          02/80                   2                   18               agriculturist                         2               1
Super-ision 9          09/80                   7                     7              agriculturist                         I               1                T
Supervision 10         03/81                   1                     5              agriculturist                         2               2                I,P
Subtotal                                      22                  121
Total                                         39                  280
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Borrower                                       ULcted Republic of Cameroon
Execution Agency                               Societe de Developpement de Na Riziculture dons la Plaine des M'Bo (SODERIM)
Fiscal Year                                    July I to June 30
Nane of Currency                               rFAF
Currency Exchange Rate:
Appraisal Year Average                      US $ 1,00 = CFAF 245
Intervening Year Average                   US $ 1.00 = CFAF 230
Completion Year Average                    US $ 1.00 = CFAF 220
Follow-on Project:                             NONE
I/ Cost overrun due to need to extend project period by oce year to obtain -orthwhile results from studios.
2/ Extension largely d-e to delays in establishment of e-c-uting agency (SODERIM)






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CAMEROON:   PLAINE DES M'BO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 672-CM)
HIGHLIGHTS
The credit was granted to support the Government's efforts to in-
crease and diversify agricultural production by investigating the technical
problems involved in the development and settlement of the largely empty
30,000 ha Plaine des M'Bo, which is located near the over-populated Western
Highlands of the United Republic of Cameroon (Republique Unie de Cameroun).
The project was contemporary with, and financed technical assistance personnel
for, a Government initiated 800 ha mechanized rice cultivation scheme on the
plain. The project was financed by an IDA credit of US$2 million equivalent
and a loan of French Francs approximately equivalent to US$0.5 million granted
by the Caisse Central de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) , the French Government's
economic cooperation agency.
Owing to delays in starting the project, the 1977 season was missed
and it became necessary to extend the project for one year, which was financed
by Government. This, together with the need to achieve meaningful results
from the revised trial program, coupled with the effects of inflation, resulted
in a total cost overrun of 38%. No follow-on project was approved due to
difficulties in justifying economic development of the plain by large scale
mechanization or by settlement. Lessons to be learned from this project are that
a progressive approach, with true-scale and sufficiently prolonged experimentation,
is needed when trying to introduce technical innovation into a rural environment
that is physically and socially poorly known and a working hypothesis must be
readily rejected when the evidence shows that it is out of line with reality.
The following points are of special interest:
-   premature investment in equipment for mechanized rice production and
large scale processing based on exaggerated yield projections, re-
sulted in heavy operating losses (para 3.04(b)iii);
-   the lack of agreement on the real objectives of the project placed
the project management at a disadvantage (para 6.01);
-   the project's demonstration that large scale mechanized rice production
was not feasible. This avoided a proposed substantial expansion of
the area so cultivated (para 10.08(iii)); and
-   the correctness of the appraisal mission's conclusion that the area
had development potential but that technical and economic problems
remained to be resolved was amply demonstrated (para 9.02).






CAMEROON
PLAINE DES M'BO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 672-CM)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SUMMARY
Background
(i)       At the time of appraisal (1976), agriculture provided a liveli-
hood for 85 per cent of Cameroon's population, accounted for 35-40 per cent
of GDP and for over 75 percent of the value of exports.  The traditional
subsector, producing food crops for subsistence with varying surpluses for
the local market, as well as cocoa, coffee, cotton and groundnuts for
export, accounted for 85 percent of agricultural output; the balance being
produced by the industrial plantations, the largest being state-owned,
producing mainly palm oil and rubber.
(ii)      Cameroon was mostly self-sufficient in foodstuffs largely due to
a rapid growth of non-traditional crops, such as vegetables, beans and
potatoes. But stagnation in production of traditional staples (plantains,
millet, sorghum, maize and cassava) and the growth of urban populations had
led to increasing imports of rice and wheat.
(iii)     In line with Bank Group strategy to support Government in its
efforts to increase and diversify agricultural production and to focus on
rural development to improve income distribution and to achieve a better
balance in regional development, proposals for development and settlement
of the largely empty Plaine des M'Bo, one of the few plains around the
over-populated Western Highlands, merited priority consideration.
(iv)      The plain may have been reasonably well settled in the past but
complete depopulation occurred early in this century, partly due to
sleeping  sickness,  malaria  and  onchocerciasis.    However,  because  of
increasing population pressure in the surrounding highlands, some 10,000
inhabitants had recently settled along the foothills of the plain where
they were growing traditional crops for cash (coffee) and for food
(plantain, cassava, sweet potatoes).   Some 13,000 ha of unoccupied land
appeared suitable for development without expensive land clearing,
offering settlement possibilities for 5,000 to 7,000 farm families.



-2 -
Formulation
(v)       The  project  stemmed  from  promising  results  from  the  double
cropping of rainfed rice on the foothills of the Plaine des M?Bo achieved
in 1971-73 at the local research station of the Institut- de Recherche
Agronomique et Forestiere (IRAF). These were followed by a pilot project
under the Mission de Developpement de la Riziculture dans la Plaine des
M'Bo (MIDERIM) established by Government and partially financed by the
French Aid Agency - Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC) - under which a
consulting agency was engaged to prepare a feasibility study for a full
development project based on rice. On the insistence of IDA and the Caisse
Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE), its proposed scale was re!duced
to 5,600 ha and its design altered from a fully mechanized state farm to a
settlement scheme for 2,000 farm families highly depedent on a nucleus
estate of some 600 ha for comprehensive mechanized operations.   Project
costs in then current prices were estimated at US$22.6 million (or
US$5,000/ha) for a five-year project (1976-80).
(vi)      This  project was appraised  in February/March  1976 by an IDA
mission with CCCE participation which concluded that the project was not
yet suitable for IDA financing because of the unusually high technical
risks involved, notably as regards cropping patterns and yields and the
degree of mechanization envisaged with resulting high costs and undue
dependence of settlers on the nucleus estate. However, without waiting for
the appraisal process to be completed, Government early in 1976 committed
itself  to  investments  in  farm  equipment,  in  infrastructure  for  the
immediate development of 800 ha for mechanized rice cultivation and in a
rice mill with a capacity of 5 tonnes/hour together with storage facilities
for 5,000 tons of rice, at a total cost of US$5.5 million financed by
suppliers credit under guarantee of a bilateral export credit.
(vii)     Convinced  that  the  Plaine  des  M'Bo  could  and  should  be
developed, the appraisal mission recommended that the Bank agree to
finance with CCCE a two-year technical assistance project aimed at solving
the technical problems involved. If implemented at once this could, it was
felt, hopefully lead up to a full development project starting in 1979.
After further discussion this approach was agreed by Government and CCCE
with the project period extended to three years.
(viii)    In its final  form,  the project financed technical assistance
personnel (General Manager, Research Officer and Administrative and
Financial Officer of Societe de Developpement de la Riziculture dans la
Plaine des M'Bo (SODERIM), equipment and operating expenses required over
a three year period mainly to:
(a) complete soil tests and analysis of the area to be developed on
the plain and carry out further agronomic trials with a view to
finding a suitable cropping pattern and defining related
fertilizer application requirements;
(b) organize the settlement of farmers on 300 ha to test promising
mechnization systems and different types of equipment and
settlement schemes;



-3-
(c) study:
(i)    the domestic marketing of soya;
(ii)   health control measures, particularly tsetse eradication;
and
(iii) migration problems; and
(d) incorporate the results of the above trials and studies into a
feasibility report for the full scale development and settlement
of the Plaine des M'Bo.
(ix)      The  total cost of the three-year project, based on mid-1976
prices and including contingencies, amounted to US$2.5 million net of
taxes, and of this 80 per cent or US$2.0 was estimated to represent foreign
exchange costs. The IDA credit (672-CM) totalling US$2 million was granted
on standard terms and was complemented by a loan of US$0.5 million
equivalent by CCCE thus covering the total cost of the project net of
taxes. The IDA credit was to cover 75 percent the cost of consultants and
expatriates, local personnel and operating costs, equipment and buildings.
(x)       The project was managed by SODERIM, whose General Manager was
project manager. At the same time, utilizing equipment already ordered by
Government, SODERIM was responsible for carrying out mechanized rice
cultivation on 800 ha; its operational costs for this purpose, estimated to
total US$3.5 mn equivalent during the project period, being provided by
Government with some assistance  (US$1.5 mn equivalent)  from CCCE.   To
assist in carrying out project trials and studies, SODERIM entered into
agreements approved by the Bank with existing research institutions in
Cameroon, viz. IRAF, CENEEMA (Centre Nationale d'Etudes et d'Experimen-
tation du Mechanisme Agricole) and ISH (Institut des Sciences Humaines)
and provision was made for consultants to carry out the soya marketing
survey and to provide supporting services for other studies (notably by
IITA and WARDA in agronomic fields).
(xi)      The project's main benefit was to be the provision to Government
of solid technical and economic grounds on which to base a decision on an
investment project estimated  at US$35.0 million in 1976 prices.   The
President's Report stressed that the ultimate risk was that the agronomic
trials would demonstrate the impossibility of obtaining the minimum yields
necessary to justify this level of investment; but this was considered a
risk worth taking given the development potential of the Plaine des M'Bo,
where it was estimated that some 13,000 ha could be developed to provide
adequate income for 5,000 - 7,000 families (some 30 - 40,000 inhabitants in
all) presently living at minimum subsistence level in the neighbouring
over-populated Bamileke Plateau.



- 4 -
Implementation
(xii)     The effective date had been set for June 28, 1977, but because of
delays in formally constituting SODERIM (its statues were only approved by
Decree No. 76/1 of January 3, 1977), the credit did not become effective
until August 29, 1977.  This, and in particular the late arrival of the
project management team meant that it was not possible to keep to the tight
schedule which envisaged the commencement of meaningful agronomic mechani-
zation and settlement trials during the 1977 season, and an additional
trial period - and with it an extension of the project - became necessary.
In 1978, Government agreed to finance the additional cost involved,
estimated at CFAF 210 mn (US$950,000) in extending the project by one year
to June 30, 1981, and to maintain Bank involvement throughout the extended
period, its rate of disbursement of approved SODERIM expenditure was
reduced from 75 percent to 59 percent.
(xiii)    Results  of project  trials  and  studies may be summarised as
follows:
(a)  because of inter-season harvesting difficulties, weed aggressi-
veness and time constraints only one crop of rainfed rice per
season was feasible;
(b)  decline in upland rice yields over time from 2.5 t/ha to 1 t/ha
or less due to soil fragility called for further pedologic and
agronomic investigations;
(c)  irrigated   rice   production   needed   further   investigation
particularly as regards "blast" disease problems;
(d)  manually cultivated bottomland rice could achieve yields of 2.5
t paddy/ha making it economically viable;
(e)  under mechanized cultivation average yields of 2 t paddy/ha were
well below breakeven level of 3.7 t paddy/ha necessary to meet
high production costs;
(f)  settlement studies covering traditional crops were beginning to
yield interesting results; and
(g)  health and migration studies threw light on the problems to be
faced with any large-scale settlement on the plain.
Conclusions
(xiv)     The  decision  to confide  responsibility  for both  trials  and
studies and commercial production to the same agency (SODERIM) papered
over the crack of the differing views of Government and the Bank as to the
main  objective  of  the  project.    To  justify  its  premature  equipment
investments, Government placed its emphasis on maximum early mechanized



rice production regardless of cost; whereas the Bank regarded the project
pre-investment studies as of paramount importance. As a result, SODERIM's
management was in the position of serving two masters, or attempting to
look two ways.
(xv)      On the financial side, the project co-financers (IDA and CCCE)
covered the full cost of the management team and not solely that related to
project studies and trials thus providing a degree of subsidy to SODERIM's
commercial production, while CCCE separately contributed to the cost of
these production operations, thus blurring any distinction between the two
objectives. Losses incurred by SODERIM on commercial production, although
partially met by Government subsidies led to a progressive weakening of its
financial position.
(xvi)     From the Bank point of view, it was relatively easy to recognize
that as project results became apparent, they meant that mechanized rice
production was not viable, that the plain's potential was more limited than
originally anticipated and that the best method of developing the plain's
potential lay in the implementation of an integrated rural development
type project  in  its  foothills.    Because  of  its  early hopes  and  its
premature rice mill and equipment investments, Government clung to the
hope that some form of mechanized production would succeed and it was not
until after the end of the project period that Government announced a re-
orientation  of  its  policy  and  expressed  its willingness  to have  the
integrated rural development approach examined.
(xvii)    The main  lessons  to be  learnt  from  this  project experience
include:
(i) premature investment in equipment for a production system based
on non-representative initial research results, incomplete field
trials and wishful thinking inevitably lead to misuse of scarce
capital resources;
(ii) expenditure exceeding US$10 million over the last ten years is a
high price for Government to pay for the main finding that
mechanized rice cultivation in the Plaine des M'Bo is neither
economically nor financially justifiable;
(iii) project expenditure of US$3.6 million was not a high price to pay
to show that the original proposals for investment of ten times
that amount were unjustified and to provide some bases for
sounder future project operations.
(iv) the need for particular care and special safeguards, especially
as regards management, whenever the Bank participates in a
project where there can be any major divergence between its
views and those of Government as to the project's main aims; and
(v) in this particular case, the technical consistency of the Bank
approach and persistence in its presentation to Government seem
ultimately to have proved successful.



CAMEROON
PLAINE DES M'BO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 672-CM)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
1.01      At the time of appraisal (1976), agriculture provided a liveli-
hood for 85 percent of Cameroon's population, accounted for 35-40 percent
of GDP and for over 75 percent of the value of exports.  The traditional
subsector, producing food crops for subsistence with varying surpluses for
the local market, as well as cocoa, coffee, cotton and groundnuts for
export, accounted for 85 percent of agricultural output; the balance being
produced by the industrial plantations, the largest being state-owned,
producing mainly palm oil and rubber.
1.02      Cameroon was mostly self-sufficient in foodstuffs largely due to
a rapid growth of non-traditional crops, such as vegetables, beans and
potatoes. But stagnation in production of traditional staples (plantains,
millet, sorghum, maize and cassava) and the growth of urban populations had
led to increasing imports of rice and wheat.
1.03      Farm incomes and services to farmers were unevenly distributed.
In the central savannah and western and coastal lowlands, per capita
incomes were in the order of US$130-140, whereas in the northern plains and
in the densely populated western highlands they were only US$70-80 and in
these poorer areas extension and credit services were particularly weak.
1.04      Government's  Fourth  Five-Year  Plan  (1977-81)  gave  increased
emphasis to agriculture for which a total capital outlay of US$383 million
was allocated as compared with US$168 million (at 1974/75 prices and
exchange rates) during the previous five-year period.   Several projects
for the over-populated western highlands were envisaged.   Settlement of
the few plains around the highlands, of which Plaine des M'Bo is one, could
help reduce  population pressures.   Measures were  also being  taken to
strengthen Government's ability to choose, prepare and implement projects.
1.05      As of end 1976, the Bank Group commitments in Cameroon amounted
to US$245 million covering eighteen projects: six in agriculture, seven in
transportation, three in education, one in public utilities and one small
and medium-scale enterprise project. In agriculture, Bank Group strategy
was to support Government in its efforts to increase and diversify agricul-
tural production and to focus on rural development to improve income
distribution and to achieve a better balance in regional development.
1.06      The Plaine des M'Bo, located about 200 km north of Douala at the
base of the Bamileke Plateau, comprises the Plaine itself (30,000 ha : mean
altitude 720 m) surrounded by a piedmont area (85,000 ha, altitude 750 -



1,000 m) and by higher hills. Administratively the area lies within the
three Sous-prefectures of Santchou (Departement de la Menoua), Kelem
(Departement  du Haut-Nkam)  and Melong (Departement du Moungo).   Total
population is estimated at 110,000 with 90 percent living in the piedmont
area. Inhabitants of the Plaine are mostly M'Bo, while those in the higher
areas are largely Bamileke. Rainfall averages 1,800 mm/year, with peaks in
May and September and a dry season lasting from mid-November to February,
when temperatures can fall below 15°C.  Soils in the central part of the
Plaine are hydromorphic with only 15-20 cm good arable horizon and the
terrain is divided into permanently flooded, seasonally flooded and non
flooded areas.
1.07      The plain is said to have been reasonably well settled in the
past but complete depopulation occurred early in this century, partly due
to sleeping sickness, malaria and onchocerciasis.   However, because of
increasing population pressure in the surrounding highlands, some
10,000 inhabitants had recently settled along the foothills of the
plain where they were growing crops for cash (coffee) and for food (plain-
tain,  cassava,  sweet  potatoes).    Some  13,000 ha  of unoccupied  land
appeared suitable for development without expensive land clearing, offering
settlement possibilities for 5,000 to 7,000 farm families.
II. FORMULATION
Origin and preparation
2.01      The  project  stemmed  from experiments  begun  in  1971 by  the
Institut de Recherche Agronomique et Forestiere (IRAF) at its local
agronomic research station in a non-representative area of the foothills
of the plain which initially suggested the possibility of double cropping
rainfed rice in the Plaine des M'Bo. Given the positive results of three
years IRAF experiments, Government set up the Mission de Developpement de
la Riziculture dans la Plaine des M'Bo (MIDERIM) in 1973 to implement a
pilot operation partially financed by the French Aid Agency - Fonds d'Aide
et de Cooperation (FAC), classified as state-owned 4,000 ha out of the
total identified potential of 13,000 ha and engaged a consulting firm to
prepare a feasibility study for a full development project based on rice.
Their mid-1975 report proposing a highly mechanized state farm on 8,000 ha
to grow two crops of rice per year was submitted to IDA and the Caisse
Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) who together recommended that
the project be reduced in size and amended to include a settlement program
to alleviate existing population pressure in the neighbouring highlands.
This was accepted by Government and the final feasibility report recom-
mended a full development program running over 8 years (1976-83), with a
project financing period of 5 years (1976-80), to clear and develop 5,600
ha of non-inundated soils for intensive double cropping of soya followed by
rice and the clearing and developing of 500 ha of seasonally flooded land
for one annual crop of rice. Of these areas, 5,200 ha non-inundated soils



- 8 -
would be settled by about 2,000 farm families and the balance would
comprise the nucleus estate, which would provide settlers with improved
seed, fertilizer and pesticides, and with mechanized assistance for land
clearing, land preparation, harvesting and crop transport, milling, drying
and storage.  Project costs for the period 1976-80 (in then current prices)
were estimated at US$22.6 million or US$5,000/ha.
Appraisal
2.02      Although  there  had  been  delays  in  the  publication  of  the
preparation report, Government pressed the Bank to appraise the project
not later than the last quarter of 1975 because it was concerned about the
timely ordering of the mill and equipment considered necessary for a large-
scale production scheme.  From Government's point of view, the project was
most attractive because of the prospects it offered of reducing rice
imports and utilizing modern production methods which would minimize
ethnic problems involved in the settlement of the plain.  vhen it became
clear that because of Bank staff constraints, the appraisal mission could
not be mounted until February/March 1976, Government provided the Bank
with details of its rice mill bidding procedures since it was proposing an
initial purchase of a 2.5 tonnes/hour mill with possible addition of
further units that might be financed under the proposed project.  Latetr and
before the appraisal mission process was complete, Government decided on
grounds of overall economy to invest straightaway in a 5 tonnes/hour mill.
However, the IDA appraisal mission, in which CCCE participated concluded
that the project was not yet suitable for IDA financing because of the
unusually high technical risks involved, notably:
(a) Crop Yields. Initial yield expectations (3.2 t/ha paddy arnd 2.2
t/ha soya) based on IRAF test plot results had not been realized
by MIDERIM in 1974 and 1975 either on its own farm or among the
43 existing settlers, and test plot yields in 1975 also showed a
sharp and as yet unexplained fall.
(b)  Degree of Mechanization.   From the beginning, the project had
been rigidly conceived in terms of heavy mechanization for land
preparation, considered essential to achieve two crops of rice
per year but resulting in:
(i)    a high level of operating costs for mechanized operations;
and
(ii)   farmers being permanently and totally dependent upon the
central  estate  for  the  preparation  of  their  soils,
leaving   little   scope   for   initiative   or   further
development on either an individual or group basis.
(c)  Crop Rotations.   On account of soil fertility problems, weed
aggressiveness and time constraints on harvesting the first: crop
and preparing land for the second, double-cropping of rice would
have to be replaced by a cropping pattern where rice would be
preceded by a legume for which soya offered the best prospects.



- 9 -
While this permitted an alternative and less costly form of
mechanized crop production, it meant that domestic soya market
prospects needed to be confirmed.
2.03      The high level of risks attaching to the project as prepared was
borne out by economic rate of return calculations. While the best estimate
was 12 percent, this was highly sensitive to changes in the balance between
on going costs and receipts. A fall in yields/prices of 20 percent and an
increase in costs of 20 percent were each sufficient to reduce the rate of
return to between 3 and 5 percent. If all the soya had to be sold on the
world market the rate of return would fall to 5 percent and if corrective
lime and phosphate applications were required on all the land, the rate
would be reduced to 10 percent.
2.04      However,  as stated above, without waiting for the appraisal
process to be completed, Government early in 1976 committed itself to invest-
ment in farm equipment, in infrastructure for the immediate development
of 800 ha for mechanized rice cultivation and in a 5 t/h rice mill together
with storage facilities for 5,000 tons of rice at a total cost of
US$5.5 million financed by suppliers credit under guarantee of a
bilateral export credit agency.
2.05      Convinced that the Plaine des M'Bo had development potential,
the appraisal mission recommended that the Bank agree to finance with CCCE
a two-year technical assistance project aimed at solving the tech-
nical problems involved. If implemented at once this could, it was felt,
hopefully lead up to a full development project starting in 1979.
2.06      Discussion at the first Decision Meeting held in April 16, 1976,
centered  around whether  the  surrounding  technical  and  organizational
uncertainties could be effectively clarified by the proposed two-year
technical assistance project, and a technical session between CPS and
WAPA2 was held on April 22, 1976 to examine these further. The possibility
of the project being made a component of either the Western Highlands
Development project or the Technical Assistance project (both of which
were then under preparation) was rejected mainly because of the special
features and possibilities of the Plaine des M'Bo and the political
importance attached by Government to its early and separate development.
At the concluding Decision Meeting on April 27, 1976, it was decided to
proceed on the basis of the Appraisal Mission recommendation.
Negotiations
2.07      At a meeting held in Paris on June 30 and July 1, 1976 called by
the Cameroon Government, and attended by representatives of the Bank and
CCCE, these recommendations were agreed in principle by all three parties
but the project period was extended to three years and the total cost of
the project was provisionally established at US$2.7 mn of which CCCE was
prepared to finance 25 percent leaving US$2 mn or 75 percent for possible
Bank financing.   Government was prepared  to share the larger part of
MIDERIM's operational costs as well as investment costs in equipment



- 10 -
already ordered for the development of 800 ha farm and in facilities for
milling, drying and storing 5,000 tons of rice annually.   A follow-up
appraisal  mission  visiting  Cameroon  in  September,  1976, found  that
Government was reluctant to accept the Bank approach because its priority,
as evidenced by the equipment it had already ordered, was to produce rice
immediately and at any price. In view of this, the Bank made it clear that
an essential condition of the project would be that Government agreed that
no further development in the Plaine des M'Bo outside the 1,l10 ha
comprising the 800 ha to be exploited with the equipment already purchased
and the 300 ha required for pre-investment trials and agronomic trials,
would be undertaken until the project had provided the necessary
guidelines.
2.08      Loan Committee review in October 1976 gave rise only to textual
revision of parts of  the report.   Negotiations  on  the  draft  Credit
Agreement took place between November 15 and 17, 1976, and also covered
drafts of (a) financing agreement between Government and SODERIM (Societe
de Developpement de la riziculture dans la Plaine des M'Bo) - the agency
being established by Government to take over from MIDERIM; (b) between
SODERIM and research agencies; and (c) between SODERIM and an agency to be
determined to provide technical assistance to SODERIM.
2.09      The proposed project was presented to the Board in the form of a
President's Report on December 21, 1976 and approved under Special
Procedures and the Development Credit Agreement (672-CM) was signed on
February 28, 1977.
Project Description
2.10      The project  financed  technical  assistance personnel  (General
Manager, Research Officer and Administrative and Financial Officer of
SODERIM), equipment, and operating expenses required over a three year
period mainly to:
(a)  complete soil tests and analysis of the area to be developed on
the plain and carry out further agronomic trials with a view to
finding a suitable cropping pattern and defining related
fertilizer application requirements;
(b)  organize the settlement of farmers on 300 ha to test promising
mechanization systems and different types of equipmerLt and
settlement schemes;
(c)  study:
(i)    the domestic marketing of soya;
(ii)   health  control  measures,  particularly  tsetse  eradi-
cation; and
(iii)  migration problems; and
(d)  incorporate the results of the above trials and studies into a
feasibility report for the full scale development and settlement
of the Plaine des M'Bo.



- 11 -
2.11      The total cost of the three-year project, based on mid-1976
prices and including contingencies, amounted to US$2.5 million net of
taxes, and of this 80 percent or US$2.0 was estimated to represent foreign
exchange costs. The IDA credit (672-CM) totalling US$2 million was granted
on standard terms and was complemented by a loan of US$0.5 million
equivalent by CCCE thus covering the total cost of the project net of
taxes.   The IDA credit covered 75 percent the cost of consultants and
expatriates, local personnel and operating costs, equipment and buildings
(see Table I in para 3.07).
2.12      Since  the  equipment  (US$0.4  million)  and  the  contract  for
buildings (US$0.3 million) were not large enough for international
competitive bidding, the relevant contracts were to be awarded on the basis
of competitive local bidding under local procedures acceptable to IDA. The
services of expatriate management staff and consultants (US$1.0 million)
were to be obtained according to IDA's normal procedures.
2.13      The project was to be managed by SODERIM, whose General Manager
would be project manager. At the same time, utilising equipment already
ordered by Government, SODERIM would be responsible for carrying out
mechanized rice cultivation on 800 ha.   Its operational costs for this
purpose, estimated to total US$3.5 mn equivalent during the project period
being provided by Government with some assistance (US$1.5 mn equivalent)
from CCCE. To assist in carrying out project trials and studies, SODERIM
was required to enter into agreements approved by the Bank with existing
research institutions in Cameroon, viz. IRAF, CENEEMA (Centre National
d'Etudes et d'Experimentation du Mechanisme Agricole) and ISH (Institut
des Sciences Humaines) and provision was made for consultants to carry out
the soya marketing survey and to provide supporting services for other
studies (notably by IITA and WARDA in agronomic fields).
Targets and Goals
2.14      The project's main benefit was to be the provision to Government
of solid technical and economic grounds on which to base a decision on a
total investment for a follow-up project estimated at US$35.0 million in
1976 prices. The President's Report stressed that the ultimate risk was
that the agronomic trials would demonstrate the impossibility of obtaining
the minimum yields necessary to justify this level of investment. But this
was considered a risk worth taking given the development potential of the
Plaine des M'Bo, where it was estimated that some 13,000 ha could be
developed to provide adequate income for 5,000 - 7,000 families (sone 30 -
40,000 inhabitants in all) presently living at minimum subsistence level
in the neighbouring over-populated Bamileke Plateau.
Other Donor Agency Roles
2.15      As co-financer, CCCE assumed responsibility for 20 percent of
project  costs,  its  share  totalling  US$0.5  million  equivalent.    In
addition, CCCE contributed some US$1.5 million equivalent towards the cost
of SODERIM's mechanised rice production and processing operations,
including in particular the cost of the provision by the consulting agency



- 12 -
of an expatriate rice mill manager.   In so doing, CCCE could be s(een as
supporting the objective preferred by Government viz. maximum mechanized
production of rice as soon as possible regardless of cost.
III. IMPLEMENTATION
Effectiveness and Start-Up
3.01      Conditions of credit effectiveness provided in the Development
Credit Agreement (section 6.01) were that:
(a)  initial disbursement  conditions under the CCCE loan had been
fulfilled;
(b)  the General Manager, the Research Officer and the Administrative
and Financial Officer of SODERIM had been appointed; and
(c)  the financing agreement between Government and SODERIM had been
concluded.
3.02      The effective date had been set for June 28, 1977, but because of
delays in formally constituting SODERIM (its statutes were only approved
by Decree No. 76/1 of January 3, 1977), the credit did not become effective
until August 29, 1977.  This, and in particular the late arrival of the
project management team meant that it was not possible to keep to the tight
schedule which envisaged the commencement of meaningful agronomic,
mechanisation and settlement trials during the 1977 season.
Revision
3.03      The lack of technical progress in 1977 meant that the first year
of the proposed three-year program had been lost and an additional trial
period - and with it an extension of the project - became necessary.  In
1978, Government agreed to finance the additional cost involved, estimated
at CFAF 210 mn (US$950,000) in extending the project by one year to June
30, 1981, and that to maintain Bank involvement throughout the extended
period, its rate of disbursement of approved SODERIM expenditures should
be reduced from 75 percent to 59 percent.
Physical Progress
3.04      These are summarised below:
(a) Agronomic Trials
(i)  Rainfed rice with a target ef two crops a year with an average
yield  of  3  t/ha.       Because  of  inter-season  harvesting
difficulties and time constraints only one rice crop per year
with initially promising yields of 2 to 2.5 t paddy/ha was found
to be feasible (see Annex 1). Declining yields over time were
mainly due to soil fragility and weed aggressiveness aggravated,



- 13 -
it was suspected, by latent soil-toxicities and/or nutrient
deficiencies not yet finally determined.   Soya as a comple-
mentary crop was not found suitable to conditions in the plain.
(ii)  Irrigated rice.   Because of the set-back under (i), attention
was switched in 1979 to possibilities for irrigated rice
production, which might reduce weed problems, but further work
has yet to be done to determine optimum varieties, replanting
dates  and  fertilizer  requirements.    Blast  proved  to be  a
particular problem in 1980.
(iii) Bottomland rice on seasonally flooded land. Here trials showed
that an average 2.5 t/ha of paddy can be achieved under manual
cultivation which should make this a viable proposition.
(b) Mechanization
(i)  Minimum mechanization.  Trials were limited to five test farms
and were well-monitored.
(ii) Light mechanization. In 1979 and 1980, trials were carried out on
two experimental farms using a power-tiller and four-wheel mini-
tractor.   Until the basic agronomic production problems have
been solved, no real lessons can be drawn from these trials.
(iii)  Medium  and heavy mechanization.   For  SODERIM force  account
operations estimated production costs implied a break-even
yield of 3.7 t/ha of paddy but average yields achieved were below
2 t/ha, leading to heavy losses of over US$300/ha sustained by
SODERIM's mechanized upland rice cultivation.
(c) Settlement
The proJect envisaged settlement of about 100 farm families on
200 ha but the start up of this program was delayed until 1979 because of
early management difficulties; and limited availability of candidates for
settlement in the plain.  In 1980, the study covered 73 families living
exclusively in the foothills of the plain and cultivating some 50 ha of
which 14 ha were for irrigated rice.  The survey on five simulated farms
installed in 1979 was beginning to yield useful basic data.
(d) Studies
(i)  Soya marketing.   In view of production difficulties with soya
and the fact that Government had commissioned a general study by
consultants for soya production and processing, this project
study was not proceeded with.
(ii) Health control measures. Difficulties were experienced getting
ISH to implement this study, which only started effectively with
the arrival in May 1980 of an expatriate volunteer specialising
in tropical diseases. His initial conclusions were as follows:



- 14 -
malaria was the main endemic disease and could best be
combatted by making nivaquine available to children and
pregnant women and generalising the use of mosquito nets;
solutions to the problems posed by diseases linked to
fecal contamination would require important civil works
(such as culverts, drainage, provision of drinking water
and privies);
monitoring of any suspected cases of sleeping sickness;
and
-      to prevent bilharziosis, a sanitary belt should be set up
and all farmers should be examined (and treated if
necessary) prior to their settlement in the Plain.
(iii) Migration studies also carried out by ISH were completed in
1979.
3.05      In view of preliminary findings of these studies, particularly
in the agronomic and mechanization fields, no attempt was made to prepare a
feasibility report for the full-scale development and settlement of the
Plaine des M'Bo along the lines envisaged in the President's Report of
December 9, 1976, i.e. based primarily on rice production.
Procurement and Construction
3.06      As indicated  in para 2.11, because of the smallness of the
equipment and building components (total cost approximately US$1 million),
relevant contracts were awarded on the basis of competitive local bidding
under procedures acceptable to IDA.  Technical assistance personnel were
provided under a contract with a consulting organization.
Costs and Disbursements
3.07      Projected  and  actual  project  costs  and  their  financing  are
summarised in the following table:



Table I: Comparison of Actual and Projected
Proiect Costs and Financing Plans
A.  PROJECTED                                                           B.  ACTUAL
2/
IDA                  CCCE            Government          Total            IDA                 CCCE              Government          Total
US$      Zof         US$      %of        US$      % of       US$          US$       % of       US$       % of       US$      7 of       US$
Million  Total      Million  Total       Million  Total      Million      Million  Total       Million  Total       Million  Total      Million
1.  Consultants and
internationally recruited
staff                         0.71      75        0.19      20         0.05       5         0.95         1.13     63         0.28      16         0.39      21         1.80
2.  Local personnel and
operating costs               0.38      75        0.10      20         0.02       5         0.50         0.28     40         0.07      10         0.35      50         0.70
3.  Equipment                     0.32      75         0.09      20        0.01       5         0.42         0.43      61        0.11      15         0.17      24         0.71
4.  Buildings                     0.22      75         0.06      20        0.01       5         0.29         0.16      46         0.04     11         0.15      43         0.35
Sub-Total                1.63      75         0.44      20         0.09      5         2.16         2.00      56         0.50      14         1.06     30         3.56
Non-Allocated                 0.37      75        0.06      20         0.02       5         0.45
2.00                0.50                 0.11                2.61         2.00      56         0.50      14         1.06     30         3.56
1/ President's Report: Annex III
2/ Mission Estimates.



- 16 -
3.08      Extension of the project time-span because of the loss of the
first year (1977) and the need to achieve meaningful results of revised
trial programs was the main cause of total cost overrun of 38 percenlt. The
cost of consultants and internationally recruited staff represented 50
per cent of actual total costs as against a projected 36 per cent largely
because of inflation and changes in the dollar/CFAF exchange rate.
3.09      The following table compares actual and projected disbursements
under the IDA credit:
Table 2: Actual and Projected Disbursements
Under Credit 672-CM
Accumulated Disbursements
(US$ Thousands)
Actual as %
Fiscal Year          Appraisal                                    of Appraisal
and Quarter          Estimate               Actual                Estimates
1978
3
4                   1.0                   0.4                    40%
1979
1                                        0.4
2                  1.2                   0.7                     58%
3                                        0.7
4                   1.5                   1.1                    73%
1980
1                                        1.1
2                  1.7                   1.3                     76%
3                                         1.4
4                  2.0                    1.6                    80%
1981
1                                        1.8
2                                         1.9
3                                        2.0
3.10      Unfamiliarity with Bank procedures coupled with late start up by
SODERIM accounted for actual disbursements falling behind schedule in the
early stages, while the extension of the closing date by one year to June
30, 1981, explains the late completion of disbursements.



- 17 -
Covenants
3.11      As  noted  in the President's  Report,  the Development  Credit
Agreement contained an unusual covenant (section 3.08) under which the
Government agreed that agricultural development and settlement in the
Plaine des M'Bo should be limited to an area of 1,100 ha until the project
had been completed or the Bank and Government had agreed that an expansion
of the area was justified in view of the results obtained under the
project.
3.12      This and three other normal covenants were complied with.  The
covenant to engage consultants not later than June 30, 1977, to assist
SODERIM in various studies (section 3.02(h)) was modified in that the soya
marketing study was not proceeded with (para 3.04) and that no agreement
could be reached with Government during the project period as to the basis
for any follow up program for agricultural development in the plain. Also
consultants to carry out the migration and health studies were not engaged
until 1978 and 1980 respectively; but, in the absence of a follow up
agricultural settlement scheme, these delays were not damaging.
3.13      Section 3.07  required Government  to ensure  that SODERIM was
provided with adequate liquid funds to cover all its expenditures
"including without limitation expenditures on account of commitments
entered into before (the project) period by or for the account of SODERIM".
In fact, outstanding liabilities of its predecessor (MIDERIM) totalling
CFAF 261 million (US$1.1 million) paid by SODERIM were not reimbursed by
Government until end 1979 when part settlement of CFAF 200 million (US$0.85
million) was made. There were also instances from time to time when there
was non-compliance with Section 3.01(b) under which Government was to
ensure that SODERIM should always have available liquid funds of not less
than CFAF 70 million (US$0.3 million) to pre-finance project expenditures.
Bank supervision missions drew attention to these financial short-comings
and achieved some success in putting them right.
IV. AGRICULTURAL IMPACT
4.01      The project as finally conceived involved the financing of pre-
investment studies and agronomic trials to prepare a settlement scheme
appropriate for the full development of the plain. As such its impact was
limited to a narrow front and the extent to which it achieved its
restricted targets has already been described in para 3.04 and is assessed
in Chapters IX and X.
4.02      At  the  same  time,  as  the first large-scale mechanized rice
production project in West Africa, it was hoped that any positive results
would have a wider regional  importance.   The conclusion  from project
studies that mechanized rice production in the plain was not a viable
proposition was reflected in the discussions at a Regional conference on
"Rice Development Strategies for West Africa" held in Monrovia, Liberia
from October 15-20, 1978, hosted by the West African Rice Development



- 18 -
Association (WARDA), which found inter alia that large scale rice
mechanization was uneconomic in all cases although intermediate scale
mechanization offered possibilities to reduce costs of production iand to
raise farm revenue by increasing output per person.
V. RATES OF RETURN
5.01      In the President's Report of December 9, 1976, it was stated
that, on the basis of very preliminary calculations, it was expected that,
if the project was completed successfully and a follow-up investment
project implemented, the economic rate of return on the full project would
be some 15 percent, but agronomic and mechanization trials carried out under
the project showed that feasible crop patterns, rice yields and costs made
large-scale mechanized rice production in the plain a non-viable
proposition.
VI. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
Institutional Design
6.01      The performance of MIDERIM, the Government agency established in
1973 to implement pilot stage operations, was unsatisfactory from both
administrative and technical points of view and its management supported
unproven large scale mechanized state farm operations.   When, early in
1976, without waiting for the conclusion of the appraisal process,
Goverment invested some US$5.5 million in farm equipment for the immiediate
development of a 800 ha mechanized rice farm, in a 5 tonnes/hour capacity
rice mill and in storage facilities for 5,000 t rice, it also decided to
create a commercial production agency (SODERIM) to replace MIDERIM. This
gave the Bank the opportunity to be consulted on the new management:. But
it also meant that SODERIM had two differing objectives:   to maximise
commercial production of rice to justify the equipment already ordered and
to carry out pre-investment studies under the project.   The fact that
Government was mainly interested in the first objective while the Bank
emphasised the second demonstrates the dichotomy that plagued this
project.
Financial Performance
6.02      A detailed financial and economic analysis made by the Super-
vision Mission of March 1980 concluded that with yields achieved of around
2  t  paddy/ha  at  then  current  ex-mill  buying  prices  fixed  by
Government at US$476/ton rice, and with processing costs put at US$86
per ton paddy (estimated on the basis of full mill utilization)
there would be a loss of US$200 per ton rice produced.  Due to less than
10  percent  mill  utilization,  actual  processing  costs  reached US$199
per ton paddy, bringing the loss under mechanization to US$375/ton rice.



- 19 -
6.03      For manually produced bottom-land rice, there was an estimated
loss of US$123 ton rice at current actual processing costs but when these
were reduced to reflect full mill utilization, a profit of US$51 ton rice
could be expected.
6.04      In economic terms, the analysis showed a loss of US$189/ton on
upland rice for mechanized rice production and a gain of US$60/ton rice for
manually produced bottomland rice.  For mechanized rice to break even in
economic terms, yields would have to rise to around 3 t paddy/ha whereas in
financial terms breakeven yield levels would be higher at about 3.7 t
paddy/ha as against achieved yelds of 2 t paddy/ha.
6.05      These findings were confirmed by the progressive deterioration
of SODERIM's financial position because of production losses that as at
June 30, 1981 totalled some CFAF 700 million (US$3.2 million).
Foreign Technicians
6.06      The first SODERIM management team supplied by the consulting
agency contracted by Government after consultation with the Bank had to
rectify the administrative shortcomings of its predecessor (MIDERIM),
extend the area of mechanized rice production, instal and operate the rice
mill, as well as set up the agronomic and other trials and studies under
the project.   In so doing with perhaps undue flexibility, the team was
accused of insensitivity in cooperation with Cameroonian institutions and,
in September 1978, Government informed the Bank that it had requested the
replacement  of  the  entire management  team.   The  Bank  accepted  this
decision.
6.07      The General Manager, Financial Officer and Workshop Chief were
replaced at the beginning of 1979; a temporary replacement Research
Officer supplied in March proved unsuitable for health reasons and a new
one acceptable to the Bank joined the project in May 1979.
6.08      This change of management came at an opportune time when the
validity of the Bank's contention that the emphasis should be on the
conduct of studies to provide solutions to changing technical problems
rather than the production of rice at any cost was becoming apparent. The
new team set up good work organisation, paid more attention to Supervision
Mission recommendations and to the training of Cameroonian staff.
Accounting and Reporting
6.09      Accounting  and  reporting  procedures were  adequate  but were
designed primarily to reflect SODERIM's commercial operations rather than
the carrying out project trials and studies.   The accounting system
utilised a mini-computer for which Cameroonian operators were trained.
After some delay, a cost accounting system was also installed to
provide a useful tool to management. Audit arrangements were satisfactory.
Institution Building
6.10      During Decision Meeting discussions (April 1976), importance was
attached to the value the project could have in enlarging the experience of



- 20 -
Cameroonian research institutions which, it was thought, should benefit
from the external guidance and financial support provided under project
studies. Terms of reference for these studies drafted by the Bank formed
the basis of contracts between SODERIM and the agencies involved: IRAF for
agronomic studies, CENEEMA for mechanization trials and ISH for migration
surveys.  (All three agencies operate under the jurisdiction of the then
National Research Organisation - ONAREST).
6.11      These contracts which were approved by the Bank were in general
terms calling for the formulation of agreed annual programs.  Difficulty
was experienced in ensuring a proper division of responsibility between
the research organisations and SODERIM, particularly as regards the
agronomic and mechanization studies, and Bank supervision missions had to
devote much time to providing detailed technical assistance and guidance
not only in the formulation but also in the evaluation of the results of
these annual programs.  Economic evaluation of results was particularly
weak and had eventually to be undertaken by a Supervision Mission (para
6.03 -6.05).
VII. SPECIAL ISSUES
7.01      The main issue was the fact that the main purpose and objective
of the project was open to differing interpretations. For Government the
main end was the maximum mechanized production of rainfed rice at any cost
since it had already committed itself prematurely to heavy investment for
that purpose including a rice mill with a capacity of 20,000 t per annum (5
t/h); for the Bank, the chief object was the solution of technical problems
to pave the way for full development of the Plaine des M'Bo through
alternative mechanization and other settlement systems to help relieve
population pressures in the neighbouring highlands.   These ambiguities
were reflected in the various titles given to the project:   Technical
Assistance at appraisal, Phase I and Rural Development at Board
presentation.
VIII. CHANGES IN REPEATER PROJECTS
8.01      No follow-up project has yet been approved because of the time
needed to resolve these conflicting viewpoints.   For the Bank, it was
relatively easy to conclude from the results of project trials and studies
that the only viable development strategy for the plain lay in an
integrated rural development project on the lines of the successful Bank-
financed Western Highlands Rural Development project and in which rice
would be one of several crop promotion possibilities.   Acceptance by
Government of this approach meant admission that its previous emphasis on
all-out mechanized rice production was ill-founded and that most of the
corresponding investments it had already made would have to be written off.



- 21 -
8.02      In 1980, based on a study by the consultants providing project
management, Government, SODERIM and CCCE prepared a program for another
three years of experimentation (Julv 1981 through June 1984) expected to
cost about US$10 million and aimed at the eventual development of at least
2,100 ha irrigated rice, obviously endeavouring to justify in one way or
another the premature heavy investment in rice production and processing
equipment. In view of:
(a) the difficulties already encountered in SODERIM's irrigated rice
trials (notably, blast losses);
(b) optimistic yield assessments 8 t paddy/ha in two seasons parti-
cularly in view of double-cropping difficulties;
(c) less favorable soil, topography and climatic conditions than
these experienced in the SEMRY project in North Cameroon;
(d)  likely  need  for  expensive  and  sophisticated  cultivation
techniques that would be difficult for farmers to follow;
(e) settlement problems arising from difficult living conditions in
the wet plain proper; and
(f) likely heavy cost of considerable civil works (dams, irrigation
and pumping) required for the development stage;
the Bank could not agree to participate in this proposed extension of the
project.
8.03      However,  in November  1981  the Ministry of Economy and Plan
stated that Government had decided on a re-orientation of its policy
regarding the development of the Plaine des M'Bo and agreed that any new
project should be based on settlement and integrated development in the
plain "with rice constituting one crop among others" and invited FAO/CP to
undertake the identification and preparation of such a project early in
1982.
8.04      As a result, it has been agreed that support to agricultural
development in Santchou and Kekem districts would be provided under the
Second Western Highlands Agricultural Project currently under preparation.
That part of the Plaine des M'Bo covered by the administrative district of
Melong could benefit from an agricultural development project based on
coffee cooperatives now under consideration for the Moungo Department of
which Melong district is a part.
IX. BANK PERFORMANCE
9.01      A RMWA identification mission that visited Cameroon in late 1972
recommended consideration of the Plaine des M'Bo project, then conceived
as being based on private farmers rather than a large-scale state farm.



- 22 -
Susbsequently  some  six  Bank  missions  endeavoured  to  monitor  the
preparation process but were unable to restrain Government's growing
enthusiasm for immediate large-scale mechanised rice production. This was
increased by the proposals contained in the preparation report submitted
by the consultant appointed as part of the pilot stage and led to the
premature ordering of equipment, rice mill and storage facilties.
9.02      The correctness of the conclusion of the appraisal mission of
February 1976 that the project area had development potential but that
technical and economic questions had not been resolved to the degree
necessary to justify a large-scale development project has, as this report
shows,  been amply demonstrated by subsequent events.   The  fact that,
without waiting for completion of the appraisal process, Government went
ahead to invest some US$5.5 million in farm equipment and infrastructure
for the immediate mechanized production of rainfed rice complicated the
issues arising from appraisal. On the one hand, the Bank could have said
that it so disagreed with such premature investment that it withdrew from
the project, on the other, it could seek a form of participation that would
enable it to influence further development.   The decision to take this
second alternative was largely influenced by the following factors:
(a) the apparent development potential of the Plaine des M'Bo;
(b)  the contribution this might make to provide settlement opportu-
nities almost in situ for about 5,000 - 7,000 industrious but
landless   farmers   from   the   over-population   neighbouring
highlands;
(c)  the apparently good prospects for a project based on a soya/rice
crop pattern coupled with reduced mechanization and settlement;
(d) the opportunity to give technical assistance and guidance in
adaptive research to emerging Cameroonian research institutions;
and
(e) the wider regional interest that would stem from any successful
mechanized rice production scheme.
9.03      Because it badly needed financial backing for a costly scheme
Government accepted the Bank's proposals,  as did the CCCE.   The Board
presentation (President's Report No. P-1904-CM of December 9, 1976)
realistically outlined the risks involved and drew attention to a special
feature of the draft Development Credit Agreement (Section 3.08) under
which Government agreed that there would be no extension of development in
the plain until the project had provided the necessary guidelines for such
development.   This restrictive covenant  implied  the possibility of a
different approach by Government.
9.04      The fact that such a different approach posed special management
problems was not, however, discussed, even though Government had announced
its intention of replacing MIDERIM, which had previously been responsible
for early pilot operations, by SODERIM - an entity geared to the commercial
production of rice. A weakness of the project design was that the project



- 23 -
financed not only well defined trials and studies but also the cost of
providing the management team (General Manager, Research Officer and
Financial and Administrative Officer) responsible for the execution of
project trials and studies and mechanized rice cultivation on up to 800 ha
together with the processing and sale of the output. Given the differing
emphasis placed on these two sets of operations by Government and the Bank,
project management had the difficult task of serving two masters.   An
alternative would have been for project-financed trials and studies to be
controlled by a separate entity or at least a separate unit within SODERIM
but this was not considered feasible and from the Bank's point of view it
would have weakened its oversight of force account operations. Government
also preferred the design adopted because it gave a form of hidden subsidy
to SODERIM's commercial operations, in that the whole of the cost of the
management team and not just that part devoted to carrying out project
trials and studies was borne by outside lenders as "technical assistance".
9.05      In view of these inherent weaknesses, close project supervision
was called for and given. In all, ten supervision missions spending 121
mandays in the field were mounted with a considerable degree of continuity
of staff (see Basic Data Sheet for details). In the first two years (1977
and 1978), these missions rightly concentrated on ensuring that trials and
studies were correctly mounted and in the process themselves provided a
considerable amount of technical assistance. In the remaining period (to
June 30, 1981), with trials and studies better organised under the second
management team (para 6.06 and 6.07), supervision mission concentrated on
the evaluation of results and on endeavouring to persuade Government that
these showed that mechanized rice production was not viable and that the
best method of developing the plain's potential lay in the implementation
of an Integrated Rural Development type project, particularly in the
foothills of the plain.
X. CONCLUSIONS
10.1      For Government, the apparently very promising results of IRAF's
early mechanized rice production experiments seemed to offer good
prospects for introducing modern cultivation techniques on empty land to
produce rice as an import subtitution crop. Such development of the Plaine
des M'Bo would also be in accord with its political and ethnic priorities.
Its decision early in 1976 to make major investments in mechanized rice
production and processing equipment costing US$5.5 million, financed by
suppliers credit, assumed that all the technical and economic questions
had been solved.
10.02     Bank project appraisal did not support this view and considered
that alternative systems of mechanization, greater emphasis on settlement
(to help relieve population pressure in the neighbouring highlands) as
well as alternative cropping patterns needed to be studied in depth before
the appropriate form of development for the plain could be decided. Rather
than withdraw completely from what it considered to be an unduly risky



- 24 -
project as prepared the Bank decided to participate in a compromise project
in which together with CCCE it financed the necessary trials and studies
and, in particular, the technical assistance these demanded. However, at
the same time, to utilise the equipment already ordered, large--scale
mechanization rice production was  to be  carried out.   Recognising a
possible conflict of interest, the Bank insisted on an unusual covenant in
the Credit Agreement (Section 3.08) under which no development beyond the
800 ha already earmarked for large-scale mechanized rice cultivation would
take place until the results of the project studies were known.  in the
event, this covenant did not have to be invoked because disapppointing
production results and financial constraints confined mechanized cropping
to a maximum of less than 500 ha.
10.03     The  decision  to  confide  responsibilty  for both  trials  and
studies and commercial production to the same agency (SODERIM) papered
over the crack of the differing views of Government and the Bank as to the
main  objective  of  the  project.    To  justify  its  premature  equipment
investments, Government placed its emphasis on maximum early mechanized
rice production regardless of cost; whereas the Bank regarded the project
pre-investment studies as of paramount importance. As a result, SODERIM's
management was in the position of serving two masters, or attempting to
look two ways.
10.04     On the financial side, the project co-financers (IDA and CCCE)
covered the full cost of the management team and not solely that related to
project studies and trials thus providing a degree of subsidy to SODERIM's
commercial production, while CCCE separately contributed to the cost of
these production operations, thus blurring any distinction between the two
objectives. Losses incurred by SODERIM on commercial production, although
partially met by Government subsidies led to a progressive weakening of its
financial position.
10.05     Results  of project  trials  and  studies may be summarised as
follows:
(a) because of inter-season harvesting difficulties and time cons-
traints only one crop of rainfed rice with initially promising
yields of 2 to 2.5 t paddy/ha was feasible;
(b) declining yields over time due to soil fragility called for
further pedologic and agronomic investigations.
(c)  irrigated   rice   production   needed   further   investigation
particularly as regards "blast" disease problems;
(d)  manually cultivated bottomland rice could achieve yields of 2.5
t paddy/ha making it economically viable;
(e)  under mechanized cultivation average yields of 2 t paddy/ha were
well below breakeven level of 3.7 t paddy/ha necessary to meet
high production costs;
(f) settlement studies covering traditional crops were beginning to
yield interesting results; and



- 25 -
(g) health and migration studies threw light on the problems to be
faced with any large-scale settlement on the plain.
10.06     From the Bank point view, it was relatively easy to recognise
that, as these results became apparent, they meant that mechanized rice
production was not viable and that the best method of developing the
plain's potential lay in the implementation of an integrated rural
development type project.  Because of its early hopes and its premature
equipment investments, Government clung to the hope that some form of
mechanized production would succeed and it was not until after the end of
the project period that Government  announced  a re-orientation  of  its
policy and expressed its willingness to have the integrated rural
development approach examined.
10.07     The project results should provide some basic data previously
lacking for the preparation of any integrated rural development project in
the area but problems still remain, notably:
(a) definition of the project area;
(b) relationship to existing and proposed projects in neighbouring
areas;
(c) the need for more information as to the viability of coffee and
food production and methods for their improvement; and
(d)  settlement  problems  particularly  those  related  to  ethnic
differences - fostering of Bamileke migration to land tradition-
ally belonging to the M'Bo (hence the title of the Plaine) may be
politically unacceptable.
10.08     The main  lessons  to be  learnt from this project experience
include:
(i) premature investment in equipment for a production system based
on non-representative initial research results, incomplete field
trials and wishful thinking inevitably lead to misuse of scarce
capital resources;
(ii) expenditure exceeding US$10 million over the last ten years is a
high price for Government to pay for the main negative finding
that mechanized rice cultivation in the Plaine des M'Bo is
neither economically nor financially justifiable;
(iii) project expenditure of US$3.6 million was not a high price to pay
to show that the original proposals involving investment of ten
times that amount were unjustified and to provide some bases for
sounder future project operations;
(iv) the need for particular care and special safeguards, especially
as regards management, whenever the Bank participates in a



- 26 -
project where there can be any major divergence between its
views and those of Government as to the project's main aims; and
(v)  in this particular case, the technical consistency of the Bank
approach and persistence in its presentation to Government seems
ultimately to have proved successful.



- 27 -                       Addendum
CAMEROON
PLAINE DES M'BO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit 672-CM
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
The following tables cannot be completed because of the technical
assistance character of the project:
Annex III   Key Indicators
IV   Price
V   Beneficiary Incomes
VI   Beneficiaries
VII   Project Incremental Crop Production
VIII   Project Incremental Livestock Production
IX   Financial Performance of Main Credit Intermediary.






CAMEROON: PLAINE DES M'BO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (Credit 672-CM)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RICE PRODUCTION & YIELDS
1974                     1975                     1976
Cycle           1st        2nd            1st       2nd             1st       2nd
I. Pilot program (MIDERIM)
Areas harvested (ha)
Force account (rainfed)                                                     15        112             53       131             45       312
Settlers                                                                   105         36             31       109             14        42
Local growers                                                                3          8             12        48             29        57
Totals                                                              123        156              96      298              88       411
Yields (t paddy/ha harvested)
Force account (rainfed)                                                      1.5        2.1            1.9       1.4             2.6       3.4
Settlers                                                                     1.6        0.8            1.5       1.1             2.3       1.9
Local growers                                                                1.0        1.1            1.7       1.0             2.2       2.6
Weighted average                                                             1.6        1.7            1.7       1.2             2.4       3.1
II. Project Period  (SODERIM)                                                            1977                   1978                     1979                        1980
Cycle           1st        2nd             1st    2nd               1st    2nd                  1st     2nd
Areas harvested (ha)
Force account
(a)  rainfed                                                                -        337               _       404             38       340 2                     227
(b)  irrigated                                                              _ -                -                -               -         5 _                       16
Settlers                                                                     -       317              40       158              -        13                 -       24
Local growers                                                                -        181              -        74               -       25                 -        6
Total areas harvested (ha)                                                   -        835             40       636              38      383                 -      273
Total areas cultivated (ha) 1                                                -       909              40       774            171       478                 -      358
Yields (t paddy/ha harvested)
Force account
(a) rainfed                                                                 -          2.1             -         2.1             1.2      2.4               -        1.8
(b) irrigated                                                               -          -               -         -              -         4.2               -        4.1
Settlers                                                                     -          2.5            1.1       1.4            -          1.9              -        2.1
Local growers                                                                -          1.9            -         1.5             -         1.7              -        0.7   e
Weighted average                                                             -          2.2            1.1       1.9             1.2       2.3              -        1.8
Notes:
1/ Differences between areas cultivated and areas harvested
due mainly to pest losses and weed aggressiveness making
it uneconomic   to harvest some areas.
2/ Primarily for seed production.



- 19 -A L
- CANEROON - PLAINE DES M'BO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (Cr. 672-CM)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Project Organization and Objectives
~ Appraisal    Actual
A. Project objectives or Focus:
Increased acreage or herd
Increased cropping intensity
Increased productivity - yield or
livestock offtake.
Shift to higher value crops .......
Reduced production cost .........
Technological Innovation.
Estate/Large scale farming ........
Integrated Rural development ......
Other (specify) Technical assistance in trials          X            X
and studies to solve production development problems.
Use       Performance-/
B. Project Organization (indicate whether
new or existing) and performance                    _ _
Project Unit ......................
Coordinating or other committee
Government agency ..................                    New      Gooc but aesign
Government corporation ...........weakness reduced
Other (specify)                                                  project effectiveness
C. Consultants Use and Performance 1/
Identification ...................
Preparation ....................
Appraisal .........................                _2_Sp_____low
Project executives ................                     _ood_
Project advisers ...........Good
Special studies .............../_eJe Low
Researchers.
Other (specify) ...................
Focus of effort.
Means .....
Achievement of Objective .........
Wider sector effort...............
D. Institution building and wider sector
efforts;                                                           __
Sector efforts;
Focus of effort
Means
Achievement of Objective
Wider sector effort;
Focus of effort
Means
Achievement of files
1/ Indicate excellent, good, adequate or inadequate.
2/ Agriculture economist good, agronomist inadequate, mechanization expert good.
3/ Health study good; migration study adequate.



- 30 -                      Attachment
CO-FINANCIER'S COMMENTS ON PCR
TRANSLATION FROM FRENCH
Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique            Paris,
(Central Fund for Economic Cooperation)                 November 16, 1982
233 boulevard Saint-Germain
75340 PARIS, France
Ref: DAO/PSE D1143
Mr. Shiv S. Kapur
Director, OED
World Bank
Washington, D.C.
Subject: Comments on your evaluation report:
"Plaine des M'Bo," Cameroon
Dear Mr. Kapur:
I thank you for transmitting to me the evaluation report on the
M'Bo Plain project prepared by your department.
I have forwarded the document to our office in Cameroon and to
the geographical department concerned. Their comments are favorable. The
report faithfully relates the course of events.
This project is a fine example of what should not be done in the area
of rural development: lack of knowledge of the physical and human environment,
activism on the part of the consultancy firms and the suppliers, presumptuous-
ness and obstinancy on the part of the experts, hastiness then weakness on the
part of the suppliers of funds toward ill-considered local initiatives.
The World Bank is absolutely right about the lesson that must be
drawn from this unfortunate experience, the consequences of which could have
been much more serious in a country less able than Cameroon to bear its
financial consequences.
This lesson is, above all, the necessity of a progressive approach,
with true-scale and sufficiently prolonged experimentation, whenever it is
sought to introduce technical innovation into a rural environment that is
physically and socially poorly known. It is also to look again at a working
hypothesis when the evidence shows that it is out of line with the realities
of the situation.
The above are a few comments suggested by reading your department's
evaluation report on the M'Bo Plain project.
Yours sincerely,
|sJ R. Bailhache
Assistant Director
pp. the Director General






noss'                                                                                     iuouoo   )                                                NIGER.                ]
CAMEROON                                                                                                                  A F ,I C Ak     aC
M'BOS  PROJECT AREA                                                                               To                              CAMERoOi                    21.
Prolect area boundary                                                                   Onchuog
Pilot scheme                                                                                                           -.-Internationnl
Main roads                                                                                                                  boundaries
NIGERIA
Earth roads                                                                         I                                                   (
Rivers                                                                                                                                                    A,/
Areas surveyed and mapped:                                              .-''''                                                      t               /
-5'20'                                   Suitoble for rainfed rice                                                        5J20-                                    .CENtRAL
(D cho       ~             AFRICAN
[ D Suitable for 'owland riceo                                                      2r                                                     0 S               REPUBLIC
N    VVillages                                                           /ombap                                                          AMEROON
I[   Bridges                                                     Ta wa n               I'                                                  Yo.undr
\Ngouato                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EOUAIORIAL  IGABON 
/  /OVINRilA     '.---COCONGO
,rr ,Ii dore,  or   ar1rr   dr    t
1°  !  Ml ES   6                                    e n /                   Kekem                                                         r° a:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:1,,,, i  , h
iYrrrld R,rr   rdrr r,A oe
Morn Foufou
Lele      J               0
5      I    2  35                          9    I
KILOMETERS
5              2       3       4       5       6
0-
MILtS                                                                                         Keencro
9.,50.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N



