Document of               |     ETURN        TO
ILE CPY                                   The World Bank                  REPORTS Dr)$
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                    WITHIN             |
Report No. P-1904-CM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FOR THE PLAINE DES M'BO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
December 9, 1976



CAMEROON
PLAINE DES M'BO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
CURRENCY UNIT         CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$   1          =    CFAF    245 1/
CFAF  1,000      =    US$      4.1
CFAF  1,000,000  =    US$   4,082
1/   Floating exchange rate.
ABBREVIATIONS
Caisse Centrale:      Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (France)
SODERIM               Societe de Developpement de la Riziculture dans la
Plaine des M'Bo
Mission de            Mission de Developpement de la Riziculture dans la
Developpement:         Plaine des M'Bo
IRAF          :       Institut de Recherche Agronomique et Forestiere
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FOR THE PLAINE DES M'BO
RURAL DEVELOPiMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report 1/ and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the United Republic of Cameroon for the equivalent of US$2.0 million,
on standard IDA terms, to help finance the first phase of the Plaine des M'Bo
rural development project. The Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
of France would participate in the financing of the project with a loan to
Cameroon equivalent to US$0.5 million, the terms of which are expected to be
20 years, including 3 years of grace, with interest at 3.5 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report "Proposals for a Medium-Term Public Development Program,
A Special Study, Cameroon" (No. 1097a-CM), was distributed to the Executive
Directors on"May 11, 1976.   In October and November 1976, an economic mission
visited Cameroon and a report is in preparation. The following sections,
which are substantially similar to those included in the Second Douala Port
Project President's Report, dated August 20, 1976, incorporate comments from
this economic mission.
Economic Potential
3.        Cameroon has a population of about 7.3 million (mid-1975) 2/ and
covers an area of 475,000 km , about the size of France. The country's
natural resources are varied, but not always easily accessible. Soils and
climatic conditions permit cultivation of a wider range of crops than is
commonly found in West Africa, and the forest areas of the southeast contain
large untapped timber resources. The north holds promising potential for
livestock development.
4.        While the main opportunities for development in Cameroon lie in
the expansion of agricultural production, including forestry, the country
has the potential to increase production of import substitutes needed
for a growing domestic market, and to process alumina and agricultural
and forestry products for export. A bauxite project is in the early
stages of preparation, and offshore oil and gas exploration is being
carried out and has yielded some promising results.
1/   Given the technical assistance nature of the proposed project, this
report constitutes a combined President's and Appraisal Report.
2/   Revised estimate based on the first population census taken in 1976.
Thit documcnt his a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients onily in the performance
of :heir offcial duties. itJ contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



- 2 -
5.        Commerce, transportation and transit services are other important
economic activities. Cameroon's main economic centers are separated by
vast underpopulated areas. The country moreover serves as a main export
route for landlocked Chad. As a result, large investments in port and
inland transport infrastructure are essential to promoting agriculture,
forestry and industry, and strengthening Cameroon's role as a regional
trade center.
Past Performance
6.        During the first decade of independence (1960-1970), the Govern-
ment' s primary objective was to unify the nation and to ease serious inter-
nal political and social tensions. Output of agriculture and industry grew
rapidly and, along with high world prices for cocoa and coffee, resulted in
a 7 percent per annum real growth rate. Gross investment averaged about 14
percent of GDP, slightly over half in the public sector, with the largest
part devoted to the transportation network, the most immediate development
constraint. A major effort was also directed at expanding education and
diversifying agriculture. Significant increases in fiscal revenues combined
with stringent expenditure controls produced sizeable budget surpluses that
made it possible to accumulate reserves and to finance a large part (up to
40 percent) of public investment out of local revenues. However, this pol-
icy also imposed excessive restraint on much needed current expenditure in
such areas as road maintenance, public health, and education.
7.        During the period 1971-1975, growth of real GDP slowed to less
than 3 percent per annum. This was caused by factors largely outside
Cameroon's control such as: (i) low export prices for cocoa and coffee
during 1971 and 1972, (ii) several years of drought in the north; (iii) a
drastic decline in domestic and foreign private investment, triggered pri-
marily by the relative stagnation of the agricultural sector and by the
completion of the most obvious import substitution projects during the
preceding decade; (iv) a drop in 1975 in world demand for both cocoa and
timber; and finally (v) rapidly rising import prices.
8.        The Government reacted to these developments by stepping up pub-
lic investment, which has increased by 50 percent to reach annual averages
of about US$190 million in constant 1974 dollars during the Third Develop-
ment Plan (1972-1976). At the same time, greater emphasis has been placed
on agricultural output. Within a public investment program averaging 9 per-
cent of GDP, rural development has comprised about 18 percent, transport
and communications 42 percent, energy 6 percent, and education 9 percent.
Since nearly 75 percent of public investment has been in sectors where its
contribution to domestic output is both indirect and delayed, the impact of
this substantial investment effort on economic growth was limited during
the Third Plan period. In addition, physical realizations have been in many
cases less than projected due largely to substantial cost increases and
the subsequent need to reduce the scope of projects or defer them.



- 3 -
9.        The balance of payments has not been a major constraint until
recent years; however, imports increased rapidly in 1974 and 1975 as a re-
sult of worldwide inflation and the heavy public development expenditure,
especially in capital goods. At the same time agricultural exports declined,
particularly exports of timber, causing a sizeable current account deficit
in 1975. Together with a decline in private capital inflows this resulted
in a fall in reserves from a level equal to nearly three months of import
requirements in 1970 to one-half month at the end of 1975. Thanks mainly
to considerably improved export demand and higher prices, especially for
coffee and timber, by May 1976 gross reserves had recovered to the absolute
level of 1972 and 1973. However, because of continuing international infla-
tion, Cameroon's offical gross international reserves, in mid-1976, still
covered less than one month of import requirements, a low level by usual.
international standards but still acceptable in the Banque des Etats de
l'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) monetary union arrangements.
Prospects and Development Strategy
10.       Cameroon's development effort over the next five years will be
carried out under the Fourth Plan (1977-1981). A Bank economic mission
discussed its recommendations on the level and composition of public invest-
ment with the Government in November 1975 and agreed on overall priorities.
It is antlcipated that short- and medium-term growth of GDP will be 5 to 6
percent per annum in real terms, slightly lower than achieved during the
1960s. However, if the Government can maintain a high volume of public
investment and further expand and diversify the country's production base,
more satisfactory rates of growth can be attained in the early 1980s. With
this goal in mind, the new Five-Year Plan has set a very ambitious public
investment target of over US$2.0 billion in constant 1974 dollars or two and
one-half times that achieved during the preceding plan period. The Plan
gives increasing emphasis to the development of directly productive sectors,
particularly agriculture and electric energy, while the share of transport
infrastructure investments is declining somewhat but remains high in absolute
figures. Social investments, particularly for sports and administrative
buildings, see their importance considerably reduced. These changes in
sectoral priorities are very much in line with the recommendations of the 1975
economic mission. The overall investment targets, however, appear very high
indeed in almost all sectors. They exceed by nearly two-thirds the invest-
ment levels the mission considers physically possible to achieve over the
next five years. Consequently, reductions in Plan targets will almost
certainly be unavoidable during the plan period.   These cuts will have to be
carefully assessed so as to make sure that the sectoral priorities established
in the Plan are not distorted during execution.
11.       To achieve even the lower investment targets suggested by the Bank
mission, the Government must strengthen its ability to choose, prepare, and
implement projects, particularly in the rural and transport sectors. Some
progress is being made in this direction. Special planning units are grad-
ually being established within the technical ministries. A Government-owned
consulting firm the Societe d'Etudes pour le Developpement de l'Afrique ,
was created under the Ministry of Economy and Planning to accelerate project



preparation. Commercially-oriented public corporations are also serving
to strengthen the project implementation capacity of the public sector.
Nevertheless, further improvements are needed, particularly in the manage-
ment of public corporations and in strengthening and coordinating rural
development institutions. The project presented in this report is designed
to assist efforts recently undertaken by the Government in these fields by
providing technical assistance experts, training local staff, and financing
high priority studies and project preparation in key economic sectors.
12.       In addition to the physical limitations imposed by absorptive
capacity constraints, financial considerations also suggest that public
investment during the Fourth Plan is unlikely to exceed US$1.3 billion in
constant 1974 dollars, or some $400 million per year in current dollars.
Indeed, this is about the maximum Cameroon can possibly hope to finance.
Budgetary revenues already reach 17 percent of GDP and cannot be expected
to increase much faster than the economy as a whole. At the same time
reserves of the stabilization funds are likely to stagnate, considering
the uncertain price outlook for most export crops. Current expenditures,
on the contrary, will expand as a result of recent increases in public
investment in transport, education, and health. Furthermore, public debt
charges will grow rapidly, particularly those of public enterprises, and
will absorb an increasing share of public savings. Consequently, in the
next five years, public savings after debt service will probably not exceed
US$100 mil-lion per year, or some 25 percent of total public investment, as
compared with 38 percent over the past few years. Cameroon will thus have
to rely on external financing for the bulk of its public investment.
13.       An increasing reliance on foreign borrowing during a period of
relatively slow economic growth, and unfavorable terms of trade, will
require careful foreign debt management. However, on the reasonable
assumption that at least 50 percent of foreign public capital inflow
will be on concessionary terms, the foreign debt service ratio could
be maintained below 10 percent by 1980. Cameroon's proven ability to
make effective use of external resources, and the Government's dedication
to development are reasons for added external support. To avoid further
rapid buildup of debt service, lenders, including the Bank Group, should
provide a large part of their assistance on concessionary terms. They
should also be prepared to finance a high proportion of project costs,
including when necessary, a part of local costs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CAIMEROON
14.       The Bank Group's commitments in Cameroon now amount to US$245
million and cover eighteen projects: six in agriculture, seven in transpor-
tation, three in education, one in public utilities, and one small- and
medium-scale enterprise project. Transportation represents the largest
share (55 percent) of our past commitments followed by agriculture (nearly
30 percent). Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA
credits as of October 31, 1976 and includes notes on ongoing projects.



- 5 -
Although delays and setbacks have been occasionally encountered in the
execution of projects, the Government has consistently shown willingness
to collaborate with the Bank in finding solutions to such problems.
15.       For the future, the Bank Group's strategy is to support the Gov-
ernment in its efrort to increase agricultural production, including export-
oriented crops, and in the process create productive employment in rural
areas; to upgrade and improve the operation and maintenance of the country's
infrastructure; to stimulate investment by local entrepreneurs and increase
employment in urban areas; and to increase the efficiency of Cameroon's
institutions.
16.       In agriculture, we have been able to help the Government further
diversify production by financing its oil palm and rubber plantations in the
east and west, and rice irrigation and livestock in the north. The ongoing
cocoa p'foject is helping to modernize cocoa growing by smallholders and to
raise rural productivity in areas south and west of the capital. The rubber
project approved in June 1975 will develop the southwest coastal region.
Preparation work for rural development projects in populated but poor regions
is underway with the assistance of the Bank. Preparation of the Zapi-East
Integrated Rural Development Project is nearly completed and the project
is scheduled to be presented to the Board during FY78. Field appraisal of
the Rural Development Fund Project has just been completed. The second stage
of an oil palm development project (SOCAPALM), which is designed to help
meet a rising domestic demand for palm oil and which would also inaugurate
a smallholder development program, is scheduled to be presented to the Board
during the current fiscal year. Furthermore, the Plaine des M'Bo Rural
Development Project, which is proposed in this report, will help finance
studies and three-year trial activities required before a full-scale rural
development program can be launched in the western highlands. Besides
promoting much needed foodstuffs production, increased Bank Group lending for
agriculture will support the Government's effort to focus on rural development
in order to improve income distribution and to achieve a better balance in
regional development.
17.       Recognizing the crucial importance of transportation to economic
growth in Cameroon and in neighboring countries, the Government has devoted
the largest portion of public investment to this sector. The Bank Group,
together with bilateral institutions, has substantially aided development
of adequate transport facilities. The Second Highway Project of 1973 was
designed to help complete the country's basic trunk road system. -The project
has encountered severe cost overruns partly alleviated by a recently approved
Supplementary Credit. The Second Railway Project of 1974 has focused on track
improvement and expansion of the equipment needed to maintain and augment the
railway's overall carrying capacity. Given projected sharp traffic increases-
and the backlog of required investments, substantial capital outlays are
still necessary particularly for the expansion of the port of Douala, which
will be assisted by a recently approved Bank loan and IDA credit, and some
related facilities such as a railway station and marshalling yard to be
built outside the port area. An engineering loan, approved in May 1976, will



- 6 -
help complete the engineering of this station and marshalling yard. Improve-
ment of the Douala-Yaounde transport corridor will also require substantial
investment. A study, financed by the Bank and scheduled to be completed in
FY77, will help determine an economically optimal investment strategy for
this corridor. Future road investments will mainly be for road maintenance
and feeder roads to provide links to local markets and facilitate exploita-
tion of Cameroon's forests. In other sectors, the Small- and Medium-Scale
Enterprise Project approved in 1975, focuses mainly on developing local
entrepreneurship. A Third Education Project, approved in April 1976, places
special emphasis on rural education and training.
18.       In all our projects, we will include, as needed, training, technical
assistance, and other provisions necessary for strengthening institutions and
improving sector policies. The proposed Technical Assistance Project would
help to strengthen government services in several key Ministries involved in
.investment planning, policy analysis and project processing. In addition,
through our economic work we will continue to advise the authorities, at their
request, on development questions in general, and on particular matters such
as economic management, problems of urban migration, and manpower development.
To help achieve the Government's priorities and to support our future lending
strategy will require increased emphasis on strengthening the institutional
framework, particularly concerning project planning preparation and implementa-
tion in transportation and rural and urban development.
19.       During the second half of the sixties, overall disbursements of
foreign aid to Cameroon amounted to about US$40-45 million a year. While
at the beginning of this period 65 percent of aid funds were grants, the
proportion of loans slowly increased. A major part of external assistance
was provided by France and was concentrated in infrastructure and productive
sectors. The aid-giving agencies of the EEC (European Development Fund and
European Investment Bank) directed their lending mainly to agriculture, with
infrastructure in second place. Bank Group disbursements were small during
this period. From 1972 to 1974 overall disbursements of foreign aid increased
to about US$60 million with one-third as grants. The Bank Group's share of
these inflows amounted to about 25 percent. Our lending to Cameroon has been
closely coordinated with other donors; in eleven of our eighteen projects,
joint or parallel co-financing arrangements have been made.
20.       Public debt outstanding and disbursed as of December 31, 1974
amounted to US$295 million and is projected to reach US$1.5 billion in 1981.
Public debt service as a proportion of export earnings amounted to 4.5
percent in 1975 and is projected to reach 9.5 percent in 1981. At that
time disbursements may be over US$400 million with only 9 percent consisting
of grants. At present IBRD debt, outstanding and disbursed, amounts to about
13 percent of all public debt and 10 percent of public debt service. IDA
credits, outstanding and disbursed, amount to about 13 percent of public
debt outstanding and 0.1 percent of public debt service. The Bank Group is
expected to account for about 25 percent of total public debt and 14 percent
of public debt service in 1980.



- 7 -
21.       In October 1974, Cameroon became IFC's 100th member.    IFC's first
operation in Cameroon, a US$450,000 underwriting to bring domestic share-
holders into a previously wholly foreign-owned shoe manufacturing company,
was approved in May 1975. In September 1976, IFC Board approved an equity
investment of nearly US$900,000 in a foreign-owned rubber estate (SAFACAM).
The investment will assist in the rehabilitation and diversification of an
existing estate by producing rubber for export and palm oil for the domestic
market. The operation will also facilitate participation by domestic share-
holders.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
22.       Agriculture plays a major role in the Cameroon economy, providing
a livelihood for about 85 percent of the population and accounting for 35-40
percent of GDP and over 75 percent of the value of exports. The agricultural
sector can be divided in two major subsectors: traditional agriculture and
industrial plantations. The traditional subsector accounts for over 85 percent
of agricultural output. It comprises some 950,000 smallholders cultivating
plots-avereaging about two hectares each, using family labor. Smallholders
produce foodcrops for subsistence and for the local market, and cocoa, coffee,
cotton and groundnuts for export. The industrial plantation subsector com-
prises several large government-owned and a few private industrial estates
(foreign-owned), producing mainly palm oil (for export and domestic consump-
tion) and rubber (for export).
23.       Production for export has so far been the most dynamic.    Output
of cocoa and coffee increased considerably during the 1960s at annual rates
of about 3.5 percent for cocoa, 5.5 percent for robusta coffee and 9 percent
for arabica coffee. Cameroon is now the world's fifth largest producer of
cocoa (110,000 tons) while its share of world coffee (88,000 tons) and cotton
production (41,000 tons) are relatively minor. In recent years, growth of
cocoa has accelerated appreciably, while that of robusta and arabica coffee
declined slightly as a result of the aging of plantations. Cotton production
has suffered a considerable setback due to the severe droughts which have
recently affected the northern provinces. The oil palm sector continues to
expand rapidly (an estimated 80,000 tons of oil were produced in 1975) but
because of increasing domestic demand, exports are generally negligible,
though in 1975 exports accounted for 10 percent of production. Good eco-
logical conditions exist for rubber and coconut for which development plans
are underway.
24.       Cameroon is largely self-sufficient in foodstuffs, with production
expanding at an annual rate of 3-3.5 percent, ahead of population growth.
This expansion results from a rapid growth of non-traditional foodstuffs,
especially vegetables, beans and potatoes. However, there is a serious
stagnation of output of traditional staples (plantains, millet, sorghum,
maize and cassava). This has reduced the supply of staple foods to major
urban centers, which consume more and more imports of rice and wheat.



- 8 -
25.       This stagnation partly results from unfavorable climatic conditions
in particular in the northern region, lack of adequate support services to
smallholders and the absence of an effective marketing organization. Existing
extension services are mostly concerned with the improvement of cashcrops and
have paid little attention to the development of foodcrops, except for rice
in the north. Marketing is reasonably well organized for export crops but
foodcrop marketing is largely in the hands of small traders, most of whom
operate within a small area and with limited turnover which constrains
the cash cropping of traditional foodstuffs.
26.       Farm incomes and services to farmers are unevenly distributed.     The
highest income areas are the central savannah and the western and coastal low-
lands (US$130 - 140 per capita); the poorest areas are the northern plains and
the western highlands (US$70 - 80 per capita), which are densely populated.
The weakness of extension and credit services is particularly evident in the
lowest income areas.
27.       However, prospects for developing smallholder agriculture are
promising and Government now intends to increase its support for the small-
holder by making more investment funds available to this subsector. A total
capital outlay of US$383 million would be allocated for agricultural and
livestock projects between 1976, and 1981, as compared to only US$168 mil-
lion 1/ during the 1972-1976 period. Furthermore, institutions are being
improved. In particular, the Fonds National de Developpement Rural created in
1973 to expand and coordinate rural development programs, has recently been
reorganized and given more flexibility to provide credit to farmers. Third,
the Planning and Agriculture Ministries would be given additional means -
including technical assistance - to prepare and monitor rural development
projects.
28.       As an example of Government concern towards the rural poor, several
projects for the overpopulated western highlands are envisaged. Here, about
600,000 people, among the-poorest of the country, depend on production of
arabica coffee and foodcrops, on decreasingly productive land. For social
reasons, it is not likely that this population could migrate rapidly outside
their original region. Settlement of the few plains around the highlands, of
which the Plaine des M'Bo is one, could reduce population pressures. This
explains the high priority given by Government to the project proposed in this
report. Yet, in the long run, the scope for such settlements is not sufficient
to solve the problem; a simultaneous effort to improve agriculture in the
highlands is necessary. Preparation of projects to this end is already
underway. Furthermore, a technical assistance project is currently being
presented to the Board, which would improve the ability of the Ministries of
Planning and Agriculture to prepare and monitor such projects.
29.       The Bank supports Government's efforts to achieve a balanced growth
between rural development projects in traditional areas and integrated estate
1/   At 1974/75 prices and exchange rates.



and smallholder plantation projects. This strategy involves developing both
industrial companies and smallholder schemes. In the past, Bank Group lend-
ing for development of tree crop plantations (CAMDEV FY 67 and SOCAPALM FY
69), was followed by loans or credits for rice irrigation (FY72), livestock
(FY74), cocoa (FY75) and rubber (FY76). The Bank's lending in the agricultural
sector has three main objectives: firstly, increasing technical and managerial
capabilities, strengthening institutions, and improving sector policies,
mainly through training and technical assistance; secondly, raising foreign
exchange earnings through expanding the production and export of rubber,
cocoa, livestock and forestry; and thirdly, increasing the productivity of the
overpopulated and poor rural areas. To the latter end, four integrated rural
development projects are at various stages of preparation.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
30.       Negotiations for an IDA credit were held in Washington from
November 15 to 18, 1976 with a Cameroonian delegation headed by Mr. Benoit
Bindzi, Ambassador of the United Republic of Cameroon in Washington.
Project Area
31.       The Plaine des M'Bo, which is about 200 km north of Douala, is
located in the overpopulated western highlands (150-200 persons per km ) and
comprises 30,000 ha at the base of the Bamileke Plateau. The mean altitude
is 720 meters. The topography of the plain is flat. There are several
meandering rivers with many tributaries, as well as stagnant ponds. At the
southern end of the plain, a rock formation slows down the flow of water on
the main river. As a result, the terrain is divided into permanently flooded,
seasonally flooded and non-flooded parts. The soils are water-logged with
zonal differences due to the fluctuations on the water table and the presence
of surface water in places. Total annual rainfall averages 1,730 mm, with two
peak periods in May and September; the dry season ranges from mid-November to
February. Mean temperatures vary only slightly during the year. Vegetation
zones include semi-deciduous forests, savannah grasses, and tree-and-underbrush
areas along the riverbanks. The soils are of good texture but their potential
remains to be verified.
32.       The plain appears to have been reasonably well settled in the past,
but complete depopulation occurred early in this century, partly because the
plain harbored vectors of sleeping sickness, malaria and onchocerciasis.
However, because of increasing population pressure in the surrounding high-
land, 10,000 inhabitants have recently settled along the footlines of the
plain where they grow traditional crops for cash (coffee) and for food
(plantain, cassava, sweet potatoes). The major part of the plain is still
empty, except along the central road running from Dschang to Melong. A
detailed survey of 20,000 ha shows that 13,000 ha of unoccupied land are



- 10 -
suitable for double-cropping rice and legumes (11,000 ha) and single-cropping
rice in bottomlands (2,000 ha) without expensive land clearing. However,
10,000 ha of unoccupied land have not yet been surveyed and some further
development potential of about 2,000 ha seems likely to be identified.
Preliminary investigations suggest that the health problem can be controlled
at reasonable cost, using methods which have already been tested successfully
elsewhere. Settlement of about 5,000 to 7,000 farm families would then be
feasible.
Project History
33.       The project stems from experiments begun in 1971 by the Institut
de Recherche Agronomique et Forestiere (IRAF) which initially suggested the
possibility of growing two crops of rainfed rice a year on the Plaine des
M'Bo. Given the positive results of three years work at IRAF's agronomic
station on the Plaine, the Government set up the Mission de Developpement de
la Riziculture dans la Plaine des M'Bo in 1973 to implement a pilot operation
partially financed by the French aid agency Fonds d'Aide et de Coopera-
tion. It also classified as state-owned land 4,000 ha out of a total iden-
tified potential of 13,000 ha. As this operation progressed, the Government
hired the Societe d'Assistance Technique et de Cooperation, a French consulting
firm, to prepare a feasibility study for a project that IDA and the Caisse
Centrale de Cooperation Economique agreed to consider. This study, completed
in mid-1975, proposed a project aimed at developing a highly mechanized farm
on about 8,000 ha to grow two crops of rice per year. Then, the Caisse
Centrale and IDA requested that the project should also benefit the landless
farmers living at subsistence level in the nearby overpopulated highlands.
The concept of a settlement project was acceptable to Government, and the
Consultants amended the study accordingly. Early in 1976 without waiting for
the conclusion of the appraisal mission, Government invested some US$5.5
million in farm equipment, in infrastructure for the immediate development of
a 800 ha farm and in facilities for processing and storage of 5,000 tons of
rice.
34.       The proposed project was appraised in February 1976.     The joint
Caisse Centrale/IDA appraisal mission concluded that the project area has
development potential but that technical and economic questions have not been
resolved to the degree necessary to justify a large scale development project.
In the first place, there were uncertainties regarding the results of early
agronomic trials and the Mission de Developpement's larger scale trials (on
200 ha in 1974 and 1975 and on 400 ha in 1976). These mainly concerned the
best cropping system and the most appropriate fertilizer requirements that
would be necessary to obtain yields which would justify the project economi-
cally. Secondly, the proposed heavy mechanization for land preparation would
not have used available labor resources adequately and would have entailed
high overhead charges for the settler. Although soil and other ecological
conditions in the project area undoubtedly require a certain degree of on-farm
mechanization, the proposed project assumed that settlers would have to be
permanently dependent on a central farm which the mission considered to_ be
unsatisfactory as a long run solution.



- 11 -
35.       Some 13,000-15,000 ha in the project area can be developed, and
a large part of the land is suitable for the double-cropping of rice in
rotation with a legume (groundnuts, soybean, beans). The project area
also offers one of the few possibilities to settle almost in situ, about
5,000-7,000 industrious, landless farmers from the overpopulated neighboring
mountains.
36.       According to the mission's preliminary estimates, the development
of some 13,000 to 15,000 ha in the project area would cost about US$35.0
million in 1976 prices, or about US$5,000 per farm family. However, during
the first phase, alternative mechanization and other systems will be tested
in an attempt to find ways and means to establish a settlement project at
reasonable costs per family. Current estimates include the cost of land
clearing, preparation, settlement, control of health hazards, and necessary
farm equipment and infrastructure. Based on the Bank's latest economic price
forecasts and reasonable yields (3 tons for rice and 1.7 for soya or ground-
nuts) at complete maturity, a full development project could yield a rate of
return of about 15 percent and provide 25,000 tons of rice (for which the
domestic market already exists), 15,000 tons of soybeans (for which local
marketing prospects will be investigated) or groundnuts for import sub-
stitution ,-and 10,000 tons of traditional foods for domestic consumption.
37.       Therefore, as a first phase, it is proposed that the Association
should finance pre-investment studies and agronomic trials on 300 ha in the
project area, in order to prepare a settlement scheme appropriate for the full
development of the plain. Simultaneously, the Societe de Developpement de la
Riziculture dans la Plaine des M'Bo (SODERIM) 1/ will exploit the 800 ha which
have been already developed, using equipment which was purchased previously
(see para. 33). Government has agreed that no further development outside
these 1,100 ha will be undertaken in the plain, until the proposed Phase I
project has provided the necessary guidelines for such a development.
(Section 3.08 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
The Phase I Project - Summary Description
38.       The three-year Phase I project would cover six cropping seasons.
This offers adequate scope for carrying out the measurements necessary to
provide sound agronomic recommendations and workable approaches to organi-
zation of the settlement and development of the plain. These results would
be summarized in a new feasibility report, which would be used as the basis
for appraisal of a full development project.
39.       Specifically, the Phase I project would finance technical personnel,'
equipment, infrastructure and operating expenses required mainly to:
1/   A decree establishing SODERIM as the entity to succeed the Mission de
Developpement will be ratified shortly.



- 12 -
(a)  complete soil tests and analysis of the area to be
developed on the plain and carry out further agronomic
trials with a view to finding a suitable cropping pat-
tern and defining the related fertilizer application
requirement;
(b)  organize the settlement of farmers on 300 ha, to test
promising mechanization systems and different types of
equipment and settlement schemes;
(c)  study:
(i) the domestic marketing of soya;
(ii) health control measures, particularly tsetse
eradication; and
(iii) migration problems;
(d)  incorporate the results of the above trials and studies
into a feasibility report for the full scale development
and settlement of the Plaine des M'Bo.
The Phase I Project - Detailed Features
40.       Soil Tests and Analyses:   Although an existing soil survey, carried
out in 1973, provides an adequate framework to guide the development of the
plain, some doubts remain as to the productivity of soils, moreover, the
subsequent years of cropping may have brought about chemical modifications
to the soils. Possible deficiencies (and toxicities) that might limit crop
production have to be further investigated. Thus, available data would be
reviewed and thorough soil analyses carried out in virgin areas and areas
cropped for at least three-years. Work would be subcontracted by SODERIM
to IRAF, which would carry out the study in consultation with the Inter-
national Institute for Tropical Agriculture or another experienced foreign
institute.
41.       Agronomic Trials:   Under the project, SODERIM would, with support
by IRAF carry out field trials to establish the fertilizer requirements of
rice, soya and other legumes (groundnuts, beans, cowpeas), the adaptation
of these crops in the farming system, and prospects for double-cropping
with rice. SODERIM would be responsible for implementation of the agronomic
trials program, which would be conducted each season along lines defined
with consultants. In addition, IRAF would continue to test new varieties
and conduct related experiments at its agronomic station on the plain.



- 13 -
42.       Mechanization/Settlement Systems: 1/   A promising new mechanization/
settlement system would be tested on 200 hectares, with the participation of
some 100 farm families, of which about half are already settled on the plain.
The objective would be to establish two groups of 50 farm families on 100
hectares of land each, which would use central maintenance facilities provided
by SODERIM. Each group would form a threshing unit and would be expected
to become self-managing. This concept is based on a real need, since close
cooperation between farmers is essential to obtain effective utilization of
the threshing machine in a short period of time. The new system would even
out the peak manual labor requirements at harvest, reduce losses during
harvest and, hopefully, make possible the best cropping pattern in economic
terms. In order to permit comparisons between several methods of land
cultivation techniques, various types of other light farm equipment (mini-
tractors, power tillers and cultivators) would be tested to ascertain their
adaptability to small farms under the project conditions. After experiments
with this equipment, another group of 50 farm families would be settled on
the remaining 100 ha of land and provided with the equipment. These systems
would be supervised by SODERIM, with technical support from the Centre National
d'Etude et d'Experimentation du Machinisme Agricole, and consultants contracted
for this purpose by SODERIM. A prime objective of these tests will be to
reduce mechanization costs to the minimum compatible with efficient settlement.
43.       Marketing Study for Soya:   The study would determine the prospects
for production and utilization of soya locally. It would analyze the pros-
pects for soya oil and meal - including livestock development and animal
feed requirements in Cameroon and in neighboring countries - and would also
investigate the possibilities of promoting soya for human consumption. More-
over, the study would cover proposals for marketing procedures, price policies
and investment costs. This study, which would complement an ongoing study of
the market for vegetable oils and fats in Cameroon, would be carried out over
a two-month period by a consultant contracted by SODERIM.
44.       Health Control Study:   Disease vectors, which have been identified
as being similar to those successfully eliminated elsewhere, will have to be
controlled before large-scale settlement could be undertaken. The project
would focus on the control of glossinas (tsetse flies) in the forested areas
of the plain and would evaluate the cost and effectiveness of alternative
methods of insect vector control. In addition, better information would be
developed about current,disease and nutrition problems in order to design a
health care program for the area. The Office National de la Recherche Scienti-
fique et Technique would be responsible for the health study, while SODERIM
would evaluate the structure and location of human settlements in the plain,
and improvements in village domestic water supply and sanitary practices.
45.       Migration Study:   SODERIM, with the help of a specialist team,
including sociologists and economists, would carry out a study of the
characteristics of settler candidates, in such terms as work experience,
resources and family structure, and thereby would define the most appro-
priate conditions of settlement on the plain and the requirements for
1/   The following assumptions have been made for the settlement scheme:
one farm family consists of an average of 7 persons of whom 2 are active
farmers; 2 ha will be allocated per farm family in the trial areas.



- 14 -
support services and settlement organization. The study would also pro-
vide SODERIM with guidelines to locate the best sources of candidates for
settlement and to determine acceptable criteria for the recruitment and the
selection process.
Organization and Management
46.       The Phase I Project would be under the overall responsibility of
the SODERIM General Manager assisted by a small group of qualified and ex-
perienced professional staff and consultants. These key positions would
comprise the General Manager, a Research Assistant and an Administrative
and Financial Manager. These positions would be filled by expatriates since
it is unlikely that Cameroonians with the required experience and qualifica-
tions could be made available for the project. The Project Manager would
supervise the management of the existing 800 ha farm and would coordinate
project staff and consultant's work. Ultimately, he would be responsible
for the preparation of the feasibility report for the full development of
the Plaine des M'Bo. This report, which would embody the experience and
information obtained during the Phase I project, would be the subject of
discussions between IDA and Government not later than September 30, 1979.
The Research Assistant, an agronomist with tropical experience, would be
in charge of-agronomic trials, the settlement/mechanization scheme, and the
mechanization equipment tests. The Administrative and Financial Manager
would organize suitable accounting/financing procedures at SODERIM. Other
local staff, already in place, would include a production chief, four field
supervisors, six extension officers, three experiment officers, and three
statisticians. In addition, two mechanics would maintain the existing in-
frastructure and facilities, including the rice mill, storage facilities and
agricultural equipment.
47.       The various consulting firms and research institutes involved in
the project would enter into appropriate agreements with SODERIM and report
to the Project Manager. These arrangements would include detailed terms of
reference acceptable to IDA and a work schedule to be revised at the end
of each cropping season.
Implementation and Phasing
48.       Procedures have been carefully prepared to ensure the effective
implementation of the Phase I project. First, Government has agreed to
approach five qualified consulting firms immediately, in accordance with
IDA guidelines for the use of consultants, to secure the arrival of project
key personnel early in 1977 before the beginning of the first cropping
season. Draft terms of reference for the consultants and for the studies
were drawn up by IDA and were formally discussed with Government during
negotiations. Secondly, agreements specifying the above terms of reference
of the main domestic research institutions involved have been prepared and
drafts were submitted to IDA at the time of negotiations. Consultants' and the
Project Manager's reports would be made available to Government and IDA, two
months after the end of each cropping season. The soya marketing study-and



- 15 -
the soil test and analyses should be completed at the end of the first year.
By the end of 1978, the Project Manager would initiate preparation of the full
feasibility study.
Cost and Financing
49.       The total cost of the project, based on mid-1976 prices and including
contingencies, amounts to US$2.5 million net of taxes.    Foreign exchange costs
are estimated at US$2.0 million or 80 percent of costs, net of taxes. The
proposed IDA credit of US$2.0 million would be complemented by a loan from
the Caisse Centrale equivalent to US$0.5 million; both would be passed on
by the Government as grants to SODERIM. The Government will ensure that funds
amounting to US$0.3 million are always available to SODERIM to prefinance
project expenditures. Given the investments in infrastructure and equipment
for this project already made by the Government, 100 percent external financing
of project costs, net of taxes, is justified. Total expatriate staff and
consulting services would amount to 168 man-months for a total.cost of
US$1.0 million in 1976 terms, or US$70,000 per man-year on average, of
which about US$30,000 would be salary.
Procurement
50.       Since the equipment (US$0.4 million) and the contracts for build-
ings (US$0.3 million) are not large enough to make international tendering
appropriate, equipment and buildings' contracts would be awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with local pro-
cedures which are acceptable to IDA. The services of expatriate management
staff and consultants-(US$1.0 million) would be obtained according to
procedures acceptable to IDA.
Disbursements
51.       The IDA credit would be disbursed pari passu with the Caisse
Centrale loan and Government's contribution (to cover the equivalent of
US$0.1 million in taxes) to finance 75 percent of the cost of:
(a)  consulting services and expatriate staff:   US$0.7 million;
(b)  local staff and operating costs           : US$0.4 million;
(c)  equipment                                 : US$0.3 million; and
(d)  buildings                                 : US$0.2 million.
US$0.4 million would be unallocated. Disbursements would be against
contracts and invoices for items a, c, and d. Disbursements for local staff
and operating costs (item b) would be made against statements of expenditures
certified by the Project Manager with the supporting documentation retained
by SODERIM and made available for inspection during supervision missions.



- 16 -
Benefits and Risks
52.       The Phase I Project benefits would provide Government with solid
technical and economic grounds on which to base a decision on a total invest-
ment for Phase II estimated at US$35.0 million in 1976 prices. The proposed
Phase I project entails the ultimate risk that the agronomic trials would
demonstrate the impossibility of obtaining the minimum yields necessary to
justify the investment required to develop the project area. However, given
the preliminary results obtained by IRAF during four years of experiments
and the changes that have been introduced in the original project concept,
we are reasonably confident that the new tests proposed in this project
will provide a workable solution to known difficulties. The mechanization/
settlement schemes envisaged in the project could run into unexpected
problems given the absence of precedent for this type. of development in
West Africa. But again, this would be unlikely because the population
interested in the settlement project is industrious and known to be capable
of adjusting to new farming systems, and because the project would provide
expertise necessary to overcome known difficulties. On balance, the risks
are worth taking given the estimated development potential of the Plaine
des M'Bo, where at least 13,000-15,000 ha could be developed to provide an
adequate income for 5,000-7,000 families (some 30,000-40,000 inhabitants
in total) now 'living at the minimum subsistence level in the surrounding
overpopulated Bamileke Plateau.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
53.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the United Republic
of Cameroon and the Association, the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of
a draft resolution approving the proposed credit are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
54.       A feature of the draft Development Credit Agreement of special
interest is referred to in paragraph 37 of this report. In addition, the
following special conditions of credit effectiveness are provided in sec-
tion 6.01 of the dra't Development Credit Agreement.
(a) initial disbursement conditions under the CCCE Loan
Agreement have been fulfilled;
(b) the General Manager, the Research Assistant and the
Administrative and Financial Manager, described in
para. 46, have been appointed; and
(c) the Financing Agreement to be entered into by the
Government and SODERIM has been duly executed and
authorized.



- 17 -
55.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
56.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
December 9, 1976






TABLE 3A                                          Page 1 ofL pages
CAMEROON            - SOCIAL INOICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA tTHCU KN21
______                                          CAMEROON                            REFERENCE COUNTRIES (19701
TOTAL       475.4                                     MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      156.0                      1960      1970    ESTIMATE         GHANA          IVORY COAST    MALAYSIA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                      9 0.0     190.0        270.0             340.0      340.0       440.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATION (MI0-YR, MILLION)             5.8.        6.6        7.3                8.6        5.4        10.4
PCPULATICt DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                        11.0        1L.0       15.0               36.0        16.0       32.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND           ..        L2.0                          62.0        30.0      291.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUOE 8tRTe- RATE PER THOUSAND        43.5       42.1        40.I               49.8       46.1        42.2
CRUOE OFATH OATE P'E THOUSANO          28.0       23.5       22.0               24.4       23.3        12.9
INFANT MLUQTALITY RATE I/THOU)          ..         ..       142.0 /L           156.0         ,.        40.8 /a
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT blRTH (YRS)        35.9       41.0        41.0               4L.5       41.0        56.7
GROSS REPRCCUCTION RATE                2.3 /       2.7        2.7                3.2        3.1         2.6   .
POPULATICN GRnWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                  2.4        2.0         2.0                2.6        3:4         2.6
URbAN                                    .         6.1        7.5                5.0         87           6
URBAN POPULATION (I OF TOTAL)           1I.9 A      20.3       26.3               29.0       28.0        27.8
AGE STRUCTURE IPERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                        40.0       43.0          *-              46.9        42.5        44.7   i
15 '0 64 YEARS                        56.0       54.0          ..              49.5         5l.8       52.1   .
65 YEARS ANO OVER                      4.0        3.0          ..                3.6        2.7         3.2 a
AGE OEPEhGENCY RATIO                     0.8        0.9          ..                1.0         0.8        0.9 /
ECONONIC OEPENOENCY RATIO                1.0         1.2         ..           -    1.4        0.9 I.      1 6 
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTOPS (CUMULATIVE, TOGUI            ..         ..          ..               10.9                  222.2
USERS It OF MARRIED WOMEN               ..         ..          ..                2.0                    80 a
EMPLOYMENT
TCTAL LAeCR FORCE (THOUSAND)          2400.0     2800.0          ..            3300.0      2600.0      2900.0 /a
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (S)          88.0       82.0          ..               54.0       82.0        43.0 R
UNEMPLOYEO (I OF LABOR FORCE)             ..         ..          ..                5.0 S      6.0         6.00
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
I OF PRIVATE INCCME REC'O 8Y-
HIGHEST  5X OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..         ..          ..                 ..         ..        28.3
HIGHEST 20X OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..         ..          ..                 ..         ..        56.0
LOWEST   201 OF HOUSEHOLOS              ..         ..          ..                 ..         ..         3.5
LOWEST  40S OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..         ..          ..                 ..         ..        11.2
DISTRIBUTION OF LANO OWNERSHIP
S OWNED BY TOP IO OF OWNEAS              ..         ..          ..
I OWNED BY SMALLEST 102 OWNERS            ..         ..          ..
HEALTH ANO NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             33T70.0 /b  29330 0    30520.0 /b         12950.0    12140.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         5400 0   c 2700A0 I    26L0.0  MS         1070.0     2480.0 a    1080.0 Iac
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL  8ED           450.  /.     50d 0        ..              760.0      680.0       20:0 !
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (Y OF REQUIREMENTS)          96.0       96.0       104.0              96.0       108.0        93.0  i
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER OAY)               59.0       59.0        64.0 4 L          46.0        60.0        49.0 a.dd
-Of WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE            ..       23.0          ..               10.0       18.0 /a     20.0  a
OEATH RATE 11THOU) AGES 1-4               ..         ..          ..                 ..         ..         5.5
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENRCLLMENT RATIO
PRtMARY SCHOOL                        66.0      108.0       107.0 L            58.0 i      76.0        89.0 4
SECONOARY SCHOOL                       2.0 /      9.04.      11.0 /-.            9.0 L     11.0 LL     34.0 L- s
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST ANO SECOND LEVEL)              14.0 Ia._  14.0 4      14.0  f            IS.0       13.0        13.0 L
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
tS OF SECONOARY)                      23.0       22.0        21.0 La           23.0         7.0         3.0  .
ADULT LITERACY RATE (S)                   ..       12.0          ..               25.0       20.0        71.0  
HOUSING
PERSCNS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)                ..         ..          ..                ..          ..         2.3
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPEO WATER IS)                         ..         ..          ..                 ..         ..       65.0   L
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(S OF ALL DWELLINGS)                    ..         ..         ..                 ..          ..       43.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (SI                      ..         ..          ..                 ..         ..       30.0
CCNSUMPTICN
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)           3.0       36.0        36.0              78.0        17.0        41.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            3.0        6.0         6.0 6              4.0       10.0       23.0   .
ELECTRICITY IKWH/YR PER CAP)           190.0      201.0          ..              338.0      120.0      382.0  0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                 ..         ..          ..                0.4        0.2         4.0  a
______ -                     __.__________________ .- _ ---  - _- _ _ - _ _ _ _.______________________._. --  -----------------
SEE NOTES ANO CEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



JJQG.l I
lag. 2 of L P*Z.i-
(boses otherwise, noted, date for 1960 rmfer to any year between 1 959 and 1 961 , for 1 970 between 1968 and 1970, and for Mast Recent Estimate betweer.
1973 and 1975.
- Pklsysla fAa baw selected as, the wily mon-Ofl of a alas eleller to Caearoon, which, endowed with a diversified tropical, prud-utios, readies toe GIIP
per capitae rtagt (US ULCO to 6003).
CAMER)ON     1260     a   Weat Ceerooni;      a,  1962;     /c   Including eldlvesS, aesiatant sidwiess and assistant nu.rses;          Jd   Ouvero-eot
noepitala, rraml hesp Itals aWnd     dical centers;      /a  12-18 years of age;     If  13 years for East Ca,arno.
2970     Li  1960-66;      &b  12-18 years of age;       ac  13 Year   for East Ce,meroo.
NDS, HXCM(   ESLJ4ATX    La   1972;    L/b  1971;      ac  969-71 averagle;     Ld   12-18 years of age;    /.   13 years for East C.amerno;
GM"N                1970     Li Registered unexploy*d;        /b  Registered, not all practicing In the fouafl7i           ac  i966-68;     LA   6-15 and 16-21 years,
of age respectively.
IMRZ CGOAS          1970     La  Due to imigretiom, p-opulation growth rate is higher then tbe rate of natural increase;                   1965-70;      ac  Ratio of
~PDaltioO   Under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;         /d   Govearuoast only;     /a19IL-66 J       I    12-18 years of age.
MALAYSIA             90           est; MaleYsia;     /b  Registered applicantsa for work;       LA   Governiment only;     LA   i96&-66;     Le   12-18 years of age;
fi97       InsIde only.
f2, August 5, 1976
fPDlrINTTh OF SOCIAL DiDIC-AZon
Lsead Area (thou ho                                                                           Populstiosi per nursing perso    -Ppuato        divided by nmber Of practiciog
Total - Tocal surface ares cosprising iaod ares and (isead        -etrs.                        vl     n   i   egsuc         uss      .and       r'etfe           uss      n
Ari. -  ootrecet etimate of sgricultural ares used tenporraily orosr-                     sunlitery personnels with troining or soperiosion
nmnentlv for coupe    Pastures. marker & kitchen gardens or to lie follow.                  population per hoonital bed - Population divided ho ossber of houpita1
GN? Per caPita   (0551 - Cip cer capica    -   -i.ss  at ourr-o  cakch  prices,                 beds avilable in public sod pniv-ro gecers1 sod speciloi-od hospital
-csiloiacd by save cooveloo       erhod  as   crild Bank Atias (1973-75 boo(s),                sod rrhsbiiitation centers. eociudew     oursitog hostas and estsblisw,-nts
1960  1970 and 1975 data                                                                       for costodial sod preventive care..
Pop.l.ciaa ..d  i-l ~~~~~~~t.,J,tjc~~~                                 Per capita supply of calories     (7. of  Csornet)        - C piredt Eru'
Population  and :ltal aratistics                                        ~~~energy  q,iaetof net fond supplies avilable in c-wstry            e
Popolati-    (id-sr   otlo)- As or Jclv first          if cot av-ilabie. a-erage                 capita per day. soailahie supplies coopoise dovestic production. isports
of two -od-yerestae-           1960. 1970 sod 1975 data,                                       less exports. and changes in stock, net supplies enclude animal feed.
POP-1--  d-s1c,  - Mid-y-  P                                              -~~~~~~~~seds, quantities used is food processing sod losses. in distribution,
-ep  - sIsIO  h   .r dest -fc tssIare .   i-pa     ouato       e   qur     io                   rsquirmet       ayocsstdb          A    aed on phyn-iogic-I -oeds for
eter (170 hecttaresdof total area.                                                              spfari.al activity and health oconsidering  ssvirosneto1 toperature. body
copultion  eostc -  r  -cure he of aeri-. lad-Csue            saoefrWeights, age wed ses distr1bsti-o                             of p-si    Iso   ad aliowiog 107. for
agrtcolrccsl  bed polo,                                                w~~~~~~~~~aste at household level.
Vital stjEls-cs                                                      ~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~Per capita supply of protein  (cress per day) - Protein content of per
vital bis rtati-s         h-si-OO-                                                               capita nest, spplyt,of, fod   orday, st suPppo of fo         sdfsd5
Crud  birh rae p  ihosand- anuallive blrtho per thousand of etd-year                  abv,cqirennt            oral    ontieouobis               d by  defAisnedi
populatio. to-year aririh-tic avrags, ending In 1960 and 1970. and five-                       Research cervices provide for a sininu      ailo....sce of ci dress Of total
o-a   averagencding in 1975 for most recent estimate                                           Protein per lay. end 20 graon of animal and pubse Protein, of w,hich
Crude deaco rate per thousad -sssa         deaths per thousand of sid-year                       10 gras. should be snimel protein , these a toodords ire io-ir then
PoPu1-lation.e-     -oar-r '-e-c av-ra.s ending In 1960 snd 1970 and                           chowe Of PS grasm of total protein and 23 goons of animal protein as
fi---e-vrvrgo ending io 1975 for cost reose-          ti.nate.anavrage for toe .s-ld                                        proposed by FA) In 'ho Third Aorld rood
lofast sortalito rate (,th-ul    - Annual deaths Of infants under one yesr of                    Asvy
'2'  "' "'                                                         ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Per capita protein, -pply for  anim- 1and  L. pss- Pru - sospply ci
life  e7npenacc   at, bi'Jrth  (vrsi - Average number of years of life renainig                  food derived froes animals and pulses in gram      per day
at birth, osuallo five-ra      ace rges coding in 1960. 1970 and 1975 for                   Death rate   f/thou) aces 1-4 - Annual deaths per thousand Jn age group 1-4
developing countries                                                   y~~~~~~~~~~~~~ears. to children in this age group, suggested aanindicatrcoc
Crows  reproduction   race -Acerage osber of Ive- dasghtern a wesn will                          Ianutrition.
bear in her normal reproductiv period if she esperienres present age-
specific   etlt      races~,usuallyt(toe-year averges ending in 1960.                        Education
1970 and 1 975 for deveopng souncnoes.                                                      Adjusted en,rollm,ent ratio - Prime-     school - Enrollment of all ages as
Population   cr-wc   rate (7.)- total -   C-Onoud asnual growth rates of cid-                    percentage of primnary sobool-age population, includes children aged
yer pjopulg-C~ato  for 1~950-60. 1960-70 and 1970-75                                           6-11 Years but adjusted for different lengths of primary education.
.Popltincruh        (rceZ) - urhan - Cespused like growth rate of total                         for countries with unversel educaion, esoietny onceed 1007%
populatino. different definitions, Of urban areas nay affect ospara-                          since ions Pupils are bel1w or above the official school age.
bility of data   camog countries.Adutderlmn                                                                        rai   -seodr        ucol-optdas             bve
Urban  nopoatios (.Of    total) -ratooera.t            oasoulto,dfe                            secondary education requires at least four psara of opproed prinary
rentrdeiniios       furanara       ma    ffect conParahility of dat.aaasng                    Instruction, providesgnrl,vctoa                or teacher training
countriesr. (O     ct        hlrn(-~yas               .kg.         (56     er)                  instrctions for pu~pils of 12 to 17 years of age. correspondence
As  strutured (p5 erest) -    -Ceildoc  pU-I'. yer)  wrigage.(1-64yeas),course                          are generslly extiuded.
sod  etied  65  ear  an  ovr)  s prcetags o  ol-year population.             Years of schooling provided     (first and second levels) - Total pesre of
ARe dependenc, ratio - RatiO of Population under 15 and 65 and over to                          schooling, at secondary level. voctional in.tructcob nay li partIally
those of ages 15 chrsugh 6i..                                                                 c   opee.       nldd
iconasi. dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 aod overploatiena                          onr    clldedt(.of  sonr)- osin               oatuon
to the lsbor force is age group of 15-64 years.                                               include technical, industrial or other program       which operate ind,-
Family   planning  :A.EcMZt-r   (n.sltv       thou) - C_Islaive number of                       pendentlc Or as deparct.et     of secondory ins titutions.
aceptors of birth-control devioss under uaupices of national fanily                         Adult literacy   rate  (7.) - Literate adults (able to rea.d and write) as
ploneing program since inceptioncecnaeofttlautppuainee                                                                                        5  er     n   vr
Family pl.aning - user     (7. of e-arnd   sae)-PrnagwOf mariedpecnaeo                                          toaadlppjti               gd15er          nd    e.
w-n    Of obild-bearing age (15-4d. years) who use birth-control devices                    RousiJag
to all married amon in san      ag  group.                                                  Persons  per roes (averag) - Average     nsseber of persons per roe    In
E.pl-.t                                                               ~~~~~~~~         ~       ~  ~~~~~~~~occupied covninldwellings in urban areas; d-1siings exclude son-
Ttsp loneo   foc     tosn)perman.ent st,rctoar.s and unoccupied pects.
Tota  laor  orc  (tousod)- Eoo0ceicaIly active persons, including                     Occupied dwellings    without piped water   (.    Occupied cooentional1
redtfioities and urinply bauntr     aexeldin  bous.besocs.   tdns       t.                    dwellings in urban and rural areas without inside or outside piped
de.rfintonsein vagrioustr co7tie      er   o.o8al.wter facilities as perLentage of all occupied dwellinga.
Labr  frcein  griultre  7.)- Agricultral labor force (in farming,                    Access  to electricity   (7 of all dwelias      - Conventional dwellings with
forestr-y, hunting and fishing) as percentage of total laker force,                           electricity in   Iving quarters as percent of total dwellings Jo urban
UjmPsloved   (7. of labor force) - Ui1Ployed are tusully defined as persons                     and rural areas.
who are able and willing to take a job, our of a job on a give         day,                 Raral dwellings   conac ted to electrciciy    (7.) - Conputed as above for
reamed out of a job, and seeking work for a specified md.ntss          period                 rural dwellings only.
aot enceeding one week, -      sot be crparebie between countries due to
different definitions of eaplped and source of data.          e.g., aeploy-                ConSumption
nent office statistics, sample surveys      cpsl...y -semploysint insurance.                RAdio receiver    (Per thou pop) - All types of receivers for radio broad-
Incow, d-ih~foa  Per-I.g  -f  ri-e inonw,(bot  in  ash  nd k~d)ceets to general public per tho,usand of population, excludes                 -olicen-ed
re-i- di orbyriches -% Prchentag   of7 prIvate     20o%(ot    in r. o 40b and bid)rceoer                  in count'ies and is years     hen renits-rtios of ri-dio sets wa
received.b.ihs         7    Ihet27,poet2%.adpoetiio                                           in effect, data for recent years. mY sOt be cesparable since .oat
households.                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COoncries aholisbed licensing.
Distribution, of                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Passenger cars  (per thou  ceo) - Passenger car  comprise nator tars a-etin1
DistrIbution  oflad ownershiP - Percentages of land ownd bly wealhiest                         less than eight persona.    -xcldas ambulances, hearses and wilitary
10.adpoo  107. of land owners,                                                        vehicles.
H2-lth -d 4.ttition                                                   E~~~~~~~~~~lectricity  (kwh/yr  per cap) - Annual inais_ption of industrial. ci r-
(ixaltih and       TIIa-Muaio               M   dt Nutriion                                     cil, public end Private     ielctrilty    in bil-sott sours per capita,
Population  s   physicin-f     suaioidvie ydine              of prauticing                     gevraellp based on prodmtion data, without allowance         for losses In
physcias qaliiedfres a medical s-hoo      at univrsity, level.                          grids hut allowing for imports and enports Of electricity.
NewPrime (kg/nT per cap) - Per capita unnual cona_ption in kilogr-s



DOO I              DTA                                                   page 3 of 4 Page
(Amount  in si  rion  of U.S. doUlrar)
197 Actual                          Projected               1967-    1972 -   19774  -   19987 61  16        94         8
197  17         94           T    7    T~1972               972     197419691817                            197       198
NATIONAL ACCOWITS-3                                                "F   r
MATIONA-L ACCOMM            p-Year Av-erage at 1967- 1.969 pricds & Exchange Rates            Average Annual Grovth Rates            As Percent of GDY
Gross Domestic PrOduct                799.4   1109.9     1195.5       1266.1     1363.8    1798.8         6.8     3.8     6.8     5. 7       101.2    104.0     103.6
Gains from Terms of Trade()          -__9.5     21.4    -  46.0      -  38.2    -__41.2   -  62.9..                                 .       -  1.2   -  4.0    -   3.6
Gross Domestic Income                 789.9   1088.5     1149.5       12-37.9    132-2.6  17735.9         6.6     2.8     7.3     5. 6       100.0o   1600.0   -100.0-
Import (mci. NP'S)          ~~~~~234.0  325.0    344.5       364.3       387.4     516.6         6.8     3.0     6.0     5. 9       29. 6     30.0      29.8
Exports     "  (import capacity)      213.2    290.6      328.4        325.0      361       490           64      63      12      69          2.        86       2.
Resource Gap  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~~            T~~7!       7~~77       5T~-   ---47r         10.6  -46.2     78.5    -1.5                  T          T
Consumption Expenditures              682.1    951.2     1013.7       1084.0     1145.2   1i45.6          6.9     3.2     6.3      4.8        66.4     88.2       83.3
Investment     1  (incl, stocks)     128.7    171.7       169.2       183.2       220.1     337           5.9   -   .1   14.0     8.9         16.3     14.7       19.4
Domestic Savings            ~~~~~~107.8  137.4   153.0       143.9       170.7     290.2         5.0     5.5     5.6    11.2         13.6     13.3      16.7
Nationic Savinigs                      87.9    114.0      102.7        110.0      151.2     249.8          5.3  - 5.4    21.3     10.6        11.1      8.9       14.4
MERCHNDIISE TRADE                               Anrnual Data at Currenlt PricesAsPreto                                                                        Tta
Capitalgos4.s9.                                           0.           4.        1 77. 5   444.4        16.9      8.2   30.4     20.2        21.7     2J.9       35.4
Caitemdate godsodse           s      87.3    133.6      198.3       2543.32      9.        3.           8.9    21.8    22.5    12.4         46.4     45.5      42 5
Inerels direategods mterials)        87.3    15.26      398.3       252.3        61.86    109.8        12.9    58.7    2 7   .0  12.2        4.4      9.8        8.7
of vl~~.ch:  Petroleum ~~  8.3     15.2       38.3         52.3       61.8     109.8        12.9    58,7    27.0    12.2          4.4      8.8        8.7
consurotion goods                    51.6     64.9       95.0        112.7      128.9     169.3        122      1.     165       .674                2.8         35
Total March. ImpoAts (cif)         TMTU      30T-W      =39         Sr7                      =.7 T3    10.0    20.0    23.6     13.6      i1=       i'7     
Exports                                                                                     858           ..8    5.         .      40         9.         35       8.
Primary Products (~l fuels)         143.7    199.9      446.7       398.1       461.0     85.           .68     00      16     140          98       935        68
Fuels and related materials           -        -                       --                   -
of which:     Petrolaumi            -        -                                                                       48      1459-
Mazps.fact~~~~~~~~~~e4jods ~~~~~14.6  20.9      31..1        53.9       68.3                   7- 2134.5  7.  20 4.    4592                  6.5       13.2
Total Merch. Exorts (fob)          T3r 77                77-T       Z=7       -3777T    -TO=69                 471      52     1.0         1f7       DUO     *D~
Tourism and Border, Traae              .        .          .. 
(erchand.ise Trade Indices          -9.          Average 1.967-69     100
Export Price IndeX                  9.      114.1       172.1       189.2       212.6     303.0         4.0    22.8    11.1     7.3
import Price Index                  94.8    127.6       186.0       218.0      239.3      343.7         6.1    20.7    13.4     7. 5
Terms of Trade Index                99.1     89.4        92.5        86.8        88.9      88.2        -2.1     1.7   - 2.0    - .2
Exports Volume Index                94.0    123.8       163.9       147.0       164.0     229.0         5. 7   15.1      -      6.9
tALUjE ADDED BY SECTOR               Annual Data at 1967-69 Prices and Exchange Rates                  Average AnnUal Growth Rates           As Percent of Total
Agriculture                        2    72. 2  352.1   380.1        417.5      432.8      540.7         5.3     2. 9    6.7     4.6        38.5     37.4       34.4
Industry and Mining                170.9    233.2      230.8        258.8      271.8     371.2         6.4    - .1     8.5      6.4        24.2     2     2. 7  2   3. 6
Service                            264.3    40.        40.          4fn-       488.1     658.3         8.7       .1    9.7      6. 2       37.4     39.9       41.9
Total                              707.4    986.9     10t6.3       1136.8     1192.7    1570.2         6.9      1.5    8.3      5.6       10 0.0o  100.0      100.0
~~~LMic FINANCE ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~As Percent of GDP
~Central Government) (in CFAF. billion)
Current Receipts                    31.9      56.6      68.4         79.6      103.8      201.1       12.2     9.9    23.2    14.1         16.4     16.4       17.0
Current ExpendituLres               32.1      46.6      60.9         71.6       93.9      165.9        7. 7   14.3    24.2    12.1         16.5     14.6       14.0
~~idgetery Savings  -  .2  10.0      7.5          8.0 ~~~~~~~~~~~ 9.9  35.2      152.7   -15.5    14.9    28.9        -  .1      1.8       3.0
Other    Public  Sector Savings      4.6       1.0      13.4         10.9       12.5       19.8       35.7   266.1   - 3.5     9.6          2.4      3.2        1.
Public    Sector  investment        13.5      27.5      43.4         44.2       49.9     124.7        15.3    25.6     7. 2   20.1          6.9     10.4      10.6
us $ million
.'IJERENT B1~~E2WITl1RE DETAILS  ~   Actual         Prelim.     Eat.     Proj.        DETAIL ON                                  At    1974-1975'? and   ER
As %       Total current Expend.)          1967     1972        19 74     19 75    1976          nThLCrSECT POGRAM                        197ird Pla  -     of 75   tal
E.ducation                                14.4      17.1       16.9      17.1     17.4           D9ET4RTP0E -17-                                    2-  95/6
Other    Social  Services                    .7     10.7        9. 7     10.0     10.3           Social    Sectors                         247.6               26.6
Agriculture.                                5.0      5.6        5.9       6.1      6.6           Agriculture                               167.5              -18.0
Other    Economic  Services               11.6       8.7       11.2      12.3     13.5           Inldustry   and Mining                     14.0                 1.5
Administration      and  Defense          59.5     45.3        42.6      41.8     40.3           Power                                      56.8                 6.1
Other   .          8.8     12.6        13.7      12.7     12.1          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Transport  and  commnications  38 7. 2   41.6
Totalr CurrentExpenditures1(in                                                                   Other                   ,57.7                                  6.2
TotaF billion) Epdtrs(n                  32.1     46.6       60.9       71.6    939Total              Expenditures                       93-0.8              100.0
IELECTED  INlDICATORS                                 1960 -     1967-      1972-    1977-         FINAN____2_
cCalcul.ated    from 3-year  averaged data)           1965       1971       1976     1981             PulcScorSvrs35/                                              3.
kverage  ICOR                                                     2      .2  4.0      3.1             Loublc   eorrowing    s              351.8               63.0
Import Elasticity                                      .           .968       .789    1.010           LocalgnBorroning                       552.8 26.0
Marginal     Dmeatic   Savings  Rate                   .           .023       .239     .289           Toreig     Financing                  523.2                56 20
1Iarginial National Savings Rate                       .           .137       .151     .239TolFiacn93.100
EA~~~OR F0~~~~E AND      Total Labor Force ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Value Added Per Worke                            (9 67- 69        Prices . Exc.  RaLtes)
3UTPTFPRCWOE      R AN                                      of Total           1967     -  71      In U.S.Dollars        Preto        vrg             96-7
)uTPLIT PER WO9R7KER                                         j        rowh Rte            1-967       1971        12_6 7      19 71      Growth Rate
3giclur                 22,200       31.700      18.5        19.7          9. 3          4,585.6     4,186.1        118.9      10 7. 7- 2.6
gindustury                     29,210       41,360      24.3        25.7           9.1          1.064.7     1,090.4         2      7. 6  28.1            .6
EnrvicrY       4/'             27,328       34,427      22.7        21.4          6.0           5,027.8     5,420.4       130.3       139.5            1.9
.overnment                     41,494       53,486      34.7        33.2          6.5           4,5.         ,4.          132         174.
'otal                         1-20,232-   160r, 9     735  T 100.0  im o          -7           'T117f       T1   -        I T007.-    100.0             .2
not applicable    - nil. or negligible              ~J~/ Estimated      actual disbursements           4/     Excluding government
not avalilable         --ls     thn    al  the              2/ Net of debt ser-vice
smallest unit shown               3/ Modern sector only



Annex I
Page 4 of i4 pages
CAMEROON
BALANCE OF PAYME1qTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT PROJECTIONS
(amounts in millions of U.S. dollars at current prices)
Average Annual
Actual       Estimated                Projected                  Growth Rate
1971   1972   1973   1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   19s0    1975 - 1930
M4ARY BA1,ANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (incl. NFS)                309    340    533   693    648    766    937   1095   1228   1358       16.o
ImDorts (incl. NFS)                E      425   520    657    71     943   1071   1217   1382   15o6       14.6
Resource Balance (X-M)             -4     7      13     7    -143   -177   -133   -122   -155   -207        7.7
Interest (net)                     - 5.5  - 6   -11    -16   - 17   - 21   - 34   - 42   - 49   - 59       28.3
Direct Investment Income          - 1.7  - 2    - 4.5  - 7.7 - 8    - 8    - 11   - 15   - 21   - 28       28.5
WorkersPRemittance                 -17.0  -21   -24    -33   - 34   - 39   - 45   - 52   - 59   - 68       14.9
Current Transfers (net)             15.5   15     11    20     24     30     35     38     41     44       12.9
Balance on Current Accounts        -2     -99   T17      0   -7     - 715  -2179  -193   -      -319       12.4
Private Direct Investment           12    -25.6   4.6  -13.3 - L      18     22     27     31     30      109.1
Official Capital Grants              7      6.8    7.2   13    24     26     28     31     34     37        9.0
Public M&LT Loans
Disbursements                    28      72.4  51.5   60     78    118    150    191    253    317       32.4
-Reoayments                      -8     - 8.8  -12.4  -16  -18    -18    -24      32   -40    -60        27.2
Net Disbursements                   20    o3.6    39.1  T      7 0   101    19     159    213    257       33.8
Other M&LT Loans
Disbursements                      .      .      .      .      .     .      .      .
-Reoayments                        .      .      .    _               .           _ .     .
Net Disbursements                    .      .      .      .      .     .      .      .
CaDital Transactions n.e.i.          2     11.8  -13.7   44
Change in Net Reserves              11     42.6  -15.9   0
.ANT AND LOAN SONSITTCTNTS
Actual        Estimated
Official Grants  Grant-like         25.8   24.0   25.2  24.0                                       1970  1971  1972  1973    1974
Public M&LT Loans                                                     DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE
IBRD                               -      -    25.7   34.1          Public Debt Outs.&Disbursed  130.3 159.8 194.5 239.9   295.1
IDA                                1.5   12.7  24.0    -
Other Multilateral                 3.5     .6   19.3    -              Interest on Public Debt     4.5   5.7   6.5   9.9    12.3
Repayments on Public Debt    4.5   7.5   9.1  15.7    19.7
Governments                        8.2   24.6   81.1   47.1           Total Public Debt Service    9.0  15.2  15.6  25.6    32.0
Suopliers                          3.4    4.7     .6   16.8           Other Debt Serrice (net)    ..    ..
Financial Institutions             -     15.6    -    22.0            Total Debt Service (net)    ..    ..
Bonds                                    --            14.8
Public Loans n.e.i.                -      -      -     ..           Burden on Export Earnings (%)
Total Public M&LT Loans             1.  5T.4 150.7      iZ.6
Public Debt Service          3.z   4.3   4.6   4.8     4.6
Total Debt Service          ..    ..
Actual Debt Oustanding on    TDS + Direct Invest.Inc.    ..    ..
Dec. 31, 1974
(TERNAL DEBT                                  Disb. Only     Percent   Average Terms of Public Debt
World Bank                                     26.8           9.1       Int. as % Prior Year DO&D    4.2   4.4   4.9   5.1     5.1
IDA                                             31.3         10.6       Amort. as % Prior Year DO&D  4.2   5.8   5.7   8.1     8.2
Other Multilateral                              38.0         16.9
Governments                                   153.8          52.1     IBRD Debt Out.  Disbursed      3.4   7.7  13.8  23.1    26.8
Suropliers                                      8.5           2.9          as % Public Debt O&D      2.6   4.8   7.1   9.6     9.1
Financial Institutions                          36.6         12.4          as % Public Debt Service  -     4.0   6.7   5.4     6.7
Bonds                                                         -
Public Debts n.e.i.                                           _       IDA Debt Out.   Disbursed      8.9  11.0  18.4  30.1    31.3
Total Public M&LT Debt                        295.1         100.0          as % Public Debt O&D      6.8   6.9   9.5  1?.6   -10.6
as * oublic Debt Service  -     -     0.1   0.1     0.1
Other MALT Debts
Short-term Debt (disb. only)
not aspltcable                          e  staff estimates
not available                           - nil or negligible
..   not available separately              --  less than half the
but included in total                      smallest unit shown



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of October 31, 1976)
US$ Million
Amount
(less cancellations)
Loan or
Credit
Number    Year    Borrower   Purpose              Bank     TW       IDA 3/  Undisburse
Four Credits and six Loans have been fully        39.7               24.2       -
disbursed
161 CM   1969   Cameroon    Education                               11.7 1/   0.4
320 CM   1972    Cameroon   Education II                             9.0      7.1
429 CM   1973    Cameroon   Roads II                                24.0      0.1
429 1 CM 1976    Cameroon   Roads II                                15.0     14.4
935 CM -.-L973   Cameroon   Roads II              24.0                       24.0
983 CM   1974   Cameroon    Livestock             11.6                        7.7
1038 CM   1974    REGIFERCAM Railways              16.0                        1.9
1039 CM   1974    Cameroon   Cocoa                  6.5                        4.9
574 CM   1975   HEVECAM     Niete Rubber Project                    16.0     14.5
575 CM   1975    Cameroon   DFC - Small Scale
Enterprises                            3.0      3.0
S 4 CM   1976    REGIFERCAM Railways               2.3                        2.3
1245T CM  1976   Cameroon    Education III                 17.0 /2            17.0
657 CM   1976    Cameroon   Second Doula.Port                       10.0 /2  10.0
1321 CM   1976    Cameroon   Second Doula Port     15.0 /2                    15.0
TOTAL                           115.1     17.0    112.9    124.3
of which has been repaid        1.1      0.0      0.0
TOTAL now outstanding           114.0     17.0    112.9
Amount sold                 0.2
of which has been repaid        0.2      _
TOTAL now held by Bank
and IDA /3                    113.8     17.0    112.9
TOTAL undisbursed                57.8     17.0     49.5    124.3
B. Statement of IFC Investments
311 CM   1975   BATA        Equity Investment
in Shoe Factory      0.4
/1   Including a Supplementary Credit of US$1.2 million made in 1975.
/2   Not yet effective.
7T   Prior to exchange adjustment.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 161, 161-1           First Education Project:   US$10.5 million Credit
of September 23, 1969; Effectiveness Date:
April 29, 1970; Closing Date: December 31, 1976
(Original Closing Date:  June 30, 1974; First
Postponement December 31, 1975) and US$1.2 million
Supplementary Credit of July 30, 1975: Effective-
ness Date: October 30, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976.
The implementation of this project was slow, especially in the ini-
tial years. This resulted from delays in (i) selecting the consultants,
(ii) reaching agreement on schedules of accommodation, (iii) revising the
bidding documents, (iv) starting construction work for which overpriced
initial bids had to be cancelled, and (v) awarding contracts. The project
is now well managed and near completion. With the exception of additional
site-works, the construction of the project schools is completed. Almost
all furniture has been delivered and equipment delivery will soon be com-
pleted. All the schools are in operation. The technical assistance program
is about 30 months behind schedule due to slow selection process; hence the
closing date has been extended from December 31, 1975, to December 31, 1976.
In May 1975 a Supplementary Credit of US$1.2 million was approved to cover
cost increases due to currency realignments. A completion mission is
scheduled for February 1977.
Cr. No. 229                  Douala Port Project:   US$1.5 million Credit of
January 14, 1971; Effectiveness Date: April 14,
1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1974; (Original
Closing Date: June 30, 1973).
The Douala Port Project commenced in July 1972 and physical work
under the Credit was satisfactorily completed in November 1974. Covenants
and undertakings agreed during Credit negotiations have been reasonably ful-
filled, but financial targets were not achieved. Remedial financial measures
are included in the Second Douala Port Project.
Cr. No. 302                  SEMRY Rice Project: US$3.7 million Credit of April
26, 1972; Effectiveness Date: July 28, 1972;
Closing Date: June 30, 1976.
Implementation has been on schedule and the Credit is fully dis-
bursed. Results achieved by the project in the field of production yields
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNLA i1
Page 3 of 5 pages
and agricultural practice improvements have largely exceeded targets. The
project has been less successful in attracting qualified Cameroonian staff
and establishing an adequate financial management but these shortcomings
are being corrected.
Cr. No. 320                  Second Education Project:  US$9.0 million Credit
of June 28, 1972; Effectiveness Date:
February 27, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Due to difficulties in selecting architects and agreeing on the
designs, project implementation is delayed by twenty-four months, but no
extension of the closing date of June 30, 1979, is expected. The project
is generally well managed. Following cost overruns due to currency realign-
ments and the accelerated price increases which have occurred since 1973, one
project school was transferred to the Third Education Project. (Loan 1245-T).
Cr. No. 429, Ln. No. 935     Second Highway Project:  US$24.0 million Credit
of September 26, 1973; Effectiveness Date:
December 20, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1978 and US$24.0 million Loan of same date;
Effectiveness Date: December 20, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The Government has awarded civil works contracts for all three
roads, and construction began in December 1974. Contractors started work
slowly on the Douala-Pont du Nkam (161 km) and Pont du Noun-Foumban (50 km)
roads, and delays of six months to one year are expected. Construction of
the Garoua-Mora (260km) road is progressing satisfactorily. The project
was re-appraised in September 1975 and the total cost was estimated to have
almost doubled. In view of the unexpected magnitude of the cost overruns
and the absence of additional financing from new donors, the Government
agreed to postpone construction of one road section (90 km) to reduce total
project cost. A Supplementary Credit of US$15.0 million was approved in
March 1976 to help alleviate the burden imposed on the Government by the
project's cost overruns.
Ln. No. 983                  Livestock Project:  US$11.6 million Loan of
May 14, 1974; Effectiveness Date: September 16,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Project implementation has progressed satisfactorily, although
some project components are behind schedule. The situation at one project
ranch continues to be very good, and that of a second ranch has notably
improved; activities in the third could start in 1977, subject to Bank's
approval of a development program. Twenty one bids have been received and
evaluated for the turn-key construction of two slaughterhouses; negotiations
took place with the lowest fully responsive evaluated bid and the contract
has been signed in October 1976. About 45 credits are expected to be
disbursed during 1976/77. The tsetse-fly eradication campaign is likely to
start in November 1976, as scheduled.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5 pages
Ln. No. 1038                 Second Railway Project:   US$16.0 million Loan
to REGIFERCAM of September 18, 1974; Effective-
ness Date: December 18, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, i977.
Procurement of main project items is satisfactory. The track mate-
rial has been delivered and final delivery of rolling stock items is underway.
Although problems were encountered in the construction of the foundation
for the Japoma bridge, the works are expected to be completed by April 1977.
Due to the fluctuation in exchange rates during project implementation, addi-
tional financing was required to cover the cost of the equipment already
ordered and of the reconstruction of the Japoma bridge. Consequently, the
railway has obtained a supplier's credit of US$890,000 to supplement Bank
financing for the rolling stock, and the foreign exchange cost of the con-
sulting services (US$925,000) originally included in this Second Railway
Project has been transferred to the Third Railway Project financed under Loan
No. S-4 which became effective on October 5, 1976. Due to the world slump in
the timber market and recent substantial increases in staff costs, REGIFERCAM
experiences difficulty in attaining the financial covenants included in the
Loan Agreement. During the negotiations of the Third Railway Project, the
Second Railway -Project financial targets were retained and the Government and
REGIFERCAM undertook to take the necessary measures including tariff increases
to achieve the target set for 1978/79. A first tariff increase averaging
12.4 percent has been implemented, effective June 1, 1976, and subsequent
tariff increases will be implemented on July 1, 1977 and 1978, respectively.
Ln. No. 1039                 Cocoa Project:   US$6.5 million Loan of September 18,
1974; Effectiveness Date: February 26, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The executing agency, SODECAO, is now fully staffed and is extending
its activity to the complete project area. The management structure, which is
still unsatisfactory, is to be strengthened by the appointment of a Technical
Manager, expected in January 1977. Progress in the field is up to appraisal
objectives but further progress will depend in a considerable part on a
revision of the existing farmgate price structure which presently does not
induce production of higher quality cocoa. Project costs are under control
and no cash-flow problems are foreseen for the next twelve months. TheRoad
Program part of the project has made a start, after a delay of more than one
year. The main reason being lack of cooperation from the Government's Roads
Department, a problem which still remains to be solved.
Cr. No. 574                  Niete Rubber Estate Project:   US$16.0 million
Credit of June 3, 1975; Effectiveness Date:
December 1, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Progress in establishing Niete Rubber Estate has been steady:
plantings are on schedule and construction work ahead of schedule. Labor



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5 pages
hired locally has been more than anticipated and is sufficient up to now;
remote recruitment is likely to become necessary soon. Collection of rubber
seed is being improved, as unusually heavy rains have hampered seed production.
HEVECAM's Chairman has been appointed to an important national position, and
his resignation of the Chairman post should be anticipated. The terms of
reference for the regional master plan studies have been proposed.
Cr. No. 575                  Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprise Project:
US$3.0 million Credit of July 1, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: July 30, 1976 (Original
Effectiveness Date: December 1, 1975; First
Postponement: February 2, 1976; Second Post-
ponement: June 2, 1976); Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Credit effectiveness was declared on July 30, 1976 after two post-
ponements. Delays were caused mainly by difficulties with the selection and
appointment of three experts as technical assistance to the Banque Cameroun-
aise de Developpement (BCD). Their appointment was a condition of effective-
ness of the credit.
Ln. No.-n245-T               Third Education Project:   US$17.0 million
Third Window Loan of July 2, 1976; Effective-
ness Date: December 31, 1976 (Original
Effectiveness Date: October 4, 1976); Closing
Date: December 31, 1981.
The effectiveness date was postponed because i) the documents en-
larging the Project Unit have not yet been received in the Bank and ii) the
contract between the Government and the architects for undertaking project
design has not yet been signed. These are the only conditions of effective-
ness that are unfulfilled. Work on school designs is proceeding under a
Letter of Intent with consulting architects.
Ln No. S-4                   Douala Railway Station and Marshalling Yard
Engineering Project: US$2.3 million Loan of
June 25, 1976; Effectiveness Date: October 5,
1976; Closing Date: October 31, 1978.
The loan is effective.
Ln. No. 1321                 Second Douala Port Project:   US$15.0 million
Cr. No. 657                  Loan of September 24, 1976; Projected Effec-
tiveness Date: January 24, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981 and US$10.0 million Credit of same
date; Projected Effectiveness Date: January 24,
1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The loan and the credit are not yet effective.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 4 pages
CAMEROON
PLAINE DES M'BO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              United Republic of Cameroon
Beneficiary:           Societe de Developpement de la Riziculture dans la Plaine
des M'Bo (SODERIM)
Amount:                US$2.0 million, equivalent
Terms:                 Standard
Co-financing:          The Caisse Centrale would participate in the financing
of the project with a loan to Government of US$0.5
million equivalent.
Relending Terms:       The IDA credit and the Caisse Centrale loan would be
passed on as a grant to SODERIM.
Project Description:   The Plaine des M'Bo extends for 30,000 ha at the base
of the Bamileke Plateau. The proposed project would
consist of three years of agronomic trials on the
Plaine des M'Bo, to establish the fertilizer require-
ments of rice and soybeans, the adaptation of soybean
to the cropping system, and the prospects for double
cropping of rice. In addition, a mechanization/settle-
ment scheme would be initiated with settlers from the
overpopulated nearby highlands, which would test the
feasibility of establishing self-managing groups of 50
farm families on 100 ha, i.e., to form a threshing unit.
At the same time, a parallel settlement of 50 farm
families using new types of equipment to be tested under
the project, will permit comparisons between several
mechanization/ settlement schemes.   The project will
also finance studies of the local market for soya, the
socio-economic characteristics of recent and potential
settlers of the plain and neighboring highlands, and
health control measures. The project would be managed
by SODERIM, (the successor to the Mission de Developpement,;
the entity which was created by the Government in 1973
to implement the pilot operation). The three-year trial
period would comprise six cropping seasons, which, with
the previous four years of field trials, would provide a
sufficient data base for a full project which could
begin in 1979.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 4 pages
Estimated Cost 1/
Local      Foreign     Total
(in '000 US$)
Settlement Program                         326          924       1,250
Agronomic Trials                           106          430         536
Mechanization Tests                         28          149         177
Soil Survey                                  2           17         19
Soya Marketing Study                        -            12         12
Migration Study                             33           48         81
Health Program                              20           73         93
Sub-Total                            515         L,653      2,168
Physical Contingencies                      26           82         108
Price Contingencies                         83          253        336
Total Project Cost                   624         1,988      2,612
1/   Including taxes, which are estimated at US$0.1 million.



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 4 pages
Financing Plan:
IDA     Percent   Caisse Percent Government  Percent Total
US$       of       US$     of        US$         of    US$
Million    Total   Million  Total    Million     Total  Million
1.  Consultants and
Expatriates         0.71      75      0.19       20      0.05       5       0.95
2.  Local personnel and
operating costs     0.38      75      0.10       20      0.02       5       0.50
3.  Equipment           0.32      75       0.09      20      0.01        5      0.42
4.  Buildings           0.22      75       0.06      20      0.01        5      0.29
Sub-Total           1.63              0.44               0.09               2.16
Non-allocated       0.37      75      0.06       20      0.02        5      0.45
TOTAL               2.00              0.50               0.11               2.61
The external financing would cover 100 percent of project costs, net
of taxes or 95 percent of total project costs.    The Government contribution,
shown above, is the equivalent of the taxes included in total project costs.
Estimated Disbursements:
FY          FY           FY        FY
1977         1978        1979      1980
0.2         0.8          0.5       0.5
The proposed IDA credit of US$2.0 million would cover about 75 percent
of total project costs and be equivalent to the foreign exchange cost of the
project.



ANNEX III
Page 4 of 4 pages
Procurement Arrangements:     Since the largest part of equipment (US$0.4
million) should be available from the beginning
of the project and the contracts for construction
work (US$0.3 million) are not large enough to
make international tendering appropriate, equip-
ment and buildings' contracts would be awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally in accordance with procedures acceptable
to IDA. The services of expatriate management
staff and consultants (US$1.0 million) would be
obtained according to IDA's normal procedures.
Technical Assistance:         Total expatriate staff and consulting services
would amount to 168 man-months at a total cost
of US$1.0 million and an average man-year cost
of US$70,000 (of'which about US$30,000 would be
salary).
Rate of Return:               On the basis of very preliminary calculations, it
is expected that, if the Phase I project is com-
pleted successfully and Phase II is carried
out, the economic rate of return on the full
project would be some 15 percent.






s!so7                                                         wooq7@NG,m\                                    g
CAMEROON                                                                           AF RIC A
M'BOS   PROJECT AREA                                                                    CAMERO 
Project orea boundary                                      To Dschng 
~ Pilot scheme
Main roads                                                                              es
Earth roods                                                                           N I G E         .
-       Rivers
Areas surveyed and mopped:
y20    Suitable for roinfed rice                               CJ20'-                   ;f               ,  ENTRAl
O~4ong  -   C..)  AFRICAN
Suitable for lowlond rice                                                         d yn44Area at mjop  REPUBLIC
E   Villages                                                mb                                  ROON a\p
)(  Bridges       \                         Towonf(                                              n \  t  )  rOOv-de
A~~ontch \N o o-\~~ _ Sg /EGUi                      G     ..-'-j CONGO
IVo,ibd h ,, r  h. .... .... fhJ i ll, t   d,-
y - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lelemc                               a9,-,--  S\.
o  1   2  3  4   5  6  7  E   9  10                            |        f51
KILOMETEeS                                 loMln/|\i    ,
o,   i     2    3    4     5    5                              /    <       <<> Kehem                                  r) W -
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~( 
#  -   '                         j                                                  r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n -
9c50'                                                   ;                                                     '9 (J
910~~~~~~~~~~7891
KILOMETERS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O



