0
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 672 CM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Plaine des M'bo Rural Development Project)
between
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated February 28, 1977


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 28, 1977, between UNITED REPUBLIC
OF CAMEROON (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from Caisse Centrale
de Cooperation Economique, an agency of the Republic of France
(hereinafter called Caisse Centrale), a loan (hereinafter called
the Caisse Centrale Loan) in an amount of ten million French Francs
(FF10,000,000) to assist, inter alia, in financing the Project on
the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter
called the Caisse Centrale Loan Agreement) to be entered into between
the Borrower and Caisse Centrale; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following terms
have the following meanings:
(a) "SODERIM" means Societe de Developpement de la Rizicul-
ture dans la Plaine des M'bo, a societe de developpement established
and operating pursuant to Law No. 68/LF/9 of the Borrower of
June 11, 1968;
(b) "SODERIM Statutes" means the statutes approved by Decree
No. 76/1 of the Borrower of January 3, 1977, as the same may be
amended from time to time;


﻿-3-
(c) "Financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and SODERIM pursuant to Section 3.01
(b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Financing
Agreement;
(d) "Project Area" means the area described in the preamble
to the description of the Project set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement; and
(e) "FCFA" means the currency of the Borrower.


﻿-4-                                     0
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to two million dollars ($2,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1980,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associ-
ation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿*                        -5-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each March
15 and September 15, commencing March 15, 1987, and ending
September 15, 2026, each installment to and including the in-
stallment payable on September 15, 1996, to be one-half of' one
per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such prin-
cipal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the Republic of France is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, if the Borrower shall repay in advance of maturity
any part of its indebtedness under the Caisse Centrale Loan Agree-
ment, the Borrower shall simultaneously prepay a proportionate
amount of the Credit then outstanding. All the provisions of the
General Conditions relating to repayment in advance of maturity
shall be applicable to any prepayment by the Borrower in accor-
dance with this Section.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause SODERIM to carry
out the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Financ-
ing Agreement, with due diligence and efficiency and in confor-
mity with appropriate agricultural, engineering, financial and
administrative practices, and shall provide to SODERIM, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall make the funds required for the
execution of the Project, including the proceeds of the Credit
and of. the Caisse Centrale Loan, available to SODERIM under a
financing agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
SODERIM under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Associa-
tion and which shall include, inter alia, that the Borrower shall
take all action necessary to ensure that SODERIM shall at all
times have available liquid funds in an amount of not less than
FCFA 70,000,000 for the purpose of prefinancing expenditures
under the Project.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Financ-
ing Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of
the Credit, and the Borrower shall ensure that, except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, neither the Financing Agree-
ment nor any provision thereof shall be assigned, amended,
abrogated or waived.


﻿S                         -7-
Section 3.02 (a) In order to assist SODERIM in carrying out
Parts A through G of the Project, the Borrower shall cause SODERIM
to employ agricultural, health and economics consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the con-
sultants assisting SODERIM in carrying out Parts A through C of
the Project shall be employed not later than March 31, 1977, and
the consultants assisting SODERIM in carrying out Parts D through
F of the Project shall be employed not later than June 30, 1977.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause SODERIM to employ
a Director General serving as Project Manager, an Administrative
and Financial Manager and a Director in charge of applied research
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditons of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause SODERIM to insure,
or to make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insur-
ance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable
by SODERIM to replace or repair such goods.


﻿-8-
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause SODERIM:
(a) to furnish to the Association, promptly upon their
preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract docu-
ments and work and procurement schedules for the Project, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request; and
(b)  (i) to maintain records adequate to record the progress
of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) to enable
the Association's accredited renresentatives to visit the facil-
ities and construction sites included in the Project and to ex-
amine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and document; and (iii) to furnish to the
Association promptly upon their completion copies of all reports
and studies prepared under the Project, and all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Proj-
ect, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, before June 30, 1977,
or such later date as the Association may agree, make available
to SODERIM the land situated in the Project Area pursuant to the
provisions of its Decrees No. 76/166 and No. 76/167, both of
April 27, 1976.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall ensure that, until the
Project will have been completed, SODERIM's budgets will make
adequate provision for all expenditures to be incurred by SODERIM
during the budget period, including without limitation expendi-
tures on account of commitments entered into before such period
by or for the account of SODERIM, and that adequate liquid funds
will be available to SODERIM to meet such expenditures promptly
when due.
Section 3.08. The agricultural development and settlement of
the land situated in the Project Area, including development and
settlement under the Project, shall be limited to an area of 1,100
ha, until (i) the Project will have been completed; or (ii) the
Bor,ower and the Association shall have agreed that an expansion of
said area is justified in view of the results obtained under the
Project.


﻿-10-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall cause SODERIM to maintain
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices the operations and financial
condition of SODERIM.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause SODERIM to: (i) have
its accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements
of income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles con-
sistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for
such year as so audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, or such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association
such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of SODERIM and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) The SODERIM Statutes shall have been amended., suspended,
abrogated or repealed without the prior a.pproval of the Association.
(b) (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the Caisse Centrale Loan shall
have been suspended, cancelled or terminated
in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms
of the Caisse Centrale Loan Agreement; or
(B) the Caisse Centrale Loan shall have become
due and payable prior to the agreed matu-
rity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the sat-
isfaction of the Association that: (A) such
suspension, cancellation, termination or pre-
maturing is not caused by the failure of the
Borrower to perform any of its obligations


﻿- 12 -
under such agreement, and (B) adequate funds
for the Project are available to the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Bor-
rower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof, namely that the event specified in para-
graph (b) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur.


﻿S- 13 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a) the conditions precedent, if any, to initial disburse-
ments under the Caisse Centrale Loan Agreement have been fulfilled;
(b) the execution of the Financing Agreement on behalf of
the Borrower and SODERIM, respectively, has been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action;
and
(c) the personnel specified in Section 3.03 of this
Agreement has been appointed.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Association, namely, that the Financing Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and SODERIM
and is legally binding upon the Borrower and SODERIM in accor-
dance with its terms.


﻿-14 -
Section 6.03. The date June 28, 1977, is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
4.01 and 4.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or
on a date five years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
0


﻿-15 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
planning is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economic Affairs
and Planning
Yaoundg
United Republic of Cameroon
Cable address:               Telex:
MINEP                         8268 KN
Yaoundg
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:               Telex:
INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)


﻿- 16-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
By /s/ Michael Kima
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Xavier de la Renaudibre
Director
Country Programs Department
Western Africa Regional Office


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amount of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works                   220,000         75%
(2) Equipment                     320,000         75%
(3) Operating costs of            380,000         75%
SODERIM, including
salaries of local
personnel
(4) Consultants' and              710,000         75%
management ser-
vices
(5) Unallocated                   370,000
TOTAL       2,000,000


﻿- 18 -                                    0
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in re-
spect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallo-
cate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to an-
other Category and which in the opinion of the Association are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that fur-
ther withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expen-
ditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿- 19 -
5.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in the Development Credit
Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in
any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy
of the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in
the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of
such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project, which constitutes part of a first program of
agricultural development of the Plaine des M'bo, an area of about
23,000 ha in the Littoral and Western Provinces of Cameroon,
consists of the following Parts:
A.   Soil investigations.
B.   Agronomic trials to develop an economic cropping system.
C.   Trial of various mechanization and settlement systems on
about 300 ha, and provision of extension and support services
to farmers settled thereon.
D.   A marketing study for locally produced soja.
E.   A migration study for the settlement of the Plaine des M'bo.
F.   A 3tudy of health control measures required for development
of the Plaine des M'bo, particularly tse-tse eradication.
G.   A feasibility study for a second program of agricultural
development of the Plaine des M'bo.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1979.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   Procurement Procedures
Contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works shall be
procured on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
B.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, and with respect to all
contracts for equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000
or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding shall be furnished to the Association for its
comments, and such modifications shall be made in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents
shall require the Association's concurrence before it is issued
to the prospective bidders.


﻿- 22 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated and
before a final decision on the award is made, the Association
shall be informed of the name of the bidder to which the
award of the contract is intended to be made, and a detailed
report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received,
together with such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request, shall be furnished to the Association in
sufficient time for its review. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with
this Schedule, promptly inform SODERIM and state the reasons
for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis
of the respective bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request, shall be
furnished to the Association promptly after its execution and
prior to the submission to the Association of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of
such contract. The Association shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with this Schedule, promptly
inform SODERIM and state the reasons for such determination.


