Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13717-HR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
HEALTH PROJECT
JANUARY 26, 1995
Human Resources Sector Operations Division
Central and Southern Europe Departments
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EOUIVALENT
Currency Unit - Croatian Kunas (KN)
(Kunas replaced Dinar in June 1994)
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
(Croatian Kunas per US$)
June 1994 US$1.00 = KN 6.07
July 1994 US$1.00 = KN 5.80
September 994 US$1.00 = KN 5.85
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January I - Deceinber 3 1
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CIF           Cost Insurance Freight
EBRD          European Bank for Reconstruction and Developiment
GDP           Gross Domestic ProduCt
GP            General Practiti(onrrs
HI]           Health Insurance Institute
IBRD          International Bank tor Reconstruction andl Development
ICB           International Comrpetitive Bidding
ICU           Intensive Care Unit
IDA           Internati(onal Development Agency
IMF           International Monetary Fund
IS            International Shopping
LS            Local Shopping
MOF           Ministry of Finance
MOH           Ministry of Health
NIPH          National Institute of Publihc Health
PHC           Primary Health Care
PIO           Project Imnplementation Oftficer
PPF           Project Preparation Facility
PIP           Project Implementation Plan
SOE           Statement of Expendliture
UNPA          UJnited Nations Protected Area
WHO           World Health Organization



REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
HEALTH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan and Project Summary  ............................................ i
I.   INTRODUCTION    .............................................  I
A.  Country/Sector Background  ...................................   I
B. The Government's Reform  Strategy  ..............................  2
C.  Rationale tor Bank Involvement  ................................  4
II. THE PROJECT..                                                                                                    4
A. Project Objectives and CoGmponents.                                                                      4
B. Project Description.                                                                                    5
C. Environmental Impact.                                                                                    8
III. PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION ... 8
A.  Introduction  .............................................  8
B. Project Cost   ............................................  8
C.  Project Financing   ...................                               .....................  9
D.  Administration of Project Funds  ................................  9
E.  Project Management and Implementation  ...............                                 ...........  9
F. Project Procurement Arrangements ..............................   10
G.  Dishursements   ..........................................   10
H. Project Audit Reporting and Evaluation   ..........................   11
1.  Status of Preparation   ......................................   I I
IV.  BENEFITS AND  RISKS                            I........................................   11
V.   AGREEMENTS  REACHED  AND  RECOMMENDATION   ..................                                                  12
ANNEX  I Project Implementation Plan   ...13
MAP: IBRD-26529
This report is hased on the findings of a mission which visited Croatia in Septeinher, 1994. The mission was comprised of
Win. Bradford Herbert (Mission Leader, Senior Operations Officer, ECI/2HR), Teresa J. Ho (Senior Health Economist
(EC2HU), Virginia H. Jackson (Operations Officer, ECI/2HR), Craig R. Neal (Infornation System  Specialist (EMTDR),
Mathias Kalina (Acute Care Specialist, Consultant), Aynur Kadihasanoglu (Planning and Implementation Specialist,
Consultant), Dubravka Kulisic (Economist, Consultant), and David Nuin (InfonnationTrrechinology Manager, Consultant). John
Catford (Public Health Advisor, WHO) also participated in the mission. Edith Santos (EC 1/2HR) provided assistance with text
processing. Task Manager: Win. Bradford Herhert (ECI/2HR); Division Chief: Ralph W. Harhison (ECI/2HR) and Andrew
Rogerson, Manager (EC2HU); Director: Keinal Dervis (EC2DR); Peer Reviewers: Philip Musgrovc (PHN). and Saliim
Habayeb (SA2PH).






REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
HEALTH PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
BORROWER:            Republic of Croatia
BENEFICIARIES:    Ministry of Health (MOH), Health Insurance Institute (HII), primary health
care centers, and selected hospitals.
LOAN AMOUNT:    US$40.0 million equivalent
TERMS:               Seventeen years, including a five-year grace period, at the IBRD standard
variable interest rate.
PROJECT
OBJECTIVE:           The primary goal of the Health Project is to support and sustain the
Government's health care retform program as set forth in the 1993 Country
Health Development Program. To achieve this goal, the specific objectives of
the Project are to: (a) improve the operational and financial management
system of the Health Insurance Institute by supporting the computerization of
information systems; (b) improve the quality of the health care delivery
system by providing laboratory and diagnostic equipment for primary health
care facilities. and basic equipment ancl training for hospitals and emergency
services; and (c) improve the health status of the population by supporting
health promotion programs.
PROJECT
DESCRIPTION:         The proposed Project will provide financing for computer hardware and
software, medical equipment, fellowships, study tours, foreign and local
training and expert advisory services, public education materials, and
incremental recurrent costs. The estimated total cost of the Project is
US$54.0 million, of which US$40.0 million will be financed by the Bank
loan. The Project will be implemented over a period of four years by HI]
under the supervision and guidance of MOH. and will consist of three
components:
Health Insurance Administration (estimated base cost US$13.9 million). This
component will improve health insurance administration by developing the
information technology network linking central, district and branch offices of
the HII, and by introducing "credit card" style health insurance identification
wards.
Primary Care and Health Promotion Services (estimated base cost US$14.9
million). This component will improve the quality and availability of basic
diagnostic services for the primary care network through the provision of
standard diagnostic equipment (standard and specialized x-rays. and simple
laboratories), as well as the required training for medical, nursing and



- II -
parameldical personnel. This component will also intensify programs to
promote healthier lifestyles among the population through the training and
support of Comilmunity health promotion teams, primary car-e providers, and
school teachers, and through mass media eutication programins.
Essential Hospital and Emergency Services (estimated base cost US$ 19.3
million). This comrponent will upligade essential acute care services thmiugh
the provision of hasic equipiment tor the emergency medlical system, intensive
care units, and perinatal care units in selectedl hospitals. as well as relate(d
training for mendical. nursing, and paramnedical personnel.
BENEFITS:              Health promotion activities, together with increased early screening for
chronic disease, will contribute in the long run to im-proved health and to a
redLICtion in premature mo )rtality  particiIlarl y trolm card liovascUlaI  disease and
cancer. Primary care and essential hospital andl emergency equipment will
imnprove the qiuality andL acceptahility of care, as well as the "value tC mr
money" of services andL will make a substantial contribihti m to health g ains
throLigh a reduction in mortality andL mo0rhidity fromi1 acdCidedntS acute medical
emergencies. and perinatal corpiplications. Cost-effectiveness will also be
increased by shifting part of meidical care from the secondary andL tertiary
levels to the primary level. Improvements in health insulance administration
will facilitate financial control and permit the effects ot financial controls on
health outcomes to he monitored. Tangible imprpovements in care will
strengthen the credihility of the on-going reform efforts. Specific targets are
shown in Annex I of the Statff Appraisal Report
RISKS:                 The Project itselt'does not fiace many project-specitic risks. 'I'he ret'olill
policy for the health sector is heing im-plementedl by a teamii which comiimiands
respect on all sides of the political spectirum1l  Preparation for i mplementation
and procurement is far advanced, which should lead to goodl disbursement
performance. The main risk remains, unfortunately, a CoLinty r isk stemining
from the uniesolvedi status of the zones ciurrently not contiolled by the
Croatian Government. This situation creates ongoinT tensioll which could
erupt in reniewel hostilities, and would no dotubt (lelay the successful
imrplementation of this Pro'ject. While most observers considel the risk of
major hostilities on Croatian territory to he small, it is not insignificant. On
the other hand, the Croatian authorities have relpeatedly committed themselves
to a negotiated settlement, and over the last two years. have shown great
interest and willingness to coolperate with the interinatioail comlmlllinity. They
have also honored all their ohligations to the Bretton-W  ods institutionls and
have embarked on an active piograin ot cooperation with the IMF, the IBRD
andl the EBRD which has already made two im)portant loans, paralleling our
own efforts. The substantial economic gains achieved through the stahilization
and re'forimi prograin are in fact strengthening the long-term rprospects for a
lasting peace.



- jjj -
Estimated Costs and Financing Plan'
Local           Foreign          Total
(llS$ Million)
1. Health Insurance Adlministration                         8.2              5.7             13.9
2. Primary Health Care Services                              5.3             9.6             14.9
3. Essential Hospital Services                               3.7            15.6             19.3
TOTAL BASE COSTS                           17.2             30.9            48.1
Physical Contingencies                      0.8              2.9             3.7
Price Contingencies                         1.0              1.2             2.2
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS;                       19.0             35.0            54.0
Financina Plan:
Health Insurance Institute                                  14.0             0.0             14.0
IBRD                                                         5.0            35.0             40.0
TOTAL                                      19.0            35.0             54.0
Including taxes and duties equivalent to US$0.8 million. Most imported items linanced by international
agreements are exeinlpt froni duties and Ltxes. Detailed numbers may not add iti totals due It rounding.






REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
HEALTH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
1. INTRODUCTION
A. Country/Sector Background!'
1.1            After its first democratic elections in 1990, Croatia started reorganizing a health
system that was fragmented and inefficient. Adult mortality was high, especially among males, and
was dominated by lifestyle-related, non-communicable disease (especially cardiovascular and cancer).
In 1991, Croatia's population was 4.8 million with a per capita income of US$2,442. Life
expectancies were 67 and 75.5 years for men and women, respectively. The main causes of death
were circulatory diseases (55 percent), neoplasms (22 percent). and injury and poisoning (15 percent).
The infant mortality rate was 12.8 per 1,000 live births in 1993. While there was wide access to
primary care and preventive programs, the content of primary care was greatly restricted (limited
mainly to referral services and elementary prescription), and public health services were dedicated
mainly to "traditional" tasks such as hygiene and sanitation rather than to the prevention of non-
communicable disease. The system was inefficient, and overly-reliant on hospital services, with no
built-in incentives for cost control. By 1990, the health sector had accumulated debts of US$210
million, which represented about 1 .3 percent of GDP (Gross Domestic Product) and one-quarter of
annual sector expenditures. As a result of shortages in investment funds, the stock of equipment and
infrastructure had deteriorated to a point where some older radiological equipment was reportedly
dangerous for staff and patients (more than 80 percent of radiology ecluipment is over 20 years old).
1.2            By late 1990. the health sector was in a state of crisis. Government revenues for
health were lagging far behind expenditures. costs were rapidly escalating, and there were no systems
in place for effective management. The Government of Croatia and the Ministry of Health (MOH)
recognized that the existing system was no longer sustainable and made the decision to reform the
sector. In early 1991, they initiated a reform built around: (a) a reduction in the role of the state:
(b) a more efficient allocation of responsibility between central and local governments; (c) a
redefinition of basic health services and improvement in the quality of these services: and (d) a
revamping of health financing.
1.3            The outbreak of war in 1991 interrupted reform efforts and had a major impact on the
health system. An increase in the demand for health services as a result of war injuries as well as the
influx of displaced persons from the areas in Croatia not currently under Government control United
Nations Protected Areas (UNPAs) and from Bosnia and Herzegovina have put an enormous strain on
the system. This is especially true for the transitory population/displaced persons in the area of
emergency services and primary heaith care. Nonetheless, the Government's stated policy to provide
primary health care and acute care to all registered refugees is hy and large being carried out. At the
same time, destruction of infrastructure, equipment. and emergency vehicles in areas affected by war
has decreased the supply of health services. Budgets for health also deCreased: real expenditures in
1/     Additional sector background infonnation cian be founld in the woirking paper "Croatia  Social Sectors and Social
Expenditures Review", August 1994, prepared by ECI/2HR



- 2 -
1993 were 37 percent lower than in 1991 and accounted for 6 percent of GDP (down from
7.6 percent in 1991). Per capita health expenditures decreased from US$393 in 1991 to US$148 in
1993. Although there has been an overall decrease in real expenditures, Croatia's expenditure in
health (as a percentage of GDP) remains one of the highest among Eastern European countries. This
suggests that the challenge facing Croatia is one of cost containment and "value for money" rather
than increasing expenditures in the sector.
B. The Government's Reform Strategy
1.4            The Government's reform  strategy had two immediate objectives: (a) to end the
chronic financial deficit; and (b) to increase the efficiency of health services by moving from an over-
reliance on curative and secondary clinical care to primary and preventive care. To meet these
objectives, the Government took tough decisions and followed up with actions that few countries have
been willing to undertake. The reform  called for instituting fiscal discipline, and for reducing waste
and improving management through the introeduction of incentives and revamping the financing
system.
1.5            To carry out the retfrm  program, the Government passed two important laws in
August 1993. The Health Care Act estahlished primary care as the foundation of the system,
transferred ownership of most health facilities from the central authorities to district governments,
defined a management structure for all health institutions (including a Management B1oard with
representation from the local government, the Health Insurance Institute (Hll), health practitioners,
and a Chief Executive Officer who reports to the Management Board), authorized private practice,
and mandated the MOH to define a national network of health institutions that would be eligible for
financing under the health insurance system. The Health Insurance Act established the Hll with
considerable authority to enforce collection of contributions, negotiate and sign contracts with health
providers, and supervise and financially control business transactions of health facilities and private
practitioners.2   The Act also added mandatory contributions from the Pension Fund to the payroll-
based revenues of the Health Fund, currently set at 15 percent." Finally, the Act allows for the
establishment of voluntary insurance schemes to supplement comnpulsory insurance. Together, these
two acts have instilled the discipline essential to the success of the Government's reform  strategy in
the health sector.
1.6            The initial implementation of reforms has been highly successful. Since passage of
the Health Care Act, the MOH has defined standards for coverage for primary care services as well
as acute, highly specialized and chronic care beds, taking into consideration the current financial
capability within the system. Regional maps of epiidemiological status have been prepared on the
2/      Prior to this act thc hc alth insu ra nce systcim was admi in istercd by i hc Repo  hic Fund( to r Health Insunrance . This
Fund lacked the legislative authority, political support, and administrative strnietoire to bc effective.
3/      Payroll-hased health contributions conisist of 7.5 percent f'rom the einploycr and 7.5 pcrcent fromlic h employce.
Including the contributions for social security, labor market, and children's fund, total payroll taxes amount to
47.3 percent of net wages. Although this figure is lower thani most Eastern European countries, the labor
disincentive and informtal econoimy enhancing efl'ects of high payroll taxation suggest this to tal in Croatia should
not be allowed to increase. Other sources of revciutic to the Health Fund come from pensioners and a small
amount from the State budget whicih covers special categorics of the population.



- 3 -
basis of which health insurance contracts have been drawn up. Through its legal authority, the HIl
has established a point system with "caps" on overall expenditures for reimbursing hospital costs and
a capitation system for primary care physicians. Other measures to control costs, including limits on
the number of prescriptions and of referrals, have also been introduced and are closely monitored.
These measures, combined with strenuous efforts to collect unpaid contributions, have nearly
eliminated Health Fund deficits. A program of debt negotiations, including partial write-offs, debt-
equity swaps and subsidized payments from the national budget, has resulted in a reduction in health
sector debts from US$210 million in 1990 to US$8.9 million in mid-1994.
1.7            The early success of financial reform can be attributed to a number of factors. There
is strong commitment from the Government, Parliament, and the MOH bureaucracy. which has been
translated into action. The HIT has been mandated to take tough decisions and to instill discipline in
the system.-' Health facilities and providers are aware of the consequences if they do not reduce
costs and "balance the books". Introduction of the right incentives has made a difference. For
example, the point system favors lower-cost interventions at secondary levels, and General
Practitioners (GPs) can receive a bonus if the number of referrals is kept below the upper limit. The
result has been to intro(luce rational decision-making based on efficiency and cost-effectiveness into
the system.
1.8           The MOH is also turning its attention to the system's longer-term sustainability by
reorienting the service package towards more cost-effective primary care and health promotion
services. The centerpiece of its Primary Healthi Care (PHC) Strategy is the privatization of the PHC'
network, a task which it hopes to accomiplish over a period of five years. The MOH is preparing an
Act on the Privatization of Primary Care which, among other things, would allow private
practitioners to lease facilities from the pLublic sector and establish individuals' rights to choose their
physicians with an opportunity to change once a year. MOH's strategy also includes increasing
access to diagnostic services to help GPs expand the scope and quality of services offered. The
ultimate objective is to meet 70-80 percent of health needs at the primary care level (this ratio is
currently at 25-40 percent). The Health Promotion Program. which is an essential element of value
for money, has also been revived recently. The MOH successfully persuadecd Parliament to pass a tax
increase on alcohol and cigarettes. Warnings on the dangers of smoking are now required on all
cigarette packaging, and smoking is bannedl from public buildings. Social marketing techniques are
also being developed to acidress lifestyle factors an(d high-risk behaviors contr-ibuting to chronic
disease and premature mortality among acdults.
1.9           While the MOH is rightftully pleased with its accompllishmiients in financial
management, it recognizes that fiscal discipline can only he maintained by efficient ftunctioning of the
health insurance system andl continuous monitoring of providie-r performiance and ot the effects on
health outcomes. For this purpose, the MOH plans to invest in an imlproved inforrmation system for
the HIT and to strengthen its manageinent and planning capacity.
1.10           Restoring fiscal stability is only the first step in the MOH's refolm plan. The next
immediate priority is to reverse the decline in the standards of car-e resulting from a dleteriorating
capital stock. This is an absolute necessity if the health system  is to move from an over-reliance on
tertiary care to primary care while preservilln its Credibility amonlg the IO)LpIlatiOn. Complete
4/     For a milorc dbctil(d  asscssnienit  he I(Ii  Hll sc: ApIenIiix  I ,,1 theC PI') 1eCC   i 11I.einCeiIlt I0nII PlanII (Annex  I).



- 4 -
renewal and updating of the capital stock would be an extremely expensive undertaking and can only
take place over many years. The Ministry has decided to start selectively with equipment for primary
care, and essential equipment for emergency and hospital trauma and acute care services.
1.11          Finally, the MOH is aware that tight cost controls could result in a deterioration of
services, and thus of health outcomes. To ensure that this does not happen, the HIll will develop a
system to monitor the effects of cost containment on health indicators.
C. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
1.12          The Government's reform has been both adequate and successful in meeting the
Government's objectives. It has been an effective tool in reducing the financial deficit and in shifting
resources from curative to primary and preventive care. The reform, therefore, provides a sound
basis for new investments. To sustain the reform, investment resources are badly needed. A Bank
operation would provide the needed support and would he consistent with our overall social sector
objectives and with the recommendlations of the "Croatia Social Sectors and Social Expenditures
Review". It would also lay the foundation fior follow-up investments for improving hospital
management and expanding primary health care.  A Country Assistance Strategy, scheduled for early
1995, will identify the health sector as a priority fior public investment.
11. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Ohiectives and Components
2.1            The primary goal of the Health Pro ject is to support and sustain the Government's
health care reform program. To achieve this goal, the specific objectives of the Project are to:
(a) improve the operational and financial management system of the Health Insurance Institute by
supporting the computerization of information systems, (b) improve the quality of the health care
delivery system by providing laboratory and diagnostic equipment for primary health care facilities
and basic equipment (and training in its use) for hospitals and emergency services, and (c) improve
the health status of the population hy supporting health proinotion programs. Specific project
outcomes to measure the success in meeting these objectives are included in the Project
Implementation Plan (PIP) (see Annex I. pages 37-38). The Project will consist of the following
three components:
Health Insurance Administration (estimated hase cost US$13.9 million). This component will
improve health insurance administration by (leveloping the information technology network
linking central, district and branch offices of the HII: and hy introtducing "credit card" style
health insurance identification cards.
Primary Care and Health Promotion Services (estimated hase cost US$14.9 million). This
component will improve the qLuality and availability ot' basic diagnostic services for the
primary care network through the provision ot' stan(lard diiagnostic equiplment (x-rays, simple
labs, and mammographic equipment), as well as the requiUred triaining for mendical, nursing.
and paramedical personnel. It will also intensit'y programs to prornote healthier lifestyles
among the popuilation through the training andL support otf cominunity health promotion teams.
primary care providers, and school teachers, anL through mass me(lia education programs.



- 5 -
Essential Hospital and Emergency Services (estimated base cost US$19.3 million). This
component will upgrade essential acute care services through the provision of basic equipment
for the emergency medical system, intensive care units, and perinatal care units in selected
hospitals, as well as related training for medical, nursing. and paramedical personnel.
2.2             Facilities receiving equipment through the Project will he required to repay the cost of
the equipment to the HII through a leasing scheme over a period equal to the estimated economic life
of the equipment (e.g.. eight years for x-ray equipment). Assurances to this effect were provided at
negotiations. Payments will be made to the HIl through an automatic deduction, on a monthly basis.
from fees earned by the facility under the health insurance scheme. At the end of the payment
period, the equipment becomes the property of the facility, which can continue to use it for as long as
it remains functional. This financing mechanism is consistent with a basic principle of Croatia's
insurance scheme that holds the facility responsible for capital costs (which are in fact incorporated
into the fee structure). It also builds an incentive ftor the receiving facility to maintain the equipment
properly and to limit the demand for equipiment to the most cost-effective items, as well as creating
liquidity for future investments.5 The scheme also ensures that the financial impact to both central
Government and the HI] will he neutral. As a condition ftor negotiations. the Government prepared a
draft standard contract acceptable to the Bank. to be signed between the Hil and receiving facilities.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that, as a condition of effectiveness, a subsidiary
agreement would be signed between the Government and the HIl.
B. Project Description
2.3            Health Insurance Administration. The early success of cost containment eftorts would
not have been possible without the intensive level of monitoring, reporting and control established at
the Hil. These operations have been carried out with the benefit of information systems that are well-
designed but largely dependent on manual data-processing technologies. The Hil has prepared a
comprehensive Strategic Plan for computerization of its information systems. including links between
headquarters and district and larger branch offices, and (at a later stage) between HII offices and
health facilities.L` A pilot project to design and test a computerized system for HIl's operations at
headquarters and in three district and three branch offices (including collection, registration, payment
and control as well as its own internial management) has been launchedl. Systems design was
completed with assistance from information technology experts contracted tor this purpose, and an
international com)petitive hid for implementation of pilot activities, including acquisition of software
and hardware products, has been awardled recently. This pilot phase is expected to he completed by
February 1995. During 1995. the tested technologies will he established in all local offices, and
filling of databases on payers and insur-ed persons will take place. DuL-inlg, the same year, a Financial
Programming Package to help manage financial assets and cash tlows of the HIl will he designed and
tested, with roll-out to other offices scheduledl to take place in 1996.
.5/    Tllis is possihrlc  sillcc Hil will Ihc rcoivcrInig  t1I. CSt  I)( cqIMlllll1t hiascd  on .n  dcpr.ciationi s.'cliédule wiliclh is
cmisicicrahIv sliortcr tIi:in  tiltc  rcayinciiti  seliclle   i tlwc  pJ.r p.t Iain
6/     An assessincnt ht (e stratcgic plan is includcd in tlc Prnoct 1lilcs 'Asscssinienl it the Hcalth Insurance Instittite'.
preparcd hy thic pre-appraisal inissimin



- 6 -
2.4            The HIT is also planning to replace paper insurance cards currently in use with "credit
card" style identification cards to improve data recording and minimize fraudulent card production.
At the same time, it would shift to a nationwide unique personal identifier numbering system
necessary for creating a single database.2' Health facilities will he provided with machines to take
imprints from the cards, with operational efficiencies expected from more reliable data capture.
2.5            The Project will finance the cost of computerization of HIT operations at headquarters
and HIl local offices, including the development, pilot and implementation phases. Emphasis has
been placed on ensuring that effective implementation training is provided so that expected operational
benefits are realized quickly. It will also finance the cost of card production and of 5,000 machines
to take card imprints; these machines would be distributed to health facilities and primary care
providers. The Project will also finance studies leading to further information technology investments
in health facilities.
2.6            To help the National Institute of Public Health (NIPH) in its task ot collecting,
publishing and analyzing data on health services and health outcomes, the Project will provide support
to the NIPH to carry out a study to detine the minimal health data set required for its needs, and
determine which data would he provided by the Hil and which by health providers reporting directly
to the NIPH. A small informatics package will also he provided to upgrade its information system.
2.7            Under this component, an assessment of cost-effective interventions in the health
sector will be carried out in an effort to assist policy makers to make rational resource allocation
choices in the future. Selected individuals will be trained to assess the impact of health care
interventions in terms of health outcomes and to determine the unit costs of these interventions. The
MOH has already commissioned the Medical Association (with its 50-odd member professional
societies) to prepare case management protocols for each major health problem, aimed at identifying
the lowest cost solutions to each problem. The Project will support development of these protocols,
which will be compiled and published as a set of guidelines for practitioners. They will also he used
as the basis for determining priorities and resource needs and refining the Strategic Plan. By
involving the professional societies and the Medical Association, the MOH hopes to build hroader
consensus around the restructuring process and hence greater cooperation from practitioners.
2.8            Primary Care and Health Promotion Services. The Project will provide medical
equipment to enable first-line physicians to broaden the scope of their activities, and training to raise
their level of professional competence, thereby improving the popuilation's access to a hroader range
of services and reducing the need for patients to go to hospitals.
2.9             The Project will provide radiology e(luipment (standard and specialized x-ray) to
health centers where no such equiipment is availahle or where the equiLpment has deteriorated. The
Project will also provide selective laboratory equLiipment. Selection of recipient facilities has been
based on a detailed survey of the current status of equlip,ment in individuial centers and on other
criteria, including access to the nearest alternative facility with satisfactory equiipment. number ot
inhabitants using the health center and adequate premises tor installing the e(qui,pm-nenlt. It is
7/     The Bank supports thle necd tti havc za singlc uniqulel persomail ]sillfnieali(in .svsiii or health serviecs, t;ax
administration, and social scciritm  The Govcrnnicni is in thie process ii i  snuchi o imiimihrilng S stecn.
and it is now under rcvicw



- 7 -
anticipated that roughly ten percent of the equipment will be allocated to health facilities which serve
the refugee population from Bosnia-Herzegovina. (A complete list of equipment is included in
Appendix I of the PIP.)
2.10          The Project will organize short-term training seminars for users of the above
equipment (medical technologists, radiologists, etc.) beyond the training included by the vendor.
Training seminars will also be organized for GPs/Family Practitioners and primary care nurses in the
catchment areas of facilities receiving equipment on ways to optimize cost-effective use of the new
diagnostic tests. In addition, extra-residency posts in existing Family Practice training programs will
be financed and reserved for candidates who would be committed by contract to working in
designated underserved areas.
2.11           Health promotion activities in the Project will target three important lifestyle factors --
diet, smoking, and physical and sexual behavior -- and will take place in schools, in primary care
facilities and through the mass media. Experience from ongoing programs such as the Health-
Promoting Schools and Healthy Cities programs will he extended to larger areas of the country. In
addition, television and radio programming, currently limited by a lack of resources, will be
intensified. A survey on health-related behavior will be carried out at the start of the Project to
document regional differences in health-related behavior, to help identify specific target groups and
refine messages, and to serve as a baseline for monitoring programs. The Project will then organize
training seminars for the principal channels of action for health promotion: community health
educators, school teachers, and primary care providers. Supporting materials for health educators.
including audio-visual equipment for schools and health facilities, will he provided. The Project will
also provide resources to contract professional services for the design. production and diffusion of
media programs.
2.12           Essential Hospital and Emergency Services. Maternal and childcare services
performed well -- up to Western European standards -- until recently. Since the war in 1991-92, a
slight deterioration in the perinatal mortality rate, and specifically in neonatal mortality, has been
detected. However, vaccination rates remain high, and most women continue to receive medical care
during pregnancy. Available data show that poor performance is concentrated in parts of the country
where there is a lack of qualified personnel (especially neonatologists) and/or equipment. To reverse
this declining trend, an effort will be made to improve early identification of women with high-risk
pregnancies and assure their transfer to well-equipped and staffed facilities before delivery. The
Project will provide equipment in primary care facilities and district hospitals to improve pre-natal
diagnosis, and resuscitation and acute care of comipromised new-horns. Training of additional
specialists in the fields of obstetrics and neonatology will also he providedl by financing extra-
residency posts in existing specialty prograins for candidates contracted to work thereafter for a set
number of years in designated understaffedl hospitals.
2.13           At present, emergency medical services are fragmented, of uneven qjuality, and with
poor coverage (especially for highway traffic in tourist routes along the coast). To reduce the death
rates from accidents, injuries, heart attacks and other medical emergencies, the MOH seeks to re-
organize emergency services into a nationwide network with standard procedures. quicker response
time, and more complete and even coverage. The Project will assist in the following areas:
(i) communications, by providing radio and telephone equipment ftor a national communications
network that would extend coverage of the existing '94' emergency telephone number to all parts of
the country and improve contacts with emergency units; (ii) transport. by the ac(quisition of



- 8 -
ambulances to replace out-of-date vehicles that are expensive to maintain or those destroyed during
the war; (iii) clinical equipment, by replacing out-of-date essential resuscitation equipment for
ambulances; (iv) personnel, by training staff of emergency units and by financing extra-residency
posts in existing specialty programs for Emergency Medicine: and (v) organization, by developing
fleet deployment strategies and clinical protocols at emergency centers.
2.14          Although the total number of intensive care beds in the country is sufficient,
organization of services is fragmented, with several Intensive Care Units (ICUs) often existing within
one hospital under different departments. In addition, equipment is sub-standard (outdated or not
functioning) and there is a shortage of medical personnel trained in Intensive Care Medicine.
Available data indicate that performance is poorer (i.e., mortality is higher) in hospitals where
staffing and/or personnel skills are inadequate, especially in district hospitals. The Project will reduce
avoidable mortality, morbidity and health service costs resulting from sub-optimum intensive care
services through a reorganization and re-equipping of these services in selected hospitals. Respirators
and monitors will be provided in selected hospitals. In addition, medical staff qualified in intensive
care will be increased. Selected medical staff will receive fellowships for training in Intensive Care
Medicine both in- and out-of-country, over and ahove that currently provided, and continuing
education programs for paramedical personnel will he organize(l. Hospitals receiving project
resources will be required to re-organize intensive care beds and make a decision on the medical line
of authority for these services (e.g.. by appointing a chief of intensive care services).
C. Environmental Impact
2.15          This is a Category C Project: "No appreciahle environmental impact". Replacement
of old equipment (such as x-rays and labs) that presents a health risk will contribute to improving
environmental safety. Although waste disposal is not a significant problem, updated protocols for
dealing with waste management will he introdticed.
[ll. PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Introduction
3.1           This chapter provides a summary of the Pro ject Implementation Plan (PIP) which was
prepared in conjunction with the Borrower and reviewed and deemed satisfactory by the Bank. The
PIP includes detailed information on the project description, costs, financing, management and
implementation arrangements, procurement, disbursements, audit reporting. and status of preparation.
The PIP is attached as Annex 1.
B. Proiect Cost
3.2           The total cost of the Health Project is estimate(d at ahout UJS$54.0 million, or about
KN 277.3 million equivalent, including contingencies, taxes and duties. The total base cost is
estimated at US$48.1 million. Physical contingencies are estimated at US$3.7 million. Price
contingencies between negotiations (December 1994) and the end of the four-year pro ject
implementation period will amount to about lJS$2.2 million, or tive peercent of hase cost. The
foreign exchange component is estimated at ahout US$35.0 million, including contingencies, or about
65 percent of total project cost. Taxes and dILties are estimate(d at UlS$0.8 million equivalent. Goods
and external services coming in under the Project will he tax exem)pt.



- 9 -
3.3            The total project cost includes fellowships, training, technical assistance, studies,
computer hardware and software, medical and office equipment, teaching and public education
materials, refurbishment of facilities, and incremental recurrent costs incurred during project
implementation. The estimated cost distributed among project components is shown in Table 3 of the
PIP. Project costs are summarized by expenditure category in Table 4 of the PIP. The project costs
include about KN 26 million or US$5. I million to cover incremental operating costs directly
attributable to the Project during the four-year implementation period. Equipment operation and
maintenance, and materials and supplies account for most of the project's incremental recurrent costs.
C. Project Financing
3.4            The proposed Bank loan of US$40.0 million will finance 75 percent of total project
costs, comprising 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost (US$35.0 million) and 28 percent of the
local cost, excluding taxes (US$5.0 million). The HIl will finance the balance of project costs
(US$14.0 million), including duties and taxes. Incremental operating costs comprising equipment
maintenance services and annual maintenance costs of computers and software (US$5. I million
equivalent), will be financed entirely by the HII. Averaged over the Project life, this represents less
than one percent of the projected 1995 operating budget for the HII.
3.5            To assist the HIT in recruiting specialized consultants and conducting the surveys
required for project preparation, a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) of US$350.000 was made
available by the Bank in October 1994. Repayment of the Project Preparation Advance is included in
the project costs.
3.6           The HIl has also requested retroactive financing of tp to US$4.0 million to cover
expenditures incurred up to 12 months prior to loan signing to support the following activities:
(a) initial procurement of health care equiptment, and (b) technical assistance for the health promotion
survey.
D. Administration of Proiect Funds
3.7           The Bank Loan of US$40.0 million will be made to the Government of Croatia. The
Government will enter into a subsidiary Loan Agreement with the HII (signing of the subsidiary Loan
Agreement will he a condition of effectiveness.) On-lending terms to Hil will he the same as the
terms of the Bank's loan to the Government. Hil will provide counterpart funding of about US$14.0
million from its own revenues. i.e.. payroll taxes. Hil will he responsible for servicing the Loan to
the Government.
E. Proiect Managemnent and Implementation
3.8            The Project will he im)plementedl over a t'our-year period hy the Hll. In view of Hil's
strong implementation capacity, which has been demilonstrated during pro ject preparation, a separate
project implementation uinit is not envisaged. Nevertheless, a ftull-tiine Project Implementation
Officer (PIO) has been appointed by the HIl to coordinate the day-to-day activities during project
implementation. The HIl will also make available the necessary staff to imiplement the Project. These
will include two procurement specialists, an accountant. informatics technical staff, and related
support staff. The Assistant Minister for Economics and Planning. MOH. has been designated as
Project Coordinator. In this capacity, the Assistant Minister will provide linkage between the MOH,



- 10 -
whose primary function is that of policy-maker, and the HII, whose function is to carry out MOH
policy.
3.9           A Project Advisory Committee, headed by the Project Coordinator, has been
established and support personnel to be assigned to project implementation have been identified. The
Advisory Committee will be responsible for providing policy advice and guidance during the project
implementation period. The Committee consists of the HII Director, and the team leaders of the six
working groups which prepared the project proposals. The Advisory Group will be assisted by
special task forces which it will convene as necessary, for example, to draw up detailed specifications
of equipment, design training programs, or develop health promotion campaigns.
3.10          The Project will require about 17 weeks of Bank supervision per year during the four-
year implementation period.
F. Proiect Procurement Arrangements
3.11          Items to he proctired will he groupe(d into major packages to encourage competitive
bidding and permit bulk procurement. The standard procurement table is shown in Tahle 6 of the
PIP. Procurement will be carried out in accordance with World Bank Guidelines. Major
procurement categories include: ahout US$31.3 million to be procured through international
competitive bidding (ICB) procedures, US$0.6 million through international shopping (IS): and
US$0.1 million through local shopping (LS). Local procurement will be in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank. It is also expected that US$1.4 million will be procured through
direct contracting (books, intellectual property, and software development). Procurement packages.
including estimated cost and time ot completion, are presented in the PIP.
3.12          Appropriate Bank standard bidding documents will he used tOr the Project. The PIP
contains a detailed list of equiptment packages to he procured Linder the Project. A descr-iption of the
capacity of the implementing agency to carry out procurement is found in the PIP.
G. Disbursements
3.13          The proposed Project is expected to he disbursed over a period of four years, which is
considerably shorter than the relevant profile in the Region (about seven years). The shorter
implementation period is possible due to the strong implementation capacity of the HIl and the
commitment of the MOH.  In addition, the Project is designed to he simple. There is only one
implementing agency with two products: equipment ancd training. To ensure that the implementation
schedule is realistic. agreement has already been reached on detailed eqJuipnment lists and tender
documents. The closing date will be December 31. 1998. A sumimiiary of the (lishuisemilent plan is
shown as Table 9 of the PIP.
3.14          To facilitate timely project implementation. the Governmiient will establish, maintain
and operate, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. a Special Accouint denominated in US
dollars. The authorized allocation will he US$3.0 million. However, during the initial stage of the
Project, an amount limited to US$2.0 million will he deposited. When the aggregate amount of
disbursement reaches US$10.0 million, the amount deposited in the Special AccoLunt will he increased
to the full authorized allocation of US$3.0 million.



- li -
3.15           All disbursements against contracts tor goods and services exceeding US$200,000
equivalent will be fully documented. For expenditures below that level, disbursements will be made
on the basis of certified Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). This documentation will he made
available for the required audit as well as to Bank supervision missions, and will be retained by the
PIO for at least one year after receipt hy the Bank of the audit report for the year in which the last
disbursement was made.
H. Project Audit Reporting and Evaluation
3.16           Project Accounts and the Special Account will be audited in accordance with the
Bank's "Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank"
(March 1982). The PIP shows the detailed plan for Project Auditing.
3.17           The HIt will prepare semi-annual descriptive and financial reports on each project
component, objective and activity (beginning from  the date of Loan Effectiveness). A mid-term
review of the Project will be carrie(d OUt in Octoher/November 1996. The PIP shows the detailed plan
for Project reporting and annual reviews.
l. Status of Preparation
3.18           During preparation, the MOH established six working groups which prepared detailed
proposals for each component. The World Health Organization (WHO) worked closely with the
working groups in developing these proposals. Based on the proposals, the detailed PIP was
prepared. The organizational structure for project implementation as described in the PIP has been
established.
3.19           Implementation and coordination responsibilities hetween the MOH. HII, and the
Advisory Group have been defined. The principal staff for implementation are in place and are
supp(orted by technical staff within the Hil. The PIP includes a detailed description of the pro'ject
coordination and implementation responsibilities.
IV. BENEFIT AND RISKS
A. Benefits
4.1            Health prormotion activities, together with increased early screening for chronic
disease, will contribute in the long run to a reduction in premature mortality, particularly from
cardiovascular disease and cancer. Primary care and essential hospital and emergency equipment to be
provided under the Project will he installed selectively in areas where the infrastructure is most
outdated or insufficient. This will improve the quality and acceptability of care, as well as value for
money of services and will make a substantial contr-ibution to health gains through a reduction in
mortality and morbidity from accidents. acute meedical emergencies and perinatal complications.
There will also be improved cost effectiveness by shifting part of the care from the secondary and
tertiary levels to the primary levels. Improvements in health insurance administration will facilitate
financial control and monitoring ot the effects of financial controls on health outcomes. Tangible
improveinents in care will strengthen the credihility of the on-going refoirm efforts.



- 1 2 -
B. Risks
4.2            The Project itself does not face many project-specific risks. The reform policy for the
health sector is being implemented by a team which commands respect on all sides of the political
spectrum. Preparation for implementation and procurement is far advanced, which should lead to
good disbursement performance. The main risk remains, unfortunately, a coiuntry risk stemming
from the unresolved status of the zones currently not controlled by the Croatian Government. This
situation creates ongoing tension which could erupt in renewedl hostilities, and WouILI no doubt delay
the successful implementation of this Project. While most observers consider the risk of major
hostilities on Croatian territory to be small, it is not insignificant. On the other hand, the Croatian
authorities have repeatedly ciommitted themselves to a negotiated settlement. and over the last two
years, have shown great interest and willingness to cooperate with the international community. They
have also honored all their obligations to the Bretton-Woods institutions and have embarked on an
active program of cooperation with the IMF, the IBRD ancd the EBRD which has already madle two
important loans, paralleling our own effiorts. The substantial economic gains achieve(d through the
stabilization and reforrm prograimi are in fact strengthening the long-term prospects tor a lasting peace.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDAI'ION
5. 1           The following actions aire required to assil-e suLCesstLil implementation of the Project
and attainment of the broader project objectives.
5.2            Prior to negotiations, the Government t'ulfilled the following conditions:
(i)   A draft stan(lard contract acceptable to the Bank was preparedl to he signed between
the HIll and facilities receiving e(quipment (para. 2.2):
(ii)   a full-time Project Implementation Officer was appointed (para. 3.9); andL
(iii)   the Advisory Committee inclUding support personnel was established (para 3.9).
5.3            Durin, negotiations, assulances were provided that:
(i)    facilities receiving e(uiLpment under the Project will repay the cost oit e(luipment to
the HIl (para. 2.2)
(ii)   a full-time Project Implementation Officer- will he mainitaine(d within Hll during the
execLution of the Project (para. 3.8); andl
(iii)   the Advisory Cominittee will he mainitainedl within MOH during the execution of the
Project (para. 3.9).
5.4            As a condlition of effectiveness, a subsidiary Loan Agreement Would he signedl
between the Governmenit andL the Hii (para. 22 ).
Recommendation
5.5            Suhject to the ahove, the proposed operation provides a suitahle hasis for a loan ot
UJS$40.0 million to the Government ot the Republihc of Croatia.



- 13 -
Annex 1
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
HEALTH PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN (PIP)
Table of Contents
Page No.
INTRODUCTION
I.    THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
B. Project Description  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .   . 15
II.    IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
A. Organizations Responsible for the Project   . . . . . . . . . 16
B. Agreements between Borrower and
Implementing Agencies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
C. Responsibilities of Implementing Agencies   . . . . . . . . . 17
D. Functions of Implementing Agencies    . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
E. Implementation Arrangements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
F. Interagency Coordination . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
G. Role of the World Bank . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
H. Administrative Arrangements   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
III.  PROJECT FINANCING AND COSTS
A. Detailed Financing Plan  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
B.   Project   Costs  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  25
C. Procurement Arrangements and Schedule  . . . . . . . . . . . 29
D. Disbursement and Financing Schedules . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
E. Audit Timetable  ....  ..  .          .  .  ..  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .   . 33
IV.   DETAILED IMPLEMENTATION ACTIVITIES
A. Detailed Project Activities  ...  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 34
B. Implementation Schedules ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 37
V.    MONITORING AND EVALUATION
A. Development Indicators . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
B. Project Indicators . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Appendices:
Appendix 1: List of Equipment to be Procured   . . .  . .39
Appendix 2: Cost Tables . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .40
Appendix 3: Implementation Schedule . . . . . . . . . . .44
Appendix 4: Input-Output Tables . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
Appendix 5: Health Financing and Expenditure Data . . . . . . . 51
Charts:
Chart 1:  Health Insurance Institute - Flow of Funds  . . . . . 17
Chart 2:  Organization of Project Implementation   . . . . . . . 18
Chart 3: Implementation Responsibilities and
Additional Resource Requirements . . . . . . . . . 19



- 14 -
Annex 1
Page No.
Tables:
Table 1:  Financing Plan by Component . . . . . . . . .25
Table 2:  Financing Plan by Financier . . . . . . . . .25
Table 3:  Total Cost by Component . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
Table 4:  Total Cost by Expenditure   . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
Table 5:  Total Cost by Component and Expenditure . . . . . . . 27
Table 6:  Procurement Arrangements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
Table 7: Summary of the Procurement Packages
for Works and Equipment  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
Table 8:  Summary of the Procurement Packages
for Technical Assistance . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
Table 9:  Disbursements by Year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33



- 15 -
Annex 1
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
HEALTH PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
Introduction
1.1         This Project Implementation Plan (PIP) was prepared during pre-
appraisal and agreed with the Ministry of Health (MOH) and the Health
Insurance Institute (HII). The PIP is based on findings of the pre-appraisal
mission and the detailed Project Proposals prepared by six working groups
established under the supervision of MOH in accordance with terms of reference
(TOR) provided by the Bank. The above-mentioned proposals have been reviewed
and found to be satisfactory to the Bank. 1/
I. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
1.2         The overall aim of the Health Project is to support and sustain
the Government's health care reform program which was initiated in 1990.
Specifically, the objectives of the Project are:
(i)   to improve the operational and financial management system
of the HII by supporting the computerization of information
systems;
(ii)   to improve the quality of the health care delivery system by
providing laboratory and diagnostic equipment for primary
health care facilities and essential equipment for hospitals
and emergency services as well as relevant training; and
(iii)   to improve the health status of the population by
supporting health promotion programs.
B. Project Description
1.3         The proposed Project will provide computer hardware and software,
medical equipment, fellowships, study tours, training, technical assistance,
public education materials, and incremental recurrent costs. The total cost
of the Project is US$54.0 million, of which US$40.0 million will be financed
by the Bank. The Project will be implemented over a period of four years by
the HII under the supervision and guidance of MOH, and in collaboration and
coordination with local HII offices, hospitals, primary health care units and
the National Institute of Public Health (NIPH).
The Project has three components:
(a) Health Insurance Administration
1/    A copy of the Government's detailed Project Proposal is available in the
Project files and may be obtained from EC1/2HR.



- 16 -
Annex 1
(b) Primary Care and Health Promotion Services
(c) Essential Hospital and Emergency Services
II. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
A. Organizations Responsible for the Proiect
2.1          Since this Project is designed to support the Government's on-
going health care reform program, a separate project implementation or
coordination unit is not envisaged, given the implementation capacity and the
commitment of the agencies involved. The Project will be implemented by the
HII, through a Project Implementation Officer (PIO), directly reporting to the
Director of the HII. It was agreed with the Government and the HII that the
PIo, who is now in place, will work full-time within the HII for the duration
of the Project. To ensure coordination between the MOH and the HII, the
Assistant Minister of Health for Economics and Planning has been appointed by
the Minister of Health to act as the overall Project Coordinator.
2.2          The Project Advisory Committee, headed by the Project Coordinator,
will be responsible for providing policy guidance during the implementation
period. The Committee comprises the Director of the HII, and team leaders of
the six working groups which prepared the project proposals.
B. Agreements Between Borrower and Implementation Agencies
2.3          The Borrower is the Government of the Republic of Croatia
represented by its MOF. It has been agreed that the MOH will delegate the
implementation responsibility to the HII. 2/ The HII will implement the
Project in collaboration with the related units of MOH, NIPH and health care
units. Assurances have been obtained from the HII administration that adequate
funding, based on the project financing plan, will be made available in a
timely manner and necessary steps will be taken to expedite the procurement
procedures related to major equipment. The HII developed detailed contractual
arrangements between the HII and the receiving health care units as a
condition of negotiation.
2/    A detailed assessment of the organization of HII and its implementation
capacity is included in the Project Files and may be obtained from
EC1/2HR.



Annex 1
C. Responsibilities of Implementing Agencies
2.4        Health Insurance Institute: Overall responsibility for
coordination and implementation will rest with the HII. The HII is headed by
a director, assisted by a deputy director, and reporting to a Management
Council consisting of nine people, all recommended by the Minister of Health
and appointed by the Cabinet. The HII has a function-based organizational
structure. There are four major departments headed by a senior manager
reporting to the deputy director: (i) Legal Affairs Department dealing with
legal issues including personnel, administrative and operational activities;
(ii) Financial Affairs Department dealing with planning, budgeting,
controlling and financing activities including accounting; (iii) Medical
Issues Department dealing with public and environmental health issues and
medical audit; and finally (iv) Organizational Issues Department responsible
for the development and control of physical and architectural standards for
health care units 3/ and informatics. Currently, the HII has about 2,000
staff, down from roughly 3,000 in 1993. The HII central office is in Zagreb.
There are 21 Regional Offices. Revenues for 1994 are estimated at 1.6 billion
DMs of which three percent is used to cover the HII's administrative expenses.
Expenditures are expected to be about 6 percent of GDP in 1994, down from 8.4
percent in June 1993. Over 90 percent of expenditures of HII are financed by
earmarked payroll contributions. Chart 1 shows the sources and uses of funds
for the HII.
Chart 1: HEALTH INSURANCE INSTITUTE
Flow of Funds
REVENUES
Pension Fund
(30%)
Self-employed,
farmers, and                   HII a/               State Budget
Unemployment                overhead and            Transfer  b/
Fund (14%)                   Admin cost                 (1%)
(3.5%)
Payroll
Contribution
(55%)
EXPENDITURES
Pharmaceu-         Primary           Secondary/Ter-     Sickness, mater
ticals         Health Centers      tiary care  d/    nity sup, other
(15%)             (20%) c/             (47%)          charges (15%)
a/   3    of hind is uscd for adminiistrative overhead.
hl   Maternity henefit (up to onie year). This is the only hbidgel transtr tlo HI fritiom Stlte budget
c/   Capitation (based on population).
d/    Fee for services with financial zap.
Note:  Individual employee contrihUtions to the HIl consist of:  13.5%  tor pensiotn: 7.5%  foir health: 2.5%  lor children; and
2%  for uneimiploymiient, for a total of 25.5%. The employer contribiti ion almost dCueICs thc oeVCrall percentage.
Farmiers anil self-employed contribuite 11 I %and 15 %. respectively. to the Hil.
3/   The HII has undertaken this responsibility on behalf of MOH.



- 18 -
Annex 1
2.5         From the operational point of view, the Project will be
implemented by the existing departments of the HII with limited technical
assistance provided. In each department of the HII, a contact person will be
identified to work for the proiect full-time, and report to the PIO.
Additional permanent staff will be needed for some of the sections as a result
of the project investments, specifically for the Informatics Section and
Economics Department. Charts 2 and 3 show the organizational arrangements
related to project implementation.
Chart 2: ORGANIZATION OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
MINISTER OF HEALTH
AO&zsVPY 1    1 ASSISTANTMINISTER
COMA 1/77~  (PROJECr COORDINATOR)
PFIOJE      ~~~SUPPOAT
IMP. OFF.         UNIT
[ lito  u  u ft A*    l  l       l
= ;   SdeFt                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~.__. . .._ .. .
|1   I c* - " I                ~~~~~~~~~...........



Chart 3: IMPLEMENTATION RESPONSIBILITIES AND ADDITIONAL RESOURCE REOUIREMENTS
ADDITIONAL RESOURCE
COMPONENT                           ACTIVITY                       IMPLEMENTING AGENCY                        REQUIREMENTS
PROJECT MANAGEMENT             Implementation of prolect Activities  Health Insurance Institute             1 F.T. Project Imp. Otficer
1 F.T. Adm. Assistant
2 F.T. Procurement Specialist
Study Tours for senior officers
Component 1:                                                         HII. Dept. of Financial Affairs
HEALTH INSURANCE INS.          Procurement of Hardware and               Informatics Unit                   5 PS for technical support
Software Installation/Testing             Adm. Operations Unit               1 PS for O&M
Receiving Institutions            On-the-job Training for users
Component 2:                                                         HII. Dept. of Financial Affairs
PRIMARY HEALTH CARE            Procurement and Installation of           Contacting Unit
Equipment                                 Adm. Operations Unit
Receiving Institutions            On-the-job Training for users
HEALTH PROMOTION               Design and Implementation of Health   MOH, NIPH, Schools and Health Care    Training for key personnel/
Promoting Programs                    Units                                  Trainers/School Teachers/
Health Personnel
Component 3:                   Procurement and Installation of       HIl. Dept. of Financial Affairs
ESSENTIAL HOSP. SERV.          Equipment                                 Contacting Unit
Adm. Operations Unit
Receiving Institutions            On-the-job Training for users
EMERGENCY SERVICES             Procurement and Installation of       HII. Dept. of Financial Affairs
Equipment                                 Contacting Unit
Adm. Operations Unit
Receiving Institutions            Long-term Training for Users
F.T. - Full time staff        P.S. - Permanent Staff
xD



- 20 -
Annex 1
2.6          Project Implementation Officer (PIO):  A full-time PIO who reports
directly to the director of the HII is now in place and will be responsible
for the daily execution of the Project activities. The PIO will be supported
by technical staff from the HII. Limited external technical assistance will
be provided through the Project during the implementation, mainly in the
development and implementation of procurement procedures and organization of
overseas training programs, considering the limited experience of HII in these
areas.
2.7         The Project Advisory Committee will be active at least until the
completion of the Project. The members of the Committee have been appointed
by the MOH upon the recommendation of the Project Coordinator. The number of
members of the Committee, units/agencies to be represented in the Committee,
and the frequency of meetings may be revised as required, upon the
recommendation of the Project Coordinator. The duties of the Advisory
Committee are given in Part D.
2.8         Responsibilities of implementing agencies and the additional
resource requirements needed to undertake the project-related activities and
future investments of the Government are given in Chart 3.
D. Functions of Implementing Agencies
2.9         The functions of implementing agencies are:
(a) Advisory Committee:
(i)   to set the policies, strategies and targets in order to ensure the
achievement of the project objectives, and review them as
required;
(ii)   to provide guidance and advice to the Project Coordinator on the
timely implementation of the project activities;
(iii)   to ensure the coordination of public and private agencies involved
in the implementation of the Project;
(iv)   to set the principles and procedures to be applied in coordinating
with international institutions; and
(vi)   to coordinate the activities of the six working groups.
(b) Project Coordinator:
(i)   to oversee project activities to ensure the successful and timely
implementation of the Project;
(ii)   to ensure that financial resources required under the Project are
made available to the implementing agencies in a timely manner;
and
(iii)   to chair the Advisory Committee.
(c) Project Implementation Officer:
(i)   to undertake responsibility for the daily implementation of the
Project;
(ii)   to monitor project expenditures and costs (local and foreign),
process loan disbursement applications in collaboration with the



- 21 -
Annex 1
Central Bank of Croatia, and track disbursements of the Bank loan
and Government funds;
(iii)   to ensure the consolidation of requests and procurement of goods
and services, in accordance with World Bank Guidelines;
(iv)   to ensure the preparation and distribution of consolidated
periodic reports to the relevant government and other
participating institutions, including the Bank, reflecting:
(a) the status of implementation progress, problems encountered
and corrective actions needed; and (b) current costs of each
project component and estimated costs of completion;
(v)   to ensure the timely preparation and submission to relevant
government institutions and the Bank of annual audit reports of
project expenditure and accounts;
(vi)   to ensure the movement of official documents and contracts through
the usual approval processes and undertake measures to expedite
their release;
(vii)   to coordinate preparation of detailed specifications and
procurement documents for approved equipment lists, review of bid
packages and evaluation of offers received; and
(viii)    to ensure the preparation of the Project Completion Report (PCR)
within six months after the completion of the Project.
(d)   Receiving Institutions (PHC units, hospitals, regional and district
offices of HII) will be responsible:
(i)   to prepare detailed needs assessments, implementation programs and
proposed plan of repayment for each category of input that they
are going to receive through the Project;
(ii)   to monitor and report on detailed procedures, implementation
schedules, and program(s); and
(iii)   to review and revise implementation targets and financial
resources needed to support future actions.
E. Implementation Arrangements
2.10        Since the components of the Project are closely linked to each
other, some of the activities under each component will be combined during
implementation. Specifically, the medical equipment to be procured for the
PHC units, hospitals and emergency units under the second and third components
will be combined into several packages of tender in order to shorten the
tendering procedures and offer attractive packages for larger suppliers.
2.11        The following procedures have been developed for each component of
the Project:
(a)   contractual arrangements between the borrower and the receiving
institutions for the equipment;
(b)   tendering procedures for different categories of equipment;
(c)   procedures related to the organization, delivery and monitoring of
in-service training programs to be provided for large numbers of
people in each target group;



- 22 -
Annex I
(d)   principles and procedures for hiring external long- and short-
term consultants; and
(e)   procedures/protocols for coordination with other national or
international organizations.
2.12        The implementation arrangements for Project components are:
(a)  Health Insurance Administration:
(i)   Overall implementation responsibility for this component will rest
with the Informatics Department of HII. Under the coordination of
the PIO, the Informatics Department, supported by procurement
specialists and qualified technical staff to be hired under the
Project, will be responsible for the development of technical
specifications in accordance with Bank Guidelines. The procurement
of hardware and software will be undertaken by the HII Department
of Economics in cooperation and coordination with the Informatics
Department. This unit will also be responsible for providing
continuous support to the receiving institutions during the
installation and testing of hardware, loading of software and
training of the users in coordination with the suppliers.
Securing the compatibility of hardware and software and the
coordination between suppliers will be the responsibility of the
Informatics Department.
(ii)   The tendering package for the hardware should include the
provision of consumables for the project period.
(iii)   A number of fellowships and study tours will also be provided
under this component for the staff of HII. The criteria and
procedures for awarding fellowships should be developed in
coordination with the MOH and the universities. The candidates for
the fellowships and the study tours that will be provided for the
managerial staff of HII and the MOH will be selected by the
Advisory Committee upon the recommendation of the PIO and approval
of the Bank.
(b) Primary Care and Health Promotion Services:
(i)   This component has two separate programs:  (i) procurement of
equipment for PHC units and (ii) health promotion. overall
implementation responsibility for the first program will rest with
the Department of Economics of HII and with the NIPH for the
second program. Under the coordination of the PIO, the Department
of Economics, supported by procurement specialists to be hired
under the Project, will be responsible for the development of
technical specifications, in accordance with Bank guidelines for
the procurement of equipment. This unit will also be responsible
for providing continuous support to the receiving institutions
during the installation of equipment and training of the users.
(ii)   The activities under the Health Promotion program will be
implemented by the NIPH in coordination with: the Ministry of
Education, for the training of school teachers and dissemination
of information; health care units for the training of key health
personnel and dissemination of information; the Croatian
television for the broadcasting of television spots and programs;
and local administrators for the dissemination of public education
materials. External technical assistance will be needed for the
production of public health education materials, radio and
television programs, brochures, leaflets and posters and audio-
visual materials.



- 23 -
Annex 1
(c)  Essential Hospital and Emergency Services:
(i)   Overall implementation responsibility for this component will rest
with the Department of Economics of HII. Under the direction of
the PIO, the Department of Economics, supported by procurement
specialists to be hired under the Project, will be responsible for
the development of technical specifications in accordance with
Bank Guidelines for the procurement of equipment. This unit will
also be responsible for providing continuous support to the
receiving institutions during the installation of equipment and
training of the users, in coordination with the suppliers.
(ii)   The period of training to be provided for the users under this
component will be longer than in the other programs; 4.5 years for
perinatal care; 2 years for pediatrics/neonatal basic care;
6 years for pediatrics/neonatal specialized care; and 3 years for
paramedical education. These training programs will be in the form
of long-term local fellowships to be financed by the Government.
Coordination with designated universities will be required in the
design and delivery of these programs as well as in the selection
and awarding of fellowships.
F. Interaqency Coordination
2.13        The successful implementation of the Project will depend on good
coordination among several different agencies in the public and the private
sector. The HII component will require close cooperation between the selected
supplying firm(s) and central and local offices of HII. The Primary Health
Care Services component will require coordination between selected supplying
firm(s), MOH and PHC units. Health Promotion will require coordination
between the NIPH, the Institute for Diabetics, the Teaching Hospital for
Communicable Diseases, the Institute for Cardiovascular Disease Prevention as
well as public and private television and radio institutions. The essential
Hospital Services component will require coordination between selected
supplying firm(s), MOH, hospitals and universities. The World Health
Organization may be involved in designing health promotion programs and
awarding fellowships.



- 24 -
Annex 1
G. Role of the Bank
2.14         The Project will, on average, require about 17 staff-weeks of Bank
supervision per year on average during implementation, as reflected in the
proposed supervision plan below:
Timing         Staff Weeks                          Staffing
CY1995           20 weeks              Bank resources (20 weeks) of which:
- Task manager (7 weeks)
- Health Specialist (6 weeks)
- Information Specialist (4 weeks)
- Operations Officer (3 weeks)
CY1996           17 weeks              Bank resources (17 weeks) of which:
- Task manager (6 weeks)
- Health Specialist (4 weeks)
- Information Specialist (5 weeks)
- Operations Officer (2 weeks)
CY1997           15 weeks              Bank resources (15 weeks) of which:
- Task manager (8 weeks)
- Health Specialist (4 weeks)
- Information Specialist(3 weeks)
CY1998           15 weeks              Bank resources (15 weeks) of which:
- Task manager (8 weeks)
- Health Specialist (4 weeks)
- Information Specialist(3 weeks)
H. Administrative Arrangements
2.15          The PIO will be responsible for carrying out all necessary
administrative arrangements recommended and approved by the Project Advisory
Committee. Full-time attention of the relevant senior officers will be
required in development and implementation of the new administrative systems.
III. PROJECT FINANCING AND COSTS
A. Detailed Financing Plan
3.1         The proposed Bank loan of US$40.0 million will finance 75 percent
of the total project costs, comprising 100 percent of foreign exchange cost
(US$35.0 million), and 28 percent of local cost, excluding taxes
(US$5.0 million). The HII will finance the balance of project costs (about
US$14.0 million), including duties and taxes which are estimated at US$0.8
million equivalent. Recurrent incremental costs comprising equipment
maintenance services, annual maintenance costs of computers and software, and
other non-salary operational costs (US$5.1 million equivalent) will be
financed entirely by the HII. The HII has received a World Bank Project
Preparation Facility (PPF) of US$350,000 to assist in project preparation.
The financing plan is shown in Tables 1 and 2.



- 25 -
Annex 1
Table 1: FINANCING PLAN BY COMPONENT
---------  US$ Million
Govern-
IBRD        ment          Total
1.  Health Insurance Administration        9.5            5.6         15.1
2.  Primary Health Care Services          12.6            4.4         17.0
3.  Essential Hospital Services           17.9            4.0         21.9
TOTAL DISBURSEMENT'                 40.0           14.0         54.0
a/ Including taxes and duties equlivalent to US$0.8 miiillion. Detailed nImhers may not add to totals duLe to roLunding.
Table 2: FINANCING PLAN BY FINANCIER
-----  US$ Million  -----
Local    Foreign    Total
Health Insurance Institute           14.0        0.0       14.0
IBRD                                  5.0      35.0        40.0
19.0      35.0       54.0
B. Project Costs
3.2         The estimated cost by project component is shown in Table 3.
Project costs are also summarized by expenditure category (Table 4) and by
component and expenditure category (Table 5). Details of cost estimates of
each sub-component are given in Appendix 2.



- 26 -
Annex 1
Table 3: TOTAL COST BY COMPONENT
(925$
(kisana '000)                                     '
% Total                                            %             Tel'otal
Base                                          Foreign         Base
Local      Foreign       Total       Costs      Local      Foreign      Totra      Excbange        Cosrts
I Health Insurance Administration     44,142.9    29.462.9    73,605.             29    8,217 3    5.665.9   13,883.3              41          29
2 Primnary Health Care Services        27,541.9    50.241.5    77,783 4           31     5.296 5    9.661.8   14.958.3             65          31
3 Ersential Hospital Services          19,283.2    81,007.3   100,290.5           40    3,708.3    15.578.3    19.286.6            81          40
Total BASELINE COSTS                        90,9679    160.711.7   251,679.6          100   17,222.1   30,906.1   48,128.2              64          100
Physical Contingencies                 4,001.2    15.391.3    19,392.5             X      769.5    2.959.9    3.729.3              79           8
Price Contingencies                     3,668.6     2,605.7      6,274.3           2    1,000.9    1,175.0    2,175.9              54           5
0otal PROJECT COSTS                        99.637 7   178.709.7   277,346.4           110   18.992 5   *5.040.9   54.033.4              65         112
Table 4: TOTAL COST BY EXPENDITURE
(kuna 'l00)                                                   (US$
'*itOtl)
%       % o Tota                                          %       % Total
Foreign      Base                                         Foreign     Base
Locasl     Foreigin      Total      Exchange    Costs       Local      Foreign      'rotal    Exchange    Cost%
1. Invesrnent Costs
A. Civil Works                    1.189.0        216.5      1.405.5            15        1       228.7       41.6       270.3           15         1
B t)ffice Equipment and          22388.8      22,946.6    45,335.4             51       18    4.033.Y     4412.     8.446.7             52        18
Materials
C  Medical Equiptnent             6.055.9   123.950.4   130.006.2              95       52     1.164.6   23,836.6   25.(01,2            95        52
1). Technical Assistance
I Polcy Development              1.547.4          0.(      1,547.4            ()        I       297.6         0.0      297.6            0         i
2. Capacity I3uiluling          11.411.0      5,190.7    16.601.7            31         7    2.194 4        996.2    3,192.6           31         7
3 I'roject Manageincnt           2.390.2          0.(      2.390.2             0        1       459.7         11.0     459.7            ∞         I
Subtotal Tehnical Assistance     15,348.6      5,190.7    20,539.3            25         6    2.951.7       998.2    3.949.9            25         8
E. Truining                      29.940.3         (1.()   29,940.3             0        12    5 757.6         (J. 0    5.757.8           0       12
F Fe lloships and Study Tours         11.0       993.4        993.4          100         0         0(1      191.0       191.0          10(0       1
oital Invesicnent Co.-s              74.922.6   153.297 6   228,220.1             67        91   14.136.5   29.480 3   43,616.8             68       91
Hi. Recurrent Costs
A  Supplims snd Operations        3.1)59.6       947 7      4.007 3           24         2       588.4       182.2      770.6           24         2
I3 Equipinent () & M             12,985,7      6,466.5    19,452.2            33         8    2,497 2    1.243.6    3.740.8             33 3
lotal Recurrent Costs                16.045.3      7.414.2    23,459.5             32        9    3.085.6    1,425.8    4.511.4             32         9
90.967.9   160,711 7   251,679.6             64       100    17.222.1   30.906.1   48,128.2           64      M1)()
I'hysicol Contingencies           4,001 2     15.,391.3    19,392.5           79         8       769. 5    2.959.9    3.729.3           79        9
Price Contingencies               3,668.6      2.605.7      6,274.3           42         2     1.000.9    1,175.0    2.175.9            54        5
98,637.7   17S.708.7   277,346.4             64       110   18.992.5   35(040.9   54.033.4            65       112



- 27 -
Annex 1
Table 5: TOTAL COST BY COMPONENT AND EXPENDITURE
(USS'000)
Health      Prim-ry       Emential
lnsurance   Hlealth Care  hlospital
Ad iniration   Services     Services       Total
1. Invesment Cost
A. Civil Works                       0.0         312.3          0.0         312.3
B. Office Equipment and Materials  8,360.5       721.4          0.(        9.081.9
C. Medicnl Equipment                 0.0        10,570.9     17.921.3     28,492.3
D. Technical Auistance
1. Policy Development              132.1        203 5          1.0         335.5
2. Capacity BuiWing              3,305.3        230.9          0.0        3.536.1
3. Project Mangement               477.5        39.6          0.0          517.1
Subtotal Technical Asiitance       3.914.9       473.9          0.0        4.388.7
E. Training                        1.1336       3956.6        1S34#.S      6.43#.5
F. Fellowships ad Study Tours        98.2        109.7         It0          207.9
Total Invegment Coats              13,507.1      16,144.8     19.269.7     48,921.5
DI. Recurrent Costs
A. Supplies and Opertions            0.(           0.0         868.7        868.7
B. EquipmentO&M                    1,629.5       843.7       1.770.1       4,243.3
Total Recurrent Costs               1,629.5       843.7       2,638.7       5,111.9
Total PROJECT COSOS                   15,136.5     16,988.5     21.908.4      54,033.4
Taxes                               309.3        299.5        19/1.9        799.8
Foreign Exchange                   6.341.6      11.023.9     17.675.4     15.040.9
3.3          Bases of Cost Estimates.  Project costs were estimated as follows:
(a)   Base Costs.  Cost estimates are based on a review of actual costs
incurred in similar projects, i.e., Turkey Second Health Project.
Additional information was derived from: (a) costs of consultant
services, fellowships and training based on the rates currently
charged by local, European and North American consultants and
training programs; (b) recent quotations obtained from suppliers
of hospital/medical and computer equipment; (c) applications
software costs from comparisons with ongoing software development
activities and estimated requirements for technical books and
journals; (d) building and refurbishment costs from consultants'
surveys of the current costs for these items; (e) funds allocated
for the preparation of studies, estimated on the basis of the
aggregated costs of local and foreign specialized services, unit
costs for internal travel and subsistence, and mission estimates
of material and logistic needs; (f) staff-unit costs from current
public service salary scales with some adjustments for the
remuneration of local technical staff to a level deemed
competitive with the market for specialized services; and (g) non-
salary recurrent costs (materials and supplies) based on current
Government rates. All project costs have been estimated in US
dollars on the basis of September 1994 prices at the official
exchange rate of KN 5.5892 per US dollar.



- 28 -
Annex 1
(b)   Contingency Allowances.  Project costs include a contingency for
unforeseen physical variations (US$3.7 million) equivalent to
5 percent of the base coBt of technical assistance, training and
fellowships and 10 percent for all other project items. The
following rates were used to cover expected price escalation:
local costs 2.7 percent for CY95-98; foreign costs 2.2 percent for
CY95-98.
(c)   Foreign Exchange Component.  The foreign exchange component is
estimated at about US$35.0 million including contingencies, or
65 percent of total project cost. Calculations of the foreign
exchange component were derived from an item-by-item analysis
resulting in the following: 98 percent for medical and office
equipment, computer hardware and software, books and journals;
30 percent for civil works; 95 percent for foreign technical
assistance; and 100 percent for external training. The foreign
exchange component in incremental recurrent expenditure was
estimated at 35 percent for the operation and maintenance of
computer hardware and software; 35 percent for other equipment
maintenance; and 25 percent for supplies and operations.
(d)   Customs, Duties and Taxes.  Goods and external services to be
purchased under the Project will be exempt from taxes and duties.
Taxes and duties for civil works and local technical assistance
are estimated at 10 percent. Therefore, project costs include an
estimated US$0.8 million equivalent in direct and indirect taxes
and duties on goods and services, to be financed by the
Government.
3.4          Incremental Recurrent Costs.  Included in the Project are about
US$5.1 million to cover incremental operating costs directly attributable to
the Project during the four-year period. These consist of incremental
operation and maintenance expenditure for equipment, and supplies and
operations. Measures now being instituted in the health sector to reduce
recurrent costs, improve efficiency and increase collection of user charges
will place the incremental recurrent cost within sustainable limits. During
implementation, HII will pay extra attention to monitoring the adequacy of
recurrent funds for maintenance and operation of facilities and newly
instituted programs, and take the necessary actions to rectify any
deficiencies.



- 29 -
Annex 1
C. Procurement Arrangements and Schedule
3.5           Procurement arrangements under the Project are summarized in
Table 6 below.
Table 6:  PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(USS Million)
Non-Bank
Category of Expenditure             ICB            OTHER          Financed       TOTAL
Technical Assistance                  --             0.3 h          __             0.3
(Policy Development)                                (0.3)                         (0.3)
Technical Assistance                 --             0.5 h          __             0.5
(Project Implementation)                           (0.4)                         (0.4)
Technical Assistance                  --             3.3 h          __             3.3
(Capacity Building)                                 (3.0)                         (3.0)
Training, Fellowships and
Study Tours                          --            6.6            --             6.6
(2.9)                        (2.9)
Equipment and Materials              31.3            2.0           4.2            37.5
(31.3)         (1.7)         (0.0)          (33.0)
Miscellaneous (PPF) d'                --             0.4           --              0.4
(0.4)          --            (0.4)
Civil Works                           --            --             0.3             0.3
(0.0)          (0.0)
Operations & Maintenance              --            --             5. 1            5.1
(0.0)          (0.0)
Total Financing Requirements         31.3           13.1           9.6            54.0
(31.3)        (8.7)          (0.0)          (40.0)
NOTES: Numbers may not add tip duic to rounding.
a/     Figures in parentheses are the respective anmounts rinaalced by the Bank Loan.
h/     Procurement according to Bank Guidelines for Use of Conswltants.
Prudent local shoppin/eoff-the-shelf purchases (aggregate-USSO. I imiillion) of less thanii US$50.000 per contract: direct contracting
for abouit US$1.4 inillion for books and intellectual property: and international shopping (aggregate US$0.6 miilion) of less than
US5 300,000 per contract.
d/     PPF advance of USS350.000.
3.6           Procurement of Goods.   Equipment contracts which are estimated to
cost more than US$300,000 equivalent per contract will be procured following
international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance with the
Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" (May
1992). Equipment (about 11 major packages) will be packaged according to
related specialized fields. Computer hardware and peripherals will be
procured with careful consideration of hardware compatibility and local
availability of maintenance services. Equipment procured through ICB will
account for about 83 percent (US$31.3 million) of the total equipment value.
The remaining 17 percent of the equipment value will be in packages suitable
for procurement other than ICB. In the comparison of bids for equipment to be
procured through ICB, local manufacturers competing under ICB would receive a



- 30 -
Annex 1
preference in bid evaluation of 15 percent of the CIF price or the prevailing
custom duty applicable to non-exempt importers, whichever is less, provided
they can prove that the value added to the product in Croatia exceeds 20
percent of ex-factory bid price. Computer systems software, cabling and
network installation valued at US$1.4 million will be procured on sole source
basis, in order to maintain conformity with pre-existing computer systems.
Appropriate Bank standard bidding documents will be used for procurement of
goods and equipment. Table 7 shows procurement packages for goods.
Table 7: SUMMARY OF THE PROCUREMENT PACKAGES FOR EQUIPMENT
Est.Cost       Proc.           Prepare                           Award          Contract
Component                     (USS M)         Method          Tenderine       Invitation        Contract       Completion
Eauipiment
A. Medical
1. Med. Imaging          9.0             ICB            Jan. 95         Feb. 95           Jul. 95         June 97
2. Monitors              4.5             ICa             Jan. 95        Feb. 95           Jul. 95         June 97
3. Laboratory            3.3             ICB             Jan. 95        Feb. 95           Jul. 95         June 97
4. Ambulances             2.2            ICB             Jan. 95        Feb. 95           Jul. 95         June 97
5. Incubators             1.0            ICB             Jan. 95        Feb. 95           Jul. 95         June 97
6. Resp./Aspirat.        6.3             ICB             Jan. 95        Feb. 95           Jul. 95         June 97
7. Telecom               0.3             ICB            Jan. 95         Feb. 95           Jul. 95         June 97
8. Mixed Packages         1.4            ICB             Jan. 95        Feh. 95           Jul. 95         June 97
B. Office
1. Project Mgmt.         0.2             IS             Dec. 94         Jan. 95           Mar. 95         Mar. 95
2. Computer
Systems Software    1.4             DC             Oct. 94         -                                 Dec. 97
P1T                 0.5             ICB            Jan. 95         -                 -               Dec. 97
Cards                1.2            ICB            Jan. 95                  -                        Dec. 97
DB Load Eq.         0.4             ICB            Jan. 95         Nov. 94           Feb. 95         Dec. 95
A. Supp. Eql        0.2             IS             Dec. 95         Nov. 95           Dec. 95         May 96
A. Supp. Eq2        ().1           IS              Dec. 95         Nov. 95           Dec. 95         May 96
QA Eq.              0.1             IS             Jan. 95         Jan. 95           Mar. 95         Dec. 95
IS Pilot            0.5             ICB            Jan. 96         Feb. 95           Jul. 96         Dec. 96
C. Other Office
Health Promotion
1. Equipment             0.7             ICB            Dec. 94         -                 -               Apr. 95
2. Mal. & Supply         0.1             LS              Dec. 94        -                 -               Apr. 95
Total Equipment                33.4



- 31 -
Annex 1
(a)   International Shoppinc  (IS).  Procedures for IS will be used for small
amounts of equipment where the cost of ICB would clearly outweigh
possible price advantages. Contracts for equipment estimated to cost
less than US$300,000 per contract, not to exceed an aggregate amount of
US$0.6 million equivalent, will be awarded under international shopping
procedures, based on comparing price quotations obtained from at least
three suppliers from three eligible countries in accordance with Bank
guidelines.
(b)   Local Shopping (LS).  Minor sundry items not exceeding US$50,000 per
contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$0.1 million equivalent, could
be purchased on the basis of prudent local shopping by comparing price
quotations obtained from at least three local suppliers, in accordance
with Bank Guidelines.
(c)   Direct Procurement.  Goods and technical licenses which the Bank agrees:
(a) are of proprietary nature; (b) the timely supply thereof is critical
for efficient project execution; or (c) need to be compatible with other
installed equipment, may be procured through direct negotiations with
property and/or copyright owners, on terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank. Such items include contracts for intellectual property such
as books, technical journals, training materials, audio-visual
materials, computer applications software, including annual upgrading
and licensing arrangements, copyrights, translation and reprinting
rights for training materials, estimated to cost about US$1.4 million in
the aggregate.
(d)   Civil Works.  Civil works to upgrade facilities to accommodate the
medical equipment coming in under the Project, at an estimated value of
US$300,000 will be financed entirely by the Government.
3.7         Technical Assistance. Qualified firms will be invited to submit
proposals for comprehensive packages of consultant services and management of
fellowships and training in accordance with the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency"
(August 1981). To keep the evaluation process manageable, no more than six
(but at least three) proposals will be invited following a short listing
acceptable to the Bank. It is estimated that technical assistance will be
procured in 12 packages at a total cost of USS3.7 million. As needed, the
services of individual specialists (mainly for project management, on-site
computer systems support and quality assurance) will also be contracted on the
basis of short lists of eligible candidates. It is anticipated that about
US$0.8 million of the aggregate for technical assistance would be for
individual specialists, and approximately US$2.9 million would be for firms.
It is also estimated that about US$2.5 million will be for medical staff
training in specific areas of specialization, e.g., radiology, including
appropriate uses for medical equipment coming in under the Project (see
Table 8). Approximately US$0.8 million of the technical assistance would be
directly contracted; this consists of US$300,000 for individual experts and
logistical support for the Project Advisory Board over the project period, as
well as US$500,000 for update of a previous database loading exercise. Table
8 shows procurement packages for technical assistance.



- 32 -
Annex 1
Table 8: SUMMARY OF THE PROCUREMENT PACKAGES FOR
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING
Est.Cost   Proc.   Prepare                   Award
Component                     .(Us  M)    Method Tendering  Invitation  Contract   Completion
I. Health Insurance
Administration
A. Project Management
TA:
Advisory Board                0.3       DC    Oct. 94      -            -           Dec. 97
Project Management            0.5       SL    Oct. 94      -            -           Dec. 98
Investment Studies            0.2       SL    Jul. 95      -            -           Jun. 96
TR:
Fellowships                   0.1       SL    Apr. 95      -            -           Dec. 96
B. HII Financial
Operations
TA:
Application Design/           0.3       SL    Jan. 95    Mar. 95        Apr. 95    Dec. 95
Implementation
Database Load                 0.5       DC    Nov. 94    Jan. 95        Feb. 95    Dec. 97
Cons./On-site Support         0.3       SL    Jan. 95    Mar. 95        Apr. 95    Dec. 95
Admin. Support                1.0       SL    May 95       Jan. 95      Jul. 95    Dec. 96
Quality Assurance             0.3       SL    Jan. 95    Mar. 95        Jul. 95    Dec. 97
TR:
Informatics                   1.0       SL    Jan. 95    Mar. 95        Jul. 95    Dec. 95
TA & TR:
Support to IS Pilot           0.4       SL    Jan. 95      -            Jan. 95    May  95
Support TO PHI                0.2       SL    Jan. 95    Mar. 95        Apr. 95    Dec. 95
II. Primary Health Care
Services
TA:
Architect. Fee                0.04      SL    Jan. 95    Mar. 95        Apr. 95    Dec. 96
Health Promotion
Survey                      0.3       SL    Jan. 95    Feb. 95        Mar. 95    Apr. 95
Media                         0.1       SL    May  95    Jun. 95        Jul. 95    Dec. 95
TR:
Medical Equipment
Radiology                   0.5       SL    Jun. 95    Aug. 95        Sep. 95    Jun. 97
Mammography                 0.4       SL    Jun. 95    Aug. 95        Sep. 95    Jun. 97
Lab.                        0.5       SL    Jun. 95    Aug. 95        Sep. 95    Jun. 97
Family/GP                   0.9       SL    Jun. 95    Aug. 95        Sep. 95    Jun. 97
Q. Improve. Prog.           0.2       SL    Jun. 95    Aug. 95        Sep. 95    Jun. 97
Health Promotion Trng.        0.6       SL    Jun. 95      -            -           May 97
Media Time                    0.9       SL    Nov. 95    Dec. 95        Jan. 96    Dec. 97



- 33 -
Annex 1
3.8         In compliance with Bank procedures, standard model bidding
documents will be used for all ICB procurement. The Bank will continue to
review master lists of equipment, packaging of bids and updated cost
estimates. With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$300,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and
4 of Appendix 1 of the Guidelines shall apply. It is estimated that this
prior review will cover about 80 percent of the value of all contracts
combined for equipment and technical assistance. The remaining 20 percent of
contracts will be subject to selective post award reviews by the Bank. The
Bank will review: (i) terms of reference for all consulting assignments; and
(ii) consulting contracts above US$100,000 with firms and above US$50,000 with
individual consultants. In addition, all direct contracting will be pre-
reviewed by the Bank. Progress of procurement activities will be monitored by
the implementing agency, and periodic reports on procurement progress,
including variations in schedule, will be reported to the Bank on a regular
basis.
D. Disbursement and Financing Schedules
3.9         Disbursements.  The proposed Project is expected to be disbursed
over a period of four years, which is considerably shorter than the relevant
profile in the Region (about seven years). The shorter implementation period
is possible due to the strong implementation capacity of the HII and the
commitment of the MOH.  The closing date will be December 31, 1998.  A summary
of the disbursement plan is shown in Table 9.
Table 9:  DISBURSEMENTS BY YEAR
Calendar Year         1995      1996      1997      1998
(USS Million)
Annual                 7.7      18.1      14.0       0.2
Cumulative            7.7       25.8      39.8      40.0
Cumulative % Total   19%        65%       99%       100%
3.10        Disbursements will be made as follows:
(a)   for equipment, 100 percent of foreign expenditures; 100 percent of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost); and 15 percent of local
expenditures for other items procured locally;
(b)   for technical assistance, fellowships, studies and external
training, 100 percent of expenditures;
(c)   for local training, 40 percent of expenditures; and
(d)   repayment of PPF.
E. Audit Timetable
3.11         Project Audits.  Project Accounts and the Special Account will be
audited in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Financial Reporting and
Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank" (March 1982). The Borrower
will provide the Bank (within six months of the end of each fiscal year), an
audit report of such scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably request,
including a separate opinion by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank,
on disbursements against certified statements of expenses (SOEs). The
separate opinion should mention whether the SOEs submitted during the fiscal



- 34 -
Annex 1
year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawal
applications.
3.12         Reporting and Annual Reviews.  The PCU will prepare semi-annual
descriptive and financial reports on each project component, objective and
activity (beginning from the date of Loan Effectiveness). The reports will
describe: (a) current status; (b) deviations, if any, from the implementation
plan; and (c) the reasons for deviations and corrective actions being taken.
Sample progress-reporting documents are included in the Project Implementation
Plan (PIP). Reporting and Bank supervision will focus on in-depth reviews of
the policy framework for sectoral improvements, the consistency of activities
for each component and sub-component with agreements reach d at negotiations,
performance of the implementing groups and institutions, aMsessment of
emerging needs for adjustments to project parameters, and possible follow-up
operations which could be supported by the Bank. Bank supervision will be
based on the semi-annual progress reports and the annual evaluation of project
activities by the MOH. This will be supplemented by a review of project
expenditures and availability of financial resources, in addition to
substantive discussions with technical assistance groups implementing and/or
assisting in the implementation of various components, and discussions with
responsible authorities. A mid-term review of the Project will be carried out
in October/November 1996. The PIP will be the basis for supervision and
reporting.
IV. DETAILED IMPLEMENTATION ACTIVITIES
A. Detailed Prolect Activities
4.1          Detailed activities under each component are summarized below.
Detailed information is available in the project proposals prepared by the six
working groups under the guidance of MOH. Implementation schedules for each
component are given in Part B.
(a)  Health Insurance Administration:
(i)   Improvement of financial operations mechanisms:  The ongoing
financial operations modernization program is expected to run
through the end of 1995 and would involve a number of procurement
activities, most of which the Government will finance as
continuation of work underway. For its part, the Bank would
finance two major technical assistance procurements: one for
training and the other for services to design and conduct the
loading of the databases from existing HII records. The Bank
would also finance one major equipment procurement. This would
provide the technologies to support the database loading activity.
Tendering of these packages could take place around the
effectiveness date of the Loan in the second quarter of 1995.
(ii)   Improvement of HII's manaqement capabilities: The activities
associated with enhancing HII's financial, administrative and
information asset management capabilities are expected to coincide
with calendar years 1995 and 1996. They would entail three major
Bank-financed procurements: one technical assistance procurement
and a sequence of two equipment procurements to obtain the
supporting technologies. The activities would begin with a small
technical assistance contract to update the 1991 strategic plan.
It is expected that this would be awarded to the Croatian firm
which performed well under the original contract and is competent
to operate the formal modeling tools. Tendering the technical
assistance package could also take place around the Loan



- 35 -
Annex 1
Effectiveness date. The exact timing would depend on how well the
financial operation modernization activities are proceeding.
Timing and content of the equipment tenders would depend on the
plans prepared under the technical assistance contract. Given the
variety of functions to be addressed under this work, it is
expected that it would require two procurements to obtain the
necessary technologies: one in late 1995 and one in the second
half of 1996. However, if the plans for these asset management
support activities permit, the two procurements could be combined
to minimize procurement overhead costs and bid prices.
(iii)   Improvement of HII's quality assurance capabilities: Activities to
strengthen HII's quality assurance capabilities would also begin
in early 1995 and span two years. The Bank would finance these
activities through one major technical assistance procurement that
would encompass planning, training and ad hoc consulting. A
moderately-sized equipment procurement would also be required to
provide the necessary technologies. The technical assistance
could be ready for tendering around the Loan Effectiveness date.
The equipment procurement could follow within a couple of months,
once the quality assurance plan has been formulated.
(iv)   PHC Pilot Implementation: The PHC informatics pilot would involve
one large technical assistance procurement encompassing analysis,
design, planning, development, implementation, training and
support. This would be ready for tender around the middle of
1995. About three months into the technical assistance effort
(i.e., fourth quarter of 1995) a tender for the necessary
technology could be ready. Alternatively, the primary care pilot
might work as a two-stage equipment procurement. The pilot and
evaluation would run approximately two and one-half to three
years, with a variety of actionable lessons throughout the
process.
(v)   The HII activities will require one medium-sized technical
assistance procurement. The successful bidder would lead the
interagency minimum health data set determination and take
responsibility for the design of any relevant materials and
actions plans. The technology for bolstering the HII's
statistical data handling would represent a small equipment
procurement.
(vi)   The above procurement programs represent a large work program.
Nevertheless, the strength and experience of the leadership of the
Informatics Department, technical specifications, tender
preparation, evaluation and contract negotiations would be managed
by the Informatics Department. However, it would be critical that
the unit be augmented with suitably qualified informatics
professionals to share the work of procurement preparation,
contractual performance and vendor-HII Liaison.



- 36 -
Annex 1
(b) Primary Care and Health Promotion Services:
(i)   Health Promotion:
Survey: Preparatory activities for the Survey will be started
under the PPF, in January 1995 and will last for two months.
During this period, methodology of the survey and the sample
groups will be identified. Working groups for each one of the
planned programs (smoking prevention, healthy nutrition, promotion
of healthy sex life and promotion of physical activities) will be
established. These working groups will develop strategies and
determine target groups and scope of the public education programs
and mass media campaigns.
(ii)   Training Activities:  Following the design of the programs,
training will be provided at three levels for different categories
of personnel. Initially, key personnel from the NIPH will be
trained. These key personnel will train 1-2 personnel from each
county as the trainers. The training will be organized as
workshops in Zagreb and three regional centers (Rijeka, Osijek and
Split). The trainers will then train primary and secondary school
teachers, and health care personnel locally in the first and third
years of the Project.
(iii)   Public Campaign Activities:  Design and production of public
campaign materials, specifically, television spots(30), radio
messages (15) and advertisements (50) of different sizes and types
will take place in the second half of 1995. The airing will
continue throughout the project period. The effectiveness and
impact of these public campaigns will be closely monitored by the
working groups, and revisions will be made, as required.
(c)   Procurement of Equipment for Primary Health Care/ Essential Hospital and
Emergency Services:
(i)   For the Primary Health Care part of the component, as well as for
all three subgroups of the third component: perinatal care,
emergency medical services and intensive care units, the
procurement of equipment will be pooled, because of the
possibility of creating larger, and therefore less expensive
packages for equipment of various categories. Eight such packages
have been devised: medical imaging, monitors, laboratory,
ambulances, incubators, respirators/aspirators,
telecommunications, and a mixed package. All packages will be
submitted to ICB. The technical specifications will be prepared
for each item of each package by members and/or designated
technical experts of each working group at the MOH in coordination
with the procurement specialists from the HII. The deadline for
the production of such technical specifications will be divided
either into three lots (monitors, laboratory, incubators,
ambulances, telecommunications, respirators/aspirators and mixed
packages) or four lots (medical imaging) for delivery purposes.
The packages will all be procured in accordance with Bank
Guidelines.
(ii)   The delivery period for the first lot will be from July 1995 to
December 1995; for the second lot, from December 1995 to May 1996;
for the third lot, from June 1996 to December 1996; and for the
fourth lot from January 1997 to July 1997. 4/
4/    The list of equipment to be procured is given in Appendix 1.



- 37 -
Annex 1
(iii)   Training will be organized separately for each item under the
Primary Health Care and Essential Hospital and Emergency Services
components. For primary health care, it will coincide with the
delivery of equipment to each of the institutions/areas selected
by the working group. For perinatal care, training of the
paramedical staff is expected to coincide with the delivery of the
equipment. The training of medical specialists will begin on July
1995 and last for the duration of the relevant university
programs. For emergency medical services, training shall begin on
July 1995, and thereafter, for each of the following semesters,
one quarter of the designated health care providers will undergo
training. Finally, for ICU, the continuing education program will
coincide with equipment delivery and specialist training will
begin July 1995 and last the prescribed period.
B. Implementation Schedule
4.2          Appendix 3 includes the detailed schedule of implementation by
activity for each sub-component. The schedule takes into account the work to
be carried out during project preparation and reflects the detailed
implementation activities. Based on the quality of the work already
completed, it is planned that the implementation will start prior to Project
Effectiveness.
V. MONITORING AND EVALUATION
A. Development Indicators
5.1         Tracking key monitoring indicators is necessary to measure the
impact of the project inputs on the major development objectives of the
Project. Given the essential role program monitoring and evaluation play in
determining the impact of a given intervention on development objectives,
three sets of indicators will be used to monitor and evaluate progress during
implementation of the Health Project: outcome indicators, input indicators,
and output indicators.
5.2         Outcome Indicators will track whether or not the development
objectives of the Project have been met. Two criteria were used to select the
basic outcome indicators: (a) that the indicator is known to be sensitive to
the intervention introduced under the Project; and (b) that data will be
readily available through routine administrative collection. Because the
Project will last for only four years, some of the indicators, e.g., incidence
of smoking, cannot be adequately tracked within the time frame of the Project.
However, MOH/NIPH will continue tracking of indicators beyond the life of the
Project as one aspect of overall monitoring of the health sector. Below is a
list of the outcome indicators (by component) that will be tracked during the
Project through survey sampling techniques. Baseline data are currently being
gathered.



- 38 -
Annex 1
1. Health Insurance Administration
(i)   age profile of HII receivables
(ii)  percentage of transactions reviewed
(iii) percentage of reviewed transactions referred back to the
originator for corrections
(iv)  percentage of administrative expenses
2.    Primary Care and Health Promotion Services
(a) Primary Health Care
(i)   proportion of patient referrals to specialists
(ii)  proportion of patients undergoing lab tests
(iii) number of patients using primary health centers
(b)  Health Promotion
(i)   percentage of non-smoking population
(ii)  incidence of sexually transmitted diseases
(iii) prevalence of obesity
(iv)  incidence of cardiovascular mortality
3. Essential Hospital and Emergency Services
(i)   medical services response time to emergencies
(ii)  rate of mortality from automobile accidents
(iii) number of hospital deliveries
(iv)  neonatal mortality rate
(v)   perinatal mortality rate
(vi)  maternal mortality rate
B. Project Indicators
5.3          Input Indicators will track planned investments in terms of
contracted technical assistance (staff-months), enrollment and time (staff-
months) in training programs, and procurement of goods. These indicators will
be represented in standard input tables for each major activity area of the
Project (Appendix 4).
5.4         Output Indicators will track items such as the number of studies
or reports that have been completed by a given date during the project cycle;
the amount of training programs held and students trained; the number of
health promotion TV or radio spots; and equipment procured. These indicators
will be tracked in standard output tables for each major subcomponent of the
Project (Appendix 4).
5.5          In an effort to track Government expenditures in the health
sector, the Government has agreed that the MOH and HII would collect and
report, on a yearly basis, health expenditure accounts, using the National
Health Accounts methodology to assist in monitoring input and output
indicators (Appendix 5 provides the format for reporting).



- 39 -
Apenix 1
EQUIPMENT PACKAGES FOR PHC. HOSPITALS
AND EMS UNITS
Equipment                                   Numbor
1    MEDICAL EQUIPMENT
X-Ray                                                   25
Mammography                                             27
Uftrasound                                              17
2  MONITORS
ICU Montors                                             sO
Hemodynarric MonNors                                    S0
Monitor/DefibnHlalors                                   84
Neonatal Monitors                                       10
Fetal Monitors                                          10
Oxymeter/Capnographs                                     0
3.   LABORATORY
Auloanalyzers                                           39
Hemaldl. Cel Counters                                   22
Gas ChrDrnalography                                      1
Spectrolluoromeury                                       1
4    AMBULANCES                                               84
5.   INCUBATORS
Standard                                                17
Mobile                                                  13
Hybr1dizalon                                             1
B.   RESPIRATORS/ASPIRATORS
ICU Respirators                                         130
Pre Hospilal Respiralors                                35
Neonatal Respirators                                     5
Anbulance Aspirators                                    102
Neonatal Aspirators                                      13
7.   TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Certral Dispatch System                                  1
Repeaters                                               18
Phone Unes                                              60
B.   MIXED PACKAGES
Emergency Medical AssIstance Sets                       92
Emergency Cardlology Sets                               120
Ambulance Small Equipment                               16S
Infusion Pumps/ Neonatal                                 11
Phototherapy Lamnps/ Neonatal                            19
Neonatal Ressuctalion Tables                             7



- 40 -
Appendix 2
Q,O.b.                                                                            Page I of 4
1-10.Hh Pro#t 
14  1. H4.Ith Inr,,co Ad,-4.1tu>,
D.tl..4d Co,itsUS$ '0001
Took Iclddng C.n8oo.nd
1995         1994          1997        1998        Told
1. Ad-Vso  ford .                                                            97 7        101 4         103.1        0 0         301.2
2 Impt -onl-bn Off,..                                                        19.8          19 0         19.9       20 3           78.2
3 Proc..n..nt SpDmi,                                                         28.1          2H 9         29.7        00            88 7
4. MIS Spciolt.                                                              93.8          96 4         99 (        0.0          289.2
S. AdinO.ge.- A.t-nt                                                          2. 7          29           2 9        3.0           11.4
e. Co.Put r W.W.I.,ton. lb                                                   6l 5           0.0         (1J1.       0 0           81.5
7Ollc. EqPm-n *nd m1.wI.9                             06 se 9                             34 9          23.8        0 0          115.7
9. F     tp.                                                                 53 8          22 (,        22 5        0 0           98.2
9. Invat-mos Stud"                                                           d05,2        d6.9           0.0        0.0          132.1
S.9bwn  P4o,.oe Mloltntmnt                                                    478.H         321 5        300 7        23.3       1,174 1
B. ttZ20 Fk.4d Op.os9o.
1. Co.. It.4d Op*..won   Syt."
CorPnl. H.d-0..S.oI.                                                   3,630 0           (I(           0.11       0 .J      3,030.0
Nn.114k In-t..-n Id                                                      083 3           0             ( (        0 0         d83.3
C.b9,w                                                                   512 0           r             0.o,       0.0         512.5
PTT I- t.4  -n   .                                                        95.4           0 (I          0.0        0.0          85.4
Appbiw-bh d-.o1.n.p.,,4,ood                                               32.7           0 1           0.0        0 0          32.7
1n101o.n.ol.l,o,, M.n.g.,oosl                                            272 9           ( 10               n o0.0            272.9
1-ininrV Ifnf-Im-lS   Plolnos,.9                                         137 4          HS 5         Hi 5        0. C         310.1
1Tn- o End- *-                                                           21(73         121 /        1 Zs I       1 ( (        453.9
T,Itiks   Ma-on--nt                                                       899           91.3         95 /I273 8
0.1. H9     o d4 u11                                                     3493           H:9 J         11: f111                529 8
0.,, 8... to 1,'dm   fqo,p,P1nl                                          455 50 (1.                    10         (I 0        455 5
C onc Il , 13                                                              1U 4             d I1 7 I               1111 5II) 
Oc.*,l  S2pp. I to                                                        87 J          89 3         91 4         0 1         2d7 8
H-alIh C-d M.l,0l1f                                                       77 41          (I 0          ( n.   0  41 1(4.4
C.d lq.i       Op.oon I9 !G f                                                           59 7         S0.5          1)         I  1  u
filpI-e-,  C0.d4 Ih                                                        96 0         989.        101 1         0(          296 9
So010.- lIpqpoda                                                          66 1          di 5         69           0.o ()      202n 
I.e... I,r   l cno'I 11.J0                                                            l.4          1190          0.0         349.2
Su,to  Cor Nd.4od 0p..*4on.t Sp.w                                         7.6d7 4I       f9314         9,54 9       11 (I      9,355 7
2. S.por. to rZZO M.t4.gmt
Updml. IS Sftma.og  PI1,,                                                  32 d           J( 1( 11                1 (.1       ?32 1
Ad-.,. Suppow (11,14105l I 1                                                          272 h            10 11     () 11 1     272.9
Adlmc. SIP/ppol; EQ0Ilio-nt 2                                                . 0       232 U           0 0        0.0         232.8
Sblot.t S,ppt 1. HZZO ffn..n,                                                32.6       1,4 7UO          O (        0.a(       1,50896
3. IS Appkllro.o  0uNtHY A-s.urn
Technch l A..,el,,,                                                       H4, 7         Hi (I        h9 .1       (II          2111 (
C-mpovo Fasjlp m                                                          85A 4            ID O       O            (J          85OHS4
S,hlot tS Appil-oon Q_Il A-s -n                                             170.1          17 1         R9 93       o n         74. 5
4. Prim n7 H4.Wh C.. E Plot
Incl,,4.-I A..,I,,-                          0,01 1                                   418 :1 A          (II       (I          429 .4
" ,                                                                 1111       :45 I. 0        (III      1D            7 0b 5
Egt1410,l1OI dp   10 0                                                                467 9           (I         110          457.9
Sbtot.t Pi.nm  H.aWt C... ff Mlot                                             1     9     32 1?                       O II      9J2 7
S-P- SUpl  .o       1  u-p Pubk H..Ith
H1-II-, D-I. S.1 De...   olol                                            17  3           1111 O         I f        I 1          30 7
Ml.i,.1l H.l0h D.l. SnW App010.l-o.                                       59.2           0.0          0 (I       00            59 2
SlkolIt SWPP.t to 10-.4-. .4 P4b98  H .Wi,                                 189.6          0.0           a OI       0 0          19 9.
8.bl.4 H2Z0 Fin-n-W  Ove5.o-                                                9,050 2       3,330.1        947. J        00       12,333 0
ToJ d    tno  Co.t.                                                            8,537        7 3 7016 i    11  :4         I:,  1   1 1.5(7 1
I. R.c,sr.nt Co-t
A Co-p,I,e Eq p.q6n,I ObM                                                        1            II,           1U         1/            114
Bl Oil.'- E I l J--nl 11AM                                                       1 4            4           3 1,1      A I           I O 
C 1011h-0,009y Il .l Oli0llo CAM                                              290 .1        4 702        4?2 1      J70 8        1,.41  1
To.t Rooon.  Cost                                                                203.0        474.1         4959 f     7515         1,029 5
Totd                                                                               f.1171 H     4,1/59        1.s :1 1     .19 H      15, I  5 S
vzC-mPl.  -x  ... I.M..  Coodmm.n Cgwlf --d        p-Kr-z  gnm1      tdzb ofa#   Wt.1W11-
, WYok..-io  lo P4,.,o    MI., ,ok,,o9xl S MIS Spools,,
lc Photoooprl,,,4.  -h-,o   ..  pl,o, .rc
Id N.Iwo,k h9.d41 , -olWO   1 0lRlI4io
4Sw 5 , p ch.g-.
91 0tu,p  nd - np-t.nf d.ta b1. k-ft"l ,  pon-,. 13 yeal)
'U 3 y9..  20 k-0e oll,1o-     In, OI
Ill 10I(% o1 W.1 41   3 Y
Ii (M) p-opi. 10-1d
Ii 72 PC.



- 41 -
f.bi. 2 Pr n y ?4-tol C.a S.-                                                              Page   2     of    4
L*,.ft4 Co.(.Vs$ 000,
1.3.4  l.,ek,do   Cohtgewh
1995                19S96               1997               11161               T*00
1. IW..tOOpt Coa
A. Cn  Wok. .                                                                  174 S13/,                                  01               0                  312.3
9 C.O W0.k.  r,oI_      o  I') .                                                            ,                             r'0              (0 (                 30 t
C. M.dh. Eq4.0 n
1 X Ray blh                                                                     to  11 35 8   2/1                  , 104S8 4            0 0              5,00.
2                                                                           5mon,0eph  531    1,41 li 9                0.0               00               2.00r.6
3 Al10.l.z.s ..                                                             704 5             1 3t01                   0 0               0.0              2.0d4.?
4 Hoooolologc.l Co,,Ir,..                                                   23 7                52b J                  0 0               0.0               911.9
11.1bMold tl4d   tq.o,o,O,s                                                  2,6877              8.034 9              .1848 4              0.0             10,570.9
D. Tar.
1. Rwi..
Do.io.                                                                   13D.3                1704                  00                0.0                306.?
NrO--                                                                     bg9 2               97 J                  (O I              0.0                150.9
O.f   'ldfft                                                                I 819 0             773 hI n (I                               o                403.3
2. M...ogwobv
Docia..                                                                    34 84              1.H                   1 111             0 0                252 4
I ch-I                                                                    4/4 /' 4"             0"                                     0 0               120.4
Sr9*ttg M-.g.O.t0y                                                           422 77*1                                  01                09                 373.i
3. Lbow.mvy
D-w.                                                                     142                 194 I                  0.0              (110                330 S
Iodt- . /m                                                                 1 I- -            1119 5                 WU               0.0 0190.
.bmowtt Lb.or                                                               2132                j(47                   1111              0II               517.4
4. F lOt     r  fNook.
010:1100                                                                 296 7               39.                    II1               (III               6 e5.
Mo...                                                                     D4 b I              140(                  1) 11             0.0                240.S
0.11,del F.iO..O e.4 ft-1r                                                  3119 n              63b .1                 1111              0 0                D20.3
.. 0-11t Ilpornmnnl lRov..                _                                  94 8               140 U (I                                 0.0                240 S
S.1O O,sil T .4.                                                             1.03( 1             1,44nn 4                 0 1(              0.0              2.521 1
t. Hh.410 P,onz0oo
i. 9boo rr
NOoc Sic 9 oy                                                            Il-r  1  1             ( I rI              111s (III                            311 
Mso.0Iw,1                                                                   II                M10                  /It                III,1 (             40 6
AcMy*s on F000,M00,*                                                        01                 701 J               tt2.5               (II              l302.9
7 t*sogM i..v.y                                                             Il/.r               1(14                111.14              (iI(                 1.0  1
3. Cee.i T..ikng
11(0t, EtdntOIn I ,o.,.                                                   414                 4h I                 h(l f              D( D               14t 0
PIIC   .ckl.-(looohl..                                                    59 2                 6o 0 h               2 5               (1.0               102.5
S.b1oWtO Loe  TroAdino                                                      1(11                119 S               1170                 00                 326.6
4. h.Wohh   t.oo  Coood..0i 
Conlo.Oc.. aol -S.".-                                                     474                 40 / I                 -                (I                 14d.0
( om.oneo, eno.oo  6r3ro.,po                                                6 9                 Cu 0011   0                           00                  'A.9
S.btoti H..4il Prornotto C..d&.6n                                           104 3                4H 7                 5n1        1       (IO(               20Z.0
S 1i0Ohh F30,c100n IIlo-.a.                                                 ""                    (0 1:'  " ''                                              193 3
n Schoo Stn. PIo,909l,                                                       45 t                J4                                                          I d '  /  11y 31l2
7. m.d.
Cor.pacr C,.-o'nI                                                           71                  11                     ,1112
11111,                                                                      1                   I'l                 I/I               Ill) 11I  
Ad l10o9                                                                          0 "
TV  .Sl                                                                                                                              I,l( I/
Ram .Scr o1 1                                                                                   (I                   Ill              1 (                 74) 1
Plato, M-P.o 7                                                                .                 I                   1 (I  1111        11         11 5(I0
I.s. R..odoclrrc..                                                         I/I Il,II                                                  II1
A-od . o3n......... Ch ,Ij                                                                    7I 4                                    el                      l o   ,0
A,loolao,11,,tl .h                                                         1.11,               1 14                 ..                11(3f               J 33
R.I. Mona1.o B                                                                                   1.                                   ( II 0                J 14
I V Spol. Id                                                              :1 4                ,/ .                 /11 1OH                                90 I
IV s0'. 'ii                                9/ h                                                . 4                 ,l .               III t l i
r,N, A41"o,  Isll                                                           }1f 1               ( 0sf                                  f                  2J` 1
P...,( M.I-ol   l..nI.17I 1-                                                                                         I                N 6 l              3 357 (
Modlia I -    Spr.r                                                       0( 16              2/ 7                 2/4 Id               0 0               f903.2
S.whtWi M.d.                                                                700 /                308b               .3/ .1               I I              1431.4
Snb.t.i t.Wh h t,Ao oon                                                      I ."i ih,4 93                             01 7                11              .2700 9
TOtW IJ..O1  Co.t.                                                             H,7II I             h. 17                    11                                10  3144 8
t. R emI.., Cot.
A MOlOdI- E.   .......o.l (1AM                                                  0/i /1                                 1/43               -(1 h               943 7
TorW R.c.o-I.o  Co.s.                                                              6/0 b/1  ,                             /71              28E0 8                04331
Tom                                                                                                 h Il/Cl h  9  4      7/144              780(1 h             0t.06  S
l. 10000PHiC C        2o...  21 rn1n00
%h 50  OdOaIr         .1 nl IWlnlo  .c   d I1 39)-., ll.   l .-0.
Id 190 TV opol, :ro o-0d1
. 20 Tv q,,al.. 0n    I,,d



- 42 -
Appendix 2
Page 3 of 4
Croalia
Hno.lth 7roect
Table 3. Essential Hospital and Emeroucv Sevrcra
Dtateid Costs (US$ 0001
Total Inntiu4i Caonng-ncit
1995         199S          1907        1990         TorJt
1. Imsrn,anq Costa
A. Poinatal Units
1. Madifol Eqaipe~t
Uluasouind                                              545.8          797.0         010         0 0       1,342.8
Neonotal Coe                                            991.8        1,80H.1          0 0        0 0       2,797.9
Specialized Nat'l Cento,                                114.0          233.0          1)0        0O         347.0
Svbtotsi Macai Eqipm.net                                 1,651.h       2,836 1          0.0        0.0        4,487.7
2. Tdkn
Obataho.                                                 82 9           H5 2         87.5        0.0         255.6
Basic Neonatal                                           43.b           44.7         45.9        0 0         134.0
PdiaOtrc Spec  Neonatal                                  33.i           34A4         35.4        0.0         103.4
Palan.dcal Salal                                         23.7           48.7         50.0        0.0         122.3
S.bto.ia T,rnog                                            183 7         212 9        218 71        00         H15.3
S.btoIa Pailnstal Unitt                                    1,835 4        J,049(1        218 7        (li       5,103 1
B. En" ogenov M1ari1 Ssvlc.a
1. Mldalder EqWipmn.i
A,cNhda-tlC                                             757 4        1,46H1.7 (2                   1)     2.22) b
MOSel. On8ir41I10ri                                    3-1 )           t O  lA      2ff5 H       ( (O        894 4
ot',., Ct,n.cnl [o)opt.onmt                             364 II         /5/4           11 0       )1O       1,122.2
N,t. Enms6 Co-unicc Co                                    1111        .167.5b         ()0        t (t        307 5
Tqleconmc)n,c86one                                      1390.           03,5          01)        00          442.5
Sidtolsi Medicls Eqvipnr nt                              1,557.1       3,i(1 1        211511         )0       5,047.1
2. Trrining
ColmolBn9 Edcalio  M.                                    3S5 5          1J)          .J/.b       O)0         146.0
Con.l.mn,o Edlnca,nn Psmamd.ca                           26.7           54.8         28. 1       0 0         109.5
S.btotal Trrin.ng                                           02.2         127.8         '35.        0.0         255.5
Sbtot.t E-n_g-noV MaodAl S-_vka                            1,.193         J,33           : A  351 4   0         5) S,302 o
C. lons   C... UnIt.
1. M.dical Eqipmnltt
Mon,tloie                                              H678 3         97(i I,        O1 f1      l          1,648.9
Ritap*taota                                           2,345)O)      .1,26H84          (Ml        1I )      5,o13.4
t)o,nodofln4nc ManI.or.                                  1217          18 1H J        (10 C      (I          200 9
(J.ylriotctacopnngrep)iY                               .1199))        b24 :3           O 1(     I)           923 3
Subtolsi Modicel EqWAoninl                               3,504 (i      4.H81 l          00        n0o        8,386 5
2. Trdmning
S-ncAI)lW Hit-l,ilg                                     1H9.d          1 21          7b15 0     0 0          386 2
Co-t11-5 '(Ik,0400,                                      29o            dl) 4        .11 2       O10          91 3
S.bto.ts Trrining                                          219.7         157 1        I00 2        1)1         477 5
Sbi.t.1 I.nt.ni.  C-r Unt.                                 3.724 1        5,0J3 /        11Oi 2       01        8.864 )
Total Ino..tn,nam  Coats                                      178.H I        ,414 oi       1i7b J       11(      10.79 1
I) R-cfrot Cost.
A Flq,p,-oWl O&M                                              41 h          1M4 9        117El    1720 1          395 3
R i quprontO& 11AM                                            .I!) I        121 :3       I Jl )O   124 I         423 9
C FOilprlw O&M                                                   11 11       11 S        218)      224 4          144 9
U An,)hancn OoM                                               20.2          1i0 4         01 9       33b         206 0
[S,pplpiho  51K1 OpwAtt-.s                                   231.b         27 4          243l      156b2         Hi 868.7
Total tsctw.ot Cot                                            420.1          746 S        112 1       i9H.8      2.638 7
Totol                                                          7,599 4      12,0IA.1      1,449 1     098.8       21,908.4



:   :t1
_ > ^    v a    >04  44     -. a     | _ 
~,    ^ s a    so 0 o                  U  ts 
e>.1>180~~    04S  SI-                 i                       3
444-44) ~  ~        ~



FIRST-HEALTIPROJECTI IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE FOR HEALTH PROMOTION
_ne_ch_d_t_t_ScI I __  Sed.Fihish     4   1    OIrtX3jft4O01r l Qtr3,3& 4M 1*1r0130r 43  11                           r Qir 4r1r 1 jOr 21t 3Cr 4
1 PREPARAM    ACTRRITES                DO C                     _           . !
1.1 Peptaf  fr5UrlVEY             I Dec94    26Jan6 I95
1.2 SURVEY                         27Ja j   24Lm
1.3/ atP          ksin7 Mar S5    21 UAp0S
1.4 Estaba Wsvin GGups            6 Fe96    20 Mar196      *
1.ShiWm"trSb_is a& Twi Gr.       24 Apr S5    19 ma VS
1.6 Dvdop Ed     I Ml ed         12 [W T4  18 Apr 11
2 TWAJNG                              1Jun15      2 Oct       . I
2.1 Sdled l1eCalddals              I1Jun15     3Aug15      '
22 T Tt*e Ke  Pvsei               4 Au95       60d1        .
2.3 Trai Oen Temn|   ID Od S5    12 Dec S95
Z4 Trin Ihe SchoD Teesws         13 Dec V6    11  r116     ,
2.5 Trhi ale Sduwo Tichnmj        13 Jan V7    8 A67 p        !  17
Z6TraingmHbh Pnselu240OcV                     22 Apr96     :
.               t:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
27 Trdn to H.oM PerunnwI           2JisnV97    9 lyW                       I
2.8 Train the Heah Piuarue4l       I Jun T8    2 Oct96
3 PUBLIC CAMPAIGN                    2 May 1S'  31Dec1 6              
3.1 Dewlap CmIcpts               22 M aS      I9s Ju5    i.        
3.2 PrdjEe TV Spats and Radio Prag 20 xJun     8Dec1S5     I
3.3 R                             t1 DecSs.   31 Dec *95
3.4 ProuePuN  Education Uwns     221y5        2Se@5       I
3.S5 DW_w bln 1 OdVS    31 Dec8                             ..                                 '                   -_
4 MONTORING                           2Jan17t   31Dec In
4.1 onw  |g   2Jan97I   31 Dec V
5 REVIsIONS                          t2 Miy17    31 May       i. 3                                       _
51 Revutor                       12May971    9 Jun 971                                      I
62Re                              1     1S R  3Do   1 S -|I                                                          . mW VS
(D1



III  [II|
.                                                   -.                 j 
IL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* 1   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -~~~~~~~~  -~~~~~~~   6; 4    -
*                                                              w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 
SJ           ir i  E       a                     - a                       i
~um
cm                         X.puadc
_-5o _
q
~~~ JO  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~
E XTpu8dd'r                              



FIRST .HEALTHi PROJECT I IMPLEMENTATION. SCHEDULE FDR ESSENTIAL HOSPITAL SERVICES
1                       1 I  ~   iS935 I  1311         - -   1991             13n               11m
SchedSu    Scd.Fmth    4 1t            1,3  r rt22I3Qtr41Qr 1|Qr2litr3|0841QtZr2IQT3O4Qfr4Otr2          1   2rQk3Mr  4
I PROCUREMENT OF ECUW. FOR EMC         21 Nv 14    16 Aug 16 5  
1.1 Prepuu Tect. Spediclaiajm  21 Nov S4i    2 Jan5 as5
1.2 Obbi -no objeuo-                6 fJan s        7 Feb     |  
1.3 Advertise                      21 Feb'9a  6      hFebs9S
1.4 Obbin Ropomb                   28Feb5         1MaY I my
1.5 Estabrmh EvALonrl CmmRtlees  1  Atug 51   16 Aug195
1. b Techdabld Eao an          |   2 May951       5 Ad 95
1.7Obtain 'm Dbjecdimt'lfracbg i          6Jul195  21 Jul .9
1.6 Amrd Caft                       24 Jtl'95    28 JulS %    ,
2DELNERY                                31 iNVT I N
L1 AMBULANCES                       31             Nov 5  8 NC  356
21 -1 Fs tLa                    31 JUI96      6 Dec95     I
2  2 Seoa5d Lot                 7 Dec'95     1M  May 96
2.1.3 Third LDo (18)           13 N3Nov9                  I.                          1 Noc
3 kionm CTunJy C                        31 JuM 95    25 Jun 'J
3.1 Flbst L                         31 Jul' S      19Ma156
32 Second Lot                      20Mar96        4Nov,96
3.3 Ttid Ld                         5 Nov6       25 Jun S7
4Teeonwnu,iccan            o            31Jul S      25 JunT7      .
41rlFtsr  3tJJu(5 1'ar196
_    .    _         __ ~____-                                                   __
4 2 Seconrd Lo-                    2C0 1r 96      4 Nov S
A 43 Third Lt                            5 N; 16      25 Jun 7     !
5 TRAMiG FMPHS'                         2 Jmi,      26 Nov 97;
5.1 FirMGp                          2 Jan %      20 Jun   tI
5.2 Second Gmup                     21 Jun'96    12 Dec S6 j   *I
I 53Thrd Gwup                      13 Dec196      5JunLn W    j        I          '____I_
5.4 Fouth Goup                      6 Jun 71   2S Nwv97       *D(D
u-I



r       OI
~~~~~ _SEW 
;! --L ||t2 -1 -0                   -              0 i 
_  . Ca             _          C.i
.   ..__  _.    _    ~~~~.  (4_ 
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9                      > ff_      _ _ 
E puiQ                 ~~~~~~~~~~~- L é4                & -
H                           o~~~~~~~~a
cr
C-  r
~~~II H~~~~~~
I-
C xTpuoddlV- -



-48 -                             Appendix 3
Page 5of5
U)          } - 
ci
IL
i                               -- 1lL-lu0-0
U.
o  _ t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.    .  ..............  ........... . .... ............  ...... ....... , ......... ......................  .......... , j._
lii                       i                                  O iL   I
cc~ ~ irlii
,j~~~~~~~ ItJiJ!JR ii                      lIi.,i           v   , 



INPUT TABLE FOR THE FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
1995                                   1996                                    1997                   1998
ACTIVITIES                 T.A.C. TALc T.A.Fr. TRN.  S.T.  Pr.P  T.A.C. T.A.L  T.A.Fr. TRN.  S.T.  Pr.P  T.A.C T.A-Lc TAFFr. TRN.  S.T.  Pr.P  T.A.LC
PROJECT MANAGEMENT & COORDINATION                   481                48                                      48                _                                 24
INFORMATION SYSTEMS FOR HII                   5    60           453     2      4           60          453      2      2           60          453
HEALTH PROMOTION                              2
EQUIPMENT PROCUREMENTS FOR PHC
UNITS. HOSPITALS AND EMC UNITS
-Prirry Heth Care                                   277            2                       474             0                       459            0
- Perinalal                                    216             2                       264            0                        264            0
- Emergency Care                                    72            2                       144            0                         72            0
*-k-ensre Care U-is                                 264            2                        180            0                       120            0
TOTAL                   =               1 01282   21  121  0                                   2                         84 1368            024
T.A C. = Technical Assistance Cortrad (S000)                              ST. = Study Tours (months)                                                             12
T.A. Lc. = LocalTechnical Assistance (s/m)                                FL  Felowships (months)
T.A. Fr. = ForeignTechrical Assistance Wsm)                               Pr.P  Procuremient Packages (numtber)
TRN. = Traa*g (monihs)                                                                                                                                            O



OUTPUT TAULE FOR THE  T  IEALTH PROJCT
1995                                 1996                                 1997                   1998
ACTIVTIES                 STD.   TR.L.  TR.O. P.E.Mt.  E.Q.   STD.  TR.L.  TR.O. P.E.Mt.  E.Q.   STD.  TR.L.  TRO. P,E.Mt.  E.Q.
PROJECT MANAGEMENT & COORDINATION
INFORMATION SYSTEMS FOR Hil                      1814      4              4           1 8741     4   _         2   _       1814
HEALTH PROMOTION PROGRAMS                   2                    95
EQUIPMENT DEUVERY FOR PHC UNITS
HOSPITALS AND EMCS UNITS
-Primwy Health Cme                    1710                     2           1920                      4           1530                     1
- Painatd                         117                      2            217                     4             17                     0
- Emegency Care                       75                      2            150                     4             75                      0
- Intensive Ccre Units                 254                     2            652                      4            102                     0
TOTAL                        2   3970      4      95     12       O   4713       4      0      18      0   3538       0       0      1    0
STD. Survey and Studies completed (number)                           P.E.Mt: Education materials (TV &radio prg./adv.)
TR.L. Trained parsons (local, number)                                EQ.: Equipment (number)
TR.O. Trained perrons (oversefs, number)
ox
N)i



- 51 -
Appendix 5
Health Financing and Expenditure Data
1989        1990        1991         1992        1993        1994
Source of Financing
State Budget
National Health Insurance
Private Insurance
Direct Charges
Public Institutions
Private Practice
D rugs__                           _ _ _ _   __ _ _ _ _  __ _ _ _ ___                _ _  _ _
Other
Borrowing
Foreign Assistance
Loans
Grants
Total Expenditure
Recurrent Expenditura
Personal Health Services
Personnel (wage/benefits)                                          _
Drugs
Consumables and Supplies
Energy                        l
Maintenance                   r__
Transportaion                   _          r           r
Other                                                   _                        _           _  ___l
Public Health                   T     __    I
Medicial Education
Research And Development
Capital Expendiure                                                                              .      -
Construction
New
Rehabilitation
Equipment
Vehicles
1989        1990        1991         1992        1993        1994
Subsector Allocation
Hospitals
In-patient
Out-patient
Non-Hospitals
Averase Income                                                                    _
Average for Sector
Hospitals (higher level)               =                 
Community Hpt & PHC
Doctors
Nurses






MAP SECTION






8.R5 26529
A U S T R I A                                
HUNGARYCRAA
>  /          _.~~~~~~ vorHozimO f  1         H U N G A R Y            o ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C R O A T I A
)_  _            fJXO  \                                   , f           r                   HEALTH PROJECT
< ~ ~     ~ ~ ' r-                                                                                                                       -    .¢  r  'ENC,~BCNS*E
r
Lf S L  V E N I A                          / -
-\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-p
C' 4  L L . _    _      _      _   _      _       _      _
-Rerem  -        m sY                                      LLJ
BOSNIA AND                                 J  
. , 9 . 5 . <HERZEGOVIN
-- ScJ                             BO NI          AN-,-                                .      -             ,--         r
. t ~~~~~~~H E R Z E G   O V I N A >-r  -*^L  
*,  X   r  F  9   \                                              /   r y          '                 k      !Es; o ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/---
_-~~~~~ tfa ~~-                                     =     N                                                              c' ,__>.5a-.      AL,    - r'
^s~~r                                     /                                                     v                                                     OECEMEE- IWJ~~/ 
5,~~~~~~~~~~00
5FED, REP. OF            ~'--. 
~ \    ~     YUGOSLAVIA                                           h
IF-J-5.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
-   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      EEE   .



