Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20336
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(Loan-38430)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$40 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
FOR A HEALTH PROJECT
June 20, 2000
South Central Europe Country Unit
Human Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May, 2000)
Currency Unit = Kuna (KN)
1 Kuna = US$ 8.4096
US$ 1 = .1189 Kuna
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  -  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS Country Assistance Strategy
CHII Croatia Health Insurance Institute
ICR Implementation Completion Report
ICU Intensive Care Unit
IBRD International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
MOH Ministry of Health
NIPH - National Institute of Public Health
PIO   - Project Implementation Officer
PIP   - Project Implementation Plan
PPF  - Project Preparation Facility
QAG - Quality Assurance Group
Vice President:   Johannes Linn
Country Manager/Director:   Andrew Vorkink
Sector Manager/Director:    Annette Dixon
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Virginia Jackson



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                    8
6. Sustainability                                                                       10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        11
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      13
9. Partner Comments                                                                     14
10. Additional Information                                                             25
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    26
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   27
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   29
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    30
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    32
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      33
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   34
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project AID: P039450                                         Project Nme: HEALTH
Team Leader: Philip B. O'Keefe                               TL Unit: ECSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                           Report Date: June 20, 2000
1. Project Data
Namne: HEALTH                                          L/C/TFiNumber: Loan-38430
CowutrylDepartment: CROATIA                                                  Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: HB - Basic Health
KEY DATES
Original             Revised/Actual
PCD:  09/16/94                                   Effective: 06/06/95            08/17/95
Appraisal:  11/09/94                                     MTR:
Approval:  02/14/95                                   Closing:  12/31/98             12/31/99
BorrowerlImplementing Agency: REPUBLIC OF CROATIA/HEALTH INSURANCE INSTITUTE
Other Partners: MINISTRY OF HEALTH, NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF PUBLIC HEALTH
STAFF                 Current                                      At Appraisal
Vice President:       Johannes Linn                               Wilfried Thalwitz
Country Manager:      Andrew Vorkink                               Kemal Dervis
Sector Manager:       Annette Dixon                                Ralph Harbison and Andrew Rogerson
Team Leader at ICR:   Virginia Jackson                            Williarn Bradford Herbert
ICR Primary Author.   Carol Hoppy; Virginia Jackson;
Dorothy A. Clift; Deborah Trent
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, IJN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Aodest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: HL
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank,Peiformance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)         ICR
Quality at Entry: S                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
In the early 1990s, the health system was in a state of crisis, with rising expenditures and
no systems in place for effective management in the sector. The Government realized the need for
far-reaching reforms in the system, and in 1993 passed the Health Care Act, which established
primary care as the foundation of the health care system and defined a new management structure
for all health institutions. The Health Insurance Act established the Croatia Health Insurance
Institute (CHII) and gave it considerable legal authority to enforce collection of contributions,
negotiate and sign contracts with providers, and supervise and control business transactions of
health facilities and private practitioners. The Health Insurance Act added mandatory
contributions from the Pension Fund to the payroll-based revenues of the Health Fund, then set at
15%; and allowed for the establishment of voluntary insurance schemes to supplement
compulsory insurance. These laws reflected the discipline that would be essential to the success
of the Government's reform  strategy.  The policy changes introduced in the sector were
subsequently effective in reducing the financial deficit and in shifting resources from curative to
preventive and primary care. In order to sustain the reform, investment resources were needed
and the first Health Project was designed to realize the goal of providing needed support and to
sustain the Government's health care reform  program.  To achieve this goal, the specific
objectives of the Project were to: (a) improve the operational and financial management system of
the Health Insurance Institute by supporting the computerization of information systems; (b)
improve the quality of the health care delivery system by providing laboratory and diagnostic
equipment for primary health care facilities and basic equipment (and training to use the
equipment) for hospitals and emergency services; and (c) improve the health status of the
population by supporting health promotion programs. These development objectives are still
considered valid and appropriate. The second operation, the Health System Project, which
became effective in March 2000, is expected to build on and expand the foundation established
during the implementation of the first Health Project.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Project objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
The Project included three main components: (a) Health Insurance Administration; (b)
Primary Care and Health Promotion Services; and, (c) Essential Hospital and Emergency
Services. These three primary components, for practicality, were further divided into six
sub-components for which there were corresponding working groups:  health insurance
administration; primary health care; health promotion; intensive care; prenatal care; and
emergency medical services.
(a) Health Insurance Administration: This component was designed to improve health
insurance administration by developing the information technology network linking central,
district and branch offices of the Health Insurance Fund (CHII); and by introducing "credit card"
style health insurance identification cards.
-2 -



(b) Primary Care and Health Promotion Services: This component was designed to
improve the quality and availability of basic diagnostic services for the primary care network
through the provision of standard diagnostic equipment (x-rays, simple laboratory equipment and
mammography equipment), as well as the required training for medical, nursing, and paramedical
personnel. It was also concerned with intensifying programs to promote healthier lifestyles among
the population through the training and support of community health promotion teams, primary
care providers, and school teachers, as well as through mass media education programs.
(c) Essential Hospital and Emergency Services: This component was designed to
upgrade essential acute care services through the provision of basic equipment for the emergency
medical system, intensive care units, and perinatal care units in selected hospitals, as well as
related training for medical, nursing, and paramedical personnel.
3.4 Revised Components:
The original components of the project were not substantially revised during the project's
implementation. A "bridging" sub-component, to carry out a number of studies, was added in
1998 when the decision was made to extend the project's closing date by one year.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at Entry was highly satisfactory. The objectives of the project were clear and
were seen as crucially important at the time for the recovery and development of the country
following the break-up of the Yugoslav Federation, in terms of providing support and
improvement for the Croatian health system which was in disarray, addressing emergency and
critical needs in the health sector resulting from the war, and putting into place a number of
mechanisms to support long-term reform of the system. The objectives were also consistent with
the Bank's strategy as stated in the CAS, of getting Croatia back on a stable and sustainable
economic track, while addressing the realities resulting from war which created an abnormal
situation that included casualties of the war, pockets of poverty in the country, refugees and
displaced persons, and concomitant stresses on the country's health system.
QAE review not available at the time of this project's preparation.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outconie/achievement of objective:
The project was successful in achieving all basic project objectives. In the early 1990s, the
health system was in a state of crisis, with rising expenditures and no systems in place for effective
management in the sector. The Government realized the need for far-reaching reforms in the
system, and in 1993 passed (a) the Health Care Act, which established primary care as the
foundation of the health care system and defined a new management structure for all health
institutions; and, (b) the Health Insurance Act, which established the CHII and gave it
considerable authority to enforce collection of contributions, negotiate and sign contracts with
providers, and supervise and control business transactions of health facilities and private
practitioners. The policy changes introduced in the sector were designed to effectively reduce the
financial deficit and to shift resources from curative to preventive and primary care. To sustain
the reforms, investment resources were needed, and the first Health Project was designed to
- 3 -



provide support and sustain the Government's health care reform program. Specifically, the
Health Project has been successful in improving the operational and financial management system
of the CHII through computerization of information systems; improving the quality of the health
care delivery system through provision of laboratory and diagnostic equipment for primary
facilities, training and basic equipment for hospitals and emergency services; and seeking to
improve the health status of the population by supporting health promotion/awareness programs.
4.2 Outputs by components:
To achieve project objectives, the project was implemented through three main
components:
(i) Health Insurance Administration (initial est. base cost US$13.9 million)
- - To finance the computerization of CHII operations at headquarters and CHII local
offices (development, pilot and implementation phases). Related to this relevant goal, training to
be provided, support to replacement of paper cards with insurance type "credit card" production
to improve data recording and minimize fraud, and 5,000 machines to take card imprints, with the
distribution of these machines to health facilities and primary care providers. Also, finance of
studies leading to further information technology investments in health facilities.
- - To help the National Institute of Public Health (NIPH) in its task of collecting,
publishing and analyzing data on health services and health outcomes, provide support to NIPH to
carry out a study to define minimal health data set required, and determination of which data
would be provided by the CHII and which by health providers reporting directly to the NIPH; and
a small informatics package provided to upgrade its information system.
- - Support an assessment of cost-effective sectoral interventions in order to assist policy
makers in making rational resource allocation decisions. Training, development of case
management protocols for each major health problem, and compiling and publishing guidelines of
these protocols for practitioners. This would also serve as a basis for determining priorities and
resource needs and refinement of strategy, as well as building a broader base of consensus, and
cooperation from practitioners, by involving professional associations, etc., for the restructuring
process.
This component was fully implemented as regards the procurement of equipment and
development of a computerized health insurance information system at CHII and in regional and
branch offices (consisting of an information network of 177 locations). A more transparent
information system is now in place which has resulted in more control over both revenues and
expenditures. Improvements in communications and efficiencies in the administration have
resulted in cost savings. Health insurance cards were developed and a registry of insured persons
throughout the country created, which has resulted in better tracking and cost savings. The
comprehensive data base of medical information that was created will also provide useful data
regarding prescriptions, sick leave, etc. For the primary health care information system, a pilot
was developed and tested. The program will provide improvement in PHC services delivery,
management and administration, and provide assistance to medical professionals. The health
insurance information database, based on the PHC pilot, will provide a great deal of useful health
- 4 -



data. A study to define minimal health data was carried out with foreign technical assistance and
provides analysis and recommendations. However, the task of collecting health data sets remains
to be undertaken.
(ii) Primary Care and Health Promotion Services (initial est. base cost US$14.9
million
- - Provision of radiology equipment to health centers without such equipment or where
equipment had deteriorated. Provision of selective laboratory equipment. (It was estimated
during project appraisal that about 10% of this equipment would be allocated to health facilities
serving the refugee population from Bosnia-Herzegovina.)
- - Short-term training seminars for users of equipment (medical technologists,
radiologists, etc.). Training seminars for GPs/Family Practitioners and primary care nurses in
catchment areas of facilities receiving equipment to optimize cost-effective use of the new
diagnostic tests. Extra-residency posts in existing Family Practice training program to be financed
and reserved for candidates contractually committed to working in designated underserved areas.
- - Health Promotion (HP) activities to take place in schools, primary care facilities, and
through mass media, to target lifestyle factors, including: diet, smoking, physical fitness and
sexual behavior. Survey on health-related behavior to be first carried out to document regional
differences, identify specific target groups, refine messages, and serve as a baseline for monitoring
programs; training seminars for principal channels then to be organized, and supporting materials
for health educators, including audio-visual equipment for schools and health facilities, to be
provided.  Also, provision of resources to contract professional services for the design,
production and diffusion of media programs.
The focus of the primary health care (PHC) sub-component was to improve the
effectiveness and efficiency of the system by reorienting it from secondary care to PHC. In order
to accomplish this, it was necessary to first replace obsolete x-ray and laboratory diagnostic
equipment at the primary level (affecting about 60% of the PHC centers throughout the country at
the beginning of the project), and also provide the concomitant training for medical staff. In these
aspects, and through savings resulting from the competitive international procurement process,
the objectives were more than achieved. More than 60% of the centers throughout the country
were equipped. Similarly, more than 7,500 medical staff participated in over 300 courses, judged
of high quality, during the period that the new equipment was provided to the health centers.
Some of the PHC training courses were delayed due to the reluctance of the CHII to use the loan
to finance the training, which was eventually funded by the Government. In terms of what might
have worked better: There were some problems in receiving the new equipment in terms of
appropriate space at some centers. No allowances had been made for the need, in some cases, to
re-configure the spacing, and the mis-match caused some delays in installation. In addition, there
is the question of the sustainability of the equipment, which will require periodic replacement.
This will be entirely dependent on budgetary allocations in the CHII, and the ability of the health
facilities to repay.
-5 -



The health promotion sub-component was innovative in design, and presented challenges
and opportunities for the Croatian health system. As no real baseline study existed, it was
necessary to plan and undertake a comprehensive baseline health study of the population related
to behaviors concerning diet, smoking, physical fitness, and sexual activities. The baseline study
needed to be done before an effective health promotion campaign and education program could
be designed to respond to and address some of the findings.  This comprehensive needs
assessment delayed the original time schedule and implementation expectations of the
sub-component, as did the fact that it eventually became necessary, due to poor performance to
terminate the initial contract with a firm which had won the bid. The second bidder on the list
was then chosen to implement a health promotion campaign, based on the health and behavior
data from the baseline survey. This media campaign was generally recognized as a successful
undertaking, which is supported by several evaluations of the campaign. This resulted in an
additional campaign being launched. As well as the media health promotion campaign, the
National Institute for Public Health, as a part of this subcomponent, provided education seminars
and workshops and other training for key health personnel. Despite significant delays in start-up,
these training activities were eventually, during the last year of the project, implemented
successfully. In order to sustain the activities of the sub-component, it was decided to create and
equip a health promotion unit within the Institute. To further support health promotion activities
initiated under the first project, the second Bank Health System Project includes a health
promotion component.
(iii) Essential Hospital and Emergency Services (initial est. base cost US$19.3
million)
- - Provision of equipment to primary care facilities and district hospitals to improve
pre-natal diagnosis, resuscitation, and acute care of compromised new-boms. Training of
additional specialists in obstetrics and neonatology by providing financing for extra-residency
posts in existing specialty programs for candidates contracted to work thereafter for a specific
period in designated understaffed hospitals.
-- Communications: Radio and telephone equipment.for a national communications
network to extend existing coverage to all parts of the country and improve contacts with
emergency units.
-- Transport: acquisition of replacement ambulances
-- Clinical equipment: replacing out-of-date essential resuscitation equipment for
ambulances
-- Personnel: training staff of emergency units by financing extra-residency posts in
existing specialty programs for Emergency Medicine
-- Organization: developing fleet deployment strategies and clinical protocols at
emergency centers
-6-



-- Organization of Intensive Care Units (ICUs): to reduce avoidable mortality,
morbidity and health service costs resulting from sub-optimal IC services, project supported a
re-organization and re-equipping of these services in selected hospitals. Respirators and monitors
provided in selected hospitals. Medical staff qualified in IC increased. Fellowships for training
for selected medical staff in IC, and continuing education programs for paramedical personnel.
This component, with sub-components including the upgrading of equipment and related
training organized for use of the equipment for emergency medical services, intensive care units,
and perinatal care, was largely successful, due in part, to the very efficient procurement of the
equipment. Procurement efficiencies resulted, in fact, in the ability to procure additional needed
equipment, beyond what had originally been planned, including ambulances (many of which had
been destroyed by the war and needed to be replaced), as well as defibrillator and resuscitation
equipment. Only the development and implementation of a new telecommunication system
(US$500,000) in the Institute for Emergency Medical Services in Zagreb was not completed
during the project because of delays in selecting appropriate consultants for the system
development, and the need to ensure compatibility with the telecommunications system developed
for the Ministry of Interior Affairs. A team organized by the Faculty for Electro-technical
Engineering and Computing at Zagreb University was eventually selected on a sole-source basis,
but, as a result of the earlier delays, work was not able to get underway until September 1999.
The actual delivery and installation of new telecommunication system equipment, resulting from
the study and specifications developed by the Zagreb University team, have been carried over into
the Health System Project.
Training for the component was generally successful and well-received albeit subject to
delays in start-up. In addition to training in the use of new equipment, training was provided to
upgrade the skills of medical staff, paramedics, and drivers. Similarly, comprehensive training for
intensive care unit specialists was organized by the Medical School of Zagreb University, and
approximately 50 ICU physicians were trained. For the perinatal care sub-component, training of
health professionals was organized by Zagreb University for some 77 medical doctors and
specialists and 570 perinatal care nurses, midwives, and visiting nurses at regional centers.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Through targeted inputs, the project had the effect of strengthening the implementing
institutions, CHII and the MOH, as well as other entities involved in the project including the
NIPH and the whole essential hospital and emergency services network system, and selected
health care units throughout the country. Indirectly, the legislative and policy framework
improved for procurement in Croatia. At the beginning of the project, there was no real
procurement experience to draw upon or laws set up. In 1995, rules for procurement were
initiated, and in 1997, the Government adopted a Law on Procurement.
- 7-



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or imnplementing agency:
The turmoil in the former Yugoslavia was a primary factor beyond the control of the
implementing agencies during the project preparation period. The results of the war, which
increased poverty and created a number of displaced persons, as well as further stressing an
already vulnerable health system, certainly were not without effect on the implementation of the
project. Reorganization of the inherited health system, which was fragmented, inefficient, and in a
state of crisis, started in 1990, after the first democratic elections were held in Croatia. The
Government and the Ministry of Health initiated wide-reaching reforms for the sector in 1991,
which were built around: a reduction in the role of the state; a more efficient allocation of
responsibility between central and local governments; a redefmition of basic health services and
improvement in quality of services; and restructuring of health financing. However, the outbreak
of war in 1991, which continued through 1995, interrupted reform efforts and had a major impact
on the health system. Still, the Govemment and MOH believed it was important to proceed with
sectoral reforms, and with this determnination, the project's preparation went forward despite the
special background circumstances presented by the confusion, turmoil and social, political and
economic disruptions of a war-time country.
The backdrop for the life of the project has been complicated. Since independence, Croatia
has gone through a different macro-economic transition and political process than most former
socialist economies: a transition period (1991-1992); a period of consolidation (1993-1995); and a
period of economic recovery (1995-1998). The Health Project was prepared, in part, during a
period of armed conflict in the country, which ceased in late 1995, and implemented mainly
during the period of economic recovery. The period of strong economic expansion lasted well
into 1998 and was characterized by a consumption and investment boom, financed by a
combination of capital repatriation (1995-96) and a significant increase in overall indebtedness
(1997). Continued expansion of domestic demand has led to a growing extemal imbalance, and a
lagging pace of structural reforms during the period of recovery and growth. The country's
economic situation, involving growing indebtedness and intemal inflation, was also affected by
the East Asian and Russian crises.
It was not possible to start implementation activities (some activities were scheduled to
begin in the last quarter of 1994) for the Health Project as originally projected in the Project
Implementation Plan (PIP), as Board approval of the project did not come until mid-February
1995, and Project Effectiveness occurred in August 1995, two months later than planned. This
delay in effectiveness was the result of time required for parliamentary ratification of the legal
agreements, and signing of the Subsidiary Agreement. The Bank during this two month period
sent a pre-effectiveness mission to provide support to start-up activities. Because of the fact that
there was a Project Preparation Advance in place, as well as a retroactive financing mechanism for
the project, start-up activities did begin. There were delays in start-up of some activities by three
to four months, including preparation of technical specifications for the bidding documents for the
procurement of medical equipment and terms-of-reference for technical assistance. Following
effectiveness, the project launch workshop was held in Zagreb and Lovran in September 1995.
Both the Bank and the Government agreed on the major causes of the delays. The Bank
recommended increasing the project implementation capacity, and organizational arrangements
- 8 -



for improving implementation performance were introduced in September 1995 at a meeting
consisting of project participants and headed by the MOH. As a result, the procurement plan was
revised and the project implementation plan rescheduled. Project implementation capacity was
further improved by the extended engagement of CHII staff in the daily project implementation
activities, and the initiation of weekly meetings at the CHII, chaired by the Director of the
Institute. However, no supplementary staff to support the Project Implementation Officer (PIO)
were employed.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The Government's commitment and enthusiasm for the project did not waver and
continued to be strong throughout the life of the project. Similarly, commitment to new strategic
reforms in the health sector, for which the project provided a basis, remained firm. There were
two changes in the director of the CHII, and two changes in leadership of the MOH which did
impact on the project's implementation to an extent, but did not in the end affect the forward
direction of the project.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
While the management arrangements for implementation seem unduly complex, involving
the CHII as the official implementing agency, an Assistant Minister of Health as the official
project coordinator, and a full-time Project Implementation Officer (PIO) reporting to the
Director of the ClIII but needing to coordinate directly with the MOH, working groups, etc., the
project still was successful in terms of overall implementation and in achieving the development
objectives. This was the case despite the fact that this was the first Bank-financed project in the
health sector. Further, while the CHlI was the 'designated' implementing agency, it did not take
over officially from the MOH until the project became effective, once the subsidiary agreements
had been signed. In terms of staff changes, during the project's implementation there were two
directors of the CHII (the second being appointed in 1998) and two Ministers of Health, which
could have disrupted the continuity of the project's implementation more if it had not been for the
continuity of the PIO, the Assistant Minister of Health, and key technical staff..
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Total project cost was estimated at US$54.0 million equivalent at appraisal, with a Bank
Loan of US$40.0 million (75 per cent of total costs), and including a Project Preparation Facility
advance (PPF) of US$350,000, and a Government contribution totaling US$14.0 million,
ircluding taxes and duties, to be financed from the Health Insurance Institute's (CHII) own
revenues, i.e., payroll taxes. Retroactive financing was provided for the CHII in the amount of
approximately US$4.0 million to cover expenditures incurred up to 12 months prior to loan
signing to support specific activities related to (a) the initial procurement of health care
equipment; and (b) technical assistance for the health promotion survey.
The Bank loan was made to the Government of Croatia, and the Government,
subsequently, entered into a subsidiary Loan Agreement with the CHII, which was a condition of
project effectiveness. On-lending terms to the CHII were the same as the terms of the Bank's
Loan to the Government, and the CHII is responsible for servicing the Loan to the Government.
-9-



6. Sustainability
6.  Rationale for sustainability rating:
Overall, most aspects of the project are judged highly likely to be sustainable over the long
run. There is continued strong Government commitment for sustaining achievements of the
project in all major areas, including health insurance administration, primary care, health
promotion, and hospital and emergency services. The Government's strategy and commitment to
reform, including instituting fiscal discipline, reducing waste, improving management through the
introduction of incentives, and revamping the financing system, remains firm. In addition, the
follow-on Health System Project which is now under implementation, will further support the
deepening and expansion of some of the reform efforts that were started in the first Health
Project. A number of institutions, including the CHII, the MOH, the NIPH, and selected primary
health care facilities and hospitals have been strengthened through tangible inputs and training
provided by the first Health Project, and it is likely that the strengthening of these institutions will
be sustainable as long as there is strong commitment to the sector. In order to reinforce and
ensure the sustainability of the health promotion activities initiated under the project, a new health
promotion unit has been created recently within the National Institute for Public Health.
A sustainability issue affecting the CHII, which has been particularly difficult to address,
concerns those staff trained under the project in the field of information technology (IT). There
is a trend of high staff turn-over, with young IT staff frequently leaving for higher salaries in the
private sector soon after receiving training and getting some experience at the Institute.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
A follow-on project, the Health System Project, was designed to build on the foundation
of the first Health Project in terms of further strengthening institutions, including the MOH, CHII,
and NPHI. Related to this, a "bridging sub-component" was added to the first project in 1998, at
the same time that the Government requested a one-year extension to complete project activities.
The "bridging" activities were funded through 'freed-up' funds, amounting to about US$770,000,
resulting from the efficient management of project funds. These activities were intended to
connect the two projects and included technical assistance packages for pre-investment studies
related to: (a) fund-holding and group practice in primary health care; (b) national health data
strategy; (c) categorization of hospitals; (d) development of clinical protocols; (e) human
resources development for new hospital information systems; (f) Koprivnica pilot region hospital
information system analysis and planning; and (g) alternative sources of financing. The second
project was designed to reinforce the gains and expand the scope of successful activities carried
out under the first Health Project. With regard to the "bridging" funds used for these studies as
the basis for the follow-on project, delays in the selection process did occur, due to bunching of
too many contracts at the same time. In an effort to strengthen implementation, the follow-on
Health System Project also provides funds for increased support to project management and the
PIU during the project's implementation. Significant emphasis, for the second project, will be
placed on staff training and support to management for all activities.
- 10-



7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank staff assisted the Government in the identification and preparation of the project.
From the beginning, there was a partnership formed between the Bank staff and the Government
team. Staff appraised the project thoroughly, in a condensed time period in order to respond to
the crisis situation in the country. The project objectives were consistent with the country's needs
at the time and with the Government's strategy to respond to them. The objectives also supported
the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for Croatia. It was important for this first Bank loan to
the health sector in Croatia, to try to keep the project's development objectives simple and
manageable, while at the same time providing support to the Government's sectoral strategy and
laying the groundwork for reform in future operations.
7.2 Supervision:
There were no reflected deviations from IBRD policies and procedures on financial
management, procurement and disbursement.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, the Bank's performance is assessed as very satisfactory. The Loan was processed
under intense and difficult conditions in the country, but it was accomplished within record time
(eight months). Reducing preparation time, without compromising quality, was possible because
of the commitment and continuity of both the Bank and the Government teams. A much
accelerated preparation time was also critically important due to the urgency of the war conditions
and the need to respond to the social and health needs resulting from these conditions and during
the transition period that followed.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The project's preparation was led by the Govemment at the design stage through the active
participation of the Ministry of Health and the Health Insurance Institute, the National Institute of
Public Health and other relevant entities. The project also benefited from the formation of a
number of active working groups early in the project preparation phase that contributed
significantly to the technical design of the project's components and sub-components. The
preparation was facilitated by the Bank team. The Government, with very strong commitment
and enthusiasm, identified the project and worked closely with the Bank team to refine elements
that could be included in the Bank Loan.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's strong commitment to realizing the objectives of the project continued
throughout the implementation phase. It should be noted that the Health Project was the first
World Bank funded project in the health or social sectors in Croatia, and only the second Bank
loan in the Republic. As a result, there was very little in terms of a base of accumulated
experience in implementing projects or familiarity with Bank rules and procedures for the
implementing agencies to draw upon. There may have been an under-estimation on the part of the
Government as to the amount of work that would be involved in executing the project. In
- 11 -



addition, local procurement regulations and the subsequent Procurement Law had not been
developed at the start of the project. These factors, and the requisite learning curve, contributed
to some initial delays in implementation activities which were nevertheless overcome successfully.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
A Project Implementation/Coordination Unit, as a separate entity or an entity within either the
MOH or the CHII, was not created for the project. The reasoning for doing without a discrete
entity was based on the Government's view, during the project preparation phase, that CHII had
the capacity to implement the project activities, under the day-to-day management of the PIO.
Ultimately, the project used a rather complex matrix organization for implementing the project.
The project was technically managed by the CHII, even though the CHII began working on the
project in an official capacity only after the project's effectiveness (five months after the signing).
However, to ensure that there was adequate coordination between the Ministry of Health (MOH),
whose primary function is that of policy-maker, and the CHII, the Assistant Minister of Health for
Economics and Planning was appointed as the overall Project Coordinator. In this capacity, the
Assistant Minister's function was to ensure that MOH policy was carried out, relevant to the
Health Project. A Project Advisory Cormmittee, headed by the Project Coordinator, was also
established, and was tasked with providing policy advice and guidance throughout the project's
implementation. In addition to the Project Coordinator, the Advisory Committee was comprised
of the CHII Director, the PIO, and team leaders of the six working groups, with special task
forces convening, as necessary.
In order to coordinate the day-to-day activities for the Health Project, a full-time Project
Implementation Officer (PIO) was appointed and reported directly to the CHII Director. In
addition to the day-to-day responsibility for project administration and initiating and coordinating
implementation activities, including procurement, the PIO essentially served as a critical, and
extremely effective core liaison officer for the CHII, the MOH, the NIPH, the working groups,
and other entities involved in the project. The PIO was also the main counterpart link with Bank
staff, and was responsible for submitting to the Bank periodic status reports on the project. It
would have been useful to the PIO if the CHII had approved specific management training abroad
for the PIO in the early phases of the project. This training was eventually approved at the
mid-point in the project's implementation.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower's performance, overall, inclusive of the project's preparation phase and the
implementation phase, was satisfactory. There was strong commitment on the borrower's part to
achieving the goals of the project. At the beginning of the project, the country was in a period of
instability caused by the on-going regional conflict, but in spite of the political, economic and
social chaos, the borrower was determined to address emergency situations in the health system
created by the war, as well as to move forward with longer-term reforms in the health sector.
- 12-



8. Lessons Learned
As indicated earlier, the project, as the first Bank loan for health in the social sectors in
Croatia, as well as one of the first Bank projects since the country's independence from
Yugoslavia in 1991, was a 'pioneer' and for this reason in many ways had to break new ground in
several different areas. There was little to draw upon in terms of country experience in the region.
However, by 1994 when this project was being designed and prepared, the Bank was beginning to
acquire some pertinent design and implementation experience from health projects in the
former-socialist economies of Eastern Europe. As elaborated at the Initial Executive Project
Summary stage, two of these lessons were: (i) in order to ensure a stable environment for
investment in the sector, there was a need for a rational health financing policy and commitment
to fiscal discipline; and (ii) project design should be adapted to the frequently limited managerial
capacities in such countries. To accommodate these regional lessons, it was intended that a health
insurance administration component in the project would help consolidate its achievements. And,
although it was felt that management capacity in both the MOH and CHII was "exceptional by
regional standards," it was an expressed intention to keep the project simple, with fewer and less
complex components than in many other health projects in the region.
A number of specific lessons have emerged from the experience of the first Croatia Health
Project:
Expectations: While there was an attempt to keep the first project 'simple', there were overly
ambitious expectations on the part of the Bank and the Government as to the natural learning
curve that is required in getting a project started, preparing bidding documents,
terms-of-reference for technical assistance, etc. The Government may not have realized the true
extent of all of the procedural and administrative requirements, and the Bank may have been
overly optimistic about the possibility of moving things forward as quickly as was expected in the
early stages of the project's implementation. More realism on both parts might have contributed
to more realistic implementation targets.
Implementation/Management/Staffing: Related to the need for more realistic expectations,
in terms of the start-up implementation activities, is the fact that essentially all day-to-day
implementation and coordination activities were made the responsibility of the PIO, whose only
staff, other than himself, included a secretary. The original reasoning for this was that the MOH
would provide policy guidance, and the CHII, which had demonstrated good management
capacity during the design and preparation stages, would be the primary implementing agency.
However, there may have been an under-estimation of the amount of work that would be
required, in terms of procurement, coordination of the six working groups for the
sub-components, providing a liaison between the MOH and the CHII, reporting requirements, etc.
It was extremely fortunate that the PIO for this project was a very competent and well organized
individual, who was able to handle multiple tasks simultaneously. As his office was also outside
the MOH and the CHII, the coordination tasks, including getting "no objections" and contracts
signed, were even more challenging. In addition, he never received any real management training
under the project until the project was well into its implementation. It is primarily as a result of
- 13-



the PIO's determination and activism that he overcame these deficiencies. In sum, the PIO could
have benefited from additional staff support assistance, and earlier training in project management.
Borrower Commitment: On the positive side, the impact of the Government's commitment
to the success of project and its goals cannot be understated. During the design and preparation
phases, and through a good part of the implementation, there was strong, hands-on involvement
by Government officials, including both the Director of the CHII and the Minister of Health,
which filtered throughout the ranks of the health system. Strong commitment and determination
at the top to a project, which essentially provides support for a strategy that has been developed
by the Borrower, is requisite to achieving a successful project outcome. In the case of this project,
these factors existed.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Project Summary
Background
The First Croatian Health Project was prepared with overall aim to support and sustain
the Government's health care reform program, which was initiated in 1990. The reform process
was slowed down by the homeland war that has been imposed to Croatia causing also new
specific problems connected to destruction of health facilities and medical equipment, as well
as increased demand for medical services in the population, especially displaced persons and a
great number of refugees.
The identification mission from the World Bank visited Croatia in June 1994. Due to
very strong commitment in the Ministry of Health the project objectives and components were
clearly defined during the first mission and the preparation phase went on very quickly. After
successful pre-appraisal, the Loan was negotiated in Washington in December 1994, and
signed in March 1995. Therefore, the whole preparation took only eight months, which was
unusually short time for preparation of a World Bank financed project in the region, and was
achievable because of good organization of the Ministry of Health driven by the emergency
needs of the country.
The Loan became effective on August 17, 1995, after the Croatian Institute for Health
Insurance signed the Subsidiary Agreement with the Ministry of Health and took
responsibilities as the implementing agency for the project.
- 14 -



Project objectives
The main objectives of the project were (i) to improve the operational and financial
management system of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance CHII by supporting the
computerization of information systems; (ii) to improve the quality of the health care delivery
system by providing laboratory and diagnostic equipment for primary health care facilities and
essential equipment for hospitals and emergency services as well as relevant training; and (iii)
to improve the health status of the population by supporting health promotion programs.
Project description and organization
The project was designed having three main components: (a) Health Insurance
Administration; (b) Primary Health Care and Health Promotion Services; and (c) Essential
Hospital and Emergency Services.
Since the project was designed to support the Govemment's ongoing health care reform
program, a separate project implementation unit was not envisaged, given the implementation
capacity and commitment of the agencies involved. The project was implemented by the CHII,
through a full time Project Implementation Officer (PIO), directly responsible to the Director
of the CHII. To ensure coordination between the Ministry of Health (MOH) and the CHII, the
Assistant Minister of Health for Economics and Planning has been appointed to act as the
overall Project Coordinator.
For practical and professional reasons the three outlined project components were
further divided in six sub-components. A technical working group providing expert knowledge
and necessary professional inputs during project implementation supported each of the
sub-components. The working groups were responsible for: (i) Health Insurance
Administration; (ii) Primary Health Care; (iii) Health Promotion; (iv) Intensive Care Units; (v)
Perinatal Care; and (vi) Emergency Medical Services. These sub-components were fully
corresponding to the project activities breakdown structure, as well as the breakdown of
planned costs for the project.
Evaluation of development objectives
The development objectives stated at the beginning of the project are still considered as
appropriate and feasible, because none of them has been changed or modified in the five years
of project implementation.
Improvement of the Health Insurance Administration was urgently needed prerequisite
in transition from planned to market economy. The CHII required without delay an
administrative system that enables accurate and quick tracking of both revenues and
expenditures, as well as the exact information on the insured population. The current state in
health care financing requires further refinement of the system developed in order to evaluate,
test and apply alternative sources of financing. This fact additionally supports the conclusion
that the project objectives in this field were properly set and will be constantly developed in
future.
- 15 -



One of the main objectives of the project was to impose reduction of secondary health
care costs by shifting as much as possible of the health care delivery to the primary care level
through providing of essential x-ray and laboratory diagnostic equipment and additional
training of health professionals. Since the reduction of high costs of secondary health care are
identified as one of the greatest challenges of any health system, this project objective is still
considered as a high mid-term priority.
Promoting healthier lifestyles is considered to be the most powerful and cost-effective
approach in improving the health status of the population on the long-term basis.
Appropriateness of this project objective cannot be argued.
Higher than expected mortality in some emergencies, such as automobile accidents,
together with poor and deficient medical emergency equipment for cardio-pulmonary
resuscitation in smaller units out of bigger urban centers justified the objective to improve
emergency medical services. On the same line was the aim to improve hospital intensive care
units and perinatal care units. Those objectives were also appropriate because the quality of
health care delivery in these units is highly dependent on sophisticated medical equipment and
appropriate training of medical staff, whereas, because of lack of resources, the equipment
became insufficient and obsolete during the war.
Achievement of objectives
The Government considers that the project achieved most of its major development
objectives.
The health insurance administration information system has been fully developed and
implemented in the headquarters, as well as in all of the branch offices. The system enabled full
control of revenues and expenditures and also provides potential for additional upgrading and
improvements.
The health promotion sub-component delivered a baseline survey, design and
implementation of successful media campaign, and nationwide education of health promoters
and health educators through a Croatian Institute for Public Health, and its network at a
County level. A new health promotion department has been established and equipped in the
Croatian Institute for Public Health enabling capacity building and providing on-going
activities, as well as sustainability of the national health promotion program. In this was a new
long-term program for improvement of population health status has been successfully
introduced.
Providing equipment and training to primary health care was useful and well accepted
by most of the beneficiaries in health centers through Croatia. However, the leasing and
privatization scheme introduced simultaneously interfered with the incentives of the general
practitioners and health centers. The project outputs provided prerequisites for shifting services
from secondary to primary health care. Unfortunately, without necessary changes in financial
arrangements and incentives the benefits are limited.
Providing appropriate medical equipment and training in essential hospital services
improved the quality of care significantly. Training for the intensive care units physicians was
- 16-



developed specially for the project, having a great impact on professional ability of medical
staff. Unfortunately, the acquisition of equipment and training of personnel did not lead to
reorganization of services to desired rational model of polyvalent intensive care unit in all of
the hospitals included in the project.
Deprived status of ambulances in emergency medical services throughout Croatia was
greatly improved by input of 218 fully equipped emergency vehicles from the project. In
addition, the complete portable resuscitation equipment was supplied for all emergency
medical services in Croatia. Together with appropriate training of all professional staff, this
enabled achieving the higher level of emergency medical care on the whole Croatian territory.
Unfortunately, the telecommunication system for emergency medical services was not
developed as planned and the completion of this task had to be left for the new Health System
Project.
Major factors that affected implementation and outcome
The project used very complex project implementation matrix organization. The key
administrative and expert staff worked in different organizations: CHII, MOH, Croatian
Institute for Public Health, and several hospitals, some of them outside Zagreb (Rijeka,
Slavonski Brod). Therefore, work on the project could be delayed when the key human
resources were occupied with their other professional duties.
To a large extent this problem was overcome by the extremely enthusiastic approach
and strong commitment of key stakeholders, including CHII leadership and Minister of Health.
However, change of the CHII director after four years of project implementation
caused delays in the implementation due to the period needed for familiarization of the new
administration with the project activities and practices.
Coordination by the MOH, together with the permanent staff at the working level
helped in granting continuity and keeping focus on the project implementation activities.
Development of new telecommunication system in the emergency medical care
sub-component, had been delayed for a long period due to different interpretation of the
project design for the component between the implementing agency and the professional
working group. After these divergences had been solved, the proposed new system was
attached to the existing telecommunications' system in the Ministry of Interior Affairs. This
reliance on another system caused cancellation of the whole activity, since the base system
needed upgrading for the Y2K and there was no time to install necessary equipment before
project closing date.
Sustainability
Health insurance administration information system represents one of the fundamental
parts of the system. Therefore, this sub-component is not only sustainable, but stands for the
basis of future upgrades and system improvements.
The health promotion program was made sustainable through the newly established unit
- 17 -



in the Croatian Institute for Public Health. Also, continuation was ensured through including
health promotion activities in the new Health System Project.
Concerning the primary health care diagnostic equipment, sustainability will be tested
after 5 to 7 years after installation. The sustainability of the sub-component will depend also on
the success of the Health System Project, which should introduce new incentives to resolve a
greater portion of health problems at the primary level.
In emergency medical services sub-component, the higher level of education and
resuscitation equipment in all units established new professional standards and increased public
expectations to the extent that warrants keeping the same standards in the future.
Specialist education financed by the CHII is still going on beyond the project closing
date providing continuation will provide sustainability in the essential hospital services
sub-component.
Bank performance
Overall Bank performance was highly satisfactory. In procurement of goods, the Bank
response to the documents submitted to evaluation was almost always prompt. In many cases
procurement specialist would come in the country and work together with the counterpart
technical experts and professional staff, resulting in better and quicker procurement process.
However, in preparation of some technical assistance TORs there were some delays, and the
Bank experts were slow in answering to the requests submitted by the Borrower technical
working groups.
Borrower-performance
At the beginning there was no experience in implementation of the World Bank
projects. It was the second project in Republic of Croatia, and the first in the health sector.
Also, local procurement regulations and subsequent procurement Law had not been developed
at the start of the project. A period of six months was needed to learn the Bank procedures.
The implementing agency (CHII) started to work on the project only after
effectiveness, and this was five months after project signing.
After the initial delay caused by the six months' learning phase and with added
implementing capacity of the CHII on effectiveness, the project activities were implemented
quickly and successfully.
Throughout the project, the Ministry of Health supported the implementation and
showed great commitment to the project main objectives realization.
The Ministry of Health considers the unused amount of approximately 2.5% of the
loan unsatisfactory, since some of the planned activities have not been completed before the
closing date. More efficient performance of the implementing agency and more resources in the
everyday project implementation activities should prevent such events in the future projects.
-18-



Major lessons leamed
Projects should not be led by the politics. Although designed to support a politically
approved reform the project needs to be tailored to the needs of all stakeholders including
general public, medical professionals, accepted professional standards and practices,
professional organizations and chambers, as well as the beneficiaries. The political commitment
is essential for preparation and implementation of the project, but only acceptance by
professionals and general public can guarantee its sustainability.
Roles and responsibilities of key personnel and stakeholders in project implementation
should be clearly defined. Levels of decision-making authority should be carefully distributed
to assure effective implementation without unnecessary delays caused by waiting for the higher
authority approval.
Full time professional staff working on the project implementation is necessary to
ensure continuity and provide professional standards and efficacy required by the Bank and the
Government.
Continuous feedback from the beneficiaries, general and professional public and other
relevant agencies is required in order to assure achievement of the project objectives as well as
their sustainability.
Bank assistance through visits of specialists in different fields (procurement,
disbursement, accounting) that can work with local staff is very useful, shortens the learning
process and expedites preparation of necessary documents and reports. Regional Bank offices
can supply such assistance in effective and cost-saving manner.
Bidding documents should be completed before submitting for bank no-objection in
order to save time for both parties.
Making the project activities dependent on other events not controlled or financed by
the project should be avoided or designed in a way that provides suitable tools to obtain
necessary inputs.
Project Components
Health Insurance Administration
The health insurance administration component was designed to improve the financial
and management capacity of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance by introducing a new
information system. The main objectives were to: (i) improve health insurance administration
by procurement of information technology (IT) equipment for the system based on the
previously developed software; (ii) design a software and procure hardware for the primary
health care (PHC) services information system pilot; (iii) create a minimal health data set and
related procedures; and (iv) add quality assurance to the health insurance information system.
The overall objective to improve the health insurance administration in the financial
control on both revenues' and expenditures' sides was successfully achieved. The information
- 19 -



network established on 177 locations included all regional offices and branches. These
connections increased communications speed and saved costs by a great deal. Therefore it
improved the efficacy and efficiency of the health insurance administration. New health
insurance cards have been introduced for the whole population in order to facilitate financial
operations. Also, the registry of insured persons was completed for the first time in Croatia.
The substantial financial savings were enabled by eliminating double registrations of patients on
the general practitioners' and dentists' lists. The hospital and pharmacy bills control has been
improved, as well as the orthopedic aids reimbursement. A comprehensive data base of medical
information was created offering among other potentials also useful analysis of sick leave and
therapy prescription patterns. Revenue collections were essentially improved and accelerated.
The software for the PHC information system pilot has been developed and tested by a
local company selected after repeated requests for proposals were sent to a list of international
and local companies. The program called PRIMIS provides improvements in health primary
health care services delivery, as well as in the administration and management. It gives tools
for cost containment and a offers professional aid to medical doctors, nurses, pharmacists and
biochemists in diagnostic laboratories. The hardware for the pilot sites has also been supplied
under the project, and further testing on the pilot sites will take place after the project closing
date.
The health insurance information system database, including the new database that will
be created in implementation of the PHC information pilot provides a large volume of valuable
health data. The study to define a minimal health data set and related procedures was
conducted by the London School of Economics and Political Science. Although it provided all
necessary analyses and recommendations, the actual health data sets to be collected at different
points in the health systems still have to be developed.
Concerning the capacity building, a team of 50 information system specialists working
in four regional offices was established. Unfortunately, the IT professionals trained in the
system frequently leave for better paid positions in private companies. Together with the fact
that the planned quality assurance support was not provided by the project, this creates some
difficulties in keeping the system sustainable.
Primary Health Care and Health Promotion
Sub-component: Primary Health Care
The main objective of the Primary health care sub-component was to promote shifting
of health services delivery from the more expensive secondary care to the more cost-effective
primary health care. The sub-component has been designed to achieve this goal by providing
necessary x-ray and laboratory diagnostic equipment together with adequate training to
primary health care professionals.
At the beginning of the project, the x-ray machines in the Croatian primary health care
facilities were practically 100% obsolete and presented increased risk for safety of professional
staff and patients. Carefully prepared and conducted international competitive bidding provided
specified equipment for much lower prices than originally planned. This enabled supply of
- 20 -



additional machiLnes which increased the project outputs to the health system. Unfortunately,
the site refurbishment needed to accommodate installation of the new equipment was not
financed by the project. This has caused some delays in project implementation.
Laboratory diagnostic equipment in primary health care was also over 80% obsolete at
the beginning of the project. Good prices achieved through the ICB enabled supply of more
equipment than originally planned. Therefore, although at the end of the project there were still
some old obsolete equipment in use, the status of laboratory diagnostic equipment has been
risen. to a higher level in the Croatian primary health care and project targets in this sense were
achieved with more than 100%.
The evaluation survey carried out by an independent consulting company showed that
the beneficiaries, primary health care centers receiving the diagnostic medical equipment, were
satisfied with its performance, durability and maintenance support. Most of them also stated
that the new equipment improved the quality of their health services delivery. The average
medical equipment evaluation score made by the beneficiaries was 4.4 out of 5 maximum
points.
The education of medical professionals in primary health care was prepared and carried
out from the Government funds provided by the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance
(CHII). Eleven course curricula have been developed for the different profiles of health
professionals and their special positions in the primary health care delivery. The courses were
organized by the Medical School at the Zagreb University, and at the schools for medical
nurses and laboratory technicians. Most of the courses took place in Zagreb, where the board
and lodgings for participants out of Zagreb was fully covered by the CHII. However, when
practical, courses were also organized in regional centers in order to reduce travel costs for the
participants. The education started in 1996, and finished in 1999, and during 2,5 years of
implementation had 7500 participants in more than 300 courses. Each of the courses was
evaluated by the participants and the average scores ranged from 3.7 to 4.7 (out of 5
maximum), and therefore they can be evaluated as highly satisfactory for the primary health
care medical professionals.
Although the procurement of diagnostic medical equipment exceeded the planned
quantities and the training of medical staff was very good and with more participants than
initially planned, the expected impact on shifting health care services delivery from the
secondary to primary health care was relatively small. The reason for this was the fact that the
preconditions for the shift provided by the project through equipment and training can not
work alone without introducing appropriate financial incentives for the primary health care
practitioners.
- 21 -



Sub component: Health Promotion
Croatia has a long tradition in preventive medicine, and the term "health promotion"
was introduced in Croatia in early thirties by our famous public health physician Dr. Andrija
Stampar, one of the founders of the World Health Organization. However, the preventive
measures were traditionally connected with prevention of infectious diseases. At the same time
the rising burden of non-communicable chronic diseases reached the level where more than
50% of deaths were caused by cardiovascular disorders. The Health Promotion sub-component
was included to the project to address this contemporary challenge for Croatian health care
system on the long-term basis. The main objectives were to: (i) conduct a baseline survey to
determine knowledge, attitude and lifestyle of population regarding the most important risk
factors for national health; (ii) based on the results of the survey, to prepare and implement a
nation-wide health promotion campaign promoting non-smoking, healthy diet, physical activity
and responsible sexual behavior; (iii) provide sustainability of the health promotion activities
through education of key personnel, health educators and health promoters.
The comprehensive and ambitious design of the project was a great challenge to the
Croatian public health organizations, since it was very innovative and demanding compared
with some previous activities of much smaller scale. Also, the World Bank loan funding
provided support that could not be found earlier for a single preventive project. In the
beginning this immediately created delays caused by uncertainty in definition of necessary
Terms of Reference both on the Government and on the Bank side. However, this initiated a
learning process and the result was substantial capacity building within the Croatian public
health experts, culminating in the education for health promotion at the end of the project.
The baseline study started later than planned, but provided good quality data and
analyses necessary for design of the health promotion campaign, as well as the education
curricula. It was carried out by the Croatian Institute for Public Health assisted by the Croatian
Institute for Anthropology. As the first results showed unexpected high proportion of
pathologic values of blood lipids and cholesterol, the initial tests were expanded through a
separate field investigation. The results of the both surveys offered many useful information
beyond their originally planned scope and purpose.
Health promotion campaign was prepared by a Croatian company selected by
evaluation of proposals submitted by six local short-listed companies. Since the first selected
company did not produce satisfactory outputs even after six months of implementation, the
contract was terminated by the Client. This caused another delay in sub-component
implementation. Fortunately, after signing the contract with the second-ranked company the
health promotion campaign was successfully prepared and broadcast in the media. The
evaluation carried out four times during one-year campaign period showed that it had identity
recognized by the public, and was seen and well accepted by the population throughout the
country. Based on this success a three months additional campaign was launched at the end of
the project using already prepared media materials and part of the remaining project funds for
time and space in private (non-govemment) media.
The education for key personnel was carried out by the Croatian Institute for Public
Health with participation of foreign guest-lecturers. After this initial training, a series of
- 22 -



training workshops were organized using the Public Health Institute network. Participants
were the public health professionals including school medicine specialists and epidemiologists,
as well as the school professors and teachers. All of the trainees, the newly promoted health
promoters and health educators, received appropriate teaching kits to support their future
work on health promotion.
During the implementation of the project, both the Bank and the Government side
agreed that the sustainability of the component would be reinforced by institutionalization of
health promotion activity at the state level. Therefore, a new health promotion unit was
established in the Croatian Institute for Public Health. The complete equipment for a 30 person
classroom, and 3 staff office was supplied from the funds provided by the World Bank loan.
Sustainability of health promotion was further secured by including this component in the new
Health System P'roject that was prepared by the Croatian Government and the World Bank.
Essential Hospital Services
Sub component: Emergency Medical Services
The Emergency Medical Services sub-component was designed to contribute to
reduction of avoidable deaths from cardiovascular diseases and trauma in Croatia due to lack
of availability of emergency medical care at the spot of the event. This objective was planned
to be achieved by: (i) supply of fully equipped ambulances and necessary portable resuscitation
equipment; (ii) training of emergency medical staff for better resuscitation; (iii) acquiring a new
telecommunication system and organization of emergency medical services.
Procurement of ambulances and medical equipment for emergency medical services
was very successful. The prices offered through international competitive bidding provided
sufficient funds for addenda to the original contracts and a second ICB for ambulances, which
enabled supply of much more equipment that initially planned. Given the fact that ambulances
were often targets during the war activities and therefore their number was very reduced at the
beginning of the project, supply of 218 vehicles (more than double compared to the plan) was
very useful anld needed. The portable resuscitation medical equipment was distributed
throughout the country including all of the 110 health centers in Croatia rising the level of
emergency services nation-wide.
Theoretical and practical training of health professionals in emergency medicine and
resuscitation techniques additionally supported the new national emergency medicine
professional standards. The courses for physicians in emergency outpatient medical care were
organized by the Medical School at the Zagreb University with 107 participants in four
five-months courses. One week training for 270 nurses and medical technicians, as well as 163
drivers were organized by the Institution for Emergency Medical Services in Zagreb teaching
center. Participants' satisfaction was tested by an independent consulting agency showing the
average score range from 4.0 to 4.7 (out of 5 maximum score).
Unfortunately, the third objective - the telecommunication system for emergency
medical services was not implemented. The reasons for this were constant delays caused by the
objective and subjective reasons on the Government side. Objective reasons were necessary
- 23 -



coordination with the telecommunication system developed in the Ministry of Interior Affairs
in order to secure cost-effectiveness and compatibility. However, there were also difficulties in
selecting local expert team necessary for situation analysis and needs assessment. Finally, the
project was prepared by the Faculty for Electrical Engineering and Computing at Zagreb
University, but there was not enough time to allow delivery and installation of equipment
before the project closing date. However, this part of the project is included in the new Health
System Project financed by the World Bank loan.
Sub-component: Intensive Care Units
The main objective of the Intensive Care Units sub-component was to provide
necessary equipment for intensive care units in selected hospitals, and, together with
appropriate training, build a base for reorganization of these units in order to reduce mortality.
The procurement of equipment was successful in most cases. Only in the case of
haemodinamic monitors the supplier failed to deliver all the required performances that caused
limitations in use of the equipment. As the prices of equipment left some budget remaining,
there was an additional ICB for ICU monitors organized, and together with the previous
supplies of ICU medical equipment, provided technical base necessary for improvement of
intensive care units organization and perfornance.
A very comprehensive and detailed training for Intensive Care Units specialists was
organized at the Medical School of Zagreb University. Completing this course 44 ICU
physicians were successfully trained. The curriculum used for this training was later adopted by
the Physicians Professional Association for Intensive Medicine and further courses organized
out of the project framework supported its sustainability
Sub-component: Perinatal Care
The Perinatal Care sub-component was developed to reduce perinatal mortality in
hospitals where it was much higher than Croatian average by providing necessary medical
equipment and training.
The procurement of medical equipment for perinatal care was successful, and supplied
more equipment than initially planned. The survey made by an independent consulting agency
showed that the use of the equipment was appropriate and that the users were highly satisfied
by its performance and quality. The average score was 4.34 out of maximum 5.
Training of health professionals for perinatal care was organized at two levels. Seventy
seven medical doctors, specialists in gynecology and obstetrics as well as in pediatrics were
trained at the Medical School of Zagreb University. The training for 570 perinatal care nurses,
visiting nurses and midwifes was organized in specialized schools for nurses in several regional
centers. The participants' satisfaction scores average for the two courses were 4.3 and 4.4 (out
of maximum score 5) respectively.
Based on the evaluation of independent consulting company, successful implementation
of this sub-component contributed to achieving higher quality of perinatal care.
- 24 -



Sub-component: "Bridging" Activities
The sub-component "Bridging" activities was added to the project during the extension
of the project for one year in 1998, granted by the Bank at the request made by the Director of
the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance.
Efficient use of project funds together with favorable exchange rate of USD to other
currencies used for payments under the project, enabled considerable amount of free funds. At
the same time, funds necessary to prepare the new Health System Project were inadequate.
Therefore, a part of the free amount was assigned to a new sub-component proposed by both
the Government and the Bank side to support preparation activities for the new health project.
For this purpose, TORs for seven technical assistance packages were prepared. These included
pre-investment studies for the Health System Project in (i) new initiatives including
fund-holding and group practice in primary health care; (ii) national health data strategy; (iii)
categorization of hospitals; (iv) development of clinical protocols; (v) human resources
development for new hospital infortnation systems; (vi) Koprivnica pilot region hospital
information system analysis and planning; and (vii) altemative sources of financing.
The procurement of technical assistance was difficult because the requests for
proposals were sent in the time of NATO military actions in Kosovo and Serbia and some of
the invited companies were discouraged to send their proposals. Also, the relatively small
scope of work in each of the studies did not appear attractive enough to the invited
consultants. The two subsequent requests for proposals sent to ten consulting companies did
not result in receiving a proposal for the primary health care study, while the London School of
Economics and Political Science did not decide to accept proposed continuation of work on
the minimal data set and the national health data strategy in time due to their other
commitments at the time.
However, five of listed seven studies were successfully completed before December 31,
1999, the project closing date, providing the Ministry of Health with a lot of valuable
information on the existing health system and possible impacts of improvements planned for
the future health reform process.
The major lesson learned in procurement and implementation of the technical assistance
for the bridging studies was that several TORs for smaller assignments should be put together
in a single TOR with a broader scope of work. Such assignment would be more attractive to
the consulting companies and also provide better coordination between project activities,
analyses and recommendations.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
N/A
- 25 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Imeact Indicators:
indicator/Matrix                    ProjeedinlastPSR                       ActualtLatest Estimate
A. Health Insurance Administration
(i) age profile of CHII receivables   <1 month                               <1 month
(ii) percentage of transactions reviewed  50-60%                             100%
(iii) percentage of reviewed transactions   approx. 5%                      approx. 10%
referred back to the originator for corrections
(iv) percentage of administrative expenses  3.70%                            3.71%
B. Primary Care and Health Promotion
Services
(i) proportion of patient referrals to
specialists
(ii) proportion of patients undergoing lab
tests
(iii) number of patients using primary
health centers
C. Essential Hospital and Emergency
Services
(i) medical services response time to  n/a                                  14.8 minutes (data for City of Zagreb, 1999
emergencies                                                                               only available)
(ii) rate of mortality from automobile
accidents
(iii) number of hospital deliveries  45,488                                  46,225
(iv) neonatal mortality rate         5.96                                    5.76
(v) perinatal mortality rate         9.20                                   8.90
(vi) maternal mortality rate         11.96                                  6.37
Output Indicators:
.           l77 7    Indicator/Matrix            Projected in lastiPSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
- Number of studies/reports completed  10                                    8
- Number of trained persons         6989                                    8896
Primary Health Care              5160                                   7902
Perinatal Care                   351                                    408
Emergency Medical Care           300                                    238
Intensive Care Units             908                                    44
Health Promotion                 270                                    304
- Number of health promotion TV or  45                                      45
radio spots
- Equipment procured                 1338                                   1364
Primary Health Care               228                                    257
Perinatal Care                    159                                    161
Emergency Medical Care            621                                    450
Intensive Care Units              330                                    496
End of project
- 26 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal     ActuallLatest   Percentage of
Estimate       Estimate       Appraisal
Pro ect Cost By Component              US$ million     US$ million
1. Health Insurance Administration                    15.10            14.50            96
2. Primary Health Care Services                       17.00            15.20          89.4
3. Essential Hospital Services                        21.90            19.20          87.7
Total Baseline Cost                                   54.00            77.90
Total Project Costs               54.00           77.90
Total Financing Required               54.00            77.90
Project Costs by Procureme nt Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB           NCB         Other        N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00         0.00         0.00         0.30          0.30
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                    31.30         0.00         2.00         4.20          37.50
(31.30)      (0.00)       (1.70)       (0.00)        (33.00)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         4.10          0.00         4.10
Technical Assistance        (0.00)        (0.00)      (4.10)        (0.00)       (4.10)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         6.60          0.00         6.60
Training, Fellowships,      (0.00)        (0.00)      (2.90)        (0.00)       (2.90)
Study Tours
5. Miscellaneous (PPF)       0.00         0.00         0.40          0.00         0.40
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.40)       (0.00)       (0.40)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00          5.10         5.10
Operations & Maintenance    (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                     31.30         0.00         13.10        9.60         54.00
(31.30)       (0.00)      (9.10)       (0.00)        (40.40)
-27 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
I ure CategProcrrnnt Mtho
Expenditure Catory            IC              CB' Other                   N.B.F.       Total Cost
1. Works                         0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00            0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
2. Goods                        34.70           0.00           0.00           0.00           34.70
(34.70)        (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (34.70)
3. Services                      0.00           0.00           4.20           0.00            4.20
Technical Assistance            (0.00)          (0.00)         (4.00)         (0.00)         (4.00)
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           2.20            2.20
Training, Fellowships,          (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Study Tours
5. Miscellaneous (PPF)           0.00           0.00           0.30           0.00            0.30
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.30)         (0.00)         (0.30)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           0.20            0.20
Operations & Maintenance        (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                        34.70           0.00           4.50           2.40           41.60
(34.70)         (0.00)        (4.30)         (0.00)         (39.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
'i Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage Of Appraisa
Appraial Estmate    ctual/atestEstimt
_________________    Bamik  Ovt      CoF        Ban       Gvt        coP.    Bank   Govt.  CoP.
I. Health Insurance       9.50      5.60                 10.60      3.90              111.6  69.6   0.0
Administration
0.0    0.0    0.0
2. Primary Health Care   12.60      4.40                 12.10      3.20               96.0   72.7   0.0
Services
3. Essential Hospital    17.90      4.00                 16.30      2.90               91.1   72.5   0.0
Services
- 28 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
N/A
- 29 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation       Development
Month/Year    Count        Specialty                         Progress           Objective
Identification/Preparation
FY 1994                        8    Mission Leader                        S                 HS
FY 1995
Operations Officer
Implementation Specialist
Information Tech Specialist
Health Economist
Health Services Specialist
(consultant)
2 health insurance consultants
Manager, ECS
Appraisal/Negotiation
10    Mission Leader                        S                 HS
Operations Officer
FY95                                Health Economist
IT Specialist
IImplementation Specialist
Health Services Specialist
(consultant)
Health Economist (consultant)
Implementation Spec (cons)
Health Insurance Spec (cons)
Manager, ECS
Supervision
FY 1995 through                 8   Mission Leader                       HS                 HS
FY 1999                             Operations Officer
Implementation Specialist
Health Economist
IT Specialist
Procurement Specialist
Lead Health Economist
Sr. Health Specialist
ICR
FY 2000                        2    Operations Officer                   HS                 HS
Team Assistant                       HS                 HS
- 30 -



(b) Staff:
|     Stage of Project Cycle                      Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks                US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation                  31.6                         111.8
Appraisal/Negotiation                       13.4                          35.1
Supervision                                118.4                         376.0
ICR                                          5.2                          17.0
Total                                      200.2                         539.9
- 31 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
fMacro policies                            O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
SectorPolicies                            O H  * SU O M  O N  C NA
M Physical                                 O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
F Financial                                O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
X Institutional Development                O H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
F Environmental                            0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction                 O H  O SU O M  * N  O NA
N Gender                            O H O SU O M * .N OVNA
0 Other (Please specify)
X Private sector development               0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  * NA
Z Public sector management                 0 H  O SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
Other (Please specify)
- 32 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                   Rating
 Lending                                             *HSOS OU OHU
 Supervision                                         OHS * S  OU  OHU
E Overall                                             OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                               Rating
Z Preparation                                         *HS OS   O  U  O HU
E Government implementation performance               O HS * S  0  U  0 HU
Z Implementation agency performance                   O HS OS  0  U  0 HU
Z Overall                                             OHS OS 0 U 0 HU
- 33 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
--Staff Appraisal Report, No. 13717-HR, January 1995
--Memorandum and Recommendation of the President, Report No. 6489-HR
--Loan Agreement, No. 3843-HR
--World Bank Mission Aide-Memoires:
--World Bank Project Summary Reports:
--Progress Reports from the Borrower,
-September 1999
--Country Assistance Strategy, Report No. 14088-HR, April 1995
--Project Operation Manual
- 34 -



IBRD 26529
A U S T R I A 
, X-v8 ~~~~~HUNGARY , RAI
'MEDIZMURSK
.~~~VHr~~~~R~~dV ~~CROATIA
HEALTH PROJECT
<    r/                     tKRAPrNSK                         PrIKp-
I-                                  ' ~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~ZAGORSKA    KRIZEVAC
f        S~~~~ LO0V E N I A    _                 L),ZGREBAA  D<, <                 e  i        /V,             AREOBONARE
_-Af '53                                 > PRIMORSKo . N   s >   *   2   2   f   ; S i s o k        + R >   5   R -   REGON BOUNDARIES
H T          g               (WlrZAGREBACKA 'GN                  RKO                                                                      0   MAJOR TOWNS
> \><    fJ  i >   ttSENGSKA  ORsS  SKA  VRO  A V)KILOMETERS
, ' ";,','', ' D<X" ,, o, ' ,   t  W        f                                      S   @~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7H'LTHA               RHSA
BO PVSKN IA     A N D                                    RERS '  .  '
t                                                                                                                                               INTERNATIONAL B SHERZE OVINA  .OHYUNIRE
VI                                        POZESKO-SLAVONSr,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"I                  ORF 
VA                                           JKOVARSKO-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SRZHUGR
KILOMETERS~         MAN
S00  /                  <                 R            U                    \               0   '-                  X              R-        :SED~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1UOSAIAI~~EBYOHHA\HY E
KNIN                      m                                                   0.:':70_:A)
-A 
BOSNIA    AND                  0 N,-,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R   >~>      -
H E R Z E G 0 V I N A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RCYBSR1 9



