                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 31204

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                              (FSLT-70790)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                                IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5.0 MILLION

                                                    TO

                                  NACIONAL FINANCIERA S. N. C.

                                           GUARANTEED BY

                                   THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES

                                                 FOR A

     SOUTHEAST REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT LEARNING AND INNOVATION PROJECT




                                            February 7, 2005




Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Mexico and Colombia Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regions



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                              (Exchange Rate Effective )

                              Currency Unit = Mexican Peso
                                   MX$ 9.7 = US$ 1
                                   US$ .103 = MX$ 1

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1 --   December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AHQR           Hotel Association of Quintana Roo (Asociación de Hoteles de Quintana Roo)
APIS           Beekeepers Association (Agroasociación Apícola, S.A.)
BANCOMEXT      National Bank of International Trade (Banco Nacional de Comercio Exterior)
BDS            Business Development Services
CCE            Entrepreneurs' Coordinating Counsel (Consejo Coordinador Empresarial)
CGAP           Consultative Group to Assist the Poorest
CNBV           National Banking and Securities Commission (Comisión Nacional Bancaria y de
               Valores)
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
ICT            Information Communications Technology
IDP            Institutional Development Plans
ITM            Merida Technology Institute (Instituto Tecnológico de Mérida)
LIL            Learning and Innovation Loan
MFI            Microfinance Institutions
NAFIN    Nacional Financiera
NBFI           Non-bank Financial Institutions
PCU            Project Coordination Unit
PDO            Project Development Objective
SCT            Ministry of Communications and Transport (Secretaría de Comunicaciones y
               Transportes)
SHCP           Ministry of Finance (Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público)




                             Vice President:    Pamela Cox
                           Country Director     Isabel M. Guerrero
                            Sector Manager      Susan G. Goldmark
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Michael J. Goldberg

                                           MEXICO
             Southeast Regional Development Learning and Innovation Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                  9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 10
8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
9. Partner Comments                                                              14
10. Additional Information                                                       15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             19
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             20
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             22
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                23
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            24
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results

Project ID: P060577                                                  Project Name: Southeast Regional Development
                                                                     Learning and Innovation Project
Team Leader: Michael J. Goldberg                                     TL Unit: LCSFR
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR                      Report Date: March 28, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Southeast Regional Development Learning and              L/C/TF Number: FSLT-70790
                            Innovation Project
   Country/Department: MEXICO                                                             Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Micro- and SME finance (80%); Banking (20%)
                  Theme: Small and medium enterprise support (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 11/21/2000                                     Effective:                           09/27/2001
     Appraisal: 03/07/2001                                         MTR:
      Approval: 09/27/2001                                      Closing:                            06/02/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          NAFIN/NAFIN
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     David de Ferranti
Country Director:               Isabel M. Guerrero                             Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager:                 Susan G. Goldmark                              Susan G. Goldmark
Team Leader at ICR:             Michael J. Goldberg
ICR Primary Author:             Michael J. Goldberg; Eric
                                Palladini


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The project's development objective was "to assist the Borrower, the Participating States and the private
sector operating in such States to learn about: (a) the requirements for the development and implementation
of sustainable microfinance methodologies to promote access to financial services to unserved populations;
and (b) the use of information communications technology (ICT) to deliver business development services
(BDS) to micro businesses in a cost effective and sustainable way." The Project, therefore, focused on
learning and training, and less on the establishment of large-scale microfinance or ICT institutions during
the life of the project.

In executing this and other regional projects during the late 1990s, the counterpart, Nacional Financiera
(Nafin, a second tier government development bank), articulated the goal of increasing local economic
activity and improving the links between micro and small businesses and other firms. The economies of the
Southeastern states are based on enclave activities with no linkages to local micro, small and medium
businesses. These activities include oil (Campeche), tourism (Quintana Roo), and primary products
(Yucatan). The Southeastern states were chosen as a laboratory for experimentation because there could be
a significant social impact and there was a strong possibility of replication in nearby states (Tabasco,
Chiapas, and Veracruz). (Tabasco state government asked to be included in the microfinance component in
early 2004, but Nafin had already decided to close the project.)

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objective was not revised during the implementation of the Project. During the Bank mission of
October 2003, the definition of an eligible microfinance institution was expanded to include all supervised
financial institutions with microfinance activities in project states.

3.3 Original Components:
The microfinance component included a commercially priced line of credit for loan portfolio growth
(US$2.65 million) for microfinance institutions (MFIs) and a commercially priced credit line for
institutional development plans to support MFI systems improvements (US$270,000). Different
microfinance models were to be supported (solidarity groups, community banks, individual loans, a firm
offering credit and profit sharing to members). Nafin appraised the MFIs to ascertain whether they met
financial performance, client criteria and negative subproject list requirements.

The infocenter component provided a grant for up to US$100,000 for infocenter activities per state and a
commercially priced line of credit of US$405,000 for further expansion. It was intended to promote the use
of ICT as a means of providing business development services, thereby stimulating greater micro and small
business development and improved linkages. These were to be the first business-oriented infocenters in the
region.

Two types of start-up infocenters were envisioned. The first was sector-specific and the second was for a
general business clientele. The sector-specific infocenters were intended to promote improved linkages
between local producers and hotels (Cancun), or increase value added and greater exports for local
producers (chile habanero and beekeeping). The general infocenters were intended to serve the entire local
business community. These infocenters were linked to local chambers of commerce. In each case, the local
private sector group was required to deposit an amount equal to the grant and a feasibility study to
demonstrate a strong commitment to the infocenter.

To manage project activities and document lessons learned, Nafin requested a third component (project



                                                      - 2 -

management) for consultant services, including five Project Coordination Unit (PCU) staff, training, goods,
incremental operating costs on a declining balance, and development of a computerized monitoring system.

3.4 Revised Components:
Revised Components. Nafin subsequently dropped the plan for a specialized monitoring system, due to the
low number of transactions and the satisfactory performance of the existing Nafin systems. Thus, the third
component covered only PCU expenses, training and incremental operating costs.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at Entry Review (QER). Overall, the initial project concept was sound. For microfinance, the task
team incorporated tools developed by the Consultative Group to Assist the Poorest (CGAP, a multi-donor
microfinance facility) and the Bank's Operational Policy 8.30 on Financial Intermediation. In addition, the
project met the requirements of O.D. 4.20 on Indigenous Peoples, especially relevant given the high
concentration of Mayan gropus in the Yucatan Peninsula. However, Nafin was not willing to use loan
funds to finance grants to MFIs for institutional development plans and capacity improvements. For
infocenters, there was very little experience to draw upon, but the website of the Hotel Association of
Quintana Roo (Asociacion de Hoteles de Quintana Roo, AHQR) demonstrates the viability of the original
concept (see below).

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The microfinance targets were met satisfactorily. Nafin, the local governments, and the private sector
(including financial institutions with microfinance activities) were exposed to microfinance best practices
and materials during project preparation and implementation. Nafin reoriented its approach to
microfinance, reorganized its staff, provided specialized training and adjusted eligibility criteria and
documentation requirements. It also developed processes and products (especially in terms of guarantees
and loan documentation).

Nafin has launched a national microfinance program, based on international best practice and lessons
learned from this LIL. Reflecting Nafin's move to scale up the initiative ahead of schedule, the project was
closed on June 30, 2004. The decision to close the project was also based on the results of a review, which
took place during the second trimester of 2003. This diagnostic concluded that most of the available
initiatives in the region were not viable, given the lack of sound business plans and private sector
involvement. The more promising initiatives were channeled to the national microfinance program (such as
Fondo Campeche and a new microfinance program in Tabasco).

The ICT targets were met satisfactorily in the case of the Hotel Association of Quintana Roo (Asociación
de Hoteles de Quintana Roo, AHQR). The infocenter provides a forum for business-to-business contacts,
advertises training courses in the hospitality industry and serves as a directory of hotels in Cancun. It also
provides a forum for guests to register complaints and suggestions. The Club de Compras page provides a
forum for local suppliers to make their products and services available to the hotels. This has resulted in
increased sales by local small and micro businesses to hotels. The Infocenter pilot and AHQR's system and
experience have been transferred to the Secretaría de Economía e-Mexico office.

4.2 Outputs by components:
See Annex 1 for details. Output indicators were intentionally phrased in terms of demonstration effects.

Outputs of the Microfinance Component. During early project implementation, the PCU microfinance
specialist evaluated more than 20 MFIs, the majority in the start-up phase. In late 2003, with the



                                                     - 3 -

redefinition of Nafin's microfinance institutions strategy, the cooperative Unión de Crédito de Comercio,
Servicios y Turismo del Sureste, S.A. de C.V. (Unicreco Servytur) in Cancun and two commercial banks in
the Southeastern region, Santander and Banorte, qualified and received financial support from the project.
These institutions qualified for Nafin credit lines for microbusiness clients and received auditing and
training for certification as financial intermediaries by Nafin. Other MFIs received technical assistance
during project preparation and execution such as Fondo de Financiamiento de Quintana Roo (Fofinqroo)
and Buenaventura, given that, unlike the banks, they had no operational experience with Nafin.

The evolution of the MFI Programa Buenaventura in Campeche shows how the local industry is maturing,
thanks in part to technical assistance from Nafin, Bank staff and consultants. in 2000, Buenaventura had
900 women organized in solidarity groups to receive credit (with joint liability guarantee) and contribute
forced savings. The Program's reliance on subsidies and loan portfolio funds restricted growth. During
project preparation, Buenaventura staff received training from Consorcio Latinoamericano para
Capacitación en Microfinanciamiento (best practices in microfinance) and Alternative Credit
Technologies (financial projections and strategic planning). The state government was reluctant to take on
debt financing for Buenaventura. It preferred to offer subsidized interest rates and socially oriented loans.
In more than three years, the total amount of loans disbursed was MX$68 million (approximately US$7
million).

In 2003, the new state government transformed Programa Buenaventura into Fondo Campeche, which
adopted a commercial approach, with market-based interest rates, specialized microfinance training for
staff and a broad set of 11 products for a range of clients. Between September 2003 and June 2004, Fondo
Campeche developed a loan portfolio of MX$80.7 million (roughly US$8 million) to 7,400 clients, with a
repayment rate of 96%. Interest and fee revenues cover all operating costs. By international standards,
Fondo Campeche has a high loan officer efficiency rate (370 clients per loan officer). There is still room for
improvement, since it does not use portfolio at risk to measure delinquency, and has no loan loss reserve.
Fondo Campeche uses on-time repayment rates to measure loan portfolio quality. The new management
information system allows for timely tracking of this key financial information. Seventy percent of the
Buenaventura solidarity group members switched to Fondo Campeche's individual loan product (by August
2004). Six of the 12 board members are from the private sector. Nafin's micro credit program recently
qualified Fondo Campeche for a MX$90 million credit line (about US$9.2 million), of which MX$22
million (US$ 2.2 million) had already been used by August 2004.

Outputs of the Infocenter Component. The sector-specific infocenter objective was largely met in the
case of the Hotel Association of Quintana Roo (Asociación de Hoteles de Quintana Roo, AHQR)
infocenter. It is the most successful infocenter supported by Nafin, with technical assistance from a private
technology firm. The development of the system's software platform was awarded through competitive
bidding to Ciudad Multimedia, which completed the information system in 2003. The strategy focused on
developing a marketplace for electronically based transactions between local suppliers and the large hotel
chains. After eight months of free service, there were more than 1000 registered members, with 80 percent
participating on a regular basis. By August 2004, the infocenter had grown to include 51 hotels and 300
active suppliers, with a total of 1000 registered suppliers (local micro and small businesses).

The infocenter offers five products for members: (i) a page for hotels to register demand for supplies; (ii) a
web page option for suppliers; (iii) an advertising section in the supplier database; (iv) in-house and
external training and technical assistance for hotel procurement staff and suppliers; and (v) a call center to
answer technical problems related to system use. An electronic factoring product linked to Nafin's "
Cadenas Productivas" factoring system is under development. The system's portal is also linked to Nafin's
web page, which offers training, credit applications and other services and information for small


                                                     - 4 -

entrepreneurs.

The infocenter's initial objective was to increase the number of goods and services providers to the Cancun
hotels' productive chain, but, by mid-2004, the benefits were later extended to other hotels, restaurants,
clubs, yacht clubs and micro and small businesses on the peninsula. AHQR has also promoted the system
to suppliers in Campeche and Yucatan and national hotel chains, such as Fiesta Hotels. The leading hotel
chain in the system is Mayan Palace Resorts, which links ten purchasing agents and 150 suppliers through
the AHQR portal. Mayan Palace Resorts is also part of Nafin's productive chain scheme, in which service
providers receive additional financing.

On the down side, the AHQR infocenter faces a cultural challenge. Many suppliers use the system to
identify business opportunities and promote their businesses, but turn to faxes, telephone inquiries or visits
to the hotels to conclude business transactions.

Two more infocenter initiatives were reviewed, but not approved. The local office of the Consejo
Coordinador Empresarial (CCE) of Campeche proposed the creation of an infocenter to promote
entrepreneurial skills and ICT use by its members. Nafin and the Bank did not support this initiative due to
the lack of a coherent business plan (resulting in long delays in processing), infocenter expertise, and a very
low level of local demand for ICT services.

In Yucatán, Agroasociación Apícola S.A. (APIS) proposed an infocenter as part of its technical assistance
campaign to improve the quality and quantity of honey and other bee products in Yucatán. APIS already
had links to about 100 honey-producing households in central Yucatán, and had plans to expand to 750 by
June 2004. During discussions, however, it became clear that APIS intended to use the new computers to
control factory production processes instead of establishing an infocenter. There was no credible outreach
strategy to attract new producers or develop infocenter products tailored to their needs. Nafin rejected the
proposal, with Bank agreement, in August 2003.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable for LILs

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable for this LIL

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project and new national policies (see below) combined to have a powerful and positive effect on
Nafin's approach to microfinance. The project served an important role as a laboratory for national
replication and led to a decision not to pursue infocenters, given a Government mandate to the Secretaría
de Comunicaciones y Transportes (SCT) in 2002to lead these efforts.

The results of the AHQR infocenter model served as a base for the SCT (e-Mexico) products and services,
in addition to providing a sustainable model of private sector participation. The AHQR has also
implemented its own initiative to expand the model to the national level. This initiative has begun with
hotels and restaurants and, based on results in this sector, will consider the possibility of including other
sectors.

Choice of Nafin as project executing agency. Nafin was a logical choice for project execution. In the late
1990s, Nafin assessed several microfinance models to expand outreach and leverage its funds. Nafin had a
well-established infrastructure in the three states and in-depth knowledge of local financial markets and key



                                                      - 5 -

actors. Nafin envisioned microfinance as the first step in a larger effort to promote increased provision of
credit to businesses in the region. The Deputy Director General was eager to re-establish links to the Bank
after a 12-year hiatus. Nafin was also interested in the Bank's technical expertise in microfinance. Nafin
sought a Learning and Innovation Loan as the appropriate instrument, since it wanted to experiment with
innovative methodologies. The original analysis explored the possibility of two projects; one in the North
and one in the Southeast. The Project focused on the Southeast because of the integration of the
microfinance component and the development of new productive chains in the Tourism sector.

The low level of overall economic activity in the three Southeastern states meant that both MFIs and
infocenters were largely start-ups in small markets, with the exception of Cancun's tourism industry. The
PCU microfinance specialist conducted a census of local microfinance institutions in 2002, and identified
20 potential MFIs. Most were very small cooperatives or NGOs, and Buenaventura in Campeche one had
more than 500 clients. Nafin's system was developed to complement the Federal Government's existing
Microcredit program, headed by the Secretary of the Economy. This meant looking for different channels
from the NGOs, largely served by the Secretary of Economy program.

The Evolution of Microfinance within Nafin. During the design stage (1999-2000), Nafin's executive
directors were involved in project design discussions, reflecting the importance of microfinance as a
programming area. In addition, the PCU counted on the participation of the regional Nafin offices in the
participating states.

In 2001, the newly elected Fox Administration implemented two key changes. It set a goal of massive
microcredit coverage by Nafin and other Government agencies, and it emphasized digital products in place
of the traditional forms of business development services.

In 2002 and 2003, Nafin developed a national microcredit program, using guarantees and strategic
alliances with commercial banks to extend outreach. Nafin's Direccción de Intermediarios Financieros y
Microcrédito was formed to spearhead and coordinate the effort. The reorganization also brought new
resources, additional staff, training opportunities, and new products for microfinance. The quantitative
targets for provision of microfinance services (through second tier facilities) also grew to 200,000 in 2004.
Finally, the Director of Strategy and Alliances received approval from Nafin's Board of Directors to reduce
the documentation and guarantee requirements for MFIs, a move that allowed the national program to
attract a larger number of eligible MFIs.

Based partly on project experience, NAFIN's approach to microfinance has evolved significantly, as Table
1 demonstrates.

                         Table 1: Evolution of NAFIN's Microfinance Strategy

     Traditional NAFIN Microfinance System                  Improved NAFIN Microfinance System
Regional initiatives as pilots.                        Commitment to a national program.
Selection of non-bank financial institutions (NBFIs) Simplification of selection process, requirements for
using same criteria as commercial banks; preference NBFIs.
for government entities.
Only "entidades de fomento", with the justification    Any private or publicly-linked financial institution
that they had implicit repayment guarantee as          with microfinance activities; preference for private
government-related institutions and have available     sector MFIs.
counterpart funding from local/state government.
Traditional, high guarantees from clients of NBFIs     Simplified, more diverse package of posible



                                                     - 6 -

(demonstrates concepts that microlending is based on guarantees for clients; acceptance of cashflow as a
colateral banking rather than alternative guarantees. means of measuring creditworthiness.
Monitoring based on banking indicators.                Monitoring using best practice microfinance
                                                       indicators (In most cases, repayment rate is still
                                                       preferred to portfolio at risk, the alternative is best
                                                       practice.)
NAFIN is both first and second tier financing          NAFIN exclusively a second tier operation for
institutions.                                          microfinance.
Microfinance as a poverty alleviation tool; confusion Microfinance as a commercial activity; Clear vision
about client overlaps with Secretaría de Economía      that client niche is small and microbusinesses, with
self-employment enterprise programs.                   loans from MX$20,000 (about US$1760) to
                                                       MX$150,000 (about US$13,200).
Lending at commercial rates to NBFIs that want to      Training provided to the industry based on
improve internal systems and develop new products. evaluations results using new materials. No charge
                                                       for training and technical assistance activities.
Burdensome operational manual of 400 pages, based Simpliication of operational manual, relaxed
on assumption that NAFINshould serve as the            assumption about supervision, more commercial
equivalent to the Comisión Nacional de Bancos y        basis of institutional assessment.
Valores (CNBV) for NBFIs.
No plan for responding to business needs in the wake New products, for emergency situations.
of natural emergencies (such as Hurricane Isidore).
Direct promotion of NAFIN financing services.          New portal (electronic one-stop shopping system) for
                                                       electronic outreach to clients, institutions such as
                                                       AHQR.
Financial projections were not part of the analysis of Financial and strategic planning an integral part of
an MFI.                                                institutional evaluations. Eligibility based largely o
                                                       internal systems, with delivery methodology,
                                                       financial performance.

Nafin's Experiment with Infocenters.
Nafin began to work with infocenters due to their promise as a mechanism for value added chains (cadenas
productivas). The infocenter technology was intended to link large public and private firms with networks
of small service and input providers, as well as small distributors. The PCU infocenter specialist was to
provide the necessary technical assistance for both technological and business development. However, with
the development of the Government's e-Mexico initiative in the Secretaria de Comunicaciones y
Tecnologia (SCT) in 2002, and the subsequent emphasis on massive expansion, Nafin decided to get out of
the infocenter support business. As part of the exit strategy, Nafin shared the lessons learned with SCT to
implement different kinds of business development centers.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Legal and regulatory issues limited Nafin's flexibility. The Peso Crisis of 1994-95 demonstrated
important financial sector weaknesses, including the need for improved regulation and supervision of
non-bank financial institutions (NBFIs). On June 1, 2002, major changes were made to the laws and norms
governing commercial banks and NBFIs. While these changes did not directly affect the NBFIs, the general
tone of legal reform confirmed that Nafin should play a regulatory enforcement role for these institutions.
The legal reform largely drove Nafin's interest in working only with "entidades de fomento." The reforms
also led to detailed control mechanisms and requirements for high levels of physical guarantees (such as


                                                     - 7 -

mortgages) and documentation of every loan disbursed by an MFI (including audited financial statements
for microbusinesses). These requirements demonstrated a lack of understanding of key elements of
microfinance (microbusinesses do not have traditional collateral or maintain audited financial statements).

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
As the guarantor, Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público (SHCP) controls World Bank loans. The
resources from multilateral organizations do not represent additionality for development banks such as
Nafin, since this institution assumes its own debt. Nafin has several sources of resources and continually
compares the prices and risks (including the currency risk) of such offers. In the case of the Bank loan,
Nafin was given the burden of execution without any additionality of funds. The repayment to the Federal
Government was in dollars, so Nafin also absorbed the foreign exchange risk. Combined with project
coordination and counterpart contribution costs, Nafin lost interest in the operation, due to the financial
realities it faced. The cost of project funds was not competitive during the life of the project.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Nafin's original design choices, accepted by the Bank, limited the effectiveness of project microfinance
interventions. The limitation of eligibility to "entidades de fomento," which offered implicit state
government guarantees, reduced the possible pool of partners to start-up MFIs. In some cases, these
start-ups were heavily subsidized and not interested in commercially priced credit. Another limitation was
Nafin's requirements on guarantees and documentation from both the MFIs and their microbusiness clients.


Senior Nafin program department officials stated in June 2004 that the main value of the Bank loan was the
technical assistance provided by Bank staff and consultants during design and supervision missions. The
Director of the International Department added that a dollar-denominated loan product made Bank loans
less attractive in general. However, a dollar-denominated loan with disbursements in pesos would not have
made this loan significantly more attractive, since Nafin would still face repayment in dollars.

In the early stage of development, Nafin officials promoted the project heavily in meetings with local
officials, the business community, and the press. Bank involvement was used to promote the project, but
led to high expectations of subsidized credit and rapid qualification and approval, based on the social
agenda presented by Nafin.

5.4 Costs and financing:
A PHRD grant of US$622,000 was provided and 72 percent ($448,259) was used to provide technical
assistance during project preparation. The original budget for the project was US$10.6 million for the
period December 2001 to December 2005. Table 2 shows a comparison of expected and actual financing.

                                      Table 2: Project Sources of Funds

                                       Source of     Amount in US       Original
                                       Financing        Dollars      Financing Plan
                                                      (21 months) (for four years)
                                    World Bank           767,801.58    5,000,000.00
                                    NAFIN                124,631.32    3,050,000.00
                                    State Govts                 0.00   1,110,000.00
                                    Private Sector       407,019.93    1,440,000.00
                                        TOTAL         $1,299,453.00 $10,600,000.00




                                                      - 8 -

Nafin contributed US$124,631 of its own resources, or 4.1 percent of the projected amount. However, it is
critical to note that Nafin's investments in the national microfinance strategy and program far outweigh the
direct counterpart contribution. Nafin's national replication represents an estimated US$200,000 investment
in capacity, staff training, product redesign and promotion. Nafin's investment in microfinance operations,
including staff, training, streamlining of systems and the design is estimated to have been US$200,000 in
internal capacity. Nafin has shown its commitment to microfinance in general with several millioin dollars
in lines of credit and training provided to commercial banks and other financial institutions in 2004. This is
true in the Southeastern states as well, where Nafin has opened an US$8000,000 line of credit for Fondo
Campeche. Through this national replication, Nafin met the national target of 200,000 microbusinesses
receiving loans and other services in 2004. The private sector provided US$407,019, equivalent to 28.3
percent of the estimated contribution.

Actual disbursements of the loan amounted to only US$767,801, representing only 15.4 percent of the loan
over a period of 21 months (August 30, 2002 to May 25, 2004). The remainder of the loan was cancelled
on August 30, 2004. With no new qualified portfolios (e.g. new programs, other initiative outside the
Southeast) Nafin and the Bank decided to close the project.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Overall sustainability is highly likely for microfinance and unlikely for infocenters, with the notable
exception of the AHQR infocenter. Nafin has made organizational changes, product improvements,
financial arrangements, and staffing adjustments to insure that microfinance remains an important activity,
both in the Southeastern states and at the national level. Nafin's national effort incorporates many
international best practices, such as commercial interest rates to MFIs, seminars to address key
growth-related challenges faced by MFIs, a focus on delinquency control, and more flexible documentation
and guarantee requirements for both MFIs and their clients. However, there is still room for improvement.
The new program does not provide support for institutional systems improvements that are required as loan
portfolios and product lines expand. Also, repayment rates are used to measure delinquency, rather than the
industry standard of portfolio at risk and aging of delinquent loans.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Fondo Campeche and Unicreco Servytur in Quintana Roo are sound financial institutions with a range of
financial products including microfinance. With project support, they expanded microfinance lending in the
three Southeastern states.

Fondo Campeche has acceptable levels of portfolio quality and a plan to move beyond government
subsidies. It has qualified for Nafin assistance under the national microcredit initiative. Fofinqroo (a
specialized MFI in Quintana Roo) is not likely to reach the scale of operations and the quality of loan
portfolio required for long-term sustainability, despite project support.

                            Table 3: 2003 Nafin Microfinance Program Activity

Microfinance Institution                      Number of Loans                 Amount (millions of pesos)
Fondo San Luis                                                      3,720                                 12
Coppel                                                             30,584                                130
Ffesol                                                              2,707                                 27
Fondo Campeche                                                      1,559                                 45
Credi oportunidades                                                   595                                   8



                                                      - 9 -

Compartamos                                                       16,512                                    94
Pronegocio                                                            881                                   32
U.C.Y.E.F.                                                            665                                  376
Total 2003 Nafin Microfinance                                     57,493                                   724
Program Activity

Beginning in September 2004, the AHQR infocenter introduced a quota structure for members to raise the
necessary funds to cover operating expenses. AHQR also expanded coverage of the infocenter to the hotels
in the Riviera Maya (Cozumel) and to suppliers in Yucatán and Campeche.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Project has been rated as Satisfactory. The learning objective was met at the level of the Borrower, the
executing agency, participating state governments, microfinance institutions and business associations
developing infocenters. The microfinance activities are sustainable under the Nafin national microfinance
program and include many best practice design elements. The AHQR infocenter in Cancun is also
sustainable, now collecting fees to cover all costs. Sixty percent of the loan funds were set aside for credit
lines, which were underutilized due to the lack of attractiveness of the Bank loan as a source of funds. This
largely explains the lack of significant disbursement, despite the impressive amount of learning that was
sponsored by the project.

The Bank's performance on lending was satisfactory. The Bank defined its role during lending as a source
of technical assistance, from both consultants and Bank staff. During the lending stage, the Bank executed
Japan Trust Fund TF25983 (US$622,000 original budget, US$448,259 in contracts) to offer technical
assistance to Nafin, state and local governments, and interested private sector associations in Southeastern
and Northern states. These activities included workshops for the private sector and civil society on project
activities and requirements, on-site infocenter training for Nafin staff at Santa Ana Community College
(California), support for infocenter business plans (CRECE), a microfinance best practices course
(COLCAMI), financial and strategic planning exercises for Buenaventura in Campeche and Fondo
Chetumal in Quintana Roo (Alternative Credit Technologies), and business planning with beekeeping and
chile habanero producer associations in Yucatán (independent consultant). For the three infocenters, an
experienced Mexican technology development and marketing firm (PICA), prepared marketing plans based
on detailed needs assessments, focus groups, technological recommendations, and projections by zone and
economic activity.

The budget allocation for this project during the lending stage was US$184,300, while actual expenses
amounted to US$222,153. This represented a variance of 23 percent. This overrun was caused by the
length of the project preparation phase (approximately two years).

The original team did not include a microfinance or a financial services specialist; and the financial services
component was unfocused (covering loans from US$500 to US$50,000). There was no adherence to the
Bank's Operational Policy on Financial Intermediation Loans (OP 8.30).

From final design to Project closure, the Bank's Senior Microfinance Specialist for Latin America was
responsible for the project. A redesign improved the program focus significantly. After the redesign, a peer
review by a Senior Financial Specialist (OPD) stated in comments of March 6, 2001 that "the microfinance
component is designed as an excellent model of how such components should be designed in the Bank's



                                                    - 10 -

lending operations. The component is based on a clear strategy for piloting and assistance to clearly
identified MFIs and meets the objectives of a LIL."

7.2 Supervision:
Overall performance during supervision is rated satisfactory. Task management did not change during
project supervision, leading to greater continuity and consistent Bank messages to the counterpart. The
Bank conducted eight supervision missions in May, September and November of 2002, January, July and
October of 2003, and June and August of 2004. These missions helped to clarify outstanding issues and
provided opportunities for additional training and discussions of lessons learned. The January 2003 mission
included a series of presentations by a Bank microfinance research assistant on the Microfin strategic
planning and financial projections model to MFIs, and best practice information to three groups of
microbusiness operators and Nafin state staff. The Bank also provided technical assistance and materials
on microfinance in Spanish, and identified training courses for PCU and Nafin staff. Best practice tools and
materials provided by the Bank in Spanish included Microfinance Handbook (Ledgerwood), Rural Finance
Issues (Yaron, et.al.) Microfin financial projections and strategic planning computerized model (Waterfield,
CGAP), and other CGAP best practice information. The Microfinance Revolution (Robinson) was
provided in English. A representative from Microsoft/Mexico offered presentations in Yucatán and
Quintana Roo on infocenter security and technology issues. An international microfinance expert took part
in the August 2003 supervision mission, offering advice to Nafin and Buenaventura on how to use credit
lines effectively to promote sustainable microfinance. The Task Manager provided microfinance best
practice presentations to local MFIs and Nafin staff during various missions.

The Bank's limitations on the use of project funds affected the relationship with Nafin in two cases: (i)
institutional development plans (IDP) for qualified MFIs; and (ii) the business sector crisis caused by
Hurricane Isidore. While international best practice and the Bank's OP 8.30 emphasize the importance of
IDPs for MFIs, the Bank could not provide grant funds to Nafin for this purpose. A Bank review of
available bilateral grant facilities in Mexico and of internal consultant trust funds found no source of grant
funds covering microfinance in Mexico. In the case of Hurricane Isidore, Nafin requested Bank funds to
refinance outstanding SME loans in Yucatán. The use of Bank funds is stipulated in Schedule 1 of the
Loan Agreement, and is generally restricted to goods, works, and a broadly defined services category.
Refinancing existing loans is not permitted. While the need was obvious, Bank loans could not be used for
such purposes. The Bank's existing Natural Disaster Management Project was deemed too slow to respond
to the urgent needs, and Nafin covered the refinancing costs with its own funding.

The budget allocation for the supervision stage through June 30, 2004 was US$203,842, of which only
US$183,110 was used. This amounted to a savings of 10 percent. For FY05, the allocation for preparation
of the Implementation Completion Report was US$44,444, while accumulated costs through February 8,
2005 have amounted to only US$35,139 (79 percent of the allocation).

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Overall performance is rated satisfactory. The project was the first direct Bank loan to Nafin in more than
12 years. Senior Nafin management showed a strong interest and commitment to the development of this
project during design, promotion, development and early implementation. The Federal Government and the
private sectors in Campeche, Quintana Roo, and Yucatán were also interested. During the early design
stage, political pressures led to a very visible promotion campaign of project services, although the basic



                                                    - 11 -

operational systems and best practice information had not yet been prepared.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance was satisfactory. The Government supported the design of the
project and choice of Nafin as the implementing agency, and participated in all mission meetings.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The implementing agency's implementation performance was satisfactory. Nafin's directors of offices in the
three Southeastern States were eager to take advantage of project resources. They provided key information
on local institutions, provided office support, and participated in Bank design and supervision missions.

Despite increased flexibility in terms of eligibility criteria and credit line mechanisms, Nafin was not able to
disburse a significant amount of project resources. The small relatively new local microfinance institutions
were unable or unwilling to provide the required amount of counterpart funding. With Bank support, Nafin
considered a number of creative options to increase disbursement and support to MFIs, including (i)
extending project services to the State of Tabasco, (ii) channeling resources to the Nafin taxi renewal
program, (iii) using funds for refinancing loans for firms affected by Hurricane Isidore, (iv) improving
Nafin financing terms, and (v) providing grant funds to support potentially viable MFIs. In an effort to
improve implementation, Nafin proposed and the Bank accepted an amendment to the loan agreement in
early 2004, which would have raised the loan ceiling to US$15,000. However, this would have only
increased disbursements marginally. For its part, the PCU strongly supported the business planning process
for two of the infocenters, to help them finalize plans for service provision. Administrative limitations and a
low level of local capacity proved to be insurmountable, given Nafin's timeframe and the lack of
additionality of Bank funds.

As the costs of administration and supervision continued without significant increases in disbursement,
Nafin decided to conduct a diagnostic to determine the viability of each partnership, and terminate those
without promise. While Nafin maintained resources for MFIs and infocenters during the life of the project,
local counterparts did not meet the minimum financial and institutional requirements established.

The new microcredit program reflects many best practice lessons of the learning and innovation loan, such
as the importance of including a technical assistance product and building in flexibility to the eligibility
requirements. From its perspective, Nafin learned a great deal from the project and applied this knowledge
to a national scope of operations.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory

8. Lessons Learned

The project generated important lessons related to (i) loan conditions and selection of a Bank product, (ii)
microfinance activities, and (iii) infocenter components.




                                                      - 12 -

Loan conditions and Bank products
The additionality of funds from a Bank loan and the currency requirements for repayment are decisive to
second tier banks. They have other sources of funds and are often very large financial institutions with
sophisticated funds management systems. LILs with this kind of institution might make more sense if they
were technical assistance loans, rather than investment loans. In the case of this LIL, Nafin was given the
burden of execution without any additionality of funds from the Ministry of Finance. The repayment to the
Federal Government was in dollars, so Nafin also absorbed the foreign exchange risk. Combined with
project coordination and counterpart contribution costs, Nafin lost interest in the operation due to the
financial realities it faced.

For a LIL, setting the project development objective in terms of learning is helpful. All parties are aware
that the LIL is not meant to have a massive impact on local markets. The LIL is better equipped to
demonstrate important methodologies and develop products in new industries (such as microfinance and
business development services).

Even the best project design requires flexibility during implementation, and this is especially true for LILs.
The Bank's standard amendment process can be time-consuming and unresponsive to client needs and
timeframes. A streamlined amendment mechanism would be helpful in increasing the effectiveness of LILs.



Since technical assistance plays such an important role in LILs, the Bank supervision team should be
prepared to provide expert advice and experiences from other countries. Best practice materials should be
prepared as part of the preparation of a supervision mission. For example, the Consultative Group to
Assist the Poorest (CGAP) provides these materials in Spanish in microfinance. Microsoft, Bank project
counterparts in a number of countries, and the Bank's Global information technology office provide
materials on infocenters and business development services.

Other forms of Bank assistance might have been more effective, such as a fee-based contract for technical
assistance. Since Nafin had sufficient funding for microfinances, a technical assistance relationship could
have provided the missing elements of state-of-the-art technical tools, systems, indicators and cases based
on international best practice.

Lessons for Microfinance Operations
Limiting the institutional format of the microfinance service provider in the legal agreement was not useful,
and set the stage for amendments. In this case, Nafin was not able to work with certain types of
microfinance providers initially, due to decisions by its board, but later expanded this and increased impact.

Grants play a key role in microfinance development. MFIs in many countries have suffered extensive loan
losses when portfolio growth outstripped their internal management and fraud prevention systems.
Matching grants (OP 8.30 guidance) ensure the buy-in of the MFI in capacity building and security
investments such as risk management tools, market research for new product development, staff training,
and internal audit capacity.

Twinning and franchising approaches may prove to be an efficient means of providing a significant scale of
microfinance services. Turnkey projects would be another option. Nafin's experience in the Southeast
states shows that building on tiny local initiatives is labor intensive and may yield poor results.

Government microfinance institutions offer a sovereign guarantee, since they can repay with allocations



                                                      - 13 -

from government budgets, even if financial services do not generate a profit. However, they often provide
credit at a subsidized rate of interest, rather than adopting a commercial orientation and aiming for long
term sustainability.

Technical assistance and local circumstances can help guide a subsidized state credit program into a viable
autonomous microfinance institution--but this evolution takes time and a commitment that goes beyond
short-term expediency. The Fondo Campeche is a far stronger institution than was Programa
Buenaventura, in terms of outreach, financial performance and internal organization. Technical assistance
played an important role in this transformation. A change in state government was also instrumental in
supporting the changes.

Lessons for Infocenters Components
Sector-specific infocenters and portals are more likely to succeed than those with a more general private
sector clientele. The AHQR experience in Cancun demonstrates that member-based sector-specific client
groups are more likely to be sustainable than those with a broad-based client pool. Also, sector-based
clients take sustainability seriously, given the economic incentives they face.

The government can play a catalytic role in infocenter development. Successful infocenters or cybercafés
require an alignment of the interests and capacity of suppliers, producers, and distributors. This is difficult
to achieve through market mechanisms only. Also, an initial investment by the government can build
private sector faith in the system, and help overcome initial technological, financial and organizational
barriers.

Grants play a key role in infocenter development. This is a start-up industry. However, governments in
many IBRD countries do not like to provide grants to profit-making private sector institutions, even when
public benefits may be generated from such support.

Start-up infocenters are labor intensive, facing challenges in terms of product development and continuous
updating, marketing, and technology issues. However, building on existing cybercafés (cafés internet) holds
much more promise, since there are already products, infrastructure, a commercially oriented management
team, and usually a good location. A project's contribution in such a case could be to finance the
development of products tailored to the needs of local micro, small and medium sized businesses, or a
specific sector. In addition, a project can help the cybercafé to develop useful links to local universities,
technology institutes, and chambers of commerce.



9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
This document represents a consensus reached through discussions and joint field trips involving Nacional
Financiera (Borrower and executing agency), Secretarka de Hacienda y Crédito Psblico (Guarantor) and
the World Bank project team.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):




                                                     - 14 -

10. Additional Information




                              - 15 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                   1
                Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
Demonstration of MFI management systems, Demostration through Bank staff supervision Demostration through Bank staff supervision
governance structures, promotion and          and special CGAP and Bank missions            and special CGAP and Bank missions
product mix required for sustainability and   Technical Assistance consultancies,           Technical Assistance consultancies,
outreach to the poor (to be collected on      international best practice materials and     international best practice materials and
efficiency, profitability, operational        discussions between NAFIN experts and MFI discussions between NAFIN experts and MFI
self-sufficiency, portfolio quality).         managers and staff                            managers and staff
Demonstration of services and systems
(hardware, software, local content) required
for Eligible Infocenter(s) to reach breakeven
point.




Output Indicators:
                                                                                   1
                Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
Microfinance                                  Sustainability of at least one eligible MFI   * Buenaventura changed to Fondo
                                              shown by efficiency, profitability, operating Campeche, qualified for MX$90 million credit
                                              selfsustainability;                           line of NAFIN
                                               Outreach demonstrated by client increases, * Chetumal merged with CANACINTRA
                                              client characteristics                        Cancún in Quintana Roo to form
                                                                                            FOFINQROO Fund, likely to close;
                                                                                            FOFINQROO received less than MX$100
                                                                                            thousand from project; qualified for a credit
                                                                                            line; incorporated as a Non-Bank Financial
                                                                                            Intermediary, but without the necessary
                                                                                            infrastructure, only operated at very low credit
                                                                                            volumes.
                                                                                            * APIS received technical assistance from
                                                                                            consultant on credit models.
                                                                                            Nafin granted a first tier credit line to APIS to
                                                                                            support up to 180 producer-members of the
                                                                                            Association. Project funds were not involved.
                                                                                            * UNICRECO Servytur, Santander Bank and
                                                                                            HSBC Bank, originally not included in the
                                                                                            project, qualified and met the financial and
                                                                                            outreach performance trargets.


ICT-based infocenters                         At least one infocenter covers 50% of         * AHQR covers 50% of operating costs after
                                              operating costs after 2 years; Number active 1 year, has a plan to cover all costs in next 12
                                              clients grows 20% per year; At least five     months; client growth exceeds 20% per year:
                                              products based on local content               five products offered by infocenter;
                                                                                            * APIS did not develop as an infocenter
                                                                                            because of the lack of communications
                                                                                            infrastructure. Nevertheless, Nafin supported
                                                                                            training and technical assistance through
                                                                                            videos, which permitted training in
                                                                                            warehousing and telephone contact with
                                                                                            veterinarians and weather reports;
                                                                                            * Campeche group failed to develop a
                                                                                            credible business plan to become an
                                                                                            infocenter.
                                                                                            * Instituto Tecnológico de Mérida's proposal
                                                                                            came too late to gain project support.




1End of project




                                                                  - 16 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                Appraisal      Actual/Latest     Percentage of
                                                                Estimate          Estimate        Appraisal
                        Component                              US$ million       US$ million
Microfinance Services                                               2.93                0.49           16.7
Delivery of Business Development Service through the use            0.68                0.06            8.8
of ICT
Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building                   0.89                0.16           17.9
Unallocated                                                         0.45                0.00              0

Total Baseline Cost                                                 4.95                0.71
                          Total Project Costs                       4.95                0.71
                                          Front-end fee             0.05                0.05
                   Total Financing Required                         5.00                0.76


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million)

Expenditure Category                              Category Description                               Cost
           1-A           Goods and Consultant services for Investment Subprojects                    2,665,000.00
           1-B           Goods and consutant services and training for Institutional                   270,000.00
                         Development Subprojects
           2-A           Goods of foreign expenditures (Start-up subprojects)                           80,000.00
           2-B           Consultant services and training (Start-up subprojects)                       190,000.00
            3            Goods and consultants servies for Commercial subprojects                      405,000.00
            4            consultant services (including audits) and training under Part C of the       360,000.00
                         Project
            5            Goods under Part C                                                             80,000.00
            6            Operating Costs                                                               450,000.00
            7            Unallocated                                                                   450,000.00
            8            Front end Fee                                                                  50,000.00
          SA-A           Premia for Interest Rate Amount
                         TOTAL COST                                                                  5,000,000.00


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million)

Expenditure Category                              Category Description                               Cost
           1-A           Goods and Consultant services for Investment Subprojects                      494,458.29
           1-B           Goods and consutant services and training for Institutional                         0.00
                         Development Subprojects
           2-A           Goods of foreign expenditures (Start-up subprojects)                           25,231.94
           2-B           Consultant services and training (Start-up subprojects)                        39,409.34
            3            Goods and consultants servies for Commercial subprojects                            0.00
            4            consultant services (including audits) and training under Part C of the             0.00
                         Project



                                                   - 17 -

                 5          Goods under Part C                                                           0.00
                 6          Operating Costs                                                        158,701.90
                 7          Unallocated                                                                  0.00
                 8          Front end Fee                                                           50,000.00
              SA-A          Premia for Interest Rate Amount                                              0.00
                            TOTAL COST                                                             767,801.47


Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
        Component               Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
                             Bank      Govt.       CoF.     Bank     Govt.       CoF.  Bank   Govt.    CoF.
Microfinance Services        2.50       0.41       0.00                                0.0     0.0     0.0
Delivery of Business         0.62       0.06       0.00                                0.0     0.0     0.0
Development Service
through the use of ICT
Institutional Strengthening  0.89       0.00       0.00                                0.0     0.0     0.0
and Capacity Building
Unallocated                  0.45       0.00       0.00                                0.0     0.0     0.0




                                                     - 18 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable for LIL




                                      - 19 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              09/1999                   9    Task Team Leader (1), Co-Task
                                             Manager (1), Financial Specialist
                                             (1), Supplier Development
                                             Specialist (1), Consultants (5),
              04/2000                   3    Task Team Leader (1),
                                             International Consultants (2)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              04/2001                   4    Task Team Leader (1), Legal
                                             Counsel (1), Senior
                                             Financial Officer (1),
                                             Consultant (1)
              06/2001                   7    Task Team Leader (1), Legal
                                             Counsel (1), Senior Procurement
                                             Specialist (1), Financial
                                             Management Specialist (1),
                                             Consultant (2), Project Assistant
                                             (1)

 Supervision
              5/2002                    2    Task Team Leader (1),                 S               S
                                             Microfinance Specialist (1)
              9/2002                    5    Task Team Leader (1),                 S               S
                                             Microfinance Specialist (1)
                                             Social Development Specialist
                                             (1), Technology and Systems
                                             Expert (1), Program Assistant (1)
              11/2002                   4    Task Team Leader (1),                 S               S
                                             Microfinance Research Assistant
                                             (1), Social Development Scientist
                                             (1), Project Assistant (1)
              1/2003                    1    Microfinance Specialist (1)           S               S
                                                                                   S               S
              7-8/2003                  6    Task Team Leader (1),                 S               S
                                             Consultant (3), Project Assistant
                                             (1) Social Development
                                             Specialist (1)
              9-10/2003                 2    Task Team Leader (1);                 S               S
                                             Microfinance Research Assistant
                                             (1)
              6/2004                    3    Task Team Leader (1), Business        S               S
                                             Development Specialist (1),
                                             Program Assistant (1)
              8/2004                    3    Task Team Leader (1), Business        S               S
                                             Development Specialist (1),
                                             Microfinance Specialist (1)



                                              - 20 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           36.49                         284.6
  Appraisal/Negotiation                13.07                         338.5
  Supervision                          19.41                         218.2
  Total                                68.97                         841.3




                                            - 21 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 22 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Arenas, Federico ( PCU Infocenter Specialist). Diagnóstico inicial del Programa en su Componente de
Infocentros. March, 2002.

Bruett, Till. (ACT). Assessment of Buenaventura, December, 2000.

Bruett, Till (ACT), Ing. Manuel Hernández Ocampo (Programa Buenaventura) and Alonso Julián
Pacheco Ucan (FEFICAM). Plan Estratégico de Buenaventura de 2001-2005, December 2000

Crece Yucatán. Centro de Negocios Yucatán, Plan de Negocios. October 30 2002.

Fitch Ratings. UNAGRA S.A. de C.V. Union de Credito. September 2 2002

Fichtl, Enrique (Director, Infocentro Cancún). Plan de Negocios, Actualización. June 2003.

Fondo Campeche. Presentacion de Productos y Sistema de Fondo Campeche. agosto 2003.

Goldberg, Mike (World Bank). Indigenous peoples issues ­ history of discussions and decisions.
October 10, 2001.

Lehmer, Laura (Microfinance Specialist, UCP, Nafin). Diagnósticos de Microfinancieras en el Sureste
(Empro, FIDEY, UNICRECO). July 2003.

Nacional Financiera. Innovación y aprendizaje para el desarrollo regional del sureste (sistema de
promoción, evaluación, y seguimiento), January 6 2003.

Nacional Financiera. Sistema de Gestion, Manual de Referncia. January 2001.

Nacional Financiera. Terminos de Referencia para el Diseño y Desarrollo del Portal Internet para el
Infocentro de la Asociacion de Hoteles de Quintana Roo. 2001.

Ordóñez, Victor (World Bank). Summary Risk Assessment Report on Financial Management, World
Bank, February 23, 2001.

Planeación, Integración y Consultoría Administrativa (PICA). November 1, 2001. Estudio de
Mercado para la creación de un Infocentro y Centro de Negocios en Yucatán (Tablas cruzadas), México,
D.F.

Planeacion, Integracion y Consultoria Administrativa (PICA). Estudio de Mercado para la creación de
un Infocentro de Negocios en Campeche. México D.F. November 1 2001.

Planeacion, Integracion y Consultoria Administrativa (PICA). Estudio de Mercado para la creación de
un Infocentro de Negocios en Quintana Roo. México D.F. November 1 2001.

Quintana Roo State Government. Plan Estratégico de Desarrollo Integral del Estado de Quintana Roo
2000-2005 (January, 2000).




                                                 - 24 -

Summerlin, Reuben (ACT) and Thomas Wissing (consultant). Diagnostico de prefactibilidad Fondo
Chetumal, February 27 2001

Tabasco State Government. Tarjeta Informativa, Fondo Empresarial de Tabasco. December 2003.

The World Bank. October 21, 1999. Project Mission Report and Aide-Memoires for Mexico -
Southeast Regional Development Learning and Innovation Project, Washington, D.C.

The World Bank. March 13 - 17, 2000. Project Mission Report and Aide-Memoires for Mexico -
Southeast Regional Development Learning and Innovation Project, Washington, D.C.

The World Bank. April 25 - 27, 2001. Project Mission Report and Aide-Memoire for Mexico -
Southeast Regional development Learning and Innovation Project, Washington, D.C.

The World Bank. November 4 - 6, 2002. Project Mission Report and Aide-Memoires for Mexico -
Southeast Regional Development Learning and Innovation Project. Washington, D.C.

The World Bank. March 15, 2002. Thinking Out Loud III - Innovative Case Studies on Participatory
Instruments. Civil Society Papers. Washington, D.C.

The World Bank. June14 - 16, 2004. Project Mission Reports and Aide-Memoires for Mexico -
Southeast Regional Development Learning and Innovation Project. Washington, D.C.

The World Bank. August 16 - 19, 2004. Ex-post Evaluation Mission for Mexico - Southeast Regional
Development Learning and Innovation Project. Washington, D.C.

The World Bank and NAFIN. January 26, 2001. "Sistema de Gestión - Manual de Referencia"
(Includes four videos).

The World Bank and NAFIN. April 1, 2001. Operational Manual for the Mexico - Southeast Regional
Development Learning and Innovation Project.

The World Bank and NAFIN. March 21, 2002. Loan Agreement for the Loan 7079-ME - Mexico -
Southeast Regional Development Learning and Innovation Project. Washington, D.C.

The World Bank and NAFIN. March 21, 2002. Supplemental Letter for the Loan 7079-ME - Mexico -
Southeast Regional Development Learning and Innovation Project. Washington, D.C.

The World Bank and NAFIN. July 24, 2002. Amendment to the Loan Agreement for the Loan
7079-ME - Mexico - Southeast Regional Development Learning and Innovation Project. Washington,
D.C.

The World Bank and the United Mexican States. March 21, 2002. Guarantee Agreement for the Loan
7079-ME - Mexico - Southeast Regional Development Learning and Innovation Project. Washington,
D.C.

Vickers, Robert (Consultant, World Bank). Summary of Activities, Field Work with Nacional Financiera
February 12, 2003.



                                                 - 25 -

Wissing, Thomas. Fondo Agro-asociación Apícola Yucatán, Revisión de situación actual y proyecciones
financieras. March 9 2001.

Wissing, Thomas. March 17, 2001. Fondo Apícola Yucatán-Campeche, México, D.F.

Wissing, Thomas. May 23, 2001. Fondo Chile Habanero Yucatán: Estudio de Prefactibilidad, México,
D.F.

Wissing, Thomas. June 8, 2001. Fondo Chetumal: Propuesta para el Plan de Negocios, México, D.F.

Wissing, Thomas. June 25, 2001. Fondo Chile Habanero Yucatán: Plan de Negocios, México, D.F.

Wissing, Thomas. July 18, 2001. Fondo Chetumal: Avances en la integración del Proyecto - Misión
Julio 16 y 17, 2001 y Propuesta para el Plan de Negocios, México, D.F.




                                                - 26 -

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results




                                      - 27 -

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results




                                      - 28 -

- 29 -

