Report No. PID10045
Project Name                     Mexico-Regional Private Sector Development...
LIL
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Sector                           Private Sector
Project                          MXPE60577
Borrowers                        Government of Mexico
Implementing Agency              NAFIN
Nacional Financiera (NAFIN), S.N.C.
Insurgentes Sur, 1971, Mexico, D.F.
Contact person: Luis Catan, Sub-Director de
Financiamientos Internacionales
Tel. 52-5-325-7070
Fax: 52-5-325-7097
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                February 27, 2001
Appraisal Date                   December 11, 2000
Projected Board Date             April 17, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
The liberalization of trade and investment that began in the mid-
1980s and Mexico's entry into NAFTA (the North American Free Trade
Agreement) in 1994 were intended to achieve higher rates of economic
growth by expanding the country's participation in dynamic external
markets and facilitating access to high-quality inputs and technologies.
Since the peso crisis of 1995, when the GDP contracted by 6.2w, the
national economy has enjoyed a strong recovery in overall terms (averaging
5.4? annually). This growth has contributed to an annual expansion in
employment of 4.0w over the past four years, compared to an annual
increase of 3.9w of the economically active population (Instituto Nacional
de EstadUstica, GeografUa, e Informaci6n, 2000). The rapid growth of the
maquiladoras has fueled higher employment in urban areas, while
agriculture has continued to drop as a source of work in rural areas.
Despite the wide-ranging economic reforms instituted in the country,
the income distribution in Mexico remains among the most unequal in the
world. Constraints to more balanced economic development include regional
development, tight credit markets, and little access to existing business
development service programs by micro and small businesses.
Uneven regional development. The country faces huge differences in
the level of industrialization and in the decline of agriculture that have
sharpened the divisions that exist between different regions. The central
region, which includes the Federal District and the state of Mexico,
accounts for nearly one-third of GDP despite the fact that it covers only
1.2w of the land area.  Monterrey (Nueva Le6n) and Guadalajara (Jalisco)
are the leading industrial cities after the capital. The maquiladora
industry in the border area has boosted employment. Tijuana in Baja



California, and Ciudad Juarez, in Chihuahua, have become important
maquiladora cities. However, some states in the South still face with
widespread poverty problems, due in part to inadequate transport and
communications infrastructure and a lack of investment. Even within the
Southern states, there are pockets of enclave economic development (such
as the petroleum industry in southern Campeche, and tourism in coastal
Quintana Roo).
This pattern of unequal regional development translates into
increased poverty in many parts of the country. Mexico continues to have
one of the highest Gini coefficients in the region, with the lowest decile
of the population controlling 1.5t of the national income, and the top 10t
with 42.8w of national income and consumption. Poverty indicators have
been deteriorating in recent years. According to a survey in 2000, about
62t of the economically active population earns less than 2 times the
minimum wages per day (the national poverty level, equivalent to US$7 per
day). INEGI estimates that the minimum wage in real terms dropped 40.7w
between 1994 and 1999, while the highest decile accounts for over 38t of
the national wealth (2000 data). The number of people living below the
poverty line in the 38 largest cities increased from 29 million to 38
million from 1994 to 1998. The vast majority of informal producers and
traders in the project area are living under the national poverty line.
The states of Campeche, Quintana Roo and Yucatan are characterized by
large numbers of microbusinesses, which face a general lack of access to
affordable, reliable, appropriately designed financial services and timely
market information. In Campeche, about 98t of total firms are
microbusinesses. Based on the universe of 5,212 formally registered
businesses in Campeche, the municipalities of Campeche and Ciudad del
Carmen concentrated 88t of all the firms in the state.      In Yucatan and
Quintana Roo the firm-size distribution is also concentrated at the
microbusiness level (97T of all firms).
Tight Credit Markets. Despite an easing in nominal interest rates, credit
markets have become tight. Small and medium sized firms with traditional
collateral to back loans are not able to obtain credit, given the banks'
reluctance to increase exposure to such firms. A survey by the Banco de
Mexico, (the central bank) shows that only 33? of 500 companies surveyed
had received bank credit in the third quarter ended September 30, 2000.
This is well below the 39t that received financing in the third quarter of
1999. On an inflation-adjusted basis, interest rates for the best clients
are now nearly 10t in real terms.
Small and microbusinesses have traditionally not qualified for bank loans,
and have turned to development banks, particularly NAFIN, through
arrangements with first-tier commercial banks. However, during the Peso
Crisis of 1995, and the subsequent recovery in 1996-97, the volume of
credit declined significantly from earlier levels. Development banks
tried to compensate for the lack of credit that could be channeled through
first-tier banks by providing loans directly. However, small and micro
businesses have proven difficult for them to reach. The credit decline
has continued uninterrupted since the end of 1994. The total amount of
loans at the end of March 2000 was still 42t below the end of 1994 level,
in real terms. Recent surveys have identified access to financial
services as a key constraint to microbusiness growth.
- 2 -



Limited local participation in Business Development Services (BDS) design
While state governments often support microbusiness programs established
by the federal government as part of their development plans, these
programs are often developed with little input from the states of end
users of BDS services. The market research and field interviews during
Project preparation showed that microbusinesses are not well served by
existing federal programs. There is a recognition that a more market-
oriented and decentralized strategy is needed in Mexico, addressing the
problem of collaboration.
Low levels of coverage of BDS programs for micro and small businessess.
The current programs in Mexico have only reached a small share of the
market and are largely unknown to the rest of the sector. This was
confirmed during by the market demand study conducted for the State of
Campeche. Both the recent work on federally-funded BDS programs in
Mexico. The LIL will contribute to test a more decentralized approach in
the role and management of publicly funded BDS programs by using
information and communication technologies to evaluate lower-cost delivery
mechanisms as well as piloting mixed public-private institutions to
deliver BDS and microfinance.
Small number of private providers and limited service options. Private
providers of BDS are few in the region. According to the market demand
survey in Campeche, only 71 firms out of 331 hired consulting services in
Campeche during 1999, primarily for accounting, taxes and integrated
diagnostics services. The survey of firms in Campeche identified the main
needs as training, information and advisory services in sales, business
administration, marketing and production. However, these areas are not
well covered by local or regional providers. In addition, despite
national level improvements in ICT applications and accessibility, Yucatan
lags far behind other parts of the country in ICT use.
2. Objectives
The objective of the project is to assist the Government of Mexico and
three states in the South (Campeche, Yucatan and Quintana Roo) to learn
about the requirements of sustainable microfinance methodologies and to
test the use of information communications technology (ICT) to deliver
business development services (BDS) to a significant number of small and
microbusinesses in a cost effective and sustainable manner.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The joint IBRD/IFC Mexico Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) was discussed
by the Board of Directors in May 1999. The CAS has three strategic
objectives - (i) removing obstacles to sustainable growth and maintaining
macroeconomic stability in the context of globalization, (ii) social
improvement (poverty reduction, education, basic health care, and rural
development in marginal areas), and (iii) enhancing public governance
(including the promotion of decentralization). The Latin America Region
of the Bank has assigned project development to the Entrepreneurship for
Poverty Alleviation team of the private Sector Development Department,
since the EPA team has significant strategic and operational experience
with infocenter development and microfinance institution development.
-3 -



The objectives of this project will contribute to these three CAS
objectives. The project will support the objective of removing obstacles
to sustainable growth by promoting private sector-led strategies to
microbusiness development, while building strong partnerships with state
governments and NAFIN. Three of the four institutions providing
microfinance services are private sector operations (Canacintra Quintana
Roo is a private business association, Fondo Chetumal is a private fund,
and the Beekeepers Association (APIS) is a private firm). The infocenters
will also be private firms.
Fostering private sector development in less-developed regions is one of
the strategies under the CAS. The project will help to remove impediments
to private sector growth and to enhance competitiveness of local firms in
the three states. This situation is more crucial for the states of
Campeche, Quintana Roo and Yucatan, which have not developed substantial
entrepreneurship competencies (especially in Campeche). Campeche based
its economic development on oil exports, Quintana Roo on tourism and
Yucatan on primary products (honey, henequen plantations, etc), which are
enclave economies with little impact on the rest of the local economy.
The CAS calls for activities that promote significant poverty alleviation.
The CAS notes that two-thirds of the rural population in southern states
is considered poor, compared to one third nationwide. This persistent
poverty has been linked to a lack of access to markets and productive
assets, including market information, capital and technology. The choice
of the target client population (urban and indigenous urban as well as
rural clients) will also increase the poverty alleviation contribution of
this project. Experiences from a wide range of microfinance institutions
in Latin America and other regions clearly demonstrate that microfinance
and microbusiness development support can make an important contribution
to poverty alleviation.    For instance, average loan size of the Finca
Latin American village banking affiliates is only $120, indicating an
ability to provide loans to the poor. Similarly, Accion International
affiliates in Latin America provide solidarity group loans to market
vendors, with initial loan size ranging from $50 to $100. These
methodologies will be employed by the institutions to be supported by the
project.
4. Description
The project has two components: (i) the Microfinance Component, and (ii)
the Information Communications Technology-based Business Development
Services for small/microbusinesses.
Microfinance Component. The microfinance component will build on pilot
successes in three cases, and will assist one start-up microfinance
institution. A commercially priced, performance-based credit line will be
provided to three microfinance institutions (Buenaventura, Canacintra
Quintana Roo, and Fondo Chetumal) to onlend to urban and rural
microbusinesses. Performance criteria will include trends in
profitability (after adjustments for subsidies), efficiency indicators,
portfolio quality, and the level of outreach to low income clients.     The
component will also support an investment in a private firm (the
Beekeepers Association of Yucatan, APIS) to onlend rural small scale honey
producers.
-4-



Buenaventura and Fondo Chetumal represent typical microfinance
institutions, using solidarity groups to reach rural communities and
market vendors. Canacintra (Camara de la Industria de Transformacion) in
Quintana Roo is a business association that will provide credit of up to
80,000 pesos (about $8,280) to members, complementing the business
management training courses it already provides. Canacintra did an
excellent job of recovering bad debts from the 1994 Peso Crisis, and meets
the NAFIN criteria for non-bank financial institutions. APIS is a private
honey products association, which provides supplier credit and a
technologically advanced input package to shareholders who are also rural
small scale honey producers. The value of the shares exceeds the value of
the typical loan, making it a low risk operation. Each institution has
been reviewed by microfinance specialists and will be qualified using the
existing NAFIN rules for non-bank financial institutions (with the
exception of APIS, which will be a direct NAFIN investment).
In addition to the credit line, the component will provide access to
international best practices and tools (such as business planning and
financial projections tools, internal and external audit best practices,
financial analysis and risk management for MFIs, delinquency management
techniques, management information systems and technologies to increase
efficiency) to assist the four institutions move from pilot operations to
full scale microfinance activities. This capacity building effort
represents critical learning for the microfinance institutions, the
private firm, and the NAFIN Project Management Unit and other local state
and private institutions. The project will serve as a resource center,
making use of course materials and tools that have been field-tested by
the Consultative Group to Assist the Poorest (CGAP).
ICT-based BDS Services Component. The ICT-based BDS Component will develop
four infocenters to connect small and microbusinesses to new market
opportunities by putting them in direct contact with new clients and
suppliers in local and more distant markets, and to new sources of
technology and technical assistance. The development of the necessary
local content and applications to achieve these links represent a
challenging learning agenda. However, the component will take advantage
of Bank project experiences in Guatemala, El Salvador, and Peru, as well
as a NAFIN e-commerce initiative. These experiences will enable the
component to efficiently provide local content and applications that match
the needs of small and microbusiness operators and promote firm growth and
profitability.
5. Financing                             Total (US$m)     $8.3 million
Government                                       $2.6 million
(NAFIN                                         2.0 million)
(Local Governments                             0.6 million)
IBRD                                             $4.7 million
IDA                                                         na.
Private sector                                   $1.0 million
6. Implementation
Project Management Unit. The Project Management Unit (PMU) is
located in the National Development Bank (Nacional Financiera-NAFIN) in
its Direccion Adjunta de Fomento. In addition, NAFIN will be the financial
- 5 -



intermediary for this LIL (see requirements for procurement in this role,
presented below). The PMU will oversee all administrative, financial,
procurement, disbursement, and logistical aspects of project
implementation. The PMU will also prepare reports, coordinate reports
from participating institutions, and be responsible for the mid-term
review and other , evaluations. NAFIN has already allocated an adequate
budget for the PMU to manage financial reporting, monitoring and
evaluation. The PMU will have a coordinator for the project and two lead
specialists (one for each component), as well as an accountant with
experience in financial management issues.
The core responsibilities of the PMU will include the following:
- Carry out the Project Launch Plan
- Prepare annual project action plans with inputs from the participating
institutions in each component, which will be reviewed by the Bank
- Prepare semi-annual procurement plans
- Prepare quarterly Project Monitoring and Evaluation Reports on
execution and learning against the agreed learning and performance
targets
- Help to identify sources of technical assistance as required by the
participating institutions
- Hold a project mid-term review by June 30, 2003
- Insure general project coordination between the various private and
public sector actors
- Prepare the borrower's portion of the Project Implementation Completion
Report in coordination with participating agencies, financial
institutions, and private firms.
To support the PMU at NAFIN headquarters, NAFIN staff in each state
have already been assigned to the PMU. There will also be a regional PMU
office in Campeche. The regional office's main function will be to
consolidate information on disbursements, reports, monitoring and
evaluation from all participating institutions participating in each
state. The Regional Coordinating Unit will be accountable for supervision
and monitoring of the subprojects that have been approved under the
project, as well as the reports which meet the requirements of NAFIN and
the Bank (especially regarding financial management issues). This unit
will also document the lessons learned from the different project
activities, since it will be in ongoing contact with executing
institutions (the MFIs and infocenters).
7. Sustainability
It is expected that the infocenters will attain financial
sustainability by generating enough revenue, through user fees, to fully
cover operating costs and equipment. A preliminary financial simulation
model demonstrated that the break-even point for an infocenter will be 24
months.
For the microfinance component, the financial sustainability of the
Buenaventura program was carefully assessed during pre-appraisal by
reviewing the financial statements and reviewing the management systems.
With the help of an experienced consultant, the management team used the
Microfin financial projections model and available data to project client
demand, dropouts, operating costs and likely financing costs. This
- 6 -



analysis concluded that Buenaventura is likely to become financially self-
sufficient within five years. Canacintra Quintana Roo will be undertaking
portfolio development and management for the first time in five years.
However, its projections indicate that, given low costs and past
experience in loan enforcement, Canacintra should be able to cover all
costs within three years. Fondo Chetumal is currently producing a
business plan, whicih will include financial projections and a target for
full financial sustainability. This target is likely to be met in the
fifth year of operations, when the program estimates that it will be
serving 4,000 clients.
In the special case of APIS, this private firm has shown in the
pilot phase that it can be profitable to complement a technical inputs
package with financial services to small beekeepers in Yucatan. APIS
management demonstrated the company's profitability during pre-appraisal.
APIS has shown that financial services to small shareholders can increase
the supply of high quality honey products for export.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Microfinance Component
Matching Microbusiness Needs and Constraints. There is a longstanding
history of supply-led rural finance programs and subsidized credit
initiatives in the country - yet none have led to the sustainable
provision of financial services to rural enterprises. The services
supported by RMMP will be demand-driven, since qualifying rural MFIs will
have already demonstrated an ability to sell their products to rural
clients. To qualify, they will have to show a growing client base with
repeat borrowers and low drop-out rates. In addition, the institutional
development component can support the MFI's market research and new
product development activities to insure a match with rural
microbusinesses (in terms of amounts, repayment schedules, collateral
requirements, and characteristics of savings accounts, when offered).
Interest Rates. Small farmers and rural entrepreneurs can pay rates of
interest on loans that are higher than commercial rates. Rural
entrepreneurs want access to credit - it does not have to be subsidized to
be attractive. Most microbusinesses pay informal credit providers a rate
of interest that far exceeds the commercial rate, due to the lack of
competition in rural markets. MFIs therefore provide a very important
service, even if they charge an interest rate of 25t to 40t above the
commercial rate of interest.
While the institutional set-up is not critical, there are key
characteristics of sustainability that will be reviewed.. Sustainable
MFIs and rural finance institutions share five characteristics - (i) loan
products that fit the cashflow of borrowers, (ii) a combination of
appropriate incentives and sanctions, (iii) a credible system for loan
contract enforcement, (iv) financial management systems that enable
managers to track loan quality, costs, productivity and other key
performance indicators, and (v) a vision of commercial viability that is
shared by the board of directors, general manager and staff. As financial
institutions, they also have adequate loan loss provisioning procedures,
adequate loan loss reserves, and annual independent audits to insure
prudent management of resources.
-7-



In accordance with OP 8.30, international best practices (including
guidelines established by the Consultative Group to Assist the Poorest,
CGAP), the participating rural MFIs will also have the following
characteristics, or be able to reach satisfactory levels within a
reasonable period of time: (a) adequate profitability, capital, and
portfolio quality, (b) acceptable levels of loan collections; (c)
appropriate capacity for assessing and supervising subprojects; (d)
capacity to mobilize domestic resources; (e) adequate managerial autonomy
and commercially oriented governance (particularly relevant when state-
owned or state-controlled FIs are involved); and (f) appropriate
prudential policies, administrative structure, and business procedures
ICT-based BDS Component
For ICT-based BDS, the lessons of international experience suggest that,
in order to improve the coverage and quality of non-financial services
relevant to the needs of micro and small businesses (mirobusinesses), the
government should facilitate the growth of a more decentralized, private
sector-driven BDS industry.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)                         N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation) issues:
This project has been given a C rating as a result of the Environmental
Assessment. The Environmental Data Sheet was signed on November 20, 2000.
Precautions will be taken to insure that institutions participating in the
project comply with standard Bank requirements.
11. Contact point:
Task Team Leader
Mike Goldberg
The World Bank
1818 H. Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
(202) 458-2012
Survey by Desarrollo Empresarial de Campeche, 1999 and Market Demand Survey in Campeche,
2000. Derived from recent economic and sector work has highlighted some of the key
policy and institutional issues affecting the Peninsula of Yucatan and Mexico's economic
performance (Grupo de Economistas y Asociados (1998). "Proyecto de Fomento a la
Competitividad de las Micro, Pequenas, y Medianas Empresas en Mexico: Coordinaci6n
General del Proyecto." BDS Project report prepared for SECOFI and the World Bank, January
28; Hallberg, K. (2000) "A Market-Oriented Strategy for Small and Medium-Scale
Enterprises.".
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending March 9, 2001.
- 8 -



