Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21842-ME
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5.0 MILLION(EQUIVALENT)
TO
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
WITH A GUARANTEE OF
THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A
SOUTHEAST REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT LEARNING AND INNOVATION PROJECT
September 26, 2001
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Sector Management Unit (LCSFP)
Colombia, Mexico and Venezuela Country Management Unit (LCC1C)
Latin America and the Caribbean Region (LCR)



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 6/20/01)
Currency Unit = Mexican Pesos
I Pesos = US$0.104
US$1 = 9.6
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APIS              Beekeepers Association of Yucatan (Agr6asociaci6n de Apicultores S.A.)
BANCOMER          Commercial Trade Bank (Banco de Comercio)
BANCOMEXT         Foreign Trade Bank (Banco de Comercio Exterior)
BDS               Business Development Services
CANACINTRA    Chamber of Industrial Transformation (Camara de la Industria de la
CAS               Country Assistance Strategy Transformaci6n)
CGAP              Consultative Group to Assist the Poorest
CONACYT          National Council of Science and Technology (Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnologia)
EIU               Economist Intelligence Unit
EU                European Union
FMA               Financial Management Assessment
GDP               Gross Domestic Product
ICT              Information Communications Technology
INEGI            National Institute of Statistics, Geography and Informatics (instituto Nacional de Estadistica,
Geografla e Informatica)
INI              Instituto Nacional Indigenista
ISA               International Standards on Auditing
ISP              Internet Service Providers
MFI              Microfinance Institution
MSB               Micro and Small Business
NAFIN            Nacional Financiera S.N.C.
NAFTA             North American Free Trade Agreement
NGO               Non-Governmental Organization
PCU              Project Coordination Unit
PMR               Project Management Report
PROBECAT          Training Program for Unemployed Labor Force (Programa de Capacitaci6n para Desempleados)
SECODAM          Ministry of Procurement (Secretaria de Contraloria y Desarrollo Administrativo)
SECOFI           Trade and Industrial Promotion Secretary (Secretaria de Comercio)
SHCP             Ministry of Finance (Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico)
TA               Technical Assistance
TIIE             Interbank Lending Rate (Tasa de interds interbancaria de equilibrio)
UFE               Special Financing Unit of NAFIN (Unidad de Financiamientos Especiales)
Vice President:    David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:    Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager/Director:    Danny Leipziger
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Mike Goldberg



MEXICO
SOUTHEAST REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT LEARNING AND INNOVATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                     Page
1. Project development objective                                                      2
2. Key performance indicators                                                         2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         3
3. Learning and development issues to be addressed by the project                     7
4. Learning and innovation expectations                                               8
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                10
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     10
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements                                            19
D. Project Rationale
(This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD)
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                         21
2. Financial                                                                         21
3. Technical                                                                         22
4. Institutional                                                                     22
5. Environmental                                                                     26
6. Social                                                                            26
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                29
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                    30
2. Critical risks                                                                    30
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    31
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           31



2. Other                                                                              32
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         32
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        33
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          34
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    37
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         57
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary           58
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary    59
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       60
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     68
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   69
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  70
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            73
MAP(S)
Map No. 31292



MEXICO
Southeast Regional Development Learning and Innovation Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSFR
Date: September 26, 2001                         Team Leader: Michael J. Goldberg
Country Manager/Director: Olivier Lafourcade     Sector Manager/Director: Danny M. Leipziger
Project ID: P060577                              Sector(s): DS - Small Scale Enterprise
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) Theme(s): Private Sector
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
[X] Loan    [ 1 Credit    [ ]Grant     [1 Guarantee     [ J Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 5.0 (including front-end fee)
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Years to maturity: 10
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                            Local        Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                      2.95            0.10         3.05
IBRD                                                          4.50           0.50          5.00
LOCAL GOVTS. (PROV., DISTRICT, CITY) OF BORROWING              1.11           0.00          1.11
COUNTRY
LOCAL SOURCES OF BORROWING COUNTRY                             1.44           0.00          1.44
Total:                                                        10.00           0.60         10.60
Borrower: NAFIN
Responsible agency: NAFIN
Nacional Financiera (NAFIN), S.N.C.
Address: Insurgentes Sur, 1971, Mexico D.F.
Contact Person: Roberto Casillas, Director
Tel: 52-5-325-6000           Fax: 52-5-325-7097           Email: rcasillas@nafm.gob.mx
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$m):
FY         2002       2003       2004      2005
Annual    1.93        1.38       1.21      0.48
Cumulative    1.93       3.31       4.52       5.00
Project implementation period: 2001-2005
Expected effectiveness date: 12/05/2001  Expected closing date:  12/31/2005
OCS PAD 0020 Rev M0 20:h,



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower, the Participating States and the private sector
operating in such States to learn about: (a) the requirements for the development and implementation of
sustainable microfinance methodologies to promote access to financial services to unserved populations;
and (b) the use of information communications technology (ICT) to deliver business development services
(BDS) to microbusinesses in a cost effective and sustainable manner.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The key indicator of overall project success will be the demonstration of the requirements (in terms
of management systems, products and services, governance structures and other features) to establish
sustainable microfinance institutions (MFIs) and infocenters providing business development services to
unserved populations.
The learning indicator of the Microfinance Services Component is the demonstration of
microfinance management systems, governance structures, promotion and product mix that can lead to
sustainability and outreach to the poor, under the evolving legal and regulatory framework.  The
sustainability and outreach of the Eligible Microfinance Institutions (MFIs) will be measured by: (i) the
efficiency, adjusted profitability, and portfolio quality of each eligible MFI; (ii) the adoption of new
financial management systems, the development of new products, and policies on credit administration and
interest rates; and (iii) increases in the number of active clients. In addition, the component will document
the effects of recent changes in financial sector regulations for non-bank financial institutions on MFIs.
The learning indicator of the ICT-based Business Development Services Component is the
demonstration of the services and systems (hardware, software, local content and business tools) required
for an Eligible Infocenter to reach the breakeven point. This will be measured by: (i) demand for services
(number of people using the infocenter per week, type of services demanded, and applications used via
Internet); (ii) service performance (client satisfaction with each service provided); (iii) financial
sustainability (operating and net income); (iv) the development of new applications that could improve
accessibility, affordability, effectiveness; and (v) the efficiency of business development services provision
through ICT.
The Institutional Development and Capacity Building Component develops the monitoring and
supervision capacity of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU), enabling the Nacional Financiera (NAFIN) to
thoroughly document the requirements for working efficiently with and providing useful services to MFIs
and ICT-based BDS providers (also known as infocenters) in Participating Southeastern States. The
learning indicator is the ability of NAFIN to adapt its standard products and management systems to the
MFIs and infocenters, which represent new clients for NAFIN.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R2001-0089           Date of latest CAS progress report discussion: 6/21/01
The joint IBRD/IFC Mexico Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), in which this Project is
specifically mentioned, was discussed by the Board of Directors on June 8, 1999 (R99-92). The CAS has
three strategic objectives: (i) removing obstacles to sustainable growth and maintaining macroeconomic
stability in the context of globalization; (ii) social improvement (poverty reduction, education, basic health
-2 -



care, and rural development in marginal areas); and (iii) enhancing public governance (including the
promotion of decentralization).
The objective of this Project will contribute to these three CAS objectives. The Project will
support the CAS objective of removing obstacles to sustainable growth by promoting private sector-led
strategies to the development of microfinance institutions and microbusinesses, while building strong
partnerships with state governments, local chambers of commerce and business associations, and NAFIN.
The majority of MFIs in the Participating Southeastern States are private sector institutions (with the
notable exception of the Buenaventura Program in Campeche). The methodology used to develop
infocenters will also promote public-private partnerships and a commercial approach to ICT-based BDS
provision, involving business associations and chambers.
Fostering private sector development in less-developed regions is one of the strategies under the
CAS. The Project will help to remove impediments to broad based private sector growth and will enhance
competitiveness of local firms in the Participating States. This change is crucial for some of the
Southeastern States such as Campeche, Quintana Roo and Yucatan, which historically have based
economic development on enclave economies (petroleum in Campeche, henequen plantations in Yucatan,
and tourism in Quintana Roo).
The CAS calls for activities that promote significant poverty alleviation. The CAS notes that
two-thirds of the rural population in Southern States is considered poor, compared to one third nationwide.
This persistent poverty has been linked to a lack of access to markets and productive assets, including
market information, capital and technology. The choice of the Project's target client population (urban and
rural clients) will also increase the poverty alleviation contribution of this Project. Experiences from a
wide range of microfinance institutions in Latin America and other regions clearly demonstrate that
microfinance methodologies and microbusiness development support can make an important contribution to
poverty alleviation (for example, village banking programs and solidarity group programs have average
loan sizes ranging from $75 to $200 in the region). These methodologies are employed by the MFIs that are
most likely to become eligible for Project financial and technical assistance services. The infocenters can
play a key role in poverty alleviation by linking small and microbusinesses to more profitable markets. This
allows small and microbusinesses to move beyond subsistence level production, create new jobs, and
improve local income and investment.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Private Sector Structural Problems
The liberalization of trade and investment that began in the mid-1980s and Mexico's entry into the
North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) in 1994 were intended to achieve higher rates of
economic growth by expanding the country's participation in dynamic external markets and facilitating
access to high-quality inputs and technologies. Since the Peso Crisis of 1995, when the GDP contracted by
6.2%, the national economy has enjoyed a strong recovery in overall terms (averaging 5.4% annually).
This growth has contributed to an annual expansion in employment of 4.0% over the past four years,
compared to an annual increase of 3.9% of the economically active population (INEGI, 2000). The rapid
growth of the maquiladoras has fueled higher employment in urban areas, while agriculture has continued
to drop as a source of work in rural areas.
Despite the wide-ranging economic reforms instituted in the country, the income distribution in
Mexico remains among the most unequal in the world. Constraints to more balanced economic
development include uneven regional development, tight credit markets, and little access to existing
business development service programs by micro and small businesses.
- 3 -



Uneven regional development. The country faces huge differences in the level of industrialization
and in the decline of agriculture that have sharpened the divisions that exist between different regions. The
central region, which includes the Federal District and the State of Mexico, accounts for nearly one-third of
GDP despite the fact that it covers only 1.2% of the land area. Monterrey (Nuevo Le6n) and Guadalajara
(Jalisco) are the leading industrial cities after the capital. The maquiladora industry in the border area has
boosted employment. Tijuana in Baja California and Ciudad Juarez in Chihuahua have become important
maquiladora cities. The Southeastern States still face widespread poverty problems, due in part to
inadequate transport and communications infrastructure, a history of enclave development, and a lack of
investment.
This pattern of unequal regional development translates into increased poverty in many parts of the
country. Mexico continues to have one of the highest Gini coefficients in the region, with the lowest decile
of the population controlling 1.5% of national income, and the top 10% in control of 42.8% of national
income. Gini coefficients measure income distribution disparity, comparing deciles of the population in
terms of their control of national wealth. Poverty indicators have been deteriorating in recent years.
According to a survey in 2000, about 62% of the economically active population earns less than 2 times the
minimum wages per day (the national poverty level, equivalent to US$7 per day). INEGI estimates that the
minimum wage in real terms dropped 40.7% between 1994 and 1999. The number of people living below
the poverty line in the 38 largest cities increased from 29 million to 38 million from 1994 to 1998. The
vast majority of informal sector producers and traders in the Project area are living under the national
poverty line.
Recent surveys in three Southeastern States reveal the importance of microbusinesses. The States
of Campeche, Quintana Roo and Yucatan are characterized by large numbers of microbusinesses, which
face a general lack of access to affordable, reliable, appropriately designed financial services and timely
market information. In the 1992 National Census, INEGI defined microbusinesses as those with one to ten
workers, including the owner. Based on the universe of 5,212 formally registered businesses in Campeche,
the municipalities of Campeche and Ciudad del Carmen concentrated 88% of all the firms in the state. In
Yucatin and Quintana Roo the firm-size distribution is also concentrated at the microbusiness level (97%
of all firms). (The inclusion of unregistered firms would increase the share of microbusinesses in the
sample even more.)
Private Sector Firm-Size Distribution: 1993-1998 (all sectors, INEGI surveys)
1993         Micro   Small Medium   Large  Total
Campeche       18,148   274     24        0    18,446
Yucatan        55,497  1,025    105      28    56,655
Quintana Roo    19,128   562     54      28    19,772
Total          92,773  1,861    183      56   94,873
1998         Micro  Small  Medium   Large  Total
Campeche       19,518   364      29       8    19,919
Yucatan        55,391  1,142    141      43    56,717
Quintana Roo    26,108   782     97      30    27,017
Total          101,017  2,288    267      81   103,653
- 4 -



Tight credit markets. Despite an easing in nominal interest rates, credit markets have become
tight. Small and medium sized firms with traditional collateral to back loans are not able to obtain credit,
given the banks' reluctance to increase exposure to such firms. A survey by the Banco de Mexico, (the
central bank) shows that only 33% of 500 companies surveyed had received bank credit in the third quarter
ended September 30, 2000. This is well below the 39% that received financing in the third quarter of 1999.
On an inflation-adjusted basis, interest rates for the best clients are now nearly 10% in real terms.
Recent surveys have identified access to financial services as a key constraint to small and
microbusiness growth.  Survey by Desarrollo Empresarial de Campeche, 1999 and Market Demand
Survey in Campeche, 2000.  For the private sector as a whole, the credit decline has continued
uninterrupted since the end of 1994. For all firms, the total amnount of loans at the end of March 2000 was
still 42% below the end of 1994 level, in real terms. For small and microbusinesses, the situation is even
more bleak. Small and microbusinesses have not qualified traditionally for bank loans, and have turned to
development banks, particularly NAFIN, through arrangements with first-tier commercial banks. During
the Peso Crisis of 1995, and the subsequent recovery in 1996-97, the volume of credit declined significantly
from earlier levels. Development banks tried to compensate for the lack of credit that could be channeled
through commercial banks by providing loans directly. However, small and micro businesses have proven
difficult f6r NAFIN to reach.
Tlhe regulatory framework and supervision models are rapidly evolving in Mexico, especially for
non-bank financial institutions. This is a response to a longstanding gap in the regulation and supervision
of rural financial intermediaries (especially community based small savings mobilization institutions). It is
likely that the Comisi6n Nacional Bancaria y de Valores (CNBV) will take the lead, using federations and
other bodies as part of a delegated approach to supervision for rural financial institutions. At Negotiations,
NAFIN provided a legal opinion that confirms that the financial and banking sector laws and regulations
will not negatively affect the implementation of the Project. The relevant financial and banking sector laws
include the Ley de Instituciones de Credito, Ley General de Titulos y Operaciones de Credito, Ley
General de Organizaciones y Actividades Auxiliares del Credito, Ley Organica del Banco de Ahorro
Nacional y Servicios Financieros, Ley de Ahorro y Credito Popular, and other related regulations issued
by the CNBV.
Limited local participation in Business Development Services (BDS) design. Recent economic
and sector work has highlighted some of the key policy and institutional issues affecting the Peninsula of
YucatAn and Mexico's economic performance (Grupo de Economistas y Asociados (1998). "Proyecto de
Fomento a la Competitividad de las Micro, Pequefias, y Medianas Empresas en Mexico: Coordinaci6n
General del Proyecto." BDS Project report prepared for SECOFI and the World Bank, January 28;
Hallberg, K. (2000) "A Market-Oriented Strategy for Small and Medium-Scale Enterprises.". While state
governments often support Federal Government business development services programs for small and
microbusinesses as part of their development plans, these programs are often developed with little input
from the states of end users of BDS services. Market research and field interviews conducted during
Project preparation showed that microbusinesses are not well served by existing federal programs. There is
general recognition that a more market-oriented and decentralized strategy is needed in Mexico, addressing
the problem of collaboration.
Low levels of coverage of BDS programs for micro and small businesses. The current programs
in Mexico have only reached a small share of the market and are largely unknown to the rest of the sector.
This was confirmed during Project preparation by the market demand study conducted for the State of
Campeche. Both the recent research on federally-funded BDS programs in Mexico and the lessons of
international experience suggest that, in order to improve the coverage and quality of BDS relevant to the
- 5 -



needs of small and microbusiness, the federal government should facilitate the growth of a more
decentralized, private sector-driven BDS industry. The Project will contribute to test a more decentralized
approach in the role and management of publicly funded BDS programs by using information and
communication technologies to evaluate lower-cost delivery mechanisms as well as piloting mixed
public-private institutions to deliver BDS and microfinance.
Small number ofprivate providers and limited service options. Private providers of BDS are few
in the region. According to the market demand survey in Campeche, only 71 firms out of 331 hired
consulting services in Campeche during 1999, primarily for accounting, taxes and integrated diagnostics
services. The survey of firms in Campeche identified the main needs as training, information and advisory
services in sales, business administration, marketing and production. However, these areas are not well
covered by local or regional providers. In addition, despite national level improvements in ICT applications
and accessibility, the Yucatan Peninsula lags far behind other parts of the country in ICT use.
Federal Government Strategy for Microfinance. Based on the economic, financial and poverty
trends outlined above, and the growing role of the informal sector, the Federal Govemment has made
microbusiness development a high priority. This emphasis reflects the Fox Administration's previous
successful experience with microfinance in Guanajuato State (the Santa Fe solidarity lending program).
The Ministry of Economy (Secretaria de Economia) Office of Small and Medium Enterprises has launched
a new program designed exclusively to support microbusiness start-ups and another supporting existing
microfinance institutions in 18 states (this does not include Campeche, Yucatan or Quintana Roo). This
high level of federal government interest in microfinance presents an important opportunity for the Project,
and will make close coordination with the Ministry of Economy a high priority for the PCU.
NAFIN, also plays an important role in supporting small and microbusiness development. NAFIN
has maintained a dialogue with the Bank over the past year on innovative ways to promote economic
decentralization and provide financial services to non-bank financial institutions that can reach lower
income microbusiness operators. NAFIN is in a good position to play an expanded role in supporting the
microfinance industry, both in the Southeastern States and in other parts of the country, largely using its
own funds. However, NAFIN and the Bank recognize the need for flexibility in the project design and
during project implementation, in light of the evolving financial sector framework in Mexico, which could
have a direct impact on NAFIN's mandate, and the regulatory and supervision arrangements for MFIs.
ICT-based Business Development Services Private/Public Partnership
National information infrastructure, in the form of telecommunications systems and networks,
provides important physical conditions for improved economic performance, access to key technology and
market information, and increased competitiveness. At the national level, Mexico has made important
improvements in its information infrastructure. A comparison made by the Bank among the Latin
American countries indicates that Mexico ranks second in the total number of Intemet hosts and in the total
number of Internet subscribers.
Future progress in electronic commerce and ICT activities will depend on better legal frameworks
and enforcement. Mexico has approved a law which established the Compranet system to promote
electronic business transactions to respond to government procurement contracts. Under the law, Internet
purchase orders are considered to be a binding contract. The use of "electronic signatures" is also
considered valid for Internet orders. The lack of clear legal recognition had hampered the growth of
business transactions using the Internet in Mexico previously. Within a short time, Compranet has
registered 1,830 firms from the States of Campeche, Yucatan, and Quintana Roo as eligible for government
procurement.
-6 -



Mexico has developed information communication infrastructure as well as the legal framework to
use the new technologies to deliver business development services to microbusiness and to provide access to
information, new markets and technologies. The basic IT infrastructure in telecommunications, intemet
service providers and programmers are available in the country according to the "e-business readiness"
ranking recently published by the Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU). Mexico has been classified as a
country in the middle level range of readiness. The ranking combines the EIU's assessment of the business
enviromnent and a "connectivity rating" developed by Pyramid Research (the EIUYs communications
division).
While the country has a high rating in "e-business readiness," the Southeastern States lag far
behind in this area. Yet there are significant initial efforts upon which the Project will be able to build.
State and local governments and business associations, especially in Campeche, have taken important steps
to develop an infornation center oriented towards microbusiness clients. In Campeche, the information
center already provides e-mail access and web page design and maintenance services for local businesses
for a monthly fee of about 125 pesos (US$14). While basic infornation is readily accessible on the Internet
(provided by BANCOMEXT, BANCOMER, Secretaria de Economia, and NAFIN), there is a lack of
sector-specific information, business management training packages and tools tailored to the needs of
microentrepreneurs with low levels of formal education.
There is also considerable scope for using distance learning methods for business training in the
Southeastern States, particularly given the existing or planned distance learning sites in the region of two
major and highly successful Mexican distance training institutions (Instituto Tecnologico de Monterrey
and Universidad Politecnica). However, experience with business management distance leaming has been
largely limited to the leading Mexican enterprises and multinational firms and their suppliers and
distributors.
3. Learning and Development issues to be addressed by the project:
The learning agenda for the Project can be summarized in a single question: What set of
institutions, activities, and services are required to insure micro and small business access to appropriately
designed and efficiently delivered financial and business development services? By working with eligible
local microfinance institutions and at least one eligible ICT-based BDS infocenter, the Project will
demonstrate the advantages, risks, initial investment, operating costs, and institutional requirements for
sustainable microfinance development and effective ICT-based BDS delivery. Since the local microfinance
and BDS industries have not had access to international best practices, this Project will be a critical source
of technical information.
The Project will provide a leaming opportunity for NAFIN and the Participating States to adapt
international best practices to local conditions, especially important in light of significant changes in the
financial sector regulation and supervision framework for non-bank financial institutions. NAF1N has had
difficulties in the past providing services that reach the microbusiness sector, and has limited its support
largely to conmnercial banks. The new approach uses regional staff to help the NAFIN headquarters PCU
to carry out its monitoring and supervision responsibilities and to directly provide or link participating
MFIs and infocenters to a combination of financial and technical resources. This approach could hold the
key to a larger and more effective NAFIN effort to support this sector with financial services in the future.
It will also help NAFIN to more clearly define the ways it can support microbusiness development in both
urban and rural markets, as financial sector regulations of non-bank financial institutions evolve. This
learning opportunity is amplified by NAFIN's plans to undertake a regional or national replication as
- 7 -



lessons are learned from the Southeast Regional Development Learning and Innovation Project.
A unique feature of this Project is that it provides both microfinance and BDS services, unlike the
Bank's initiatives in Guatemala and El Salvador. Therefore it is important to identify and measure the
synergies between the two components. The monitoring and evaluation system to be developed will help to
measure such value-added gains. Since the two components are designed to reach a similar client base and
will be closely coordinating promotional and implementation activities, the two components will be
designed to channel clients to other services financed under the loan when appropriate. The specific
organizational linkages to insure this close coordination will be developed by the institutions themselves,
with support from the PCU.
One reason for confidence in the Project's ability to meet the learning agenda is the participatory
way in which the Project has been designed. A wide range of private sector, civil society, local and state
government, and universities have been involved in the development of a logical framework to guide project
development. The design of the components has been linked to existing initiatives promoting private sector
development in two of the Southeastern States (Transformando Campeche, Visi6n 2025 de Quintana Roo).
In addition, two regional seminars were conducted to discuss the different approaches for the components.
The consultation process with the wide range of stakeholders will continue during Project launch and the
implementation.
4. Learning and innovation expectations:
DJ Economic    Z Technical    Z Social         O Participation
n Financial    X Institutional  El Environmental El Other
(a) Microfinance Services Component. For this component, the learning objective is to define the
specific set of MFI management systems, governance structures, promotion and product mix that can lead
to the sustainability of eligible MFIs. The monitoring indicators for MFI sustainability will measure trends
in profitability (after adjustments for subsidies), efficiency, portfolio quality, and the level of outreach to
low income clients. The terms and conditions of the loans will be established in the Operational Manual,
and will reflect the level of market demand, the experience and level of institutional development of the
MFI, and other relevant factors.
The Microfinance Services Component will also provide access to international best practices and
tools (such as business planning and financial projections tools, internal and external audit best practices,
financial analysis and risk management for MFIs, delinquency management techniques, management
information systems and technologies to increase efficiency) to assist eligible MFIs to reach a full scale and
sustainable level of operations. The Project will provide access for Eligible Microfinance Institutions to
technical resources such as the tools that have been developed and field-tested by the Consultative Group to
Assist the Poorest (CGAP) on key topics such as financial management, business planning, internal and
external audits for MFIs, cost allocations, and delinquency management.   Begun in 1995, CGAP is a
consortium of 26 donors working in microfinance. The Bank is a founding member, provides significant
financial support, and houses the CGAP Secretariat.
For evaluation purposes, the learning indicator to be evaluated (and presented in Annex 1) is as
follows: To demonstrate the MFI management systems, governance structures, promotion and product mix
that can lead to sustainability and outreach to the poor. MFI management systems means the operational
and strategic systems in place to provide senior management and the board of directors of the Eligible
Microfinance Institutions with the financial performance and other information required to make rational
decisions that contribute to a more efficient and sustainable microfinance institution. Governance structures
- 8 -



refers to the structure and role of the board of directors of the eligible MFI, including the use of regular
meetings to make strategic decisions and provide direction to management (including the review of audits,
financial statements, new and updated policies, annual plans and projections, and other information
required in the efficient operation of the MFI). The promotion and product mix refers to the types of loans
(with conditions and requirements) provided, savings products offered, and any special promotion and
outreach strategies and practices that are employed to reach new clients or provide existing clients with
additional or improved services.
(b) The ICT-based BDS Component. The ICT-based BDS Component will demonstrate the
services, local content, hardware and software systems required for Eligible Infocenters to reach breakeven
point (the point at which operating revenues cover all operating expenses). The Eligible Infocenters will
connect microbusinesses to new market opportunities, linking them to new clients and suppliers in local and
more distant markets. The infocenters will provide a range of logistical services, and link microbusinesses
to new sources of production technology and technical assistance. The development of the necessary local
content and applications (related to business planning, marketing tools and databases) also represents an
important aspect of the learning agenda.
The component will take advantage of Bank project experiences in Guatemala and El Salvador, as
well as an existing NAFIN electronic commerce initiative. These experiences will enable the component to
efficiently provide local content and applications that match the needs of small and microbusiness operators
and promote firm growth and profitability. The PCU will insure that project activities are closely
coordinated with other ongoing federal and state government and private initiatives in ICT-based BDS for
small and microbusinesses.
The Project will provide practical experience for the regional staff and the private sector in assessing
the economic viability of the use of ICT to deliver BDS to increase service outreach and effectiveness. By
the end of the Project, the monitoring and evaluation system will allow for clear identification of both the
economic costs and benefits to a variety of actors, including microbusiness operators, consumers, BDS
providers, and local governments.
The financial viability of ICT-based BDS provision hinges on market development and cost
recovery. The component will support efforts by Eligible Infocenters to develop attractive products and
services, local content, cost-effective pricing strategies and to choose convenient sites in an effort to insure
the financial viability of Eligible Infocenters (see Section C. Project Description Summary for specific
eligibility criteria). The monitoring indicators for Eligible Infocenter activities will include costs per
beneficiary, delivery methods, and the barriers faced by small and microbusinesses to these new
technologies and tools.
To meet this part of the learning agenda, there are a few key technical and technological challenges
to be overcome. The component needs to assist the participating Southeastern States to create an effective
interface with microbusinesses, suppliers, programmers, ISP providers, universities to develop IT software,
local content and training tool kits that respond to the needs of local firms in the region. Information
technology and distance leaming equipment needs to be operated and maintained adequately, with user time
standards set to insure timely response time. An orientation to end user needs and the development of local
content is critical for the ICT staff charged with the development of appropriate small and microbusiness
applications. The infocenter staff needs to be trained in efficient use of systems and become very familiar
with the needs and restrictions faced by small and microbusiness clients.
(c ) Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building. This component strengthens the PCU and
-9-



establishes a monitoring and evaluation system. For evaluation purposes, the learning indicator to be
evaluated for this component will be the ability of the PCU to provide timely, accurate, detailed information
on the performance of the eligible MFIs and the Eligible Infocenters, project costs, and other project-related
information. The evaluation will also cover the ability of the PCU to to implement the Project, carry out
annual reviews, consultation, and coordination.
(d) Follow-on Development Objective. There is a strong likelihood of a follow-up project for
NAFIN, possibly financed by the Bank. This Project would cover states outside of the Southeast Region of
the country, and would be a direct result of the documented results of the Southeast Regional Development
Learning and Innovation Project's activities. The key indicator for the follow-on development objective
would be the number of potentially sustainable MFIs and infocenters establishing or expanding operations
after receiving information on performance and lessons leamed from the Southeast Regional Development
Learning and Innovation Project. In terms of the infocenter activities, replication is likely with the
Secretaria de Economia, which is actively involved in pilot activities in this area. For microfmance,
replication is likely by NAFIN (in other regions of the country) and by the Secretaria de Economia, which
has recently launched a pilot initiative along these lines.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Indicative            Bank-       % of
Component                   Sector         Costs     % of    financing    Bank-
(US$M)    Total      (US$M)  financing
Microfmance Services              Financial Sector      7.43       70.1      2.93       58.6
Development
Delivery of Business Development    Financial Sector    1.02        9.6      0.68       13.6
Services through the use of ICT  Development
Institutional Strengthening and   Financial Sector      1.65       15.6      0.89       17.8
Capacity Building                 Development
Unallocated                      Institutional          0.45        4.2      0.45        9.0
Development
Total Project Costs                   10.55     100.0       4.95      99.0
Front-end fee                     0.05       0.5       0.05        1.0
Total Financing Required                     10.60     100.5       5.00     100.0
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Overall Objective: To contribute to microbusiness development in Mexico by demonstrating best
practices in the form of microfinance institutional development and an ICT-based BDS model. This will
not be measured by the Project, but is an important part of the overall context of the Project.
Project Development Objective: The objective of the Project is to assist Participating States in
theSoutheast Region of Mexico and the private sector to learn about (a) the requirements of sustainable
- 10-



microfinance methodologies to promote access to financial services to unserved populations, and (b) the use
of information commnunications technology (ICT) to deliver business development services (BDS) to
microbusinesses in a cost effective and sustainable manner.
Microbusiness Development
I                  .   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Demonstration Models
|Eligible Traditional |    | Eligible Scctor   |        |Eligible Business 
|   MFIs                     -specific MFls          |    Associations    l
Model         Eligible Infocent            Eligible Infocenter         Eligible Infocenter
.. ....... ... .......
Target           Solidarity              Rural commodity                  Member
clients         Groups of low           Producers and processors          microbusiness
...............  Income  clients
,...........  ....  .....................
Replication                                 Sectoral and                   Geographic
Geographic
Strategy                                   Geographic
............... .....-... ..................
Participating States. An eligibility system has been established so that any Southeastern State
could participate, if that State has been deemed by the PCU to have met the eligibility criteria provided in
the Operational Manual and has been reviewed in a due diligence process by the Bank. The eligibility
criteria for Participating States as well as the process required to reach the determination of eligibility, have
been agreed upon and are described below.
Preliminary Determination of Eligibility of a State
I. Participating States must be in the Southeast Region of Mexico and provide written confirmation of
interest on the part of the State Government, private sector organization or civil society organization,
including a commitment of funds to support project activities (for one or all project components).
2. There should be a large number of unserved microbusinesses - confirmed by census information or
recent studies of the sector
3. At least one existing microfinance institution (if the Microfinance Services Component) or at least one
private sector association or other group (if the ICT-based BDS component) should express written
interest to NAFIN in participation in the Project.
4. The NAFIN headquarters office and the PCU should provide written confirmation to the Bank stating
that the Southeastern State complies with all eligibility criteria and that there is no duplication of efforts
- 11 -



with other national programs that offers similar services for microbusinesses.
The Process for Determination of Eligibility of a State
1. Discussions will be held between Bank staff responsible for project supervision, the PCU and
representatives of the interested State Government and the private sector. In addition, consultation will
be held with civil society to determine the potential for widespread participation in project activities.
2. There will be a joint determination that all conditions are in place to enable the PCU and Bank to
perform their respective responsibilities of supervision and monitoring, as well as evaluation of the
Project.
3. The Bank will make the final determination based on the infornation provided and in consultation with
the PCU. The determination by the Bank will be based on the likelihood that project-supported
activities would contribute to the learning related to the Project Development Objective.
4. The Bank will send a written final confirmation of the acceptance of the State as a Participating State.
Overall Project Management and Supervision.
Project Coordination Unit. The PCU is located in NAFIN. NAFIN will be the executing agency
for the Project, but will not act as financial agent of the Guarantor. The process for NAFIN to borrow and
act as the executing agency for the Project is as follows: (i) NAFIN will submit an application (Solicitud de
Gesti6n) to the Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico (SHCP) for the authority to request and obtain a
loan from the Bank, (ii) SHCP will issue the Authorization (through an Oficio de Autorizaci6n de
Endeudamiento), and (iii) NAFIN will accept the responsibilities of borrowing and will undertake Project
execution through a Resolution (Acuerdo del Consejo Directivo de NA FIN). The issuance of the Acuerdo
del Consejo Directivo of NAFIN is a Condition of Loan effectiveness.
The PCU will be maintained at all times in accordance with terms of reference, staffing and
responsibilities agreed with the Bank and will oversee all administrative, financial, procurement,
disbursement, and logistical aspects of project implementation, including the supervision of all Subprojects
with Eligible MFIs and Eligible Infocenters. The PCU will also prepare reports, coordinate reports from
Eligible Microfinance Institutions and Eligible Infocenters, and will be responsible for the annual reviews
and other evaluations. Specifically, the PCU will have the following functions and responsibilities: (i)
monitoring the implementation of the Project and ensuring effective coordination among the staff and
institutions responsible for the implementation of the Project; (ii) preparing and submitting to the Bank the
PMRs (described in Section 4.4); (iii) carrying out of the procurement of goods and consultants' services
required for the Project (pursuant to the provisions in Annex 6); (iv) overseeing the general administration
of the Project, with respect to Loan proceeds withdrawal, financial management, accounting and auditing;
(v) reviewing, jointly with the Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico and the Bank, the progress
achieved by the Borrower in the implementation of the Project on the basis of the annual reports (described
in Section C.3. below); (vi) monitoring progress achieved by the Eligible Microfinance Institutions and the
Eligible Infocenters in the implementation of their respective activities under the Project, including the
Subprojects; (vii) identifying any possible obstacle or difficulty affecting or threatening to affect project
implementation; and (viii) developing and implementing a monitoring and evaluation system to carry out an
evaluation of the impacts of the leaming and innovation programs of the Project.
NAFIN will play a strong supporting role for the PCU in various aspects of project management.
The following project activities will be the responsibility of specialized areas within NAFIN, which will
coordinate these activities closely with the PCU: (i) operation of the Special Account such as withdrawal
- 12-



applications and coordination of Special Account and annual audits, (ii) preparation of Bank financial
management reports (as input to the PMRs), (iii) coordination of the project annual audits, and (iv) project
flow of funds such as payments. The incremental operating costs of the PCU will be financed by the loans
on a declining basis. (See Annex 6 for details.)
The PCU will be, at all times during the execution of the Project, headed by a Project Coordinator,
with qualifications, experience, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank. The Project
Coordinator will be asssisted by technical and administrative staff in adequate numbers and with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank, including, inter alia: (i) an accountant with
technical expertise in financial management matters (the Project Accountant); (ii) a specialist in
procurement procedures, guidelines and contracts (the Procurement Specialist); (iii) an officer responsible
for administrative and operational matters (the Administrative Manager); and (iv) Regional Staff assigned
to the Borrower's office in the State of Yucatan (Merida), including, inter alia, a technical specialist for
the Microfinance Services Component and a technical specialist for the ICT-based BDS Component. In
addition to monitoring, preparation of reports, coordination and other responsibilities discussed at
Negotiations, the PCU will be responsible for carrying out ongoing consultations with civil society and will
conduct an impact evaluation of project activities (as described in Section 6.4).
The Regional Staff will be responsible for supervision and monitoring of the Subprojects that have
been approved under the Project, as well as the reports which meet the requirements of NAFIN and the
Bank (especially regarding financial management issues). The Regional Staff shall be responsible, inter
alia, for: (a) ensuring that each Eligible Microfinance Institution and each Eligible Infocenter prepares and
submits, in a timely fashion, annual reports and business plans; (b) supervising and monitoring the
implementation of the Subprojects approved for financing under the Project; (c) assisting with the
preparation of reports and documentation related to financial management requirements under the Project;
and (d) compiling and disseminating the lessons learned throughout project implementation.
The PCU will receive ongoing support from the Unidad de Financiamiento Especial, NAFIN's
office in charge of procurement.
At all times, the Borrower shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services, staff
and other resources required for the discharge of the functions of the PCU.
- 13-



Project Organizational Mexico City HQ Chart
Project Nlnagement             Staffing in NAFIN:
.             ~~~~~Projec Coociator
Unit                   Adminisative Manager
Proent Spedalist
NAF1N Promotion              Ned Accountat
Mcrofinarnce Speciaist
& Technical Assist. Unit       ICT-based BDS Specialist
Infocenters in
Possible MFI's in Paitipating States in the Southeast Region                Participating
Soudieastem States
Possible Beneficiaries:                                 Micrbusiness& Small busness
EBusiniess Chamubers
Rufal       Rural Small  Rural/Urban   Individual   Bus Assoc.                      Producer
Solidarity    Scale Honey  Traders;     Urban        Members                        Ufiversitaes
Groups      Producers     Producers    (Microbuis)  (Microbus)                      Agroproducers
(Solidarity                                               Hoey pdcer
Groups)                                                   ISP providers
To support the PCU, NAF1N will allocate an adequate budget for the PCU every year so that it
can purchase necessary equipment, such as computers, printers, copy machines and software packages, and
to cover the costs of training for PCU headquarters and regional staff in the technical, management and
administration skills required for overall project coordination, monitoring, and reporting. NAFIN will
cover the incremental costs of NAFIN state offices participating in the supervision and monitoring of
project activities.
Operational Manual. The Operational Manual will contain detailed procedures for the carrying
out of the Project, including, inter alia: (i) criteria to determine the eligibility of the States, Microfinance
Institutions, Microbusinesses and Infocenters for the purposes of receiving financing under the Project; (ii)
terms, conditions and standard contractual docunentation for the provision of Intermediary Loans,
Subloans and Grants financed under the Project; (iii) terms, conditions and procedures for the review,
assessment and approval of Subprojects financed under the Project; (iv) detailed terms and procedures for
the establishment and implementation of accounting, auditing and financial management systems for the
- 14 -



Project; (v) procedures and requirements for the procurement of goods and consultants' services financed
under the Project, including the Subprojects; (vi) terms of reference and procedures for the design and
implementation of the evaluation and consultation activities with all stakeholders; and (vii) terms and
stipulations for Intermediary Loan (Type A) Agreements to Eligible MFIs, Intermediary Loan (Type B)
Agreements to Eligible Infocenters, Grant Agreements to Eligible Infocenters, and Subloans to Eligible
Microbusinesses.
The Operational Manual will set up processes, procedures, standard formats and contracts, and
monitoring and evaluation systems to insure that the Eligible Microfinance Institutions and Eligible
Infocenters carry out their activities efficiently and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
banking, microfmance, information communications technology, participatory, environmental, and social
standards and practices. The Operational Manual will also describe the key elements of business plans for
eligible MFIs and Eligible Infocenters, including systems development, product development, and the
outreach activities to insure the participation of unserved populations (including, inter alia, women and
indigenous populations, as agreed during Negotiations).
Procurement. The Assessment found that NAFIN has adequate systems to administer the funds,
monitor their use, and provide oversight as well as technical assistance on financial management to the
RegionalPCU staff. The overall risk assessment is considered to be average. The risk assessment is low for
the following sections: (i) legal aspects, and (ii) project cycle management. The risk level has been
determnined to be average for the following sections of the assessment: (i) organization and functions; (ii)
support and control systems; (iii) general procurement environment; and (iv) private sector assessment.
The PCU has already prepared an acceptable Procurement Plan for the Project.
The PCU, with support from NAFIN's Unidad de Financiamiento Especial (UFE) will be
responsible for: (i) preparing tender documents, (ii) calling for bids; (iii) evaluating and comparing bids and
consultants qualifications, (iv) awarding contracts, (v) signing the contracts, and (vi) maintaining all the
corresponding records. Because the PCU has no experience in procurement, a procurement specialist will
be part of the PCU team.
Because the amount of the procurement required by the Project, no foreign suppliers of goods are
expected to participate and no ICB procedures will apply under the Project. For the proposed Project, it
was agreed to follow Bank's Guidelines (January 1995 revised January and August 1996, September 1997
and January 1999 editions). The latest version of Standard Bidding Documents agreed by Mexico and the
Bank for NCB will be used, and national shopping procedures also will be applicable. (Goods estimated to
cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $650,000 equivalent,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Bank's Guidelines). Only Individual Consultants will be
employed and will be selected on the basis of their qualifications for the assignment. Paragraph 5.1 to 5.3
of the Guidelines "Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" (January 1997,
revised September 1997 and January 1999 editions) will apply.
It was agreed at Negotiations that, in order to facilitate the large number of small transactions
involved in the Microfinance Services Component (for subloans for eligible investment subprojects), a
procurement category of commercial practices will be used, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank. In accordance with Bank Guidelines, the PCU has prepared a General Procurement Plan for the
Project that has been reviewed by the Bank. This Plan is satisfactory, and its implementation will ensure
timely project execution. The Bank Implementation Unit in Mexico will perform two post-reviews of
contracts prepared by the PCU and submitted to the Bank each year. (Annex 6 provides additional
- 15-



information on procurement issues such as categories, prior review requirements, thresholds, and related
infonnation.)
Financial Management System and Project Management Reports (PMR). It was agreed during
Negotiations and according to the assessment of the Project's financial management system, that financial
management arrangements are adequate as they are in compliance of minimum financial management
requirements.
A follow-up assessment (based on the "Assessment of Financial Management Arrangements in
World Bank-financed Projects" guidelines dated June 30, 2001) was carried out in July, 2001. The
conclusion of this review were: (a) the existence of an acceptable Financial Management System (although
not ready for Project Management Reports PMR until July 31, 2002); and (b) the agreement reached on the
action plan to allow for the issuance of PMRs. Specific implementation arrangements for each component
are presented below (See Section 4.4 for more detailed information on financial management issues and
PMRs).
Microfinance Services Component Implementation Arrangements
Definition of an Eligible Microbusiness. The definition of an Eligible Microbusiness for project
purposes is a business with up to 100 employees (which is based on a nationally accepted definition of a
microbusiness; INEGI 2000). Given the average loan size and methodologies used by the MFIs that are
likely to be eligible for project support, the size of an eligible microbusiness is likely to be much smaller.
In most cases, Eligible Microbusinesses are likely to be the self-employed and businesses with no more than
five employees. Eligible microbusinesses will also not undertake the production or processing of tobacco
products, will not operate tanneries or other businesses that could cause negative impact on the
environment, will not use pesticides or other inputs which are not approved by the World Health
Organization, will not purchase luxury goods, and will not be involved in petroleum production, electricity
production, or the production of firearms and related products. The Operational Manual will provide a list
of economic activities that are not eligible under the terms of the Project.
Determining the Eligibility of a Microfinance Institution. The Operational Manual establishes
clear criteria for the eligibility of microfinance institutions, which include (i) the quality of the loan
portfolio (using portfolio at risk at 30 days), (ii) the adequacy of loan loss reserves, and (iii) the onlending
terms to Eligible Microbusinesses. Eligible MFIs which fail to meet the eligibility requirements will face
sanctions for non-compliance.
Key elements of the assessment described in the Operational Manual include the following nine
areas:
1. Establishment of the trust fund arrangement (Fideicomiso) authorized by NAFIN
2. Adequacy of guarantees for the amount of the active loan portfolio
3. Equity position (unaffected capital of at least one million pesos (US$110,000)
4. Sufficient management and line staff to ensure sound management of resources, and an adequate
accounting system
5. Relevant experience for management and key personnel
6. Legal consultants or staff to resolve loan contract and other legal issues
7. Adequate offices, equipment and computer systems
8. Adequate quality of the loan portfolio
9. Adequate methodologies and outreach activities
- 16-



Measuring the Quality of the Eligible MFI's Loan Portfolio. The initial review to determine
eligibilty and subsequent reviews will assess the performance of Subloans supported by the Project and
performance of the overall loan portfolio of the eligible MFI. The monitoring of the portfolio will be
conducted on a monthly basis by the PCU Microfmance Technical Specialist, and the determination of
continued eligibility of the microfinance institution will be made by the PCU Coordinator at the
headquarters office.
Determining the Reserve Requirements. Based on the guidelines included in the Operational
Manual, reserve requirements are established based on the assessment of the quality of the loan portfolio,
using a standard aging measure and calculating the average number of days past due of active loans. The
system will be adjusted as required by any new financial sector laws, supervision frameworks, and
regulations.
Investment Subprojects for Eligible MFIs to provide Subloans. Proposals for Investment
Subprojects will be presented by Eligible Microfinance Institutions to the PCU. Once the Intermediary
Loan (Type A) Agreement is approved, the Eligible MFI will have access to an Intermediary Loan (Type
A) financed under the Loan at a commercial rate of interest linked to the intermediary market interest rate
(TIIE, the interbank lending rate). The Tasa de interes interbancario de equilibrio (THE) was established
by the Banco de Mexico in the Diario Oficial de la Federaci6n, Volume 1598, No. 17, Section 1, page 11;
23 March 1995. Eligible MFIs will be able to determine the interest rate charged on an investment
subproject loan to an eligible microbusiness, and this rate will be sufficient to cover all operating and
financial costs. The Eligible Microfinance Institution will sign an Intermediary Loan (Type A) Agreement
with NAFIN which will specify the terms and conditions, monitoring indicators, schedule of disbursements,
and other requirements. The amount of the credit line provided in the Intermediary Loan (Type A)
Agreement will be determined based on a technical assessment by the PCU Microfinance Technical
Specialist of (i) the existing systems of the MFI; (ii) the demand for loans for eligible subprojects; (iii) the
requirements for MFI institutional development (as expressed in the Institutional Development Subproject,
based on the outline and terms and stipulations provided in the Operational Manual); and (iv) other relevant
considerations. The Eligible Microbusinesses must provide funds to complete the financing of the
Investment Subproject. All Intermediary Loan (Type A) Agreements, including the standard terms of
Subloans, must be in agreement with the terms and stipulations agreed upon and included in the
Operational Manual.
Institutional Development Subprojects for Eligible MFIs. The Eligible MFI must submit an
Institutional Development Subproject, which demonstrates the ways in which funds provided under the
terms of the Intermediary Loan (Type A) Agreement by the PCU could be used to improve management
systems, provide training to staff, develop new products, and take other concrete measures to improve the
soundness of the MFI and its ability to manage a larger loan portfolio. All Institutional Development
Subprojects must be acceptable to the Bank.
Subloans to Eligible Microbusinesses. Subloans may be provided to end users for a broad range of
productive investments (including manufacturing, services and commerce) and may include working
capital, fixed assets, and other needs. The aggregate amount of Subloans to an Eligible Microbusiness
shall not exceed US$8,000 at any time. The term of the loan, the interest rate, the repayment schedule, the
collateral requirements, and related issues are all determined by the Eligible MEI. The use of funds is
restricted to eligible subprojects as listed in the Operational Manual, which includes a "negative list" of
Investment Subprojects. All terms and conditions of the Subloan application, fees, promotion and delivery
methodologies, and the Subloan approval process will be reviewed periodically by the PCU to insure that
- 17 -



they do not present barriers to microbusiness operators. Limits have been set for working capital loans
(maturity not to exceed 24 months) and for fixed asset loans (maturity not to exceed 48 months).
Microfinance Operating Manuals. Eligible MFIs will provide copies of their operating manuals
and other manuals to the Regional Staff of PCU. These manuals should include (i) a description of the
accounting, auditing, subloan tracking, and financial reporting systems; (ii) procedures for the procurement
of goods and services; (iii) procedures for selection of staff and consultants, and related human resource
matters (salaries, staff evaluation, incentives, etc.); (iv) terms, conditions and model documentation for the
provision of subloans; and (v) procedures for consultation with stakeholders. (Indicators to measure the
performance of the Eligible MFIs are listed in Annex 1.)
Sanctions for Non-compliance. The PCU will apply the existing NAFIN system of sanctions,
including suspension of the credit line and a declaration of ineligibility of the microfinance institution for
project purposes. This is done to insure sound use of the funds, as well as to comply with the existing
regulations and legislation (Normatividad Financiera, inter alia, Ley de Instituciones de Credito; Ley
General de Titulos and Operaciones de Credito). The PCU will inform the Bank in a timely way in the
event of the declaration of ineligibility of a microfmance institution. These procedures and practices will be
adjusted in the event that new regulations are put in place as part of the financial sector reform currently
underway.
ICT-based BDS Component Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
For the purposes of this Project, an infocenter is any of the private comrnmercial companies or
non-profit entities which provides information and communications technology-based development services
in a Participating Southeastem State. The basic infocenter will offer a range of business-oriented services,
market information and databases, sources of key inputs, logistical databases, consulting services, financial
projection models, videoconferencing, and business management training and tools tailored to local client
needs. The infocenter will use promotion and delivery techniques to insure strong outreach to the local
business community, and will emphasize full cost recovery through user fees.
An infocenter will be eligible for project support if it has a business plan (including a financial
model, a marketing plan, and proof of technical and commercial viability), adequate staffing, and links to
local business and civil society partners which have made financial and local content contributions. The
Eligible Infocenter will provide proof of legal registration as a private commercial company or non-profit
entity established in the territory of any of the Participating States, and be registered with the Registro
Federal de Contribuyentes. Infocenter management will agree to provide specific BDS to small and
microbusinesses in a cost-effective way, with no significant barriers to access for all local businesses.
Start-up Subproject Grants. The Eligible Infocenter will submit a Start-up Subproject proposal
and may receive a grant to cover start-up investments and initial operating costs. Grants will range up to
US$100,000 per Eligible Infocenter and will be determined by the PCU Coordinator and Technical
Specialist for the ICT-based BDS Component (and will be in accordance with agreements reached with the
Bank). The decision will be based on the proof of market demand for infocenter services in a particular
market, the level of preparedness reflected in the business plan and technical discussions with local partners
(such as business associations and ISP providers). Grants will be approved and allocated based on the
requirements, terms and conditions for such agreements as detailed in the Operational Manual.
Commercial Subproject Loans for Infocenters. The Eligible Infocenter will enter into an
Intermediary Loan (Type B) Agreement with NAFIN to determrine the amount of funding provided for
- 18 -



full-scale development of the infocenter. The loan for the Commercial Subproject will bear a commercial
rate of interest (linked to TIIE) and will be governed by the terms and conditions set forth in the
Operational Manual. The commercial subproject will specify the financial requirements based on an
annual basis and by expense category for reaching the breakeven point. The Technical Specialist for the
ICT-based BDS Component will review the proposed Commercial Subproject with local experts and the
Project Coordinator to determine the technical feasibility of the Commercial Subproject and determine the
adjustments required. All Intermediary Loan (Type B) Agreements and Grant Agreements must be in
agreement with the terms and stipulations agreed upon and included in the Operational Manual.
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements:
ICT-based Project Monitoring and Evaluation System. The PCU will supervise the Project with
an innovative ICT-based monitoring and evaluation system, which has already been designed. The system
has five modules: (i) management and monitoring by state and by component; (ii) output and outcome
evaluation; (iii) document management; (iv) administrative and financial management; and (v) technical
assistance and training through the use of ITC systems. To maximize learning for all participants, a
project web page is being designed to provide information on project advances and lessons learned, and to
address technical, financial and management issues that arise during implementation. There will also be
annual reviews to measure and discuss the advances, problems, and lessons of the Project. The design of
the annual reviews by component is provided below.
Baseline Data Collection and Monitoring of Microfinance Services Component. Baseline data
will be collected as Eligible Microfinance Institutions qualify for project services and begin to serve new
clients (Eligible Microbusinesses). Key baseline data for Eligible Microfinance Institutions will include
pre-project status in terms of (i) efficiency, (ii) profitability (adjusted for subsidies), (iii) operational
self-sufficiency, (iv) portfolio quality; and (v) the number of active clients (disaggregated by
characteristics). Start-up microfinance institutions will be determined to be eligible only if they have the
systems in place to insure that this baseline infornnation can be collected over time. Baseline data for
Eligible Microbusinesses will include key client characteristics. All actions required will be undertaken to
ensure an accurate portrayal of the participation during the Project of civil society, including inter alia
women and indigenous populations.
The PCU will monitor the loan portfolio performance of the Eligible Microfinance Institutions,
using the system presented in the Operational Manual [largely based on the NAFIN Credit Manual (
Tablero de Supervisi6n)] published in November of 2000 and amended in January and February of 2001.
The NAF1N offices in the participating Southeastern States will assume primary responsibility for ongoing
monitoring of the Project's activities, using the monitoring indicators provided for this component. The key
monitoring indicators for this component are consistent with those advocated by CGAP and used by
international rating agencies. A full external evaluation will be conducted at the end of the third year of the
Project. In addition, the PCU will monitor the client characteristics listed above and collected in the
baseline data surveys.
Baseline Data Collection and Monitoring of ICT-based BDS Component. Baseline data will be
collected for the component through client surveys, which identify the client's characteristics and other key
factors that will illustrate the economic and social impact of the infocenters. Baseline data for eligible
microbusinesses will include key client characteristics. All actions required will be undertaken to ensure an
accurate portrayal of the participation during the Project of civil society, including inter alia women and
indigenous people.
- 19-



The PCU will monitor the use of funds provided under the Grant Agreements and the Intermediary
Loan (Type B) Agreements and the performance of the infocenters, comparing the targets presented in the
Start-up Subproject and the commercial subproject with actual performance. This will be achieved through
a periodic review of the infocenter made during PCU staff site visits and reviews by consultants selected by
the PCU. The PCU will conduct an annual review of program performance for Bank review, annual
reviews and an impact assessment evaluation at the client level. A full extemal evaluation will be conducted
during the third year of the Project.
Annual Project Implementation Reports and Plans. The PCU will prepare and furnish to the
Bank, by not later than April 30 of each year (starting in 2002) and with formats acceptable to the Bank:
(i) a project implementation report, including a detailed description of the activities under the Microfinance
Services Component and the ICT-based BDS Component completed under the twelve months preceding the
date of the report; (ii) an audited annual financial statement, for each Eligible Microfinance Institution and
each Eligible Infocenter; (iii) an annual plan, including an annual budget, implementation timetable for
training programs, and a financial plan (including contributions from public and private sources) for the
activities proposed for implementation during the next calendar year; and (iv) a progress report, including
lessons learned during project implementation. The Project implementation progress report should analyze
the efficiency of the activities of the Eligible Microfinance Institutions and Eligible Infocenters in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, banking, microfinance, infornation communications
technology, participatory, environmental, and social standards and practices, as agreed upon at
Negotiations.
Annual Reviews of Microfinance Services Component. Based on the annual reports described
above, the PCU, jointly with the Bank and the Guarantor, will hold annual reviews by June 30 of each year
(starting in 2002) to determrine the actions needed to strengthen the component's performance (including
eligibility criteria, reporting, the outreach and financial performance of Eligible Microfinance Institutions).
The annual review will identify barriers to access by different types of clients, and will develop remedies
and a plan to track their effectiveness. This review will include a comparison of annual targets (developed
based on the component's monitoring indicators) and actual levels of achievement (in areas such as the
number of active clients, dropouts, adjusted profitability) as reported by the PCU in the annual reports.
Annual Reviews of ICT-Based BDS Component. Based on the annual reports described above, the
PCU, jointly with the Bank and the Guarantor, will conduct annual reviews by June 30 of each year
(starting in 2002) using the baseline study covering (a) market research and analysis for each infocenter,
(b) data provided by participants and users of the infocenters, (c) qualitative and quantitative information
from the logical framework in each state, and (d) a survey undertaken for micro and small businesses in the
target area prior to opening the pilot infocenter and each year compared to a control group. Monitoring
indicators for each infocenter will include the number of clients paying to use the infocenter facilities, the
level of cost coverage of the infocenter, the availability of local content and business-related tools, and the
level of client satisfaction determined by surveys.
Annual Review of the Institutional Development and Capacity Building Component. The PCU,
jointly with the Bank and the Guarantor, will conduct annual reviews by June 30 of each year (starting in
2002) to review the effectiveness of the monitoring and evaluation activities (in terms of costs, accuracy,
timeliness of information, and other aspects), as well as all PCU activities involving the overall
coordination of project planning, operation, resource management, evaluation, supervision resource
management, evaluation of program operation and reporting, auditing, budgeting and financial reporting,
intemal controls, procurement and other aspects of project management.
-20 -



D. Project Rationale
[This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD. Rationale should be implicit in paragraph B: 3.]
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
[For LIL, to the extent applicable]
O Cost benefit     NPV=US$ million; ERR = %  (see Annex 4)
* Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
The Project promotes services and institutional arrangements that connect small and
microbusinesses in the participating Southeastern States to market opportunities (through the development
of the innovative infocenters) and finance the costs of pursuing such opportunities (through project support
for Eligible Microfinance Institutions to onlend to eligible microbusinesses). There are strong synergies in
the combination of services financed under the Loan. By combining access to financial services, market
infonnation and technology, clients will be able to identify and take advantage of new market opportunities,
diversify products, and create jobs.
The expected economic effects of the Microfinance Services Component include increased job
stability, increased income for microbusiness operators, business transformation (from a subsistence level
of production to a commercially viable level), and a decreased risk of business failure through better
inforned product design and market diversification.  Studies conducted during project preparation
illustrate that the annual effective cost of credit for local microbusinesses in Campeche, Yucatan, and
Quintana Roo often exceeds 100% in real terms. The interest rates paid by microbusinesses served by the
microfinance institutions that are most likely to be deemed eligible for project support charge an interest
rate of 30% to 40% in real terms, representing a huge economic benefit for microbusinesses. (Annex 2a
provides additional information on the four MFIs that are most likely to be deemed to be eligible based on
the criteria established in the Operational Manual.)
For the ICT-based BDS Component, the infocenters are likely to have a significant economic
impact on the income of clients, since the infocenters are designed to provide valuable and timely
information on product and packaging design, new markets, sources of raw materials, and suppliers of
machinery and equipment. By increasing the options a small or microbusiness faces, the infocenter will
help to move these businesses from marginal status to full participation in the local and regional economy.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR= % (see Annex 4)
[For LIL, to the extent applicable]
For the Microfinance Services Component, the operational self-sufficiency and potential for full
financial sustainability of three microfinance institutions that are likely to become eligible for project
services were reviewed during project preparation, to ensure that there will be demand for component
services (see Annex 2a for specific reviews of the four institutions). A business planning exercise (based
on the Microfm model advocated by CGAP) was used to reach this deternination. Given the low cost of
labor and the interest rates for similar financial services by the target client group and the scale of demand
- 21 -



for such services, it is possible that the eligible MFIs could reach full operating self-sufficiency (operating
costs covered by fees and income generated by the loan portfolio) during the life of the Project.
For the ICT-based BDS Services Component, it is expected that the infocenters will become
self-sufficient by generating operating income that covers all operating costs and equipment. The Project
will support the development of a simulation model as part of the preparation of the initial business plan for
each infocenter. (See Annex 2b for additional information on costs and the break even point of a typical
infocenter, which has been estimated to be within 24 months of start-up.)
Fiscal Impact:
Not applicable
3. Technical:
[For LIL, enter data if applicable or 'Not Applicable']
The technology involved in the ICT-based BDS Component is relatively advanced and rapidly
evolving, the Project will provide the infocenters with technical support staff that have experience with the
latest e-commerce, distance learning and adult education techniques.  The Microfinance Services
Component will also provide access to recent technical advances in MFI management, including
management information and loan tracking systems, audit practices tailored to the special risks of
microfinance operations, and recently developed approaches for measuring client satisfaction and
developing new products.
4. Institutional:
Implementation period: 4 years
4.1 Executing agencies:
NAFIN will be the executing agency of the Project. NAFIN has a proven record in working with
the Bank in several projects in which it acts as a financial intermediary. In 2000, NAFIN developed a new
credit analysis and supervision system and supporting operating manual, tailored to non-bank financial
institutions. Key topics include a systems review, portfolio quality, sanctions, loan supervision, leverage,
and solvency. NAFIN regional staff in the Participating States will be trained in this new system, and will
be responsible for timely collection and analysis of key financial and outreach information. NAFIN is well
prepared to take on many of the key responsibilities related to project execution, although the PCU has only
recently been established and is not yet fully staffed.
4.2 Project management:
Project Coordination Unit (PCU). Responsibility for the Project will rest with the Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) to be established within NAFIN. Various departments of NAFIN have
participated in project preparation, including Operations (Direcci6n de Operaciones), Intemational Affairs
(Direcci6n Adjunta Internacional), Legal Department (Direcci6n Adjunta Legal), Financing (Direcci6n
Adjunta de Financiamiento) and the Fiduciary Department (Direccion Fiduciaria). NAFIN has developed
significant project management capacity with previous and ongoing Bank projects. For these projects,
NAFIN has met the Bank's financial management requirements, as it has an adequate structure for internal
control, financial reporting, procedures for budget control and a computerized information system which
supports accounting processes and transactions. These arrangements will be fully satisfactory to the Bank
when the PCU has been fully created and staffed, and there is a specific system for project management.
An Action Plan was agreed to at Negotiations. As of September 1, 2001, the Project Coordinator,
Administrative Manager, Procurement Specialist, and Project Accountant had been identified, and were
already working on project preparation within NAFIN's Project team. The Bank will only approve legal
- 22 -



evidence of formal appointment.
It was agreed that there are two conditions of Loan Effectiveness related to the project
management: (a) establishment of the PCU and the identification and selection of the Project Coordinator,
Administrative Manager, Procurement Specialist, Microfinance Technical Specialist and ICT-based
Business Development Services Specialist; and (b) the Project Operational Manual shall be issued by the
PCU and in place (as described in Section C.2., page 15).
4.3 Procurement issues:
The procurement function will be undertaken by the PCU. The PCU will be responsible for: (i)
preparing tender documents, (ii) calling for bids , (iii) evaluating and comparing bids and consultants
qualifications, (iv) awarding contracts, (v) signing the contracts, and (vi) maintaining all the corresponding
records. Contracts are expected to be small; therefore procurement methods identified are simple and there
are no special issues to be addressed. A Bank Procurement Specialist has carried out a Capacity
Assessment to Implement Procurement and verified the capacity of the PCU to carry out procurement in
agreement with Bank standards and requirements. NAFIN's Unidad de Financiamientos Especiales,
which has significant experience with Bank procurement and detailed technical training from Bank
programs in Turin and Washington, D.C., will support all procurement conducted by the PCU.
It was agreed at Negotiations that, in order to facilitate the large number of small transactions
involved in the Microfmance Services Component (for subloans for eligible Investment Subprojects), a
procurement category of commercial practices will be used, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank. There will be no prior review of Subloans.
The overall risk assessment is considered to be average. The risk assessment is low for the
following sections: (i) legal aspects, (ii) project cycle management, and (iii) record keeping. The risk level
has been determined to be average for the following sections of the assessment: (i) organization and
functions (pending completion of the operational manual), (ii) support and control systems, (iii) general
procurement environment, and (iv) private sector assessment. The PCU has already prepared an
acceptable Procurement Plan for the project. (Detailed information is presented in Section C (Project
Description Summary, Section 2) and in Annex 6).
4.4 Financial management issues:
Financial Management. In order to be in compliance with Bank requirements per OP/BP 10.02,
an assessment of the Project's financial management system was carried out by an accredited Financial
Management Specialist. The assessment covered the Project's financial management system, which
includes budgeting, accounting, intemal control, auditing and reporting. Project staffing was reviewed as
well. The assessment was based on applicable Bank guidelines, which included the Project Financial
Management Manual (World Bank, February 1999), The Loan Administration Change Initiative LACI,
Implementation Handbook (World Bank, September 1998), the Financial Accounting, Reporting and
Auditing Handbook or FARAH (World Bank, January 1995) and the Guidelines and Terms of Reference
for Audits of Projects with Financing by the World Bank in the Latin America and Caribbean Region
(World Bank, May 1999).
Given that the PCU will be responsible of overall coordination of project planning, operation,
resource management, evaluation, supervision resource management, evaluation of program operation and
reporting, it is taking actions to include in the management information system (MIS System) a module to
produce quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs) which eventually will be used for project
disbursement. Traditional disbursement methods such as statements of expenditures (SOE), direct
- 23 -



payments and special commitments would be used until the PCU is ready to adopt the PMR-based
disbursement methodology, and until full compliance of the Bank's requirements. These arrangements and
resulting procedures will be reflected in the Operational Manual.
A time-bound action plan satisfactory to the Bank was agreed to at Negotiations so that the PCU
will prepare and issue quarterly PMRs not later than July 31, 2002. These PMRs will include sources and
applications of funds for the Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered in the report, with
special attention to expenditures financed by the Bank loan. The PMR will describe physical progress in
Project implementation and explain variances between plans and actual performance. The PMRs will be
provided within 45 days of the completion of each three-month period.
Budgeting Process. An annual budget will be prepared by the PCU on the basis of annual
activities for each component. Financing for the proposed project would be included in the NAFIN budget,
and funds would be channeled through a Special Account. Counterpart funds for the Project would flow
from NAFIN's Treasury to an account established for project purposes. For each participating
Southeastern State, funds would be deposited into a commercial bank account established by each state for
project purposes. This bank account will be complemented by deposits of counterpart funds. The PCU will
be responsible for budget consolidation and project control and reporting.
Cost of Funds. Project funds for the Microfinance Services Component will be borrowed by
NAFIN under the terms of an authorization issued by the Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Ptiblico.
NAFIN will on-lend the funds to Eligible Microfmance Institutions that fulfill the Project eligibility criteria
in accordance with the Operational manual. The interest rate that NAFIN will lend to eligible MFIs will
vary according to the currency of the Intermediary Loan (Type A), with (i) peso-denominated loans based
on the financial intermnediary market interest (TIIE) and a margin established in the Operational manual and
(ii) dollar-denominated Intermediary Loans (Type A) based on the interest rate detailed in the Operational
manual. The eligible MFIs, in turn, will fund subloans for eligible investment subprojects to eligible
sub-borrowers at a rate of interest sufficient to cover all operating and financial costs. During the life of
the Project, the cost of funds from the PCU to the Eligible Microfinance Institution will not be permitted to
drop to a subsidized level. The cost of funds provided by the PCU will be monitored to insure that no
interest rate subsidies are introduced during the life of the Project.
Intermediary Loan Agreement (Type A) for Eligible MFIs. An Intermediary Agreement (Type
A, also called the Contrato de Descuento Crediticio) will be signed betweerr NAFIN and each Eligible
Microfinance Institution which sets forth the terns and conditions of the loans from NAFIN, as well as
defining the general eligibility criteria to be applied in selection of microbusinesses and the eligibility
criteria for investment subprojects (reflecting the "negative list" set forth in the Operational Manual). A
Condition of Disbursement is that Bank loan proceeds for an Intermediary Loan (Type A) Agreement will
be conditioned upon the receipt of documentary evidence confirming that an Intermediary Loan (Type A)
Agreement satisfactory to the Bank has been signed by NAFIN and the Eligible Microfinance Institution
and is legally binding.
Intermediary Loan Agreement (Type B) and Grant Agreement for Eligible Infocenters. An
Intermediary Agreement (Type B, also called the Contrato de Credito de Primer Piso) will be signed
between NAFIN and each eligible infocenter which sets forth the terms and conditions of the loans from
NAFIN, as well as defining the general eligibility criteria established in the Project Operational Manual.
The Grant Agreement (also known as the Convenio de Donaci6n) is signed between NAFIN and the eligible
infocenter for purposes specifically set forth in the Loan Agreement for goods, consultants' services and
training related to infocenter start-up costs. A Condition of Disbursment is that Bank loan proceeds for an
- 24 -



Intermediary Loan (Type B) Agreement will be conditioned upon the receipt of documentary evidence
confirming that an Intermediary Loan (Type B) Agreement and a Grant Agreement satisfactory to the
Bank have been signed by NAFIN and the Eligible Infocenter and are legally binding.
Special Account. To facilitate project implementation, a Special Account (SA) will be established
within NAFIN in US dollars with an authorized allocation of US$500,000. However, the Authorized
Allocation will be limited to US$300,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan
Account, plus the total amount of outstanding special commitments, equals or exceeds the equivalent of
USS million.
Traditional documentation requirements apply for direct payments, special commitments and
statements of expenditures (SOEs). The PCU in coordination with the Direccion de Operaciones of
NAFIN, would prepare the necessary documentation for prompt disbursements.
Retroactive Financing. Retroactive financing was agreed to at Negotiations, under the following
conditions: (i) withdrawals may not exceed an aggregate of $500,000, (ii) the eligible categories for
retroactive financing include Investment Subprojects (subloans by eligible microbusinesses), Institutional
Development Subprojects (by eligible MFIs), Start-up Subprojects (for eligible infocenters), and PCU
consultants' services, training and audits; and (iii) the expenses must have been incurred after December
15, 2000.
Reporting. The management information system (MIS) will be able to record and report the
Project's operations in dollars (by components, states, sub-components, activities, and expenditure
categories, regardless of origin of funds). Administrative and financial procedures will be detailed in the
Operational Manual to be a[pproved by Loan Effectiveness. The PCU's ability to generate financial
reports according to Bank guidelines will be reviewed by the Bank financial management specialist before
the date of expected Loan Effectiveness, to determine if the condition of Effectiveness (presented in Section
G. 1. below) has been met.
Accounts and Audits. The PCU, through the NAFIN Accounting Department, will maintain
records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the resources and
expenditures in conmection with the execution of the Project. For the execution of the proposed project a
management information system (MIS) is being developed for project management. Such records will be
used to prepare quarterly project management reports which will link project expenditures to key
monitoring indicators of project activities and procurement information. The formats, period of submission,
and basis to produce those reports will be in accordance with the Bank's Financial Management Manual
and Bank requirements for projects under the financial management initiative and agreements between
NAFIN and the Bank.
External audits of project financial statements will be required on an annual basis, and will be
made available to the Bank not later than six months after the end of the fiscal year. These audits will
include all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from both the Special Account are made, as
well as an opinion of the financial statements by the auditor. The PCU will ensure that records, accounts
and supporting information are available for NAFIN to carry out its obligations, for review by Bank
supervision missions, and for the purposes of external audits as required. Annual audits would be carried
out in line with the Technical Memorandum of Understanding on Auditing (MET), which was agreed
between the Secretaria de Contraloria y Desarrollo Administrativo (SECODAM) and the Bank. As
agreed for ongoing projects for which NAFIN is the executing agency, the auditor acceptable to the Bank
for this Project would be the same audit firm designated for all NAFIN operations. Audits will be carried
- 25 -



out in agreement with the International Standards on Auditing (ISA), will be based on terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, and will include a full review of records, accounts, processes and subprojects
(including field visits) at both the federal and state level. Loan proceeds will be used to finance the external
audits.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Proposed Investment Subprojects will be reviewed and assessed by the PCU Microfinance Technical
Specialist. The following categories of Investment Subprojects have been determined to be ineligible for
project funding. The Microfmance Services Component Investment Subprojects cannot be involved in:
1. The production or processing of tobacco products.
2. Tanneries or other businesses that could cause a negative impact on the environment.
3. Any business which uses pesticides or other inputs which are not approved by the World Health
Organization.
4. The purchase of luxury goods.
5. Petroleum production.
6. Electricity production.
7. The production of firearms and related products.
8. Other products and services which are considered to have adverse effects on the health of the general
public.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The key social issue addressed by the Project is the lack of access to affordable, reliable financial
services by low income microbusiness operators in the Participating Southeastern States. The microfinance
methodologies employed by the participating institutions have built on the social capital of poor
communities, using solidarity groups as a joint liability mechanism to overcome a lack of collateral.
Solidarity groups are voluntarily formed community membership organizations established, often with
support from MFI staff, to receive loans and provide a mutual guarantee in the form of joint liability. If
one member fails to pay a loan installment, others in the group cover the payment to insure that the group
as a whole will continue to have access to financial services. This is not a kinship-based group. All project
activities have been designed and will be implemented to ensure that all low income business operators will
- 26 -



have access to project services, especially those who have traditionally had problems in accessing formal
services (inter alia women, indigenous populations and those in rural areas).
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The Project has been designed using a participatory approach. Stakeholders from the private
sector, civil society, local and state govenmments, NAFIN, BDS training centers, local business associations
and chambers of commerce, and local universities have engaged in a series of logical framework exercises
in the three states that have already been deemed to be Participating States to design project interventions.
The design of the components has been linked to existing initiatives promoting private sector development
in two Southeastem States (Transformando Campeche, Visi6n 2025 de Quintana Roo). In addition, two
regional seminars were conducted to discuss the different approaches for the components. The consultation
process with the wide range of stakeholders will continue during project implementation.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
During project preparation, the Bank team held consultations with a variety of civil society actors in
the development of the Project. Discussions were held with the Instituto Nacional Indigenista (INI)
representatives in Yucatan, to insure that project-supported activities would not exclude indigenous
populations. INI emphasized the importance of the Project for low income indigenous populations,
especially the Microfmance Services Component's assistance to APIS and the ICT-based BDS Component
support for the Yucatan infocenter (which will also serve APIS members). Consultations also took place
with the Universidad Aut6noma de Yucatan for the development of the Microfmance Services Component.
Bank consultants also interviewed a small sample of indigenous clients of the Buenaventura Program in
Campeche and APIS (Yucatan). The development of infocenter activities has used a logframe/demand
driven approach and has been based on a consultation process with a wide range of civil society
representatives (including community representatives, private and public sector institutions), in an effort to
make the component's activities as inclusive as possible.
As agreed upon at Negotiations, the PCU will conduct consultations during project implementation
with representatives of the Eligible Microfinance Institutions and eligible infocenters, the private sector and
civil society, including inter alia, women and indigenous populations residing in the Participating States,
through the provision of technical assistance and training, and the preparation of technical notes and
reports.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Microfinance Services Component. During project development, the World Bank Project team
found that the local microfinance institutions (such as Buenaventura Program in Campeche and APIS in
Yucatan) have developed effective operationally oriented outreach strategies to reach very poor clients who
have traditionally been served only by informal, expensive sources of credit. The component will
encourage Eligible Microfmance Institutions to develop outreach strategies, track related monitoring
indicators, and conduct client and dropout surveys. Baseline data and the monitoring and evaluation
system will be able to track the social impact of component activities. These institutions were reviewed and
are likely to be eligible under the terms set forth in the Operational Manual, in part because they reach low
income clients who have not been served by financial institutions in the past, as the examples below
illustrate. (These summaries come from a review of the client files of the institutions and market research
conducted by the MFIs likely to participate in the Project as part of the business planning process.)
Buenaventura. The typical member of a Buenaventura solidarity group is a rural woman with
-27 -



three children, a series of small secondary activities, and one central economic activity (such as trade or
household production). She chooses to participate to take advantage of the working capital, and to be able
to expand the microbusiness. She only requires P. 500 ($45) initially in working capital.
APIS. The clients are artisan scale beekeepers who have joined APIS and seek to adopt modem
production and processing technologies and increase the quality of output to reach intemational standards.
In the Yucatan Peninsula, there are 20,000 people whose incomes rely, in part, on honey production. The
average shareholder has over 100 beehives in production, although a significant number in more rural areas
have only 25 to 30. Current production averages 40 kgs per beehive, far below the potential levels of
production. The new shareholders will be rural producers who wish to expand from less than 25 hives to
more than 50, which is considered the minimum number for commercial viability. While most shareholders
are men, the activity is often a family enterprise in which women household members participate.
Fondo Chetumal. Clients are expected to include small and microbusinesses in production
(carpenters, metalworkers, and tailors), services (small restaurants, beauty salons, and motorcycle and
bicycle repair shops), and commerce (market stall traders and street vendors). Market research is
underway to determine the methodologies (such as solidarity groups, village banks, individual loans with
non-traditional guarantees) for each client group.
Canacintra Quintana Roo. The typical business association member is a small hotel supply or
service provider (examples of the 180 products provided by microbusinesses to hotel chains include
cleaning liquids, milk, pillows, tables and beds). He requires a loan of approximately P. 70,000 as working
capital to purchase more supplies, or produce more goods for sales to the hotels. He has to wait from 60 to
120 days for payment, making it difficult to continue to operate without a source of affordable credit.
The outreach strategy for this component is described in detail in Annex 2d. The Operational
Manual will also include criteria of eligibility for microfinance institutions that review the type of client, to
insure that the overall Project Development Objective is met.
ICT-based BDS Component. During project preparation, a series of logframe exercises were
conducted in Campeche, Yucatan, and Quintana Roo to include all institutions in infocenter development
from the private sector, public sector and civil society. These exercises included universities, local NGOs,
state and local government representatives, and community organizatios (such as the beekeepers who are
members of APIS).
The ICT-based BDS will assist urban and rural small and microbusinesses to diversify sources of
inputs, identify new clients and markets, and change the ways in which they produce to increase
profitability and efficiency. It will also link rural communities with local, national, and international
markets, a key to improving the level of economic development of these communities. Baseline data and
the monitoring and evaluation system will be able to track the social impact of component activities.
The target clients are business operators that can be classified into two large markets: (i) very
low-income microbusinesses, with low literacy and numeracy levels, (handicrafts, artisans, honey
producers, chili habanero producers, and others); and (ii) more complex small and micro businesses (retail
commerce, restaurants, services, professional/personal services, light manufacturing, suppliers of hotels,
and others) with literacy and numeracy skills. Direct consultations have been held with potential clients
among honey producers, service suppliers, and agro-producers. A market research study has been
completed which provides an assessment of small and microbusiness operator experience with and
knowledge of information and communication technologies. These findings will .be incorporated into the
- 28 -



first year business plans of the three infocenters. (Annex 2d provides detailed information on the outreach
strategy of this component.)
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
For the Microfinance Services Component, this will be achieved through periodic impact
evaluations, interviews with clients and dropouts, and interviews with solidarity group leaders (if this
methodology is employed by Eligible Microfinance Institutions). In addition, the eligible MFIs will be
asked to interview dropouts, to understand the possible negative aspects of participation in component
activities. Monitoring indicators will be used to measure the participation of different groups of local
entrepreneurs to identify any barriers to participation by eligible microbusinesses. During the annual
reviews, adjustments will be made to address these baffiers to access to project services. (These indicators
are provided in Annex 1.)
For the ICT-based BDS Component, the social development outcomes will be measured through
impact evaluations, client surveys, and meetings with infocenter clients to see if they are taking advantage
of the new technologies and identify and address any barriers to access to component services.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                    Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            0 Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    * Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                               0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)          0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The Indigenous Peoples Operational Directive of the Bank (OD 4.20) applies to this project.
Therefore, the World Bank Project team conducted consultations during project preparation, consultations
were held with key civil society actors (including universities, actual and potential microbusiness clients,
and community groups).
The World Bank Project team also met with the Instituto Nacional Indigenista (TN, a Government
institute), related to the development of the APIS microfinance proposal and the Yucatan infocenter
proposal. The INI, which has worked closely with APIS for more than five years, took part in key
discussions during project appraisal, providing examples of communities where the APIS approach to
beekeeping had played an important role in community and local business development. The INI also
offered advice concerning the design of the Yucatan infocenter, which will link poor rural beekeepers to
international markets.
To gain a better understanding of the local situation and the characteristics of the low income
indigenous populations in YucatAn, Campeche, and Quintana Roo, the World Bank Project team reviewed
a recent study entitled Perfil Indigena de Yucatan (covering Campeche, Yucatan, and Quintana Roo)
prepared by CIES.
- 29 -



For the ICT-based BDS Component, the design of the infocenter business plan in each Participating
State was undertaken through participatory workshops, which developed logframe analyses of the services,
local support and specific sectoral links that would make infocenter services as relevant as possible to the
local business community, universities and other representatives of civil society.
For the Microfinance Services Component, during project preparation, the World Bank Project team
and consultants (financed by a Japan Trust Fund) carried out due diligence reviews of the three existing
microfmance providers most likely to become eligible for project services, including a review of the
outreach strategies used to reach very low income clients. A review of the methodologies by the World
Bank Project team did not identify any barriers to participation that could block access to financial services
(such as high membership fees, high value physical guarantees for loans, or highly technical application
forns). During appraisal, the World Bank team found that the local MFls have adapted methodologies to
match low income clients in terms of language, timing of meetings, and decentralization of membership
selection and rule to community groups using a joint liability (solidarity group) methodology (in two of the
three cases) or community leader references (in the third case).
The development of business plans by three microfinance institutions (the Buenaventura Program,
APIS, and Fondo Chetumal) were undertaken with guidance from experienced microfinance consultants.
The business plans take into account the economic and social characteristics of actual and potential low
income clients, and the operational requirements of reaching them with financial services. The nature of the
clients (discussed in greater detail in Annex 2a) illustrates the poverty focus of the Buenaventura Program
(100% of clients are rural women) and APIS (almost all clients are rural Mayan villagers). Both
institutions promote services in indigenous areas with materials and presentations made in local languages.
Baseline surveys have already been conducted by Buenaventura Program and APIS to collect key
information on the economic, financial and  social characteristics of project beneficiaries of the
Microfmance Services Component. As new clients are served, baseline information will be collected,
enabling the Project to track progress and impact efficiently. While no barriers to access are expected, any
barriers identified by the monitoring system, World Bank supervision missions, and the impact evaluation
will be addressed.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
This section is not to be completed in LIL PAD.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating             Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
The local institutions have trouble         M         Intensive work with Buenaventura and Fondo
developing financial management, human                Chetumal during project preparation, using
resource, and marketing systems required              experienced consultants and CGAP field-tested
to attract large numbers of clients and               financial planning tools; product and market
manage an expanded loan portfolio.                    development technical assistance.
Changes in the legal and regulatory         S         Coordination with Bank projects working on
framework limit the ability of non-bank               financial sector regulatory issues; Participation
financial intermediaries to expand                    of NAFIN, a large state bank seeking to work
outreach and provide new services.                    more with NBFIs. Flexibility built into project
- 30 -



design.
Infocenters have trouble developing         M          Intensive preparation with the institutions
relevant local content, training courses,             supporting the infocenters. Possibility of
tailored software programs, applications               synergisms by coordinating with similar Bank
and services that match target group                  projects in El Salvador, Guatemala.
demand in a cost-effective way.
There are difficulties in coordination,     M         PCU responsibilities clearly established, PCU
given the number of institutions involved             budget already allocated, very participatory
in implementation, making it hard to                  design exercises have led to strong consensus on
achieve and measure project impact.                   project objectives and activities.
From Components to Outputs
Counterpart funds not available as          M         NAFIN has signed financing agreements and
required by the executing institutions.               included the funds in its budget. Local
stakeholders have already contributed.
There is not sufficient demand for          M          During project preparation, four MFIs were
Microfinance Services Component credit                identified that have business plans, credible
line and institutional development                    projections, excess demand, and meet most or
subproject financing by Eligible                      all of the eligibility criteria in the Operational
Microfinance Institutions.                            Manual
hifocenter technology and application       M         Infocenters will benefit from local knowledge of
package not "user friendly", or are poorly            local partners. There is little competition for
promoted to target client group. Local                 services, and cost projections are reasonable
content will not be adequate, ICT                     from client perspective. Project will benefit
education will be very difficult.                     from other Bank experiences in Guatemala, El
Salvador, Peru.
Replication potential is overstated for the  M        NAFIN has very strong interest in replication;
microfinance and ICT-based BDS                        Budget set aside for documentation and
components.                                           dissemination activities; Other southem states
have already expressed interest in possible
replication.
Overall Risk Rating                         M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
(a)    The NAFIN Board (Consejo Directivo) has issued an Acuerdo accepting the terms of the
authorization provided from the Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico.
(b)    The PCU has been established and its Project Coordinator, Administrative Manager, the
Procurement Specialist, and the Microfinance Technical Specialist and the ICT-based BDS
Specialist have been selected.
- 31 -



(c)    The Operational Manual has been issued by the PCU and is in effect.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
2. Conditions for Disbursement
(a)    Funds for Intermediary Loan Agreement (Type A) will be conditioned upon the receipt of
documentary evidence confirming that an Intermediary Loan Agreement (Type A) satisfactory to
the Bank has been signed by NAFIN and the Eligible Microfinance Institution and is legally
binding, and necessary non-Loan counterpart funds for Subprojects have been provided.
(b)    Funds for Intermediary Loan Agreement (Type B) will be conditioned upon the receipt of signed
and legally binding Intermediary Loan Agreement (Type B) satisfactory to the Bank, and
necessary non-Loan counterpart funds for Subprojects have been provided.
3. Other Covenants
(a)    NAFIN shall maintain the PCU to execute the Project and coordinate Project activities in
accordance with the Project Operational Manual, the Implementation Letter, and the
responsibilities specified for the PCU (as set forth in Section C.2., pages 13-15, and Section C.4.4,
pages 23-24).
(b)    NAFIN shall ensure that the Eligible Microfinance Institutions, Eligible Infocenters, and Eligible
Microbusinesses provide, promptly and as needed, the funds required for Project activities, in
agreement with Intermediary Loan Agreements (Type A) for Eligible MFIs, Intermediary Loan
Agreement (Type B) for Eligible Infocenters, Grant Agreements for Eligible Infocenters, and
Subloan Agreements for Eligible Microbusinesses.
(c)    NAFIN shall ensure that the Eligible Microfmance Institutions: (i) issue an operating manual with
relevant information on selection of Eligible Microbusinesses and terms, conditions, and model
documentation of Subloans; (ii) provide an annual action plan by October 31 of each year, (iii)
provide audited annual financial statements by April 30 of each year, and (iv) carry out project
activities, including the Subprojects, with all due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, banking, microfmance, information communications
technology, participatory, environmental, and social standards and practices, and with due regard
to the provisions of the Normatividad Financiera.
(d)    NAFIN shall (i) prepare an annual report by April 30 of each year of the Project (starting in 2002),
(ii) an annual plan by October 31 of each project year (starting in 2002), and, (iii) based on this
report and an annual plan, shall carry out an annual review by June 30 of each year of the Project,
jointly with the Guarantor and the Bank (starting in 2002). (Section C.3., page 21)
(e)    NAFIN shall prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, a plan designed to ensure
the sustainability of the Project, and shall furnish this plan to the Bank not later than six months
before the Closing Date of the Loan.
H. Readiness for Implementation
O 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
Z 1. b) Not applicable.
- 32 -



0I 2. The procurement documents for the first six months' activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation; and a framework has been established for agreement on standard bidding
documents that will be used for ongoing procurement throughout the life of LIL
0 3. The LIL's Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
Finalized Operational Manual; PCU staffing.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
0 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Michael J. Gol erg               Danny M. Leipzige                 Olivier Lafourcade
Team Leader                      Sector Managerlir tr              Country Manager/Director
- 33 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
MEXICO: Southeast Regional Development Learning and Innovation Project
Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Remove obstacles to        Country development        Removal of barriers to private Effective policy dialogue.
sustainable growth, thereby   benchmark is to have    sector development activity
improving the              economic growth rate of about and trade.
competitiveness of the private 2.0% in 2001 (with strong  Govemment economic
sector.                    private investment and     statistics and reports.
exports.
Follow-on Development
Objective:
To increase access of urban   Number of potentially   Reports from Participating    Available funding for initial
and rural microbusiness in   sustainable MFIs and     States, eligible MFIs and  investments; strong
other states to sustainable,    infocenters establishing or    Eligible Infocenters that  public/private partnership to
appropriately designed     expanding operations after    participate in LIL project    identify pools of clients,
microfinance and ICT-based  participation in dissemination dissemination activities;  design attractive products and
BDS services.              activities in the Participating  Summaries of dissemination  services; commercial
States.                    workshops.                 approach.
Expansion or changes in                               No regulatory, legal,
microfinance and infocenter                           supervision/reporting or
programs of NAFIN, the                                taxation issues related to
Secretaria de Economia,                               non-bank financial
CONACYT, and other                                    institutions that could make
govemment institutions based                          replication less attractive to
on the results of the Project.                        public and private sectors.
Project Development        Outcome I Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
To assist Participating States  Learning Indicators:  Annual Plans, Annual Project Availability of local, in-
in the Southeast and the   Demonstration of MFI       Implementation Reports,    ternational consultants with
private sector to learn about   management systems,   Supervision missions by PCU  relevant TA and training
(a) the requirements of    govemance structures,      staff, and Bank supervision    experience to assist in MFI
sustainable microfinance   promotion and product mix   missions.                 institu-tional development.
methodologies to promote    that can lead to sustainability
access to financial services to  and outreach to the poor.
unserved populations, and (b)
to test the use of information  Demonstration of services and
communications technology   systems (hardware, software,
(ICT) to deliver business  local content) required for
development services to    Eligible Infocenter(s) to reach
microbusinesses in a cost  breakeven point.
effective and sustainable
manner.
- 34 -



T    Key Performance                                                               l
Hierarchy of Objectives           Indicators           Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Output from each           Output Indicators:          Project reports:            (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Eligible MFI(s) will become   Sustainability of at least one   Financial statements of  MFIs can meet component
sustainable and reach a    eligible MFI(s) shown by:   MFI(s), impact evaluations,   eligibility requirements.
significant level of outreach to * Efficiency (cost/peso lent)  MFI institutional development
local microbusinesses.       under 0.40.               plans and results.          MFI promotion will be
* Profitability (adjusted for                          effective; products and
subsidies) on positive trend. PCU monitoring reports.  delivery methodologies will be
* Operational Self-sufficiency                         attractive; loan contracts will
of 90%.                                              be enforceable.
* Portfolio quality (PAR over
30 days) under 6.0%.                                 No regulations restricting
access firms; MFI
Outreach shown by at least                             management and boards have
one eligible MFI:                                      operational autonomy.
* Number of active clients
increases by 50% during
Project.
* Start-up MFIs have at least
500 clients by end of first
full year of operations.
* Client data (disaggregated
by characteristics).
Eligible Infocenter(s) carry    At least I Infocenter covers   Infocenter annual reports,    Technical issues resolved,
out business plan(s) and begin 50% of operating costs afler   PCU monitoring reports.  local content is updated
to generate income from fees  two years of operation.                              regularly, clients have
to cover increasing share of                                                       sufficient discretionary
operating costs.           Number of active clients                                income to cover costs of
increases by 20% per year.                             services.
Lessons thoroughly         At least 5 products based on   Annual reports, technical  PCU, eligible MFIs and
documented by PCU.         local content by end of     notes, evaluation report.   Eligible Infocenters
Project.                                               document experiences and
Technical notes, impact and                            analyze lessons well.
other evaluations completed
summaries of lessons learned.
- 35 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators         Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                            Outputs)
Microfinance Services     US$2.935 million           Quarterly reports from PCU   Management teams of MFI(s)
Component                                            and Eligible Microfinance    commercially oriented and
Institutions; annual reviews;  have financial management
impact evaluation report.    experience.
ICT-based BDS Component  US$0.675 million            Quarterly reports from PCU   Local content, courses and
and Eligible Infocenters;  applications are accepted by
Impact evaluation report;    local clients, and they are
annual reviews.           willing to pay for services.
Project Management (PCU)   US$0.880 million          PCU reports based on       Project management staff able
ICT-based monitoring and    to document key lessons
evaluation system.        leamed, track use of funds in
accordance with Bank
regulations and requirements
- 36 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
MEXICO: Southeast Regional Development Learning and Innovation Project
Microfinance Services Component
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$2.94 million
Problem. The Southeast region of Mexico has a weak financial sector and only two relatively
small microfmance institutions. Few commercial banks are presently providing credit to micro or small
businesses, and there is a very small and ineffective credit union movement. Nonetheless, a recent micro
and small business survey covering three of the Southeastern States (Campeche, Yucatan, and Quintana
Roo) identified 103,600 businesses, with the vast majority classified as microbusinesses. In sum, demand
for microfinance services is very large, and there are only a few institutions that would be interested in this
market and could respond to such demand.
Objective. The objective is to provide access to financial services to a significant number of
microbusinesses in participating Southeastern States by strengthening Eligible Microfinance Institutions,
thereby demonstrating the potential for microfinance best practices in less developed urban and rural
markets of Mexico. In each Participating State, an innovative approach will be used to provide
microfinance services to a significant scale of local businesses. Since the states will use different
approaches, each state will be exposed to three microfinance institutional approaches. In this way,
microbusinesses will gain access to reliable, commercially priced working capital and investment credit, as
well as secure savings facilities in some cases, provided by sustainable institutions.
Innovative Elements and Learning Agenda. The innovative element of this component is
NAFIN's interest in building a portfolio with microfinance institutions and microbusinesses, which it
increasingly views as viable clients. For NAFIN, this Project represents an innovative approach to working
with microfinance institutions, which are new clients in terms of the uncollateralized loan portfolios and the
large number of very small financial transactions involved The Project will demonstrate the viability of
such clients and the requirements of sustainable microfinance institutions (in terms of financial
management, lending and savings products, delivery mechanisms, outreach strategies, and operational and
planning systems). This approach will allow NAFIN to improve its role as a catalyst for the microfinance
industry in other Mexican states.
Component Services. NAFIN will directly provide the commercially priced credit line to qualified
microfinance institutions under the terms and conditions of an Intermediary Loan (Type A). In addition,
the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) located in NAFIN will serve as a source of technical assistance.
Definition of an Eligible Microbusiness. For the purposes of this Component, an Eligible
Microbusiness is an enterprise comprising up to 30 employees established and operating in a Participating
State. However, given average loan size and the methodologies used by existing microfinance institutions,
the size of an eligible microbusiness is likely to be much smaller. Eligible microbusinesses will also not
undertake the production or processing of tobacco products, will not operate tanneries or other businesses
that could cause negative impact on the enviroument, and will not use pesticides or other inputs which are
not approved by the World Health Organization. The Operational Manual will provide a list of economic
activities that are not eligible under the terms of the Project.
Determining the Eligibility of a Microfinance Institution. The Component will be implemented
in accordance with the Operational Manual which (i) establishes clear criteria for eligibility of microfinance
- 37 -



institutions, (ii) measures the quality of the loan portfolio (using portfolio at risk at 30 days), (iii)
establishes reserve requirements, (iv) reviews onlending terms to eligible microbusinesses, and (v) monitors
the performance of the Eligible Microfinance Institutions and imposes sanctions for non-compliance. An
Eligible MFI should be able to demonstrate the ways in which its lending methodology promotes the
participation of all microbusinesses (excluding those which have activities found on the Project's negative
list for subloans), including those operated by, inter alia, women and indigenous populations.
Credit Line to Eligible MFIs for Subloans. Eligible Microfinance Institutions will have access to
an Intermediary Loan (Type A) financed under the Loan at the intermediary market interest rate (TIIE), a
commercial rate of interest for financial institutions. The Eligible MFI will be able to determine the interest
rate charged to eligible microbusinesses, and this rate will be sufficient to cover all operating and financial
costs. The Eligible MFI will sign an Intermediary Loan Agreement (Type A) with NAFIN which will
specify the terms and stipulations, monitoring indicators, schedule of disbursements, and other
requirements. The amount of the credit line provided in the Intermediary Agreement will be determined
based on (i) a technical assessment of the existing systems of the MFI conducted by the PCU Regional
Office Microfinance Technical Specialist; (ii) the demand for eligible subloans demonstrated by the MFI;
(iii) the requirements for MFI institutional development (as expressed in the Institutional Development
Subproject, based on the outline provided in the Operational Manual); and (iv) other relevant
considerations. The Eligible MFI must also prepare and submit an Institutional Development Subproject,
which demonstrates the ways in which an institutional development plan can be used and monitored to
improve management systems, provide training to staff, develop new products, and take other concrete
measures to improve the soundness of the MFI and its ability to manage a larger loan portfolio. Both the
Intermediary Agreement (Part A) and the Institutional Development Subproject must be acceptable to the
Bank.
Subloans to Eligible Microbusinesses. A loan ceiling for subloans will be set by the Operational
Manual, at a level that is appropriate for subloans to microbusinesses. The aggregate amount of all
subloans provided to any eligible microbusiness shall not exceed the equivalent of US$8,000. Subloans
may be provided to end users for subprojects, including a broad range of productive investments (including
manufacturing, services and commerce) and may include working capital, fixed assets, and other needs.
The term of the loan, the interest rate, the repayment schedule, the collateral requirements, and related
issues are all determined by the Eligible Microfinance Institution. The use of funds is restricted to Eligible
Investment Subprojects (those not included in the negative list of Investment Subprojects in the Operational
Manual). All terms and conditions of the subloan application, fees, promotion and delivery methodologies,
and the subloan approval process will be reviewed periodically by the PCU to ensure that they do not
present barriers to microbusiness operators.
- 38 -



Microfinance Services Component Financing
Indicativ           Bank-      % of
Microfinance Services Component          e         % of       Financing  Bank-
Costs     Total     (US$M)   Financing
(US$M)                         for
Component
Total Component Financing                7.43       100%      2.93      100%
Investment Subprojects (commercially priced   7.16  96%       2.66      91%
loans to eligible MFIs to onlend funds for
investment subprojects to eligible
microbusinesses)
Institutional Development Subprojects    0.27      4%         0.27      9%
(providing loans to eligible micro-finance
institutions to support improved systems,
training and technical assistance to insure
sound growth)                           L
Total Component Costs                    7.43      100%      2.93       100.0
Component Financing                      7.43       100%      2.93      100.0
Required                                             _        
Profiles of Four NIFIs in Participating Southeastern States that Could Become Eligible
To ensure that there is sufficient demand for component products and activities by potentially
Eligible Microfinance Institutions in the participating Southeastem States, the Bank and NAFIN conducted
a due diligence review of two existing MFIs (Buenaventura in Campeche; Canacintra in Quintana Roo),
one private company in the process of transforming into a non-bank financial intermediary (APIS in
Yucatan), and one start-up microfinance institution (Fondo Chetumal in Quintana Roo). These four
potentially Eligible Microfinance Institutions are described below. The reviews permitted the NAFIN and
Bank teams to fully develop eligibility criteria and component services, as well as the likely scale of
demand for those services. Annual plans helped to establish the likely level of impact in terms of active
clients served by local rnicrofinance institutions over the next five years.
December 2000 and December 2004 Estimates ofActive Clients for four local MFIs
Institution       Active clients Target number of  Increase in  Projected average loan
12/31/00    clients (6/30/04)    active client size
Buenaventura        900             5500         4600        $ 180 (1620 pesos)
APIS                180              750         570        $ 500 (4500 pesos)
Fondo Chetumal       0              4200         4200       $ 200 (1800 pesos)
Canacintra Q. Roo    0               550         550         $4000 (36,000 pesos)
It is critical to note that this due diligence review does not limit the participation in this component to
the four institutions nor does it guarantee that all four will qualify under the eligibility criteria established in
the Operational manual.
- 39 -



Buenaventura: Government-led jumpstart approach. The Campeche State Government
launched the Buenaventura Program in early 1999. Buenaventura supports the formation of solidarity
groups of 8 to 20 members, predominantly women. It is hoped that the two programs could be privatized
within a reasonable period of time, once they have reached sustainable levels of outreach and financial
performance. The Campeche State Government participation has been instrumental in jumpstarting the
local industry and enables the government to learn firsthand about the requirements of sustainable
microfmance, as well as making use of its income (from a 2% local tax) to reach marginalized
self-employed microbusiness operators. In discussions, the government recognized the importance of
maintaining a professional and apolitical approach to the provision of financial services.
Current Performance. Buenaventura currently serves more than 900 clients in 105 solidarity
groups of about eight members in 11 municipalities. More than 1,300 loans worth 1.2 million pesos
(US$130,000) were disbursed in the first 16 months of operations. Buenaventura has a staff of 17,
including 12 loan officers. Buenaventura is a commercially oriented program: (i) the interest rate is 1% in
nominal terms (weekly nominal interest rate, compared to national inflation of 10.6% in 1999); (ii) group
members contribute 1% per week to a "fondo de consolidacion" (which amounts to forced savings as a
contribution to the loan loss reserve); and (iii) financial projections indicate a profit motivation. Average
loan size in 2000 was approximately US$250, and 80% of the clients were women microentrepreneurs.
Clients. The typical member of a Buenaventura solidarity group is a rural woman with three
children, a series of small secondary activities, and one central economic activity (such as trade or
household production). She chooses to participate to take advantage of the working capital, and to be able
to expand the microbusiness. She only requires P. 500 ($45) initially in working capital. The solidarity
group member backs the loan with a solidarity guarantee (a moral commitment based on community
mutual responsibility and peer pressure).
Obstacles to Growth. Buenaventura faces four key challenges as it moves toward a large scale
operation. First, systems must be developed to handle growth, including a microloan tracking system
linked to an automated accounting system. Also, rapid expansion will require new staff positions with
complementary training programs. A third requirement is greater flexibility in credit terms. Buenaventura
management also needs to improve strategic planning and financial projections, with realistic client growth
and dropout rates, operational costs, and a plan to diversify the sources of funds. Finally, there are
govemance issues related to government ownership. Based on a business planning exercise, actual
performance and key projections for 2001 to 2005 are presented in Tables 1 and 2 below. All projections
were based on the Microfin Model advocated by CGAP, and use standard performance indicators for the
industry.
- 40 -



Table 1: Performance for January - Sept. 2000
Indicators                                      Amount
Outreach:
Number Solidarity Groups                        105
Number clients                                  893
Municipalities                                  11
Financial Performance:
Outstanding Loan Portfolio                      441,000 Pesos (USS 46,420)
Portfolio at Risk (I day)                       0 Pesos (US$0)
Guarantee fund from members                     332,000 Pesos (US$34,950)
Yield on portfolio                              63%
Operational self-sufficiency                    13%
Institutional efficiency                        12
Loan Officers                                   I
Administrative Personnel                        1
Offices                                         0
Branches
Borrowers/Loan officer
Table 2: Projections for 2001 through 2005
Indicators (target levels)      2001              2002             2003
Outreach
Number of active clients            1,665             3,080           5,744
Number of offices                     1                 1                I
Number of municipalities             11                11               11
Average loan balance per client     1,118             1,212            1,604
in pesos (US$)                   (US$115)           (US$119)        (US$150)
Financial Performance
Outstanding loan portfolio pesos  1,865,013         4,681,375        9,218,956
(US$)                           (US$192,300)      (US$458,960)    (US$861,600)
Portfolio at risk (>30 days) target  < 5.0%          < 5.0%           < 5.0%
Loan Portfolio growth rate target  > 100%            > 100%           > 90%
Yield                               47.5%              48.4%            49%
Operational Sustainability          29.0%              78.0%            97%
Institutional efficiency
Number of clients/loan officer      139                147             198
Path to Improved Performance. To avoid significant dropout rates that affect solidarity group
microfinance methodologies in similar settings, the Buenaventura Program must increase the flexibility and
attractiveness of the terms of its loan products. Current rules involve significant sacrifices by the client
(loss of the forced savings element known as the fondo de consolidaci6n) and a lack of flexibility
concerning the amount, term, structure and other conditions of the individual solidarity group member's
loan. The first loan is for 500 pesos (US$53) for 12 weeks. The maximum loan is currently for 2000
- 41 -



pesos (US$210) for 42 weeks, and all group members must take out this loan in the fifth loan cycle. The
loan ceilingwill be increased to 5000 pesos, the maximum term will be 40 weeks, and there will be greater
flexibility in terms and smaller penalties to leaving the system.
An institutional review in December, 2000 assessed the strengths and weaknesses of the
Buenaventura Program. The strengths include a near-monopoly among the target group, an easy
methodology to understand, very large unserved demand, a dedicated team with two years of operational
experience, and strong financial performance (no problem loans, large reserves for loan losses).
Weaknesses are the rigid methodology, no separate financial statements (accounts are integrated with the
state government's development foundation), a lack of incentives to clients, no credit manual, a
rudimentary loan tracking system, and a lack of long-term sources of funds.
Fondo Chetumal: A public/private start-up microfinance institution. The Chetumal Municipal
Government and the State of Quintana Roo have recently decided to support a private foundation which
will launch a microfinance institution. The large group of participants in the planning phase has included
representatives of local and state governments, NAFIN, four local chambers (Canacintra, Caimara de
Hoteleros, Caimara de la Industria de Restaurantes y Comercio, and Cdmara de Comercio), and the local
private sector coordinating body (Consejo Coordinador Empresariao. These groups have contributed 4
million pesos (US$414,000) to the start-up fund, which could leverage from 16 million pesos to 20 million
pesos from NAFIN. This highly participatory approach will enable efficient product design and rapid
marketing, since these four chambers represent thousands of potential clients (small and microbusinesses in
urban and rural areas).
Clients. Clients are expected to include small and microbusinesses in production (carpenters,
metalworkers, and tailors), services (small restaurants, beauty salons, and motorcycle and bicycle repair
shops), and commerce (market stall traders and street vendors). Market research is underway to determine
the methodologies (such as solidarity groups, village banks, individual loans with non-traditional
guarantees) for each client group.
Obstacles to Growth. Fondo Chetumal faces several important challenges in the first four years.
First, it must develop a reputation for providing attractive financial services in a convenient way and at a
reasonable interest rate. While there is little competition in local formal financial markets for this client
group, experiences in similar projects in Latin America show that annual drop-out rates can be extremely
high (for example, 30% is not uncommon for Acci6n and Finca affiliates). The management team will
have to develop financial management systems, staff profiles, job descriptions, training programs and other
systems to develop the necessary internal capacity to run the program.
APIS: Private sector-led Sectoral Approach. In Yucatan State, the Agroasociacion Apicola SA
(APIS) represents a sectoral approach to microfinance, with an integrated technology and financial
services package provided to members. In addition, given the externalities of beekeeping, APIS offers
basic training in control of Africanized bees and diseases to all beekeepers). APIS will receive credit
directly from NAFIN for expansion.
Current Performance. APIS is run by a management team with more than 10 years of experience
in technically advanced beekeeping, which results in a range of products of intemational quality (blended
honey, royal jelly, and prolipolino). APIS provides loans of approximately 3500 pesos (US$375) to
members for each share of 2500 pesos (US$270) that they purchase. In addition, the producers receive
veterinary services, on-site technical advice, and access to both high quality inputs and high priced markets
for their products. Company sales in 1999 amounted to 54 million pesos (US$580,000), with 91% of
- 42 -



output exported (mostly to Germany). This sectoral approach to providing microfinance and other services
to microproducers could be replicated throughout the Southeast Region with producers of chile habanero,
marine fishing, and other products.
Clients. The clients are artisan scale beekeepers who have joined APIS and seek to adopt modem
production and processing technologies and increase the quality of output to reach intemational standards.
In the Yucatan Peninsula, there are 20,000 people whose incomes rely, in part, on honey production. The
average shareholder has over 100 beehives in production, although a significant number in more rural areas
have only 25 to 30. Current production averages 40 kgs per beehive, far below the potential levels of
production. The new shareholders will be rural producers who wish to expand from less than 25 hives to
more than 50, which is considered the minimum number for commercial viability. While most shareholders
are men, the activity is often a family enterprise in which women household members participate.
Obstacles to Growth. Despite very favorable local climate and production conditions, beekeeping
has been on the decline in recent years in YucatAn Peninsula. In 1991 and 1992, production exceeded
13,000 metric tons. By 1999, it was down to 10,000 metric tons. Causes of this drop include diseases
(specifically a varroa infestation beginning in 1992), chemical contaminants (such as sulfa), poor weather,
and Africanized bee colonies. Small producers also have traditional practices which limit output, including
painting beehives and using poor harvesting techniques and equipment. Small holders are also limited by a
lack of technical assistance, poor quality inputs, no quality control inspection services, and a lack of market
connections.
Path to Improved Performance. The APIS package of services addresses each one of these
problems. APIS mixes mobile banking (with loan officers going to the communities to supervise loans of
3500 pesos) with mobile technical assistance and training (for both members and non-members) and small
community high quality input deposits. In addition, export quality honey prices have been increasing in
recent years, from 15,000 pesos (US$1630) per metric ton in June, 1997 to 25,000 pesos (US$2687) per
metric ton by June, 2000.
For APIS, the goal is to reach an additional 550 small producers with the credit/technical
assistance package (in addition the 125 small producers who are already participating). For APIS,
members must buy a share worth 2500 pesos (US$270) to be eligible for credit and technical support.
However, APIS permits groups of small producers to jointly purchase. The interest rate on APIS credit is
1.5% per month, with a four-month grace period on the principal. APIS also provides training to
non-members, since there are significant positive extemalities in terms of controlling the spread of diseases
and Africanized colonies. Therefore, a majority of the 2000 beekeepers in the Peninsula (especially the
commercially oriented micro producers) will be served within the three-year project period.
Other indicators of success for APIS include improved quality, productivity, product
diversification, and income for small producers who are shareholders of APIS. APIS provides honey
quality control reviews, to insure that small producers provide export quality products (the target is 85%
export quality certification by the end of the third year). The productivity target is 50 kilograms of honey
per beehive in 2001, 55 kgs by the end of the second year, and 60 kgs by the end of the three-year project.
Product diversification plays a key role in lessening the risks faced by small producers, so APIS provides
credit to rent vehicles for beekeepers to move hives to orchards, where they can charge for fertilization
services. Technical assistance outreach programs, supported by the Universidad Autonoma de Yucatan,
also promote diversification of bee products (royal jelly, prolopolino, and wax). Finally, by reaching the
other targets and providing inputs at discounted prices, APIS will make a significant contribution to the
small producer's income and lessen the household's vulnerability to economic and other shocks.
- 43 -



Canacintra (Quintana Roo): Business Association Approach. In Quintana Roo, the Camara
Nacional de la Industria y la Transformacion (Canacintra) will establish a new credit line for members
requiring less than the peso equivalent of US$8,000. Canacintra was established in 1988 as a local
member-based institution providing training and credit to a range of microbusmesses. The majority of
members are linked in some way to the hotel industry and tourist trade in Cancun.
Current Performance. Canacintra administered a development loan program that provided 102
loans worth 5.1 million pesos from 1990 to 1995. It was one of the few non-bank financial institutions
with loan portfolios that survived the 1995 Peso Crisis in Quintana Roo. This was, in large part, due to the
discipline with which the portfolio was managed and the sensible refinancing of loans for members in good
standing and with viable investment plans. While some of the long terrn loans are still active, Canacintra
has turned its attention to business management training since 1995. However, in response to member
demands and with support from the Project, Canacintra is building capacity to manage a loan portfolio
targeting members. To reach economies of scale, Canacintra will also provide credit to non-members with
viable investment projects.
Clients. The typical business association member is a small hotel supply or service provider
(examples of the 180 products provided by microbusinesses to hotel chains include cleaning liquids, milk,
pillows, tables and beds). He requires a loan of approximately P. 70,000 as working capital to purchase
more supplies, or produce more goods for sales to the hotels. He has to wait from 60 to 120 days for
payment, making it difficult to continue to operate without a source of affordable credit.
Obstacles to Growth. Canacintra's members are not in a strong negotiating position when they
provide products and services to the large tourist hotels. While they offer lower costs and can provide
quick follow-up, they often lack sufficient inventory to respond to sudden increases in demand for their
goods. The hotels prefer to import many products, or pay local providers when cashflow is available
(usually 60 to 120 days after the sale). Part of the problem is related to the hotels' lack of appreciation of
the actual role of local suppliers and the potential for increasing this role.
Path to Improved Performance. Canacintra, the Hotel Suppliers Association and NAFIN
Quintana Roo conducted a study of small and microbusinesses that provide goods and services to the hotels
in Cancun.  This study reveals that the links are already very strong between local small and
microbusinesses and the hotels - and on a product-by-product basis, opportunities for greater links were
identified. Canacintra will add staff with portfolio management experience and strengthen the loan tracking
system. Canacintra will continue to coordinate closely with local experienced training and technical
assistance institutions such as CRECE (the Regional Center for Competitiveness) and other local
institutions which can provide local content and complementary business training services.
- 44 -



Project Component 2 - US$0.68 million
Annex 2b: ICT for Business Development Services
Introduction. Information communications technology-based business development services
(BDS) offer a potential to accelerate small business market access and competitiveness. Properly deployed
ICT can reduce operating costs, improve operational efficiency, and provide a broader access to
knowledge, inputs, logistical services, markets, and business planning tools. Civil society, particularly
universities, private associations, and NGOs, have been the most successful actors in developing locally
oriented ICT programs. Examples include the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Media Lab, Mexican
IT- Research Technology Center, and Tech-Monterrey. These have demonstrated the potential for a
satellite-linked telecenter with electronic commerce capabilities and distance leaming programs.
While the innovations in this field have been noteworthy in Mexico and other Latin American
countries (notably Peru, Guatemala and El Salvador), the development process has been long and at its
present pace, will have a medium-to long-term impact. Without the development of value-added
information, analytical and marketing services tailored to small and microbusinesses and access to
e-commerce capability, the information communications technology (ICT) gap will continue to grow,
leaving behind a large segment of the private sector. ICT-based BDS are highly concentrated in the
modem sector and in the larger cities (Mexico City, Guadalajara, Monterrey).
The ICT revolution has just begun to reach the participating Southeastem States. Several
commercial intemet cafes and similar organizations exist which offer basic ICT services in Merida and a
few cities in Quintana Roo. In Campeche, there is limited access to electronic conmmerce services,
video-conferencing, webpage design and hosting, and intemet connections. Clients are typically more
educated people with high levels of income, including students, entrepreneurs and tourists. Basic business
services are available in several urban locations, but these are largely limited to photocopying services,
cards, posters, and brochures. Much more limited are services for packaging, labeling, fax services, and
fast mail services, with access to personal computers and printers extremely rare for small and
microbusinesses. Few service providers offer access to multiple services in one location, and there are
rarely facilitators who can provide guidance how to use ICT services for business purposes.
The major constraints to achieve participation in the digital economy in the Southeastem States
according to the survey are: lack of awareness and training in IT skills, lack of applications (software
packages, distance training courses, local content) for microbusinesses with low levels of schooling, lack of
access to computers among others.
Objective. The Project will support the development of at least one ICT-based BDS infocenter in
one of the Participating States. The main objectives of the Infocenter will be:
* to promote increased access to ICT-based business development services to small and
microbusinesses, to enable them to service and access new markets and increase income;
* to develop local content, databases, business applications, and business management and planning
tools which match local small and microbusiness needs; and
* to develop new training, ICT education, and other programs to promote the use of ICT-based BDS.
Learning Agenda
- 45 -



The Project will provide opportunities to learn from the implementation of the basic infocenter model
in one location in the Participating States and the requirements of adapting the model to local market needs.
The Project will provide important lessons on how the private sector can develop ICT-based services and
general competence in electronic technologies to serve the local business community, in close cooperation
with the public sector, the civil society and the universities. The Project will test the ability of the private
sector to develop local content and electronic commerce tools as a sound business to access new markets.
Since some key parameters cannot be known with certainty at the outset (such as the level of demand, and
client acceptance of technologies, tools and the user fee structure), the Project will test these variables and
make adjustments during project implementation. Replication of successful IT-infocenters would be an
important goal of this component.
ICT-Based BDS Component Financing Table:
Indica-             Bank-      % of
ICT-Based BDS                     tive       % of      Financ-   Bank-
Component                         Costs     Total    ing          Financing
(US$M)              (USSM)   for Compo-
____ ____ nent
Total Component                   1.018      100%      0.675     100%
Financing
0.540     55%       0.270     40%
Start-up subprojects (grants to support
initial operating costs and other
start-up requirements of Eligible
Infocenters; not including goods)
Commercial subprojects            0.478     45%        0.405     60%
(loans to support operational
costs at a commercial scale
of operation for Eligible
Infocenters; not including
goods)
Goods for
Total Component Costs             1.018     100%      0.675      100.0
Component Financing                1.018     100%      0.675     100.0
Required
The Basic Infocenter Model
Definition. An infocenter means any of the private commercial companies or non-profit entities
established and operating in the territory of any of the Participating States for the provision of Infornation
Communications Technology-based development services. The basic infocenter will offer a range of
business-oriented services, market information and databases, sources of key inputs, logistical databases,
consulting services, financial projection models, videoconferencing, and business management training and
tools tailored to local client needs. The infocenter will use promotion and delivery techniques to insure
strong outreach to the local business commnunity, and will emphasize full cost recovery through user fees.
Each infocenter will be legally registered in Mexico.
- 46 -



The infocenter model will draw upon the technical expertise of business chambers and associations,
such as Centro Empresarial de Campeche, Canacintra, Asociaci6n Turistica de Campeche, Chambers
Association of Yucatan, Producers Association of Yucatan, and Hotel Suppliers of Quintana Roo. These
institutions have strong links to the microbusiness sector, and provide new opportunities as sources of local
ICT providers of internet services, local graduate systems engineers and programmers, and local content to
reach new markets.
Clients. The target clients are business operators that can be classified into two large markets: (i)
very low-income microbusinesses, with low literacy and numeracy levels, (handicrafts, artisans, honey
producers, chile habanero producers, and others); and (ii) more complex small and micro businesses (retail
commerce, restaurants, services, professional/personal services, light manufacturing, suppliers of hotels,
and others) with literacy and numeracy skills. Direct consultations have been held with potential clients
among honey producers, service suppliers, and agro-producers. A market research study has been
completed which provides an assessment of small and microbusiness operator experience with and
knowledge of information and communication technologies. These findings will be incorporated into the
first year business plans of the three infocenters.
Services. The infocenter will develop and provide three types of services. First, it will provide
basic ICT education and a coaching system to build client ICT skills and permit easy access by small and
microbusinesses to ICT-based BDS services. In addition, the infocenter will facilitate identification of new
higher income markets, provide assisted access to e-mail, computer and printing, and offer coaching and
materials on market research techniques and databases.  Finally, the infocenter will offer business
information and advice, local content relevant for clients, networking with a broad range of suppliers;
tailored business management and planning applications, webpage design and hosting, and promotional
materials design support.
Services will be built on existing courses that have already been tailored to client needs. In
addition, alternative technologies and strategies to internet connectivity (such as touch screen technology)
would be tested to reach semi-literate microbusiness operators. The infocenters will also facilitate the
integration of the different BDS services already offered by other programs in their respective Web pages
(BANCOMEXT, Secretaria de Economia, etc). For example, BANCOMEXT has developed didactic
material for courses such as fresh and processed foods, footwear, textiles, furniture, and others. The
materials available on CD-ROM includes topics that allow the user to develop and carry out an export
plan, as well as Internet addresses that are relevant to each sector. Another product to be developed and
tested will be the provision of information and extension services to local producers. The pilot will test if
the provision of these services is a cost effective alternative to classroom-based trained or agrobusiness
information dissemination campaigns conducted by extension workers.
Expected Outputs
The expected outputs will be:
*   At least one sustainable infocenter reaching a large number of small and microbusinesses,
serving as a model and thoroughly documenting its experiences for effective dissemination and
replication,
* Local, regional and national market information on business networks and databases,
* Distance learning programs and links to existing programs of interest to clients,
* Tailored ICT-based business management and planning applications with trained coaches, and
* Increased income and reduced risks for clients by increasing their business skills, market
- 47 -



access, and operational competitiveness.
Annual Business Plans
Each Eligible Infocenter will provide a business plan, including the following information and
projections:
*   Market demand data (including identification of key sectors),
*   Annual operating budget and sources of financing (in addition to possible project resources),
*   Training and other services to be provided to local small and microbusinesses,
*   Prices to be charged for the different types of services,
*   Financial projections, and
*   A marketing strategy (with special attention to outreach activities for low income clients).
The annual business plan serves as the vision for the infocenter, and explains how the infocenter
will mobilize technical expertise and use funds financed under the Loan to cover development costs
(including local content, hardware/software and delivery systems, staff and management training costs,
promotion materials and infocenter marketing costs, and other non-recurrent costs).  For Eligible
Infocenters, these investments will be supported through the Start-up Subproject Agreement (grant) and the
Intermediary Loan Agreement (Type B). At least one infocenter would be expected to reach financial
break-even after four years.
Qualifying Infocenters for Component Support
Based on credible business plans and clear evidence of demand, infocenters would qualify for
component support. The program consists of:
1.    Start-up Subprojects Grants. The provision of Grants to Eligible Infocenters for the
purposes of financing small projects aimed at assisting such Infocenters to start-up their operations
(including, the development of basic products, the carrying out of market research and promotion and
piloting of business development services, through, inter alia, the provision of technical assistance, office
equipment and furniture, computer equipment and software, telephone and internet-access, and training for
the Infocenter staff. Grants will range up to US$100,000 per Eligible Infocenter and the amounts will be
determined by the PCU Coordinator and Technical Specialist for the ICT-based BDS Component. All
Grant Agreements must be in accordance with the terms and stipulations agreed upon and included in the
Operational Manual. The decision will be based on the proof of market demand for infocenter services in a
particular market, the level of preparedness reflected in the business plan and technical discussions with
local partners (such as business associations and ISP providers). Grants will be allocated based on the
requirements and conditions set forth in the Grant Agreement (as presented in the Operational Manual).
2. Commercial Subproject Loans for Infocenters. The provision of loans to Eligible Infocenters
for the purposes of carrying out projects aimed at developing the commercial viability of the Eligible
Infocenters, consisting, inter alia, of:
(a) the provision of technical assistance for the management, operation and evaluation of the
impact of the Eligible Infocenters (including an assessment of the number of Microbusinesses reached by
each Eligible Infocenter), the development and implementation of annual business plans; and the canying
out of simulation models to demonstrate the financial sustainability of the Eligible Infocenters;
- 48 -



(b) the carrying out of training programs for the staff of the Eligible Infocenters responsible for the
development and implementation of outreach and public awareness activities; and
(c) the development, and carrying out of training programs, including the production of new
pedagogical tools, and distance learning and conferencing services to improve the entrepreneurial and
business capabilities of the Eligible Microbusinesses, through their understanding of the digital economy
(e-commerce, web page design and development and e-commerce applications).
The Eligible Infocenter will enter into an Intermediary (Type B) with NAFIN to determine the
amount of funding provided for full-scale development of the infocenter. The loan for the commercial
subproject will bear a commercial rate of interest (linked to TIIE) and will be governed by the terms and
conditions set forth in the Operational Manual. The commercial subproject will specify the financial
requirements based on an annual basis and by expense category for reaching the breakeven point. The
Technical Specialist for the ICT-based BDS Component will review the proposed commercial subproject
with local experts and the Project Coordinator to determnine the technical feasibility of the commercial
subproject and determine the adjustrnents required.
The PCU Regional Office Technical Specialist for the ICT-based BDS Component and the Project
Coordinator at headquarters will deterrnine whether a business plan is credible and the requirements
established for eligibility in the Operational Manual have been satisfactorily met. They may choose to
confer with outside experts (such as the Director of Electronic Business of the Instituto Tecnol6gico de
Estudios Superiores de Monterrey, private sector specialist, university representatives).
Proposals for grants and loans would be selected through a competitive process managed by the
PCU. A panel of private sector experts may be asked to review and submit comments on the business
plans. Criteria for selection include the likelihood of sustainability and self-financing in the medium term;
the credibility of income and expenditure projections; the level of demonstrated local demand for services,
the experience of infocenter management; and the proportion of total investment contributed by the private
sector. To avoid a concentration of component investment in facilities and infrastructure, the project
investment would finance up to a maximum of 50% of total project costs according to the business plan
with a cap of US$250,000 per infocenter over the life of the Project. The Grant of up to $100,000 will be
allocated to Eligible Infocenters as they become eligible.
Monitoring and Supervision
NAFIN would monitor use of funds by the infocenters and overall implementation of the business
plans through a review of periodic infocenter reports and site visits by staff and consultants. NAFIN would
conduct an annual review of program performance for Bank review, and an impact assessment evaluation
at the client level. A full extemal evaluation would be conducted during the third year of operation.
In Campeche and Yucatan, groups of public and private sector representatives have begun to study
the feasibility of a local infocenter adapted to the specific needs of the local private sector. Descriptions of
the progress in these two cases are provided below.
Campeche Infocenter Description
Objective. A pilot project to promote a new entrepreneurship environment using the ICT to raise
earning by increasing their business skills, market access and competitiveness. The Infocenter would deliver
- 49 -



integrated communications and infornation technology-based business development services with strong
community outreach and financial sustainability.
Clientele. Micro and small businesses in the formal sector (up to 100 employees, but more likely
to have less than 20 workers) and the informal sector (up to five employees). Firms will be located in
Campeche and Ciudad del Carmen.
Strategy. Drive small business growth by expanding connections with higher income segments of
the regional, national and intemational market and building management skills. Design services and
delivery to match key client characteristic - ability to pay, prevailing education and experience, gender,
sector, work environment and availability- and complement/expand mutually reinforcing services having a
strong impact at low-income levels.
The Infocenter will pursue this. strategy along three lines:
*   Connectivity: to facilitate access to the digital technologies,
*   Improve human skills and institutional strengthening on how to take advantage of the new ICT
and apply them to solve local needs, and
v   Local Content Development.
Products.
Building microbusiness know-how and information technology skills would provide (a)
information technology training, including an overview of BDS to promote understanding of their economic
value; (b) access to Internet services; (c) assessment of ICT needs for the firm; and (d) distance learning
and conferencing on micro-small business issues.
Facilitating access to new higher income markets by providing assisted access to (a) telephone,
fax, scanning, computer world processing & printing services, and (b) coaching and materials, techniques
for labeling and packaging, design and techniques to increase market penetration through advertising
(posters, handouts, etc).
Providing PC tools to increase business competitiveness by offering self-help and coached (a)
productivity workstations with software wizards for simplified business planning and problem-solving in
production, marketing, finance/credit for business expansion; (b) business networking to locate suppliers
and price trends, other sources of business informnation; and (c) electronic commerce for information
exchanges with suppliers, customers and creditors, web page promotional design outreach to new markets.
Technical In formation Center will provide access to data bases, relevant information to
microbusiness about NAFIN requirements and services, and those of other institutions.
Delivery. One center linked to existing community infrastructure. Experienced private sector
management supported by governing partnership of successful local business partners, BDS, NGOs,
government. Strong staff training program. Co-financing to be provided by private operators and a grant
from NAFIN to meet costs of the transfer of technology, development of staff skills, training, technical
assistance, and product development and experimentation. The Project would also build links to other
training mechanisms such as CIMO and DECAM.
Success. Success of the infocenter will be determined by actual client outreach, the infocenter
- 50 -



financial sustainability, and microbusiness development impact on growth in client base, productivity, sales
and net income.
Quintana Roo Infocenter Description
Objective. A pilot project to promote a new entrepreneurship environment using the ICT to raise
earning by increasing their business skills, market access and competitiveness. The Infocenter would deliver
integrated communications and information technology-based business development services with strong
community outreach and financial sustainability.
Clientele.  Micro and small businesses suppliers of hotels in the formal sector (up to 100
employees, but likely to have less than 20 workers) and the informal sector (up to five employees). Firms
will be located in Quintana Roo.
Strategy. Drive small business growth by expanding connections with higher income segments of
the regional, national and international market and building management skills. Design services and
delivery to match key client characteristic - ability to pay, prevailing education and experience, gender,
sector, work environment and availability- and complement/expand mutually reinforcing services having a
strong impact at low-income levels.
Products.
Micro and SME Portal. A specialized tourism portal for Quintana Roo, that will connect the
suppliers and the hotels working in the state. The portal will provide the following services: (a) suppliers
directory by industry and services; (b) electronic board to place demands and offers of products and
services; (c) advertising through the use of banners and buttons; (d) job market exchange; (e) linkages with
other national and international institutions; and (f) training courses and events.
Center of Information and Providing PC tools to increase business competitiveness by offering
self-help and coached (a) productivity workstations with software wizards for simplified business planning
and problem-solving in production, marketing, finance/credit for business expansion; (b) business
networking to locate suppliers and price trends, other sources of business information; and (c) electronic
commerce for information exchanges with suppliers, customers and creditors, web page promotional design
outreach to new markets.
Delivery.  There would be one infocenter linked to the existing community and business
infrastructure. The infocenter would have experienced private sector management supported by and linked
to successful local business partners, BDS providers, local NGOs, and the local government. A strong staff
training prograrn will be essential in the success of the infocenter.
Success. For the infocenter, this will be determined by actual client outreach, the infocenter
financial sustainability, and microbusiness development impact on growth in client base, productivity, sales
and net income.
- 51 -



Project Component 3 - US$ 0.89 million
Annex 2c: Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building
This component will have two activities: (i) project management, administration and coordination;
and (ii) the design and implementation of the monitoring and evaluation system.
Establishment of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU). Project administration support includes
the costs of establishing, maintaining and operating the PCU. The Project will support the establishment of
the PCU through (i) the acquisition of equipment for the unit, including computers, printers, copy
machines, and software; and (ii) the provision of services to support the PCU to train staff and supervise
the Project. The PCU will be responsible for overall coordination, monitoring, annual reviews, the
evaluation, and the timely provision of reports. This component builds the PCU's capacity to implement
and pilot the Project components through the fnancing of a new team.
PCU Staffing and Responsibilities. The PCU will be led by a Project Coordinator with relevant
project management experience, and with expertise and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank. The Project
Coordinator will be assisted by technical and administrative staff in adequate numbers and with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank, including (i) one accountant with technical expertise
in financial management matters (the Project Accountant); (ii) a specialist in procurement procedures,
guidelines and contracts; and (iii) an officer responsible for administrative and operational (the
Administrative Manager). In addition, the PCU will have a microfinance technical specialist and an
ICT-based business development services specialist.
Specifically, the PCU will have the following functions and responsibilities: (i) monitoring the
implementation of the Project and ensuring effective coordination among the staff and institutions
responsible for the implementation of the Project; (ii) preparing and submitting to the Bank the PMRs
(described in Section 4.4); (iii) canrying out of the procurement of goods and consultants' services required
for the Project (pursuant to the provisions in Annex 6); (iv) overseeing the general administration of the
Project, with respect to Loan proceeds withdrawal, financial management, accounting and auditing; (v)
reviewing, jointly with the Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico and the Bank, the progress achieved
by the Borrower in the implementation of the Project on the basis of the annual reports (described in
Section C.3. below); (vi) monitoring progress achieved by the Eligible Microfmance Institutions and the
Eligible Infocenters in the implementation of their respective activities under the Project, including the
Subprojects; and (vii) identify1ing any possible obstacles to reaching the Project development objective and
proposing resolutions to such problems to the Bank.
The Regional Staff will be responsible for (i) ensuring that each Eligible Microfinance Institution
and each Eligible Infocenter prepares and timely submits annual reports and plans; (ii) supervising and
monitoring the implementation of the Subprojects approved for financing under the Project; (iii) assisting
with the preparation of reports and documentation related to financial management requirements under the
Project; (iv) compiling the lessons learned throughout Project implementation; and (v) managing short term
consultants as required by the components.
The Project will also provide funding for the incremental equipment needs for the regional staff,
including computers and accounting and other software for project monitoring requirements. As needed
NAFIN will provide administrative support from its state offices staff to supervise project activities for
participating Southeastern States. Incremental operating costs for the purposes of this Project means
- 52 -



reasonable recurrent expenditures incurred by NAFIN through the PCU (including Regional staff) in the
daily implementation, management, coordination, monitomg and evaluation of the Project, such as the costs
of consumable supplies, maintenance of facilities and equipment and transportation and per diem for the
PCU staff (including the Regional staff), all of which would not have been incurred absent the Project.
(See also Schedule I of the Loan Agreement and Annex 6 for limitations and definitions of acceptable cost
categories.)
Design of the Monitoring and Evaluation System. The Project will finance the design and
establishment of the monitoring and evaluation system. Support in setting up the system consists of
short-term consultants to design, test, and adapt the monitoring and evaluation system. The Project will
finance the incremental equipment and software needs for the monitoring and evaluation system including
computers, and accounting and planning software. The baseline surveys, and the design of the monitoring
and evaluation system, will ensure widespread participation in project activities by civil society including,
inter alia, women and indigenous people. This will enable the system to provide the information required
for the impact evaluation, which will involve consultation with eligible MFIs, Eligible Infocenters, the
private sector, and civil society, including, inter alia, women and indigenous people in the Participating
States.
Finally, the PCU will coordinate closely with other initiatives around the country in the fields of
microfmance development and ICT-based BDS (such as the CONACYT and SECOFI initiatives, and the
rnicrofinance work undertaken recently by the Secretaria de Economia).
Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building Component (Project Coordination Unit)
Indicative                Bank-         % of
Institutional Strengthening and  Costs      % of       Financing      Bank-
Capacity Building Component    (US$M)   Component    (US$M)   Financing for
(PCU)                                                    Component
PCU                                1.65         100%         0.89          100%
Consultants'services requiredfor   0.71                      0.36           40%
supervision, monitoring, reporting,
audit and evaluation activities;
training activities. I/
Goods requiredfor PCU activities   0.49                      0.08            9%
2/
Incremental Operating Costs (on a  0.45
declining basisfor expense                                   0.45           51%
categories defined below 3/)
Total Component Costs       1.61        I0oo0/       0.89        100.0
Component Financing Required     1.65         100%         0.89          100.0
Training includes the costs related to the provision of training, such as domestic and foreign travel, room,
board and per diem and other administrative expenses incurred by trainees in connection with their training
and capacity building activities, carrying out of workshops and dissemination activities, training facility and
equipment rentals, fees of consultants employed as trainers, and as technical resource staff, preparation,
production, and publication of instructional materials, including audiovisual materials. Audits are also
included in this category.
- 53 -



2/   Includes goods and services to be procured through national shopping, services of consultants of the Project
coordination unit, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to managing
and coordinating the Project.
3/   The term "Incremental Operating Costs" means reasonable recurrent expenditures incurred by the Borrower,
through PCU (including its Regional Staff) in the daily implementation, management, coordination,
monitoring and evaluation of the Project, such as cost of consumable supplies, maintenance of facilities and
equipment, and transportation and per diem for PCU (including its Regional Staff), which would not have
been incurred absent the Project.
- 54 -



Annex 2d: Outreach Strategy to Reach the Poor
The objective of the Project is to assist Participating States in the Southeast region of Mexico and
the private sector to learn about (a) the requirements of sustainable microfinance methodologies to promote
access to financial services to unserved populations, and (b) to test the use of information communications
technology (ICT) to deliver business development services (BDS) to microbusinesses in a cost effective and
sustainable manner. The key indicator of overall project success will be the demonstration of the
requirements (in terms of management systems, products and services, govemance structures and other
features) to establish sustainable microfinance institutions (MFIs) and infocenters providing business
development services to unserved populations.
The outreach strategy is consistent with the Bank's Operational Directive on Indigenous Peoples
(OD 4.20) OP 4.20 of the World Bank states that "the objective at the center of this directive is to ensure
that indigenous peoples do not suffer adverse effects during the development process, particularly from
Bank-financed projects, and that they receive culturally compatible social and economic benefits.". In
addition, the outreach strategy builds on the existing methodologies Eligible Microfinance Institutions,
which have proven effective in providing financial and other services to rural clients who have had
difficulties gaining access to such services in the past, including inter alia women, indigenous populations,
and those in more remote settlements.
Microfmiance Services Component
The microfinance methodologies employed by the leading local microfinance institutions build on
the social capital of communities which have not had access to financial services, using solidarity groups as
a joint liability mechanism to overcome the lack of collateral. Some of the practices they have developed to
reach groups that have traditionally had difficulties in gaining access to financial services are the following:
*   Working closely with community leaders during early promotion of services,
* Assigning staff who speak local dialects and languages,
- Employing solidarity groups as a joint liability mechanism,
- Using locally adapted promotion and training materials, and
* Exploring ecotourism potential
Information and Communication Technology (ICT) Component
The objective of this component is to provide widespread access to modem informnation and
communications technology, thereby bringing relevant information and new opportunities to participating
Southeastem States. This component will focus on urban centers, and will therefore serve small and
microbusiness operators in Merida, Canciin, Chetumal, Campeche and other urban centers.  The
component will allow a wide range of producers to promote their economic activities in new markets or to
new clients in existing markets. It will also enable them to establish links to other local and regional
producers, and establish a network of intemational contacts.
In Campeche, the proposed infocenter would develop relevant local content, adapting existing tools
to local needs and experience for microbusiness clients. Local content will include business applications,
cultural uses and contacts, networking, and other tools defined in part by the market research studies. In
Yucatan, the proposed infocenter would have strong links to a local beekeeper association (APIS, described
- 55 -



in Annex 2a), and will provide low income rural producers and civil associations with access to markets
and other information. It will provide an array of business services to small and microbusinesses to acquire
information on improved product designs, and identify potential markets for artisans and others to tap into
local, national and international markets.
In Quintana Roo, the proposed infocenter will initially serve small and microbusinesses that
provide large tourist hotels with basic cleaning services and supplies, food and other products. The
infocenter will also try to help improve economic opportunities for rural communities by developing
webpages to highlight tourist opportunities.
Monitoring Plan and Indicators
Indicators.  The key indicator of overall project success will be the scale and quality of
appropriately designed microfinance and ICT-based BDS provided to small and microbusinesses in project
states after four years. Specifically, the Microfmance Services Component will monitor (i) the average
loan size as a percentage of GDP per capita, (ii) the availability of promotional materials and activities to
insure wide access to information about the component's services, and (iii) the characteristics of clients.
The ICT-based BDS Component will track (i) the availability of local content which has been developed
based on surveys of potential users, (ii) the promotional materials and activities developed to insure wide
access to component services, and (iii) the characteristics of clients (including social and cultural
characteristics).
Baseline data. Baseline data will be collected for the Microfinance Services Component and the
ICT-based BDS Component that measure the characteristics of the clients and the firms (including size of
the business, number of employees, economic activity, and the characteristics of the microbusiness
operators). Participatory activities, such as the workshops, logframe analyses, and the wide range of
consultations with civil society and the private sector that have characterized project development, will
continue throughout the life of the Project, to insure equal access to project services.
Monitoring Plan. For the Microfinance Services Component, the monitoring plan will include
periodic visits to Eligible Microfinance Institutions as well as an analysis of the loan portfolio, service
delivery mechanisms, and other features of the Eligible Microfinance Institutions that are intended to ensure
equal access to project services and appropriate targeting to microbusinesses. For the infocenters, the
analysis will focus on client satisfaction, client characteristics, and local content development. Monitoring
will take place through periodic visits to the Eligible Infocenters and the reports submitted by the eligible
institutions to the PCU. (These reports will be shared with the Bank in accordance with the reporting
description set forth in this document, Section C.3. and the conditions set forth in the relevant section of the
legal agreement.)
- 56 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
MEXICO: Southeast Regional Development Learning and Innovation Project
Local         Foreign          Total
Project Cost By Component                       US $million    US $million    US $million
Microfinance Institutional Development                               2.94            0.00           2.94
ICT-based BDS                                                        0.57            0.10           0.67
Project Coordination Unit (PCU)                                      0.77            0.12           0.89
Unallocated                                                          0.22            0.23           0.45
Upfront fee                                                          0.00            0.05           0.05
Total Baseline Cost                                                  4.50            0.50           5.00
Physical Contingencies                                              0.00           0.00            0.00
Price Contingencies                                                0.00            0.00            0.00
Total Project Costsl                    4.50            0.50           5.00
Total Financing Required                      4.50           0.50            5.00
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 10.6 (USSm). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 47.17% oftotal
project cost net of taxes.
- 57 -



Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
MEXICO: Southeast Regional Development Learning and Innovation Project
Summary of benefits and costs:
(Not Applicable)
Main Assumptions:
(Not Applicable)
Cost-effectiveness indicators:
(Not Applicable)
- 58 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
MEXICO: Southeast Regional Development Learning and Innovation Project
Year Ending December 31
IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4    Total
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs              1.78      1.28     1.21     0.48     4.75
Recurrent Costs                0.10      0.10     0.00     0.00     0.20
Total Project Costs             1.88      1.38     1.21     0.48     4.95
Upfront fee (1%)          0.05                                 0.05
Total Financing                 1.93      1.38     1.21     0.48     5.00
Financing
IBRD                          1.93      1.38     1.21     0.48     5.00
NAFIN                         0.47      1.00     1.00     0.58     3.05
State Governments            0.50      0.20     0.20     0.21      1.11
Others (private sector partners)  0.50  0.40     0.20     0.34     1.44
Total Project Financing     3.40      2.98     2.61     1.61    10.60
- 59 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
MEXICO: Southeast Regional Development Learning and Innovation Project
Procurement
A. Procurement Arrangements
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower, the Participating States and the private sector
operating in such States to learn about: (a) the requirements for the development and implementation of
sustainable microfinance methodologies to promote access to financial services to unserved populations;
and (b) the use of information communications technology to deliver business development services to
Microbusinesses in a cost effective and sustainable manner.
The proposed Project consists of three components: The Microfinance Services Component
(US$2.935 million) that will support onlending of loan proceeds to eligible microbusinesses through local
Eligible Microfinance Institutions; the Information and Communication Technology Business Development
Services Component (US$ 0.675 million) will pilot different initiatives to provide business development
through the use of information technology provided to small and microbusinesses through infocenters.
Under this component, computers, furniture and faxes will be procured. The third component, Institutional
Strengthening and Capacity Building (US$ 0.89 million) will support the establishment of the PCU, and
design the monitoring and evaluation system, and under this component consultant's services training and
office equipment will be procured.
Services to assist in the carrying out of Subprojects of the Eligible Microfinance Institutions, the
eligible microbusinesses, and the eligible "infocenters" may be procured in accordance with commercial
practices acceptable to the Bank.  Goods to assist in the carrying out of subprojects the Eligible
Microfinance Institutions, the eligible microbusinesses, and the Eligible Infocenters may be procured in
accordance with commercial practices acceptable to the Bank. This practice is in agreement with Section
3.12 of the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, revised
January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 editions).
The PCU is located in NAFIN. In addition, NAFIN will be the executing gency for the Project.
The PCU within NAFIN is responsible of reviewing all procurement activities of the Bank-financed
projects. Because the PCU has no experience in procurement, a procurement specialist will serve as
consultant for the first six months, and the Unidad de Financiamiento Especial (NAFIN's office for
procurement) will provide technical support to the PCU. The Bank has already reviewed the qualifications
of the consultant who will serve as the procurement specialist and has no objection to this selection.
Because the size of the Project, no foreign suppliers are expected to participate, and no ICB
procedures will apply to procure goods under the Project. For the Project, it has been agreed to follow
Bank's Guidelines January 1995 revised January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999
edition. The latest version of Standard Bidding Documents agreed by Mexico and the Bank for NCB will
be used, shopping procedures also will be accepted (Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $650,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Bank's Guidelines). Individual Consultants will be employed and will be
selected on the basis of their qualifications for the assignment. Paragraphs 5.1 to 5.3 of the Guidelines
- 60 -



"Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" January 1997, revised September
1997 and January 1999 edition will apply. Consultant firms can also be selected based on qualifications
and single source selection.
Organization and Staffing
The PCU will be responsible for: (i) preparing tender documents, (ii) calling for bids, (iii)
evaluating and comparing bids and consultants qualifications, (iv) awarding contracts, (v) signing the
contracts, and (vi) maintaining all the corresponding records. NAFIN's Unidad de Financiamiento
Especial will support the procurement carried out by the PCU. UFE is specialized in handling procurement
for projects financed by the Bank and IDB. It has significant experience with the implementation of Bank
projects and a good record of satisfactory performance.  Most of its 13 professionals have taken
procurement course in Turin, as well as in the Bank.
B. Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement Procurement
Procurement Environment and Professional Experience in Procurement
The UFE has worked in the area of procurement as a quality assurance institution for Mexico.
During discussions of this Assessment it was confirmed that present authorities and staff have a strong will
for ethical behavior and have expressed their commitment to adhere to competitive selection and
transparency in all activities. In addition, to increase transparency, all procurement including complaints
and their resolutions will be available to the public through internet (COMPRANET).
Procurement Planning and Monitoring/Control of Procurement Actions
The PCU has prepared a General Procurement Plan for the Project that has been reviewed by the
Bank and been found to be satisfactory. The implementation will ensure timely project execution. The
Bank Implementation Unit in Mexico will perform two post-reviews per year.
Recordkeeping and Filing System
NAFIN's recordkeeping system of all procure.nent documentation is very well organized. It has
been agreed that NAFIN will maintain the same system for the proposed Project. The Legal Documents
will require that audit reports be submitted annually to the Bank, and include the review of the
recordkeeping system.
Overall Risk Assessment
The overall risk assessment is considered to be average. The risk assessment is low for the
following sections: (i) legal aspects, (ii) project cycle management, and (iii) record keeping. The risk level
has been determined to be average for the following sections of the assessment: (i) organization and
functions (pending completion of the operational manual), (ii) support and control systems, (iii) general
procurement environment, and (iv) private sector assessment.  The PCU has already prepared an
acceptable Procurement Plan for the Project.
Reporting Requirements for Project Management Reporting (PMR)
A report based on Annex 4-B to the LACI handbook will be issued by Loan Effectiveness. Consequently,
the Project will be eligible for PMR disbursements. For the financial management aspects of PMRs, a
target date for the conversion from an SOE-based system to a PMR-based system is July 31, 2002.
- 61 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
l.a Gds and consultants' services for                                7.16                         7.16
Investment Subprojects                                              (2.66)                        (2. 66)
L.b Goods, consultants' services, and
training for Institutional Development                               0.27                         0.27
Subprojects                                                         (0.27)                        (0.27)
2.Start-up Subprojects
2.a. Goods                                              0.16                                      0.16
(0.08)                                    (0.08)
2.b. Consultants' services and training
2/                                                                   0.38                         0.38
(0.19)                       (0.19)
3. Goods and consultants' services for
Commercial Subprojects                                               0.48                         0.48
(0.41)                       (0.41)
4. Consultants' services (including
audits) and training under Part C of the                             0.71                         0.71
Project
(0.36)                       (0.36)
5. Goods under Part C of the Project                                 0.49                         0.49
(PCU)                                                               (0.08)                       (0.08)
6. Incremental Operating Costs 3/                                    0.45                         0.45
(0.45)                       (0.45)
7. Unallocated                                                       0.45                         0.45
(0.45)                       (0.45)
8. Fee                                                               0.05                         0.05
(0.05)                       (0.05)
9. Premia for Interest Rate Caps and                                 0.00
Interest Rate Collars                                               (0.00)
Total                                                0.16        10.44                         10.6
(0.08)       (4.92)                       (5.0)
Note: N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel cofinancing procedures, consultancies under
trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any other miscellaneous items). The procurement arrangement for the items listed
under "Other" and details of the items listed as "N.B.F." need to be explained in footnotes to the table or in the text.
- 62 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method
Consultant Services
Expenditure Category   QCBS    QBS     SFB     LCS       CQ     Other   N.B.F.  Total Cost
A. Firms               0.40    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00       0.40
(0. I 9)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.00)   (0. 1 9)
B. Individuals         0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     1.80    0.00      1.80
(0 .00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  {0 .00)   (0.00)   ( 1.3 8)  (0 .00)    (1I.3 8)
Total  0.40    0.00     0.00    0.00      0.00    1.80    0.00      2.20
, (0.19)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)   (1.38)  (0.00)    (1.57)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS  Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
- 63 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Threshold Recommended
Based on the above risk and the size of the Project the thresholds recommended are given in the
table below. An Action Plan was agreed upon at Negotiations, as follows:
a) It was agreed that the Borrower shall request the "Unidad de Financiamientos Especiales" to
supervise the procurement carried out by PCU under this Loan;
b) By Loan Effectiveness, the Borrower will approve an Operational Manual satisfactory to the
Bank which specifies procedures and requirements on, among other areas, procurement, contracting of
consultants, contract monitoring and controls, and accounting and financial procedures. The Operational
Manual should include regional procedures and requirements for both the national level (PCU
headquarters) and the state level (States of Campeche, Yucatan and Quintana Roo and other Southeastem
states which may qualify as Participating States) on (i) project accounting system; (ii) intemal controls;
(iii) planning; (iv) budgeting and financial reporting system, including format and contents of the PMR (to
be submitted quarterly); and (v) auditing;
c) By Loan Effectiveness, the Borrower shall select the procurement consultant as part of the
five-person core PCU staff hired (including the Project Coordinator, Administrative Manager, the
Procurement Specialist at headquarters, and the Microfinance Technical Specialist and ICT-based BDS
Specialist; and
d) By the date of Project Launch, the Borrower shall organize one Project Launch Seminar.
Disbursements. A Special Account will be opened in NAFIN. It was agreed that the authorized
allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to US$300,000 until the aggregate amount of
withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments, entered
into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed US$1,000,000,
unless the Bank otherwise agrees. Afterwards, the authorized allocation shall increase to US$500,000.
The Special Account will be replenished monthly and will be used for all transactions with a value
of less than 20% of the amount advanced to the Special Account. Traditional documentation requirements
apply for direct payments, special commitments and reimbursements not submitted on the basis of
statements of expenditures (SOEs).  If the Project is converted to the PMR-based disbursement
methodology, disbursement procedures should be in line with the Financial Management Initiative (FMI).
NAFIN would prepare the necessary documentation for prompt disbursements. A deadline of July 31,
2002 has been agreed upon for conversion to a PMR-based disbursement system.
The financial management assessment was carried out by a certified specialist and detailed
information is contained in Section D 4 of this document. The review was based on the Bank's guidelines
for "Review of Financial Management System", and focused on the assessment of the Project's accounting
system, intemal controls, planning, budgeting and financial reporting system, selection of an auditor as well
as the format and contents of the Project Management Report (PMR) to be submitted quarterly by the
executing agency. Based on project implementation of NAFIN's ongoing projects and support provided by
other NAFIN departments, the assessment qualifies the PCU as being in accordance with minimum Bank
financial management requirements. An Action Plan was finalized at Negotiations to develop the systems
necessary for the PCU to put in place an adequate project financial management system that can provide,
- 64 -



with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information as required by the Bank.
Use of statements of expenditures. Traditional disbursement methods such as statement of
expenditures (SOEs), special commitments and direct payments will be used until the PCU is ready to
adopt the PMR-based disbursement methodology. NAFIN will prepare the necessary documentation for
prompt disbursements. SOEs will be used for expenditures under contracts for goods, training, incremental
operating costs, expenditures for subprojects and subloans, and consulting firm contracts below
US$50,000 and individual consultant contracts below US$20,000. Full documentation will be required for
all contracts above these thresholds and will be kept by the PCU for the purposes of Bank supervision and
project audit.
The PCU will maintain separate project records, which will be maintained in order to reflect, in
accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures of each project
activity. Independent annual audits financed under the loan will be carried out based on (i) International
Standards on Auditing; (ii) current Memorandum of Technical Understanding on Auditing (MET); and (iii)
applicable Bank guidelines. The audits will be submitted to the Bank within the six months after the end of
each PCU's fiscal year (January 1 to December 31).
Retroactive financing. Retroactive financing was agreed to under the terms of the Project, as long
as withdrawals do not exceed an aggregate of $500,000 and the expenses were incurred after December 15,
2000. In addition, the eligible uses of funds under retroactive financing include (i) goods and consultants'
services for investment subprojects (by eligible microbusinesses), (ii) goods, consultants' services and
training for institutional development subprojects (by Eligible Microfinance Institutions), (iii) goods,
consultants' services and for start-up subprojects (infocenters), and (iv) consultants' services and training
for the PCU.
- 65 -



Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                               Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement             Prior Review
Expenditure Category     (US$ thousands)             Method
1. Works
2. Goods                     >US$50,000                 NCB                First two contracts
<US$50,000               Shopping             First two contracts
Subloans                                        Commercial practices      No prior review
3. Services
Firms
Individuals (except for      >US$20,000                                          All
Investment                   <US$20,000                                         TORs
Subprojects)
>US$50,000                                          All
Consulting firms             <US$50,000                                         TORs
(except for Investment
Subprojects)                All contracts                                   No prior review
Consultants for
Investment
Subprojects(commercia
I practices)
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 12 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
There would be two post review missions per year carried out by the Bank Implementation Unit in Mexico.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 66 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
E>nitragwy                          A-.$,.wnillxXon           , ',
I.a. Goods for Investment                       2.66                             86%
Subprojects
1 .b. Institutional Development                 0.27                              86%
Subprojects
2. Start-up Subprojects                         0.27
2.a.Goods                                       0.08                  100% of foreign expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures (ex-factory
cost), and 85% of local expenditures
for other items procured locally
2.b.Consultants' services and training          0.19                             100%
3. Goods and consultants' services              0.41                             86%
for Commercial Subprojects
4. Consultants' services (including             0.36                             1 00%/
audits) and training for PCU                                     _
5. Goods for PCU                                0.08                    100% of foreign expenditures,
I 00% of local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 85% of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally
6. Incremental Operating Costs                  0.45                    80% until disbursements have
reached an aggregate of $300,000,
and then 60% until disbursements
have reached an aggregate of
$400,000, and 25% thereafter
7. Unallocated                                  0.45
Total Project Costs                             4.95
Front-end Fee                                0.05
Total                                       5.00
1/ Eligible expenditures include fees and travel costs for the Project Coordination Unit, contract
staff, project impact evaluation and monitoring and evaluation system.
2/ Eligible expenditures include investment subprojects approved according to the criteria
eligibility and not exceeding an aggregate amount of the equivalent of US$8,000 in pesos.
3/ Eligible expenditures include technical consulting & advisory to complete pre-start up, new
product development, information dissemination, promotion services, and other start-up costs.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Special account:
- 67 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
MEXICO: Southeast Regional Development Learning and Innovation Project
Project Schedule                                  Planned                     Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      6                            12
First Bank mission (Identification)             06/02/2000                   06/02/2000
Appraisal mission departure                     11/15/2000                   12/11/2000
Negotiations                                    12/12/2000                  08/14/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   03/20/2000                   12/05/2001
Prepared by:
NAFIN and World Bank Task Team
Preparation assistance:
Japanese PHRD Grant TF025983
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
Mike Goldberg                     Task Team Leader
James Hanna                       Lead Operations Officer
Femando de Mergelina              Banking Specialist
Govindan Nair                     ICT Specialist
Luis Landa                        SME Finance
Yevgeny Kuznetsov                 Economist
Victor Ordonez                    Financial Management Specialist
Lea Braslavsky                    Procurement Specialist
Teresa Genta-Fons                 Senior Counsel
Catarina Portelo                  Counsel
Pierre Olivier Colleye            Peer reviewer, ICT-based BDS Component
Bikki Randhawa                    Peer reviewer, Microfmance Services Component
Sonia Plaza                       Consultant, ICT-based BDS Component
Isabelle Kim                      Project Assistant
- 68 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
MEXICO: Southeast Regional Development Learning and Innovation Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Draft submitted in October 2000
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1.    Evaluation System for Non-Financial Business Assistance Programs for MSMEs in Mexico."
BDS Project Report prepared for SECOFI and
the World Bank, December 8; Nexus Associates (1999).
2.    "Definition of a Permanent System to Determine the Priority Needs of MSMEs in Mexico." BDS
Project Report prepared for SECOFI and
the World Bank, June 1.
3.    Nacional Financiera Credit Supervision Manual, 2000 (Section 6, Non-bank Financial
Institutions).
4.    Evaluation of Fondo Fideicomiso Campeche (FEFICAM), May and September 2000 (Electronic
Files).
5.    Survey of Buenaventura Program (September 2000, Electronic Files).
6.    Market Research, Survey of Financial and Business Development Services in Campeche
(September 2000, Electronic files).
7.    Strategic Plan for Buenaventura Program (2001-2005), Tillman Bruett (Alternative Credit),
December, 2000.
8.    Assessment of Fondo Chetumal (Quintana Roo), by Consultants Reuben Summerlin (Alternative
Credit) and Thomas Wissing (Independent
Consultant), February 2001.
9.    APIS Presentation on Financial, Technological and Marketing Services, December 2000.
10.   Business Plan for the Infocenter in Campeche.
11.   Market Research for the Use of IT for Business Development Services, Quintana Roo.
12.   Business Plan for the Infocenter in Quintana Roo.
13.   Logic Framework for Campeche.
14.   Logic Framework for Quintana Roo.
15.   Logic Framework for Yucatin.
16.   "A Market-Oriented Strategy for Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprises." Washington, D.C.: IFC
Discussion Paper No. 40, February 15;
Nexus Associates (1998).
17.   CIES Study -- Perfil Indigena de Yucatan, 2000.
18.   Aide Memoires from World Bank Missions, February 2000, May 2000, December 2000.
C. Other
*Including electronic files
- 69 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
MEXICO: Southeast Regional Development Learning and Innovation Project
24-Sep-200 1
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                              disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                        IBRD         IDA                 GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig  Frm Rev'd
P060908       2001 MESO AMERICAN CORRID                                0.00      0.00                 14.84      0.00      14.89      1.69       0.00
P064887       2001 DISASTER MANAGEMENT                              404.05       0.00                 0.00       0.00     404.05     13.33       0.00
P065779       2001 FEDERAL HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT               218.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     218.00      0.00       0.00
P066321       2001 MX: III BASIC HEALTH CARE FROJECT                 350.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     350.00      0.00       0.00
P071323       2001 Bank Restructuimg Facility II                    505.06       0.00                 0.00       0.00     505.06      0.00       0.00
P070479       2001 MX Edo.de Mexico Structural Acqustm Loan          505.06      0.00                 0.00       0.00     300.00    -204.79      0.00
P066674       2001 Indigenous and Community Biodiversity               0.00      0.00                 7.50       0.00       7.10      1.00       0.00
P057530       2000 RURAL DEV.MARG.ARII                                55.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00      47.67      5.34       0.00
P060718       2000 ALTERNATIVE ENERGY                                  0.00      0.00                 8.90       0.00       7.50      5.56       0.00
P066938       2000 MX GENDER (LIL)                                     3.07      0.00                 0.00       0.00       3.07      0.6.4      0.00
P048505        1999 AGRICILTURAL PRODUCT                             444.45      0.00                 0.00       0.00     188.96     35.39     44.70
P007610       1999 FOVI RESTRUCTURING                                505.50      0.00                 0.00       0.00     312.00    262.00       0.00
P007711       1998 MX RURAL DEV. MARG.AREA                           47.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00      32.40     20.74       0.00
P040199       1998 MX: BASIC EDUC.DEVELOPMENT PHASE I                115.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00      33.87     33.87       0.00
P007720       1998 MX: HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM-SAL                     700.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     150.00    150.00       0.00
P049895       1998 MX: HIGHER ED. FINANCING                          180.20      0.00                 0.00       0.00     150.83     54.83       0.00
P055061       1998 MX: HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM TA                       25.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00       1.32      1.32       0.00
P044531       1998 KNOWLEDGE& INNOV.                                300.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00    231.97      69.31       0.00
P007700       1997 COMMUNTY FORESTRY                                  15.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00      6.50       4.08       0.00
P007689       1996 MX: BASIC HEALTH II                              310.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00      37.69     37.69      37.69
P007713       1996 WATER RESOURCES MANA                              186.50      0.00                 0.00       0.00     121.53     86.88      28.41
P034490       1995 MX: TECHNCAL EW5JCITRAINING                      265.00       0.00                 0.00      30.00      94.52    124.52      94.49
P007701       1994 ON-FARM & MINOR IRRI                             200.00       0.00                 0.00      30.00      15.78     45.78      15.78
P007725       1994 MX: PRIMARY EDUCII                               412.00       0.00                 0.00      40.00      11.04      51.04     11.04
P007710       1994 N. BORDER I ENVIRONM                             368.00       0.00                 0.00     313.36      23.78    336.02      56.05
P007648       1993 MX MEDIUMCITIES TRANSP                           200.00       0.00                 0.00      23.00      97.00    120.00      97.00
Total:    6313.89        0.00              31.24      436.36    3366.55    1256.26     295.76
- 70 -



MEXICO
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
May-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                      Disbursed
IFC                           IFC
FY Approval       Company                      Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1998              Grupo Calidm                 12.00    6.00    0.00   10.00   12.00    6.00    0.00   10.00
Grupo FEMSA                  0.00    9.43    0.00    0.00    0.00    9.43    0.00    0.00
1989              Grupo Minsa                  16.00   10.00    0.00   24.00   16.00   10.00    0.00   24.00
1997              Grupo Posadas                25.00    0.00   10.00   10.00   25.00    0.00   10.00   10.00
1992/93/95/96/99    GrupoSanfandila             9.17    0.00    0.00    4.40    7.17    0.00    0.00    3.40
1998              Heller Financial              0.00    0.32    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.32    0.00    0.00
1994/96/98/00     ITR                          14.00    0.00    0.00    4.00   10.90    0.00    0.00    3.10
2000              Inwopack                      0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00
2000              Interceramic                  7.00    0.00    6.00    1.75    7.00    0.00    6.00    1.75
1994              InverCap                      0.00    0.07    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.06    0.00    0.00
2000/01           Masterpak                     1.20    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.20    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993              Merida III                   30.00    0.00    0.00   73.95   28.31    0.00    0.00   69.79
1998              MexplusPuertos                0.00    1.41    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.41    0.00    0.00
1995/99           NEMAK                         0.00    0.00    0.83    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.83    0.00
1996/99/00        Punta Langosta                2.50    1.00    0.00    4.27    2.50    1.00    0.00    4.27
1998              Rio Bravo                    50.00    0.00    0.00   59.50   35.62    0.00    0.00   42.38
2000              Saltillo S.A.                35.00    0.00    0.00   43.00   18.85    0.00    0.00   23.15
2000              Servicios                    10.50    1.90    0.00   10.00   10.50    1.90    0.00   10.00
2000              Sudamerica                    0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00
1999              TMA                           2.77    0.00    2.10    9.60    2.77    0.00    2.10    9.60
1997              Toluca Toll Road              6.53    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.53    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992              Vitro                         0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991/92           Vitro Flotado                3.31    0.00    0.00    1.38    3.31    0.00    0.00    1.38
1991              ZN Mxc Eqty Fund              0.00   25.30    0.00    0.00    0.00   11.88    0.00    0.00
1998              Apasco                       12.60    0.00    0.00   50.40   12.60    0.00    0.00   50.40
1988/91/92/93/95  Ayvi                         10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998              BANAMEX                      86.61    0.00    0.00   22.67   86.61    0.00    0.00   22.67
1990/92/96        Banco Bilbao MXC             65.88    0.00   30.00    0.00   65.88    0.00   30.00    0.00
1997              Banorte-SABROZA               1.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992              Baring Mex. FMC               0.00    0.02    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.02    0.00    0.00
1995/96           Baring Venture               0.00    2.73    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00
1995/99           CIMA Mexico                  0.00    4.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.80    0.00    0.00
1998              CIMA Puebla                   7.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998              CTAPV                         3.44    0.00    2.11    0.00    3.44    0.00    2.11    0.00
1994              Chiapas-Propalma              0.00    0.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.31    0.00    0.00
0                Comercializadora             2.84    0.00    2.03    5.63    2.84    0.00    2.03    5.63
1997              Corsa                        13.00    3.00    0.00    0.00   13.00    3.00    0.00    0.00
1999              Derivados                     1.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.10    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993              Fondo Chiapas                 0.00    4.20    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.43    0.00    0.00
1997              Foja Montefrey               13.00    3.00    0.00   13.00   13.00    3.00    0.00   13.00
1998              GIBSA                        21.64    0.00   10.00   72.76   21.64    0.00   10.00   72.76
1991/96           GIDESA                        5.00    8.00    0.00    0.00    5.00    8.00    0.00    0.00
1993              GIRSA                       45.00    0.00    0.00   60.00   45.00    0.00    0.00   60.00
1996/00           GOTM                          0.82    0.00    0.00    0.22    0.82    0.00    0.00    0.22
1993
Total Portfolio:      514.41   115.85       63.07   480.53  473.59   96.52   63.07  42
- 71 -



Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
2000               Teksid Aluminio                 25.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
2000               Teksid Hierro                   15.00      0.00      0.00     30.00
1999              BANAMEX LRF 11                   50.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
1999              Baring BMPEF FMC                  0.00      0.00      0.06     0.00
1998              Cima Hermosillo                   7.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
2001               Compartamos                      1.00      0.00      0.90      0.00
2000               Educacion                        3.20      0.00      0.00      0.00
2000               Hospital ABC                    30.00      0.00      0.00     14.00
2000              Innopack                         15.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:      146.20      0.00      0.96     44.00
-72 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
MEXICO: Southeast Regional Development Learning and Innovation Project
Latin    Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            America   middle-
Mexico   & Carib.  Income        Development diamond'
1999
Population, mid-vear (millions)                         97.4       509       573                   Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                     4,410     3,840      4,900
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                       429.6     1,955      2,811
Average annual growth, 1993-99
PoDulation (%)                                           1.7       1.6        1.4
Labor force (%)                                          3.0       2.5        2.1     GNP                               Gross
per                             primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                                 capita                        enrollment
Povertv (% of poputation below national poverfv line)
Urban population (% of total Population)                 74         75        76
Life eXDectancy at birth (vears)                         72         70        70
Infant mortalitV (per 1,000 live births)                 30         31        27
Child malnutrition (% of children under 51                ..         8         7                 Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of population)        83         75        78
Illiteracy (% of population aqe 15+)                      9         12        10
Gross Primary enrollment (%of school-age population)    114        113       109              Mexico
Male                                                  116          ..        ..              Upper-middle-income group
Female                                                113
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1998      1999
Economic ratios*
GDP (US$ billions)                           134.5    223.0      416.3      483.7
Gross domestic investment/GDP                 26.0      22.9      24.3       23.2                      Trade
Exports of qoods and services/GDP             11.2      19.0      30.8       30.8T
Gross domestic savinqslGDP                    24.7      22.9      22.3       21.9
Gross national savinas/GDP                    21.7      20.3      20.5       20.6
Current account balancelGDP                    -4.1     -2.6       -3.9      -2.9     Domestic
Interest oavments/GDP                          2.5       3.5       2.4        1.7     Savings                       Investment
Total debt/GDP                                31.8      42.1      38.4       34.0       a
Total debt service/eXports                    72.4      32.9      19.2       24.6
Present value of debt/GDP                                         37.4       33.0
Present value of debt/exports                   ..        ..    111.5       100.4
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99     1998       1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                   1.3      2.9       4.8        3.7       4.9         -M exico
GNP per capita                       -0.9      1.1       3.1       2.5        3.2               Upper-middle-incotne group
Exports of qoods and services         8.4     13.6      12.0      13.9        7.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998      1999      Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                            4
Agriculture                                    9.8       7.8       5.3        5.0
Induistrv                                     33.4      29.4      28.5       28.2     20
Manufacturing                               22.7      21.9       21.3      21.1      o
Services                                      56.7      62.9      66.3       66.8    -20      946    9                8   99
Private consumption                           64.4      68.9      67.3       68.0    -40
General government consumption                10.9       8.3      10.4       10.0              -     GDI        tOGDP
Imports of qoods and services                 12.5      19.1      32.8       32.0
(average annual growth)                    1979-89  1989-99       1998      1999      Growth of exports and imports (%)
Aqriculture                                    1.2       1.7       0.8        3.5      0
Industry                                       0.9       3.5       6.3        3.8    15
Manufacturing                                 1.1      4.0        7.3       4.1
Services                                       1.8       2.7       4.5        3.6      oXf l
Private consumption                            1.4       2.2       5.5        4.3     1       4 5        96   97   98   99
General government consumption                 3.1       1.7       2.2        1.0
Gross domestic investment                     -4.3       4.3       9.5        1.5    -30
Imports of qoods and services                 -1.1      11.9      16.5       12.8            -     Exports    -0P  Imports
Gross national product                         1.2       2.9       4.8        4.2
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
* The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv tin bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missinq, the diamond will
be incomDlete.
- 73 -



Mexico
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989      1998     1999      nflatlon (%)
Domestic pdir.s                                                                40
(% change)
Consumer prices                                    20.0       15.9     16.7    30
Implicit GDP deflator                      19.6    26.5       15.4     15.9    20
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                              ..   25.8        20.4     20.7            94   95   96   97   98    9
Current budget balance                       ..    -1.8        2.1      1.7           -     GDP deflator    0  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                      ..    -4.6       -1.2     -1.1
TRADE
1979    1989      1998     1999      Export and Import levels (USS mlII.)
(US$ mtlitons)
Total exports (fob)                           ..  35,171   117,460  136,391    180,000
Oil                                        ..   7,876      7,134    9,928
Agriculture                                ..   1,754      3,797    3,926    100000
Manufactures                               ..  24,936   106,062  122,085
Total imports (ci)                           ..  34,766   125.373  141.975
Consumer goods                             ..  3,499    11,109   12,175       so,o __
Intermediate goods                          ..  26,499    96,935  109,270
Capital goods                              ..  4,769    17,329   20,530           o
93  94  95  96  97  95  99
Export price index (1995=100)                ..      96        95       98
Import price index (1995=100)                ..      89       100       99                MExports      *Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                     ..    108        94       99
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979    1989      1998      1999     Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ rniMbns)
Exports of goods and services            15,131   42,362   128,982  148,083
Imports of goods and services            16,704  42,426   137,801   155,465
Resource balance                         -1,573     -63    4,818    -7,382    -2  .                w     K *
Net income                               -4,111   4,302   -13,284  -13,083
Net current transfers                      131    2,544     6,012    6,313     4 I I
Current account balance                  -5,553   -5,821   -16,090  -14,153    -8
Financing items (net)                     5,868    6,093    18,227   14,746
Changes in net reserves                    -315    -272    -2,137      -594     8
Memo:
Reserves induding gold (USS mi/ions)         ..   6,376    29,032   31,829
Conversion rate (DEC, locedUSs)         2.3E-02     2.5        9.2      9.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989      1998      1999
(USS milldons)                                                                  Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outsanding and disbursed      42,765   93,826   159,962  164,532
IBRD                                    1,731    7.821    11,514   10,804                      A: 10,804
IDA                                        0        0         0        0          G: 30,006         c: 5,233
Total debt service                       11,591   15,559    26,778   39,072                                  6,11269
lBRD                                     221    1,245     2,024    2,171
IDA                                        0        0         0        0(
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                           27       37        32
Ofricial creditors                       284      936      -776   -1,262
Private creditors                       3,798   -2,397    12,219    6,308
Foreign direct investment               1,332    3,037    10,238    11,568
Portfolio equity                           0        0       730    3,769                       F: 107,101
World Bank pmgram
Commitments                              527    2,325      2,212    1,616     A- IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                            326    1,297      1,283     839      B - IDA    D - Other multlateral  F - Pnvate
Principal repayments                      76      677      1,257    1,326     C - IMF                   G - Short-term
Net flows                                250      620        26      -487
Interest payments                        145      567       767      846
Net transfers                            105       52      -741   -1,332
Development Economics                                                                                           8/25/00
-74 -



-- - e: - - - - - -  - -o -
CA>m{'. &.tg\ot
\   - !  <   5 h.,,  -<>  |   g   ig               [      -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m - 
,,,   i,>   1;    7    sL               .   .z               @t 11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0z 
\  >          e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
.  0  X ! . . ._ m E <<> ' \ '~~~~~~~~Lf
% 9 S-_A~- 



