Page  1
The World Bank
 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 477-1234 
I
NTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
 
July 24, 2002 
 
Mr.
 Francisco Patiño 
Director General Adjunto de Fomento 
Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. 
Plaza Inn, Insurgentes Sur 1971, 
Torre IV , Piso 12 
México, D.F. 
 
Re: 
Mexico: Southeast Regional Development Learning and Innovation 
Project (Loan No. 7079-ME)
Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Dear Sir: 
 
Please refer to the Loan Agreement between International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) and 
Nacional Financiera
,
S.N.C. (the Borrower), dated March 21, 2002 
with regard to the above-captioned Loan.  We are pleased to inform you that, pursuant to the 
Borrower’s request dated July 4, 2002 and our recent discussions on the subject, the Bank agrees to 
amend the Loan Agreement as set forth below. 
 
 
1. 
Section 1.02 (a) of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended and replaced in its entirety to 
read as follows:  
 
“
(a) 
“Administrative Manager” means the staff to be appointed within the PCU pursuant 
to the provisions of Section 3.07 (c) (i) of this Agreement;” 
 
2. 
Section 1.02 (ff) of the Loan Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety. 
 
3. 
Section 1.02 (gg) of the Loan Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety. 
 
4.  
Section 1.02 (jj) of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended and replaced in its entirety to 
read as follows:  
 
“
(jj) 
“Regional Staff” means the staff to be appointed within the PCU pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 3.07 (c) (ii) of this Agreement;” 
 
5. 
The definitions “Project Coordinator”, “Project Management Report”, “Regional Staff”, 
“Resolution”, “Special Account”, “Start-up Subproject”, “State”, “Subloan”, “Subloan 
Agreement”, and “Subprojects” are renumbered as Section 1.02 “(ff)”, “(gg)”, “(hh)”, “(ii)”, 
“(jj)”, “(kk)”, “(ll)”, “(mm)”, “(nn)”, and “(oo)”, respectively. 
 
Page  2
-
2
-
6.  
Section 3.07 (c) of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended and replaced in its entirety to 
read as follows:  
 
“
(c) The Project Coordinator shall be assisted by technical and administrative staff in 
adequate numbers and with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank, including, 
inter alia
:
(i) an officer responsible for administrative and operational matters, financial 
management matters and with technical expertise in procurement procedures, guidelines and 
contracts (the Administrative Manager); and (ii) regional staff (the Regional Staff) assigned to 
the Borrower’s office in the State of Yucatán (Mérida), including, 
inter alia
,
a
technical 
specialist for Part A of the Project and a technical specialist for Part B of the Project.  The 
Regional Staff shall be responsible, 
inter alia
,
for:  (A) ensuring that each Eligible Microfinance 
Institution and each Eligible Infocenter prepares and submits, in a timely fashion, annual reports 
and business plans; (B) supervising and monitoring the implementation of the Subprojects 
approved for financing under the Project; (C) assisting with the preparation of reports and 
documentation related to financial management requirements under the Project; and (D) 
compiling and disseminating the lessons learned throughout Project implementation.” 
 
7.  
Section 3.09 (c) of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended by replacing the dates “June 
30” and “June 30, 2002” by the dates “September 30” and “September 30, 2002”, respectively. 
 
8.  
Section 4.02 (a) of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended by replacing the date “July 31, 
2002” by the date “September 30, 2002”. 
 
9.  
Section  6.01 (b) of the Loan Agreement is amended by deleting the reference to 
“Procurement Specialist”. 
 
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating this 
letter in the spaces provided below.  This amendment letter may be executed in two counterparts, 
each of which shall be an original.  Upon your confirmation, please return one fully executed 
original to us.  The provisions of this amendment letter will become effective as of the date first 
above written upon receipt by the Bank of one fully executed original of this amendment letter. 
 
Very truly yours, 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
 AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
 
/s/Olivier Lafourcade 
 Director 
 
Country Management Unit 
 
Colombia, México & Venezuela 
 
Page  3
-
3
-
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.  
 
By:     /s/ Francisco Patiño 
Authorized Representative
 
Date:  July 24, 2002
 
Cc. Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
 
Page  4
-
4
-
WB76939 
M:\MEXICO\7079 Southeast Regional\7079 Southeast Amendment #1.doc 
September 10, 2003 4:48 PM
 
