Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7079 - ME
Guarantee Agreement
(Southeast Regional Development
 Learning and Innovation Project)
between
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated March 21, 2002 
- 5 - 
LOAN NUMBER 7079 - ME
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 21, 2002 , between UNITED MEXICAN STATES (the 
Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
Page  2
(the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor and  
Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
 (the Borrower), having 
been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan 
Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the 
Borrower, the Bank has agreed to extend to the Borrower a loan in an amount equal to  five 
million Dollars ($5,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but 
only on condition that the Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in 
respect of such loan as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS (C) the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01.
The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999, with the modifications set forth 
in  Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement.
Section 1.02.
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to and Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have the 
respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01.
The Guarantor declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, without limitation or 
restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor 
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as surety merely, the due and 
punctual payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the 
premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, and the punctual performance of all the other 
Page  3
obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02.
Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of 
this Agreement, the Guarantor specifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause to 
believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be inadequate to meet the estimated 
expenditures required for the carrying out of the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to 
the Bank, promptly to provide the Borrower or cause the Borrower to be provided with such 
funds as are needed to meet such expenditures.
Section 2.03.
The Guarantor shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under 
the Authorization, in such manner as to protect the interests of the Guarantor, the Borrower and 
the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, 
the Guarantor shall not amend, assign, waive, terminate or fail to enforce any provision of the 
Authorization. The Guarantor shall promptly inform the Bank and the Borrower of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the performance of the Guarantor under such 
Authorization.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.
The Guarantor shall participate in the annual reviews  referred to Section 
3.09 of the Loan Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01.
The 
Director General de Crédito Público
 of the Guarantor is designated 
as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02.
The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 
of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público
Dirección General de Crédito Público
Palacio Nacional
Patio Central, Piso 3, Oficina 3010
Colonia Centro 
06000 México, D.F.
México
Telex:
Facsimile:
1777313-SHOCME
(52-5) 228-1156
Page  4
For the Bank:
International Bank for
 Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI); or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
    64145 (MCI)
Page  5
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Monterrey, 
Mexico, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
/s/ David de Ferranti
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By
/s/ José Francisco Gil Díaz
Lic. José Francisco Gil Díaz
Secretario de Hacienda y Crédito Público
Authorized Representative
