Page  1
January 10, 2001
Mr. Carlos García Moreno
Director General de Crédito Público
Secretaria de Hacienda y Crédito Público
Av. Insurgentes Sur No. 826 - 9o. Piso
Col. Del Valle
Mexico, D.F. 03100
Mr. Roberto Casillas Contreras
Director Internacional
Nacional Financiera, SNC (NAFIN)
Plaza Inn. Insurgentes Sur 1971
01020 Mexico, D.F.
Re: 
Japanese Grant for Regional Private Sector Development Project
Grant No. TF025983
Amendment to the Grant Agreement
Dear Sirs,
Please refer to the Grant Agreement between the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and the United Mexican States (the 
Recipient), dated December 9, 1999 (the Agreement).  We are pleased to inform you 
that, pursuant to your request dated November 8, 2000 and our recent discussions on 
the subject, the Bank hereby agrees to amend the Agreement as follows:
1.
Paragraph 1 (a) is hereby amended and replaced to read in its entirety as 
follows:
"(a)
Development of a plan for enterprise-focused assistance, 
including: (i) identification of interested buyer companies, their 
potential suppliers and beneficiaries; (ii) design of a management 
scheme to facilitate and monitor the dialogue between potential buyers 
and suppliers and to coordinate similar federal promotion programs; 
(iii) design of matching grant schemes for business development 
services; and (iv) the carrying out of workshops, through the provision 
of technical assistance (This component is estimated to cost 
US$185,000)."
2.
Paragraph 2 is hereby amended and replaced to read in its entirety as 
follows:
"2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants' services and 
workshops (such workshop expenses not to exceed US$40,000 equivalent 
already included in the amounts cite cited in paragraph 1 above) 
required for the Activities."
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and 
dating both originals of this letter in the spaces provided below, and returning 
one to us.  The provisions set forth in this amendment letter shall enter into 
effect as of the date of this letter upon receipt by the Bank of one original of 
this letter signed by you.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Olivier Lafourcade
Country Director
Colombia - Mexico - Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Page  2
AGREED:
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, SNC
By /s/ Alonso Garcia Tames
By /s/ Roberto Casillas Contreras Medellin
Authorized Representative
Authorized Representative
Date:
January 10, 2001
Date:
January 10, 2001
