RESTRICTED
Report No. TO-649a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
NIGER
August 27, 1968
Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit          -  CFA Franc (CFAF)
CFAF 247              =   US$ 1.00
CFAF 1                =   US$ 0.004
CFAF 1, 000, 000       =  US$ 4, 050
Fiscal Year: October 1 to September 30
Units of Weights and Measures: Metric
Metric: British/US Equivalents
1 kilometer (km)      =   0. 62 miles (mi)
1 meter (m)           =   3. 28 feet (ft)
1 hectare (ha)        =   2.47 acres (ac)
1 liter (1)           =   0. 22 gallons (Imperial)
= 0. 26 gallons (US)
1 metric ton (m ton)  =   2204 pounds (lbs)



NIGER
APPRAISAL OF A HIGHWAY MAINTEXANCE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
SUIIARY                                                  i
1.   INTRODUCTION                                             1
2.   BACK.GROUNTD                                             2
A.  General                                              2
B.  The Transport System                                 2
C.  Transport Policy and Coordination                    3
3.   THE HIGHTWA+Y SECTOR                                     5
A. The Highway Network                                   5
B.  Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic           5
C.  Highway Administration                               6
D.  Highway Financing and Planning                       7
E.  Highway Construction                                 8
F.  Highway Maintenance                                  8
G.  Equipment Division                                   9
4.   THE PROJECT                                             10
A.  Description                                         10
B. Cost Estimates and Financing                         13
C. Execution                                            1
5.   ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION                                  16
6.   CONCLUSION4S AND RECOM4ENDATIONS                        21
This report has been prepared by Messrs. Abbate, Ludwig and
Thalwitz.



Table of Contents (continued)
Annex: Identification of Roads for Feasibility Studies
Tables:
1. Highway Classification in 1967
2. Length and Classification of National Roads, 1967
3. Road Transport Fuel Consumption
4. Vehicle Fleet
5. Vehicle Fleet; New Registrations
6. Expenditures for Highways 1964/65 - 1966/67
7. Estimate for Consulting Engineers' Services
8. List of Maintenance Equipment to be Procured and Cost Estimate
9. Improvement of lWorkshops and Workshop Equipment to be Procured
10. Cost Estimate
11. Estimated Vehicle Operating Costs
12. Traffic, Construction Cost and Vehicle Operating Cost
for Specific Roads
13. Cost Functions With and Without the Project
14. Minimum Total Future Transport Costs With and Without the Main-
tenance Project
Chart: Organization of the Directorate of Public Works
Maps : 1. Road Network - 1967
2.  Highway System Schematic Lay Out - 1964
List of Abbrew!xations Used in Report
DPW:   Directorate of Public Works
BCEOM: Bureau Central d'Etudes pour les Equipements d'Outre-Mer
SEDES: Societe d'Etudes pour le Developpement Economique et Social
FAC:   Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
UNDP:  United Nations Development Programme
OCDN: Organisation Commune Dahomey - Niger
FED:   Fonds Europeen de Developpement
PNIWA: Permanent Mission to West Africa
SCET/COOP: Societe Centrale pour l'Equipement du Territoire/
Cooperation



NIGER
APPRAISAL OF A HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PRDJECT
SUMARY
.         E The Government of Niger has asked the International Development
Association to help finance a project consisting of: (a) a four-year program
to improve highway maintenance, and (b) feasibility studies for about 300 km
of roads, with subsequent detailed engineering of about 150 km found to be
of highest priority.
ii.       In 1964, the Association made a credit of US$1.5 million (Cr. 55-
NIR) to Niger for engineering and construction of about 60 km of roads which
are about 75 percent complete.  In 1965, the Bank made a technical assistance
grant of us$85,o00 to help finance a road maintenance study which has re-
sulted in the project for this credit.
iii.      The four-year maintenance program provides for the elimination of
the backlog of deferred maintenance, the improvement of maintenance operations,
the training of local personnel, the purchase of maintenance and shop equip-
ment, and the extension of woukshop and stores. IDA will finance 97 percent
of the foreign exchange cost of the programts capital expenditures and the
French Fonds dtAide et de Cooperation (FAC) the balarnce. IDA will also finance
a smaell amo=it of the local corst for consulting services. The total capital
expenditures of the program are estimated at US$8.13 million, of wVrich 67
percent will be financed by IDA (US$5.49 million), 2 p.:rcent by FAC and the
remainder by the Government, which will also finance all the recurrent cost
during the program period.
iv.       The estimated benefits of the maintenance project are savings in
vehicle operating costs and reduction in routine mainLenance expenditures.
They yield an adequate economic return which is in excess of 10 percent.
v.        The pre-investment studies will be carried out by the French con-
sulting firm Societe Centrale pour l'Equipement du Territoire/Cooperation
(SCET/COOP). IDA will finance the foreign exchange cost of the consultants'
services estimated at US$630,000 out of a total cost of US$820,000. These
studies could lead to a construction project suitable for subsequent IDA
financing.
vi.       The Directorate of Public Works (DPW) will be responsible for the
project. It will be assisted in the implementation of the maintenance program
by the French consulting firm Bureau Central dFEtudes pour les Equipements
d'Outre-INer (BCEON).
vii.      The project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$6.12 million equiva-
lent to the Government of Niger.



NIGER
APPRAISAL OF A HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1       In 1964, an IDA credit of US$1.5 million (Cr.55-NIR) was made to
the Government of Niger for the engineering and construction of two small
road sections (totalling about 60 km in length), serving mainly the export
of groundnuts. The mission that appraised that project concluded that
maintenance of the entire road system was inadequate and that consultants
should be engaged to prepare a maintenance program. In July 1965 the Bank
made a technical assistance grant of US$85,000 to help finance the mainte-
nance study. This was undertaken by ,the French consulting firm, Bureau
Central d'Etudes pour les Equipement d'Outre-Mer (BCEOM), and completed
in February 1967. In May 1967, the Government submitted a request to IDA
for assistance in financing a four-year road maintenance program which was
based on the BCEOM report.
1.2       This program is the subject of the proposed credit.  During the
appraisal, the nission was given a recent study carried out by another
French consulting firm, Societe dtEtudes pour le Developpement Economique
et Social (S-DES), financed by FAC, on future highway construction in Niger
and the Government requested it to review the roads which the report showed
had high economic priority with a view to further IDA financing. A mission
from the Bank's Permanent Mission to West Africa visited Niger in March
1968 and identified about 300 km of roads for feasibility studies out of
which about 150 km of high priority roads are likely to be economically jus-
tified and might be suitable for subsequent detailed engineering. These
pre-investment studies have been included in the project.
1.3       The project financed under Credit 55-NIR is about 75 percent com-
plete. Work is on schedule and is expected to be completed in late 1968;
performance is satisfactory.
1,4       This report is based on an appraisal mission consisting of Mr.
Ludwig, engineer, and Messrs. Thalwitz and Abbate, economists, who visited
Niger in September 1967. The mission received assistance from the Sector
and Project Group and the Statistics Division of the Economics Department.



- 2 -
2. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.1       Niger is a large land-locked country in the western part of Cen-
tral Africa.  With an area of 1,267,000 km  it is about two and a half times
the size of France. It neighbors are M4ali, Algeria, Chad, Nigeria, Dahomey
and Upper Volta (see Map 1).
2.2       Most of Niger is a low plateau belonging to the Saharan or sub-
Saharan desert. The population is estimated at 3.2 million and is growing
at about 2.8 percent per annum. More than 80 percent of the population live
in the extreme south along a narrow strip, ranging from 110-180 km in width,
where the rainfall exceeds 350 mm per annum and the land is fertile. The
vast northern desert area is inhabited by about 0.5 million people who are
largely nomadic. Urban population is small. The capital, Niamey, has a
population of only 80,000 people while Zinder, the second largest city, has
25,000. The growth of these small urban centers, however, is accelerating;
the population of Niamey is expected to approximately double by 1975.
2.3       The economy depends mainly on agriculture consisting of livestock
in the north and field cultivation in the extreme south. The major cash
crop is groundnuts, with cotton and rice being of secondary importance. The
few, small industrial plants in the country are engaged mainly in the pro-
cessing of agricultural products and raw materials. A cement plant was re-
cently built and other factories to produce such consumer goods as textiles,
beer and soap, have been started or are being planned. GNP per capita, esti-
mated at $70 in 1961 rose to $80 in 1966.
B. The Transport System
a. General
2.4       Long distances both within Niger and between the country and the
nearest ocean ports which are Cotonou in Dahomey and Lagos in Nigeria in-
--'valve the Niger economy in heavy transport costs. The cost of transport,
for example, between the sea and Niger accounts for 35 percent of the de-
livered cost of gasoline (excluding taxes) in Niamey; about 25 percent of
the coastal port FOB export price for groundnuts is accounted for by the
cost of transport from Niger. The improvement of transport facilities in
Niger's southern neighboring countries will reduce its external transport
costs. In Dahomey, a United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) financed
land transport study, for which the Bank is executing agent, is underway.
This may lead to investments for the improvement of the main road in Dahomey
between Cotonou-Parakou-lialanville. The alternative of a railway extension
from Parakou in Dahomey to Dosso in Niger, for which a satisfactory economic
justification has not yet been established, is also being investigated.



- 3 -
2.5       For internal transport the motor vehicle is the only significant
modern transport mode; Niger has no railway. Navigation is possible by very
small boats on the Niger River, but is of very little significance (para.
2.7). As a result, no issues of transport coordination exist (para. 2.9).
Road transport, however, is hampered by the generally low standards to which
highways have been built and by their inadequate maintenance. In large
areas of the country transport by camel is still very significant. This is
especially so in the sparsely populated desert and semi-desert areas where
transport requirements are extremely limited. Although the "operating cost
per ton/km for camels" is perhaps 3-h times higher than that of trucking,
camel transport is the most economic means where the number of users and
volume of freight are too low to justify the infra-structure costs of mod-
ern highways.
b. Highways
2.6       The highway network consists of about 7,300 km of roads of all
standards. The riding quality of the bulk of the network is generally poor,
and large sections are closed to trucks after heavy rains. The system is
deteriorating as a result of an increasing maintenance backlog. Further
details are given in paragraphs 3.1 and 3.2.
c. Waterways
2.7       Although the Niger River passes through the country for about
500 kIn, river transport is insignificant. It is navigable only for a few
months of the year, and the Malanville Bridge at the Dahomey border pre-
cludes passage of barges of more than 500 tons. River transport by small
unpowered craft therefore serves mainly local needs.
d. Aviation
2.8       Due to the high cost of road construction over long distances in
a sparsely populated country, air transport is growing, but its significance
is still limited since requirements for the transport of high value com-
modities are small. Internal passenger transport, mainly for administrators
and tourists, is frequently provided by government aircraft. The capital,
Niamey, is served by a modern airport which can accommodate the larger types
of jet aircraft. In addition to this international airport, there are about
20 smaller fields and airstrips in the country.
C. Transport Policy and Coordination
2.9       Transport policies are primarily designed to improve the efficien-
cy of road transport. For this purpose, an eight-year road construction
program has been developed by the DP-1, based on the SEDES report, which
among other things envisages major efforts to ensure proper maintenance
of the present and future highway system.  Competition has been permitted
to be the main regulator of the road transport industry within the country;
it determines rates and the market share of individual enterprises.



- 4 -
There are no restrictive regulations with respect to routes, distances,
rates or quotas for the allocation of internal traffic. The transport
industry and shippers are represented on a Govemment Committee which
has the right to limit additions to the total fleet capacity on an annual
basis (see para. 3.8).
2.10      Exports through Dahomey are regulated in accordance with an agree-
ment between Niger and Dahomey. In 1959 the Organization Commune Dahomey-
Niger (OCDN) was formed, as an organization serving the interest of both
countries.  OCDN operates the Cotonou wharf and the Cotonou-Parakou railway,
and has the exclusive right to charter road transport for the evacuation of
groundnuts from Niger to Parakou. The groundnut production areas from which
exports must take the Dahomey route are determined at the beginning of every
crop season. Groundnuts for export from other areas are usually routed via
the Nigerian Railways to Lagos. The profits or losses of OCDN are shared
in a proportion of 60:40 between the Dahomey and Niger Governments. OCDN
freight rates are fixed at relatively low levels, originally to make the
Dahomey route competitive with the Nigeria route. Recent events in Nigeria
have led to a re-routing of most of Niger's groundnut exports through Dahomey
and, as a result, eliminated the OCDN deficits of earlier years.



- 5 -
3. THE HIGHWAY SECTOR
A.  The Highway Network (Tables 1 and 2)
3.1       In 1967 the total length of the network of national roads in
Niger was about 5,000 km. In addition to the national roads, there are
about 2,300 km of local roads, most of which are ungraded earth roads and
in many cases mere trails. The local authorities are responsible for the
maintenance of these roads.
3.2       There are about 500 km of bituminous roads (about 200 km of these
were still under construction at the end of 1967) including 17 km of city
streets. Only the 10 km long airport road in Niamey has sufficient width
of asphalt pavement (7 m) to permit two-lane traffic; the remaining asphalt
roads have a one-lane pavement in the center of the roadway. About 45 per-
cent of the national roads have laterite surfacing and the greater part of
these are considered all-weather roads, but many are closed temporarily to
truck traffic after each heavy rain. A further 45 percent of the natioflal
roads consist of earthroads, most of them ungraded. These tracks are usable
during the dry season only.
B. Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic
3.3       Road transport is the dominant form of modern transport, but
traffic levels are still relatively low; they rarely exceed 50-60 vehicles
per day outside the immediate surroundings of the urban areas. There are no
reliable data available on the exact volume and growth of traffic before
1964. However, the available information on fuel consumption (Table 3) and
the vehicle fleet (Table 4) suggests that traffic has grown rapidly during
the last decade. Although these data are not entirely reliable and cannot
serve to quantify exactly the growth of road transport, they indicate that
traffic has possibly grown by as much as 10 percent per annum. ThIs is not
unusual but it is not assumed that these rates of growth can be sustained
over long periods in the future.
3.4       The firm BCEOM undertook a study, financed by the Fonds Europeen de
Developpement (FED), in 1964/65 which provides comprehensive information on
total traffic and its distribution over specific parts of the road network for
that year. These results are based on extensive traffic counts and on origin-
destination surveys. Total goods traffic amounted to 75 million ton-km of
which about 43 million were aocounted for by traffic on the main road between
Niamey and Zinder. Four comrindities, groundnuts, cotton, fuel and cement
accounted for about 50 percere4 of all goods transport by road. The BCBOM
traffic studies were ccntinued and expanded in a study financed by FAC and
conducted by the firm S.PZ3ES iil 1967.  This study also provided traffic fore-
casts for individual roads. Column 2 of Table 12 showqs the present volumes
of traffic, expressed in passenger car equivalents for the most important



I-6-
sections of the highway system. During negotiations assurance was obtained
that traffic counts and the collection of other relevant highway data will
be undertaken in the future on a periodic basis.
3.5       Taking into account the estimated growth of population and GNP,
and the production and export potentialof major commodities, total traffic
can be expected to grow at an average rate of 6 percent per annum for a con-
siderable period ahead. However, this overall rate hides considerable
differences in the expected growth of traffic for specific roads. Table 12,
Column 3 shows -the estimated growth rates for specific parts of the network.
These range from 3 to 10 percent per annum as a result of local effects on
the pattern of' production, demand and foreign trade.
3.6       Large differences exist also in the composition of traffic by
varxous types of vehicles on different sections of the road system. 1ihile
on some roads the proportion of trucks is as low as 20 percent, on other
roads these account for 75-80 percent of total traffic. Load factors
average about 50 percent although there are significant variations on par-
ticular routes.
3.7       The age composition of the vehicle fleet is satisfactory.   There
has been a marked shift during recent years towards larger vehicles, with
gasoline-powered trucks being increasingly replaced by diesel trucks. The
Government has promoted the use of larger, diesel powered vehicles by
reducing taxes on diesel fuel while gasoline taxes were raised. According
to the first reliable census, undertaken in 1966, the total fleet had in
December 1966 a load capacity of about 4000 tons of which about 30 percent
is licensed for transport on own account only.  One large company, whioh. is 51
percent government-owned,accounts for 700 t6ois of capacity or some 25 p6rcent oi
the capacity of for-hire trucking. About 100 small operators, organized into a
Syndicat des Petits Transporteurs account for the bulk of for-hire trucking cap
3.8       Licenses for additional capacity and its distribution between
new and existing operators are decided annually by a Government committee.
The census undertaken in 1966 showed that an apparent overcapacity of
the fleet was the result of imperfect statistics. As a result, plans to
impose additional capacity restrictions were cancelled.
C. Highway Administration
3.9       The Directorate of Public 'Wlorks (DPwR) in the Ministry of Public
W.orks, Transports, N4ines and Urban Affairs is responsible for the con-
struction and maintenance of the national road network. Its organization
is given in Chart 1.
3.10      An African engineer was recently made the Director of the DPIPI;
most of the senior posts are held by French engineers under a Technical
Assistance Agreement between Niger and the French Aid Agency, Fonds d'Aide
et de Cooperation (FAC).  FAC has recently confirmed that it will continue
this agreement over the next four years.



- 7 -
3.11      The executive instrument for construction and maintenance of
roads within the DPW is the Central Service for Roads and New Works (Service
Central des Routes et des Travaux Neufs), headed by a Chief Engineer. The
country is divided into three geographical diversions, which in turn supervise
seven sub-divisions; the Chief Engineer is also responsible for the Equip-
ment Division.
3.12      The seven sub-divisions are the real executive units in the field
for construction and maintenance of roads. However, their activities are
not confined to roads only; for administrative reasons they are also res-
ponsible for construction and maintenance of government buildings, hydraulic
engineering works, and water, sewerage and electricity; this does not pose
administrative problems.
D. Highway Financing and Planning
3.13      In 1966/67 total highway expenditures were CFAF 1,680 million, of
ihich CFAF 1,210 million were for construction and CFAF 300 million for
maintenance (Table 6). Contributions by road users amounted to about CFAF
610 million or about 36 percent of total highway expenditures. The rest was
financed by foreign aid for construction projects mainly by FED, FAC, IDA
and USAID.
3.14      Taxes through which road users contribute towards highway expen-
ditures include:
Gasoline       Diesel
(i)  "droit fiscal" (fiscal fee)                6.00 CFAF/1 4.00 CFAF/1
(ii)  "droit de douane"/"taxe statistique"
(custom duties/statistical tax)            0.70 CFAF/1  0.20 CFAF/l
(iii) "Taxe specifique"
(specific tax earmarked for road fund)    11.00 CFAF/1  4.00 CFAF/1
(iv) "taxe sur le chiffre dtaffaires"          9% of retail  9% of retail
(sale tax)                                    price        price
The revenue from these taxes amounted to about CFAF 430 million in 1966. The
total tax component of the retail price of gasoline in liiamey is about 40
percent, and for diesel fuel about 28 percent. While these ratios are
lower than in Europe or some other African countries, it would be difficult to
raise taxes appreciably since the economy is already burdened by the high
cost of transporting fuel from the coast.
3.15      Import duties on vehicles, tires and batteries vary from 50 percent
to 80 percent of CIF Niger value, according to item and country of origin;
imports from EEC countries enjoy preferential rates. The revenue from
duties on vehiclesand parts slightly exceeded CFAF 150 million in 1966.
The revenues from registration and license fees, which in 1966 amounted to
CFAF 30 million, are not very significant.



-8 -
3.16      On a generous interpretation that all revenues from taxes, duties
and fees deriving from the use and ownership of road vehicles could be con-
sidered as road user contributions, the total would amount to CFAF 610 million
or 36 percent of total highway expenditures. The fact that receipts from
road users in Niger do not meet total highway expenditures should not be
viewed as a serious shortcoming. Niger's highway system is at an early stage
of development, and any present investment necessarily creates reserve
capacities. Road user taxes at a level to recover the full financial costs
of constructing, maintaining and administering Nigerts highway system would
be likely to inhibit economic development and affect the competitiveness of
groundnuts hiich are its principal source of foreign exchange earnings.
Thus, it would be unreasonable to charge present users with the full cost
of the present investment program from which future traffic, expected to
grow at a fairly substantial rate, will benefit.
3.17      A highway investment plan for the years 1968/75, based on a
recently completed SEDES study, has been prepared by the Ministry of Public
Works. The plan envisages investments of about uS$65 million equivalent
spread over 8 years on the construction and improvement of 2,300 km of roads.
However, the plan has not yet been approved by the Government and, accor-
ding to the mission's findings, doubts remain about the economic justification
and priorities of this large program.  Therefore, the economic justification of
specified proposed investments needs to be confirmed by proper feasibility studie
E. Highway Construction
3.18      Highway construction works costing about US$14 million equivalent
are underway or contemplated to start in the near future.  The principle
contributors are FED, FAC, IDA and USAID.
F. Highway Maintenance
3.19      As stated previously (para 3.11) maintenance of the national high-
way network is carried out by the seven geographical sub-divisions of the DPW.
The local authorities are responsible for the local roads. Maintenance
operations are costed in detail by the DPlq; no costing is carried out by the
local authorities.
3.20      IIaintenance operations consist of reshaping, regravelling, repro-
filing and eliminating "wiash board" surfaces and miscellaneous works such
as clearing of culverts and side ditches. As far as possible these works
are carried out by mechanized units. The timing depends on climatic con-
ditions; reshaping and regravelling are impossible during the rainy season
(June to September.)
3.21      Iaintenance techniques are satisfactory, but maintenance equipment
and workshop facilities are in poor condition. Maintenance funds allocated
to the DPW are inadequate and as a result the condition of the national road
system has deteriorated. The laterite or selected soil wearing courses are



- 9 -
worn partially or completely away because the lack of adequate equipment,
skilled personnel and budget appropriations has not allowed the DPW to handle
simultaneously and effectively current and periodic maintenance operations.
Thus a considerable backlog of deferred maintenance has been created.
3.22      Road maintenance expenditures (Table 6) have increased steadily
over recent years by 15 percent per annum in accordance with an obligation
undertaken by the Government in Credit Agreement CR 55-NIR and an amount
of CFAF 303 million (US$1.25 million equivalent) was budgeted for the
fiscal year 1966/67. The consultants estimate that maintenance will be ade-
quate when the allocations reach a level of CFAF 420 million (US$1.7 million
equivalent) per annum after the backlog in deferred maintenance has been
eliminated.
G. Equipment Division
3.23      The Equipment Division is in charge of the central equipment pool,
the workshops and stores in Niamey and their annexes at the divisional and
subdivisional headquarters, and the maintenance, repair and overhaul of the
equipment of the DPli. The equipment in the field is serviced and maintained
by movile crews.
3.24      The operation of the Equipment Division is not effective.  BCEOM
found that the equipment is obsolete and average, it lacks uniformity in
types and necessitates therefore an unnecessarily wide range of spare parts.
The organization of the stores is chaotic and the spare parts stock is badly
managed. Maintenance installations and shop equipment are insufficient and
thus hamper effective repairs. Maintenance personnel have little skill and
limited ability and large scale training at all levels is required. The
lack of a mechanical engineer in charge of equipment maintenance has
aggravated the situation; maintenance and overhaul of ecqipment are handled
and supervised by an insufficient number of expatriate technicians.
3.25      The organization of the Administration and Accounting Division is
unnecessarily complicated. The procurement procedure for spare parts is
cumbersome and results in delayed repairs to broken-down equipment. All
of above deficiencies will be remedied under the proposed project.



- 10 -
4. THE PROJECT
A. Description
4.1       The project consists of:
(i) a four-year highway maintenance program providing for the
elimination of the backlog of deferred maintenance, improve-
ment of the efficiency of maintenance operations, the train-
ing of personnel at all levels, the purchase of maintenance
and shop equipment, and the extension and improvement of
workshops and stores, to be implemented with the assistance
of consultants; and
(ii) feasibility studies for about 300 km of roads and, if the
justification of construction is confirmed, the completion
of detailed engineering and bidding documents for about
150 km of these roads.
(1) Four-Year Maintenance Program
(a) Deferred Maintenance
4.2       The present condition of the national roads maintained by DPW
is generally poor. Road beds are not properly shaped, ditches and drain-
age outlets are clogged, laterite or selected soil wearing courses are
worn away, pot holes and ruts are common. A number of roads are impass-
able during the rainy season.
4.3       The present maintenance organization of the DPW is hampered by
the poor condition of its equipment, lack of adequate personnel and funds,
and thus cannot cope with the requirements of effective routine and peri-
odic maintenance. As a result a backlog of deferred maintenance has been
built up which is estimated by BCEON to amount to CFAF 8l0 million (US$3.4
million equivalent). The proposed project provides for carrying out the
necessary works by contract.
4.4       The Government is aware of the present maintenance situation
and realizes that an extraordinary effort has to be made to eliminate
the backlog in deferred maintenance to bring the road network back to
normal standards. With the assistance of FAC, it has, therefore, started
the most urgent works in the fiscal year 1967/68, and has drawn up a four-
year program starting from 1968/69 amounting to CFAF 840 million of which
the foreign component is included in the project.
4.5       The local cost of this program will be financed by the Govern-
ment; assurances to this effect have been obtained during negotiations.
4.6       To improve the maintenance situation in Niger, EEOM recommends



- 11 -
that the DPW, refrain from handling major periodic maintenance such as
resealing and regravelling and that it assign that task to contractors.
Thus the required renewal of the maintenance equipment and the general
reorganization of the DPW will be on a simaller scale than otherwise would
be required. During negotiations, it was confirmed that the DPW will
carry out routine maintenance and minor periodic maintenance projects
only.
4.7       The foreign exchange component for deferred maintenance to be
financed by IDA, has been estimated at about 50 percent, on the assump-
tion that although put out for international tender, the works will be
carried out by domestic oontractors. Under the proposed Credit, IDA will
therefore finance CFAF 420 million and the Government the balance of
CFAF 420 million.
(b) Improvement of Maintenance Operations
4.8       The structure of the Niger road maintenance administration is
adequate for its task, and the hierachy of duties and responsibilities
is correctly established. The Association concurs with BCEOMts findings
that no major organizational changes should be carried out. But as an
urgent need a technical assistance program has been prepared to provide
general training facilities for local technical and administrative per-
sonnel, mechanics and operators, and to set up a new accounting system.
4.9       BOBOM proposes that the DPW should be assisted in implementing
the four-year program by a team of twelve foreign experts supplied by
consultants. It will supervise the deferred maintenance work, routine
maintenance operations, purchasing of equipment and supplies and the
extension and improvement of workshops and stores. Special attention
will be given to the training of local counterparts. The team should
be composed of:
1 Head of Team
1 Chief Mechanical Engineer
1 Administrative and Accounting Expert
1 Equipment Inspector (Headquarters)
1 Equipment Inspector (Annexes)
1 Mechanical Foreman
4 Mechanics
2 Technical Officers (Stores)
4.10      The staffing proposal for the team is satisfactory. Since most
of the key personnel in the DPW are expatriates, the consultants selected
to supply the team will be required to draw up, in cooperation with the
Government, a detailed training program for the Niger counterpart personnel
in the Equipment Division with a view to ensuring a smooth transition from
the present stage of non-African management to that of African management.
This will be reflected in the contract between the DPW and the consultants.
4.11      The consultants, team will be required for an estimated four years



- 12 -
at a cost of CFAF 380 million (US$1.55 million equivalent). A small USAID-
financed mission consisting of four American mechanics has been training
operators and mechanics since 1965. Under existing arrangements between
USAID and Niger, the experts are scheduled to leave the country by Septem-
ber 1968, and USAID has informed IDA that this assistance to Niger will
not be extended. FAC has agreed to finance the assignment of the Chief
Mechanical Engineer for the Equipment Division for at least the next two
years. This expert will closely cooperate with the consultants' team.
4.12      The estimate for these experts' services is shown in Table 7
split up into the contribution of IDA., FAC and Government. The firm es-
timate is based on a negotiated contract between the Government and BCEOM.
A condition of the effectiveness of the credit will be the signature of
the contract between the Government and the consultants.
(c) Maintenance Equipment
4.13      Equipment needs for the maintenance organization have been stu-
died by BCEOM?, who concluded, as previously stated, that the DPW should
carry out routine maintenance only and should assign the tasks of deferred
maintenance and future periodic maintenance to contractors (para. 4.6).
The major existing and re-usable equipment is given in Table 8. This equip=
ment is mostly of US or French origin. Based on the above conclusion, the
consultants and the DPW have drawn up a list of required additional equip-
ment which is also shown in Table 8. The estimated cost of CFAF 385 mil-
lion (US$1.55 million equivalent) is considered realistic.
4.14      An initial stock of spare parts, amounting to about 15 percent
of the value of the equipment is included in the project. Future purchases
of spare parts will be made through local agents.
4.15      Provisions for enlarging and improving workshops and stores at
the Equipment Division and the divisional and sub-divisional headquarters,
and the procurement of shop equipment, mobile repair shops and radio equip-
ment have been included in the project at a total cost of CFAF 230 million
(US$0.95 million equivalent) (Table 9).
(2) Feasibility Studies and Detailed Engineering
4.16      Based on the SEDES report and the findings of tle identification
mission from PMWA to Niger in March 1968, a -program of about 300 Im 6f
priority roads has been selected for feasibility studies (Annex A). The
studies which will be carried out by consultants acceptable to IDA will
include the preliminary engineering and economic evaluation of these roads,
taking into consideration present and expected traffic, the agricultural
potential of the area concerned and the present condition of the highways.
4.17      The roads having highest economic priority, tentatively estimated
at about 150 km, will be the subject of detailed engineering by consultants
under the proposed project, and will be selected by the Government in agree-
ment with IDA. This arrangement has been confirmed during negotiations.
The detailed engineering is expected to lead to a further IDA credit of about
US$4 million for road construction in 2-3 years' time.



- 13 -
B. Cost Estimates and Financing
(1) Four-Year Maintenance Program
4.18      The estimated capital cost of the maintenance program is given
in Table 10 and summarized below. IDA will finance 97 percent of the
foreign exchange cost of the program and FAC the balance of foreign cost;
IDA will also provide US$210,000 equivalent for the local subsistance allowanc:
of the consultants' team. FAC will pay for the assignment of the Chief
Mechanical Engineer and the Government the remaining local cost.
Four-Year Highway Maintenance Program
Cost Estimate
(CFAF Million7
Foreign Financing
Govt.
IDA      FAC      Contrib.  Total
Capital Expenditures
New equipment and spare parts        385                 102       487
Workshop equipment                   192       _          -        192
Buildings                             20       -          18        38
Consultants' services                266       34         79       379
Deferred maintenance                 420       -         420       840
Contingencies                         76       -          -         76
Total                    i359:      =34        619     2.012
(US$ million equivalent)           (5(49)  2001)       (2.50
Percent                            (67)     (2)        (31)      (100)
The cost of the new equipment, shown in Tables 8 and 9, is based on the
consultants' estimate and is considered realistic. A contingency allowance
for price escalation has been added over the two-year supply period. A fur-
ther contingency allowance of about 10 percent has been provided to cover
miscellaneous additional equipment needs which may become apparent after
the new equipment has been delivered. The Government has confirmed that
it will meet the remaining local cost of the capital expenditure from its
budget.
4.19      The average life of the equipment is estimated at eight years.
The cost estimate (Table 10) includes allocations to provide for the timely
renewal of the equipment under recurrent expenditures. The Government will
finance all of the recurrent expenditures, during the program period, es-
timated at CFAF 1,839 million or US$7.50 million equivalent, both in foreign
exchange and local currency. During negotiations, the Government confirmed
that it will meet these recurrent expenditures.
(2) Pre-Investment Studies
4.20      The estimated cost of the feasibility studies and detailed en-
gineering is based on a negotiated contract between the Government and



- 14 -
the French consulting firm Societe Centrale pour l'Equipment du Territoire/
Cooperation (SCET/COOP). The estimate given in Table 10 is summarized below:
(US$ Million Equivalent)
Local    Foreign    Total
Feasibility studies of 300 km     0.13      0.44     0.57
Detailed engineering of 150 kn    0.06      0.19     0.25
0.19      0.63     0.82
4.21      IDA will finance the foreign exchange component, which is about
80 percent of the total cost.
(3) Cost SummarY
4.22      A summary of the cost estimates of the proposed project, indicat-
ing IDA and FAC participations and the Government's contribution, is as
follows:
US$ Million Equivalent
Participation Government
IDA   FAC   Contribution   Total
(a) Four-year maintenance program
Capital expenditures            5.49   0.14      2.50       8.13
(b)  Pre-investment studies            0.63    -        0.19       0.82
6.12   0.14      2.69       8.95
4.23      Disbursements will be made on the basis of 50 percent of expenditures
on the deferred maintenance program and 100 percent of the foreign exchange
cost of the purchase of equipment and consulting services, including the sub-
sistence allowance for the consultantst team implementing the four-year main-
tenance program. If any surpluses in the credit occur they will be cancelled.
On the assumption that the credit would be signed in 1968, IDA disbursements
are expected to be as follows:
Financial Year
1968/69   1969/70   1970/71   1971/72   Total
Forecast IDA disbursements
(US$ Million)             2.70      2.00      1.00      o.42    6.12
C. Execution
(1) Four-Year Maintenance Program
4.24      The DPW will be responsible for the project.  The consultants' team
will carry out the training program of its Niger counterpart personnel, draw up
in cooperation with the DPW bidding documents for the purchase of equipment
and for the deferred maintenance program and assist the DPW in all matters
pertaining to the program.



- 15 -
4.25      Equipment will be procured on the basis of international competi-
tive bidding in accordance with the Bank/IDA Guidelines through separate con-
tracts for each type or each group of similar types of equipment. The con-
tracts will provide for delivery of about half of the equipment in the fiscal
years 1968/69 and the remainder in 1969/70. Equipment suppliers will be
required to provide an adequate servicing organization including a supply of
spare parts, and the periodic inspection of important equipment operating in
the field. The contracts would be awarded on the lowest evaluated bids in
terms of equipment purchase price as well as spare parts prices with the
advantages of standardization also being taken into account. Bidding documents
will be prepared by the consultants in cooperation with the DPW and will be
submitted to IDA for review to assure that they conform with its procedures.
4.26      Bidding documents for the deferred maintenance will be drawn up
by the consultants. They will include roads in the same area and would be
sufficient in size to attract foreign contractors. Bidding procedures will
be in accordance with the Bank/IDA Guidelines and contracts will be awarded
on the lowest evaluated bid. Bidding documents will be submitted to IDA for
review to assure that they conform with Bank's procedures.
4.27      It would be inappropriate to request international competitive
bidding for carrying out the extensions of workshops and stores because of
the relatively small cost (about US$155,000 equivalent). The capacity of
local contractors is sufficiellt to carry out these works; the contracts will
be awarded after local competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
acceptable to IDA.
(2) Feasibility Studies and Detailed &Egneering,
4.28      The pre-investment studies will be carried out by SCET/COOP.  The
details of the 300 km of roads are shown in Annex A. After the economic
justification has been established, a program, expected to comprise about
150 km, will be selected in agreement with IDA for detailed engineering
consisting of those roads with the highest economic priority. A condition
of the effectiveness of the credit will be that the contract between the
Government and the consultants has been signedz



- 16 -
5. ECONCMIC JUSTIFICATION
A. Introduction
5.1       Niger's cash economy is largely built on the export of a few
agricultural commodities of which groundnuts is b y f a r the most
important. The existing highway network presents few physical barriers
to the transport of these products and the consumer goods required by the
thinly spread population centers. The cost of road transport, however,
is high and rising as a result of a growing maintenance baclcLog. Present
costs per km of operating a 10-ton truck on the best gravel roads in
Niger amount to CPA 84 which, assuming a load factor of 50 percent   would
be almost US¢ 7 equivalent per ton/km (see Table 11).  On poor roads and
in sandy areas, costs may be double this.
5.2       The objectives of the proposed highway maintenance project are
to eliminate the existing backlog of deferred maintenance; to ensure that in
the future highways can be maintained to satisfactory service standards; and,
thereby, to reduce the total cost of road transport.
B. Methodology
5.3       For the purpose of this analysis an effort was made to calculate
the impact of the project on all future road transport costs: i.e. vehicle
operating costs; regular, periodic and deferred road maintenance costs and
the capital costs of future road improvements. The present value of these
costs has been calculated for two cases: one with the proposed maintenance
project and one without it. The total road transport costs to be compared
for the purpose of this analysis are minimized in both cases. It has been
assumed that decisions concerning future highway investmnents would be based
on an application of economic criteria. While other factors may also play
a role in highway planning, these can reasonably be assumed to influence
both cases in equal measure. The purpose of this analysis, therefore, is
to measure only those reductions in total future road transport costs
which are attributable to the implementation of the proposed maintenance
program.
5.4       Future vehicle operating and maintenance costs have been
expressed as functionsof traffic volume. For each category of roads there
are two separate cost functions; one reflecting costs after implemen-
tation of the proposed project, the other reflecting the behaviour of costs
if the project were not undertaken. In both cases, it would be
possible to quantify the vehicle operating and maintenance costs associated
with different given traffic volumes on a particular road in any future
year. This would permit a comparison of the resulting reductions in vehicle
operating and maintenance costs with the cost of the initial investment to
which these savings must be attributed.  However, it would not be sufficient
to forecast these savings over a given period of time, for example, the life
of the equipment to be purchased or any other technically determined period.



- 17 -
It may be preferable economically not to permit vehicle operating and
maintenance costs to increase as forecast by, for example, investments
for upgrading the roads to higher standard at some future date.
5.6       If the efficiency of maintenance operations were not
improved, vehicle operating and maintenance costs -Toluld rise fast.
As a result, investments for reconstruction or upgrading would
be needed earlier than if the project was implemented.   The
delaying of these investments may lead to substantial savings of ca-
pital costs as measured in present value terms. The different components
of total future road transport costs are interrelated. Each of them can
be reduced (ttraded-off') at the expense of increments in the others. To
arrive at the minimum total transport costs possible in the two cases
considered, future reconstruction or improvement investments must be
timed so that all the possible advantageous 'trade offs' between the
various cost elements are exhausted in each case.
5.7       To provide a common basis by which the total future road trans-
port costs of the different solutions may be compared, a measure
is required to reduce to a present value not only the different capital
costs due to shifts in the timing of future investments but also the
future streams of vehicle operating and road maintenance costs. To do
this requires the selection of a specific discount rate at the outset of
the analysis. The process, which is necessary for the calculation of
the optimnum timing of future investments, precludes the use of the
'internal rate of return method' which gives a 'discount' rate on a 'trial
and error' basis as a result of the analysis.
5.8       In the analysis of this project the interaction between the
various cost elements has been examined so as to give a figure which
represents the minimum amount, in present value terms,at the chosen
discount rate, of the total future road transport costs, takinig into
account the optimum timing for any additional capital investments
subsequent to the proposed project. This was done separately for the two
cases considered. The analysis, therefore, results in two sums which
are to be compared: one, representing the minimum of total future
transport costs which can be attained without the project, and the
other, expressing the minimum total cost if the project is implemented
as proposed.
5.9       A project is justified where these two sums are at least equal.
Where this is the case, the project cost is accounted for, and compensated
by the discounted value of reductions in other costs as a result of
implementation of the project. A project yields additional returns if
the ratio of discounted future total costs without the project to
discounted future total costs with the project is greater than 1:1.0.



- 18 -
C. Analysis
5.10      In this project, the wide differences as between roads in pave-
ment, surface, present traffic and expected traffic volumes make it
desirable to perform the analysis road by road. These differences are
particularly evident in the case of earth and gravel roads which
presently account for about 90 percent of the National Road network
(see Table 2). Table 12 lists the specific roads considered. These
include all regularly maintained roads.
5.31      For the purpose of this report, estimates of presenttraffic
and future growth rates have been based on the BCEOM and SEDES studies,
updated and adjusted according to the findings of the appraisal mission.
The resulting values are shown in Columns 2 and 3 of Table 12. Present
traffic volumesarange from about 10 to about 110 passenger car equivalent
units per day;l- growth rates for future traffic on the different roads
range between 3 and 10 percent per annum. The available information is
not sufficient to quantify separately traffic generated as a result of
reductions in vehicle operating costs. Therefore, traffic growth in
both the 'with' and 'without' cases has been assumed to be identical.
5.12      The various components of total future road transport costs are
shown as functions of traffic or time in Table 13. The pattern of
behaviour of various cost elements in both cases, with or without the
project, can be explained as below.
5.13      Total vehicle operating costs on particular roads depend both
on traffic volume and unit costs. With the project roads could be
maintained adequately; i.e., unit vehicle operating costs would be reduced
and remain at this lower level until further road improvements are made.
For 10-ton trucks, for example, operating costs per vehicle/km are CFAF
84 (USO 34) on first category gravel roads in the pre3ent state of
maintenance. With the project, these operating costs would be reduced
by about 15 percent to CFAF 71 (US¢ 29) per vehicle/km. These differences
in operating costs between present levels and those on well maintained
gravel roads cannot strictly be compared with estimates made for other
countries as they vary with the size of the accumulated backlog. The
appraisal missionts estimates, however, are within the range of those
made for other African countries where road maintenance has been similarly
deficient in the past.
1/ A truck on an open rural road is generally regarded in highway traffic
engineering studies as equivalent to 3 passenger car units for design
purposes.



- -19 -
5.14      The project would not only reduce present vehicle operating
costs but also prevent them from increasing in the future. That is,
without adequate maintenance the gravel road system would further
deteriorate and, as a result, vehicle operating costs would gradually
approach the level prevailing on earth roads. In this analysis it has
been assumed that operating costs would, over the next ten years,
increase to a level about 50 percent higher than those prevailing on
existing gravel roads. The cost functions for vehicle operating costs
associated with the two cases may, therefore, be characterized by
rising unit operating costs without the project and constant operating
costs, but at a much lower level, with the project.
5.15      Maintenance expenditures to keep roads in good condition also
vary with traffic volumes. During recent years, allocations have increased
by about 15 percent per annum. However, if highway maintenance were
continued on the basis of present organization, equipment stock and field
practices, it would not prevent the further deterioration of the road
network in the face of growing traffic volumes. Maintenance expenditures
rising pari passu with traffic would only be a palliative, and would
only marginally delay the destruction of existing capital and the rise
in vehicle operating cost. If the project were implemented, expenditures
on road maintenance would rise as traffic increases but they would be
lower than without the project because of the greater efficiency in
maintenance operations.
5.16      Beyond a relatively low traffic level - approximately 70
passenger car equivalent per day - the evidence suggests that the cost
of maintaining one lane paved roads is less than that of maintaining a
gravel surfaced road. In order to avoid these higher maintenance costs
and associated vehicle operating costs, additional investment will have
to be made to upgrade gravel roads. The size and timing of these invest-
ments will depend on the conditions of the gravel road to be upgraded.
The proposed project would bring back existing gravel roads to a condition
where routine maintenance operations would be appropriate and also ensure
that they are adequately maintained. From this condition, gravel roads
could be upgraded at a later stage to one lane paved standard at an
additional cost of CFAF 6.5 million per km., while improved earth roads
could be upgraded to one lane paved standard at a cost of CFAF 9 million
per km. Without the project the destruction of the existing road
structure would continue and the cost of upgrading to one lane pavement
would increase accordingly. The maximnum estimate of this is about CFAF
13 million, or the same as that of upgrading a low grade earth road to
one lane paved standard.
5.17      Since all the various elements in total road transport costs rise
at a faster rate in the absence of the project, it would be necessary to
incur additional investment costs earlier than would be justified if roads
were part of a well maintained system. The future capital investment
expenditures, expressed in present value terms, are lower in case of the
project being implemented than without it. However, as explained above,
all these cost reductions are not strictly additive; the optimal policy
in both cases is to take account of compensations to limit total costs
to the attainable minimum in either case.



- 20 -
Paved Roads
5.18      There are at present some 500 km of national roads which have a
single lane bituminous surface in the middle of the roadway. These roads
have been upgraded very recently and their present condition is quite
uniform; traffic levels and growth rates are equally similar. It is,
therefore, possible to restrict the analysis of the effect of the proposed
project on existing roads of this type to a typical section as an example.,
5.19      It can reasonably be assumed that with poor maintenance the
physical life of one lane paved roads would be reduced from 20 to 10 years.
With existing methods and equipment only the wide laterite shoulders could
be maintainecd however inadequate3y,while the asphalt portion would deteriorate.
After implementation of tne project,maintenance expenditures for one lane
paved roads need only be marginally increased over present levels and would
be little affected by the growth of traffic thereafter.
5.20      In the absence of the project vehicle operating costs would also
increase on existing one-lane paved roads. A deteriorating and disintegrating
asphalt surface can be very costly for road vehicle transport. It has
therefore been estimated that, as the riding course deteriorates vehicle
operating costs would approach a level half way between those for a good
gravel road and a well maintained asphalt road.
D. Conclusion
5.21      A comparison of the total future road transport costs with and
without the project shows that implementation of the proposed project leads
to lower total cost for all road sections without exception. The economic
benefits in the form of cost reductions more than outweigh the additional
costs associated with the implementation of the project. The present
value of total future road trarsport costs on specific road sections are
shown in Table 14 (column 1) for the costs withiout the project, and for
costs with the project (column 2). All costs have been calculated on a
basis of a 10 percent interest rate which may be regarded as a reasonable
measure for the opportunity cost of capital and the minimum yield on
investments to be required. Implementation of the project would be the
preferable solution where the ratio between costs shown in columns 1 and
2 of Table 14 is 1:1 or greater. The actual ratios for 24 gravel roads
and one illustrative paved road resulting from this analysis range from
1,01:1 to 1.27:1 (Table 14, column 3). While the yields from the proposed
project vary from road to road, all ratios exceed 1:1 and the rate of
return for the project as a whole would be in excess of 10 percent. The
project is therefore economically justified.



- 21 -
6. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMIENDATIONS
6.1       The highway maintenance program under the project will improve
road transport in Niger. It is soundly conceived, both technically and
administratively. It will yield a satisfactory rate of return on the
investment primarily through lower transportation costs and reduction in
routine maintenance expenditures.
6.2       The project will also provide for pre-investment studies for high
priority roads which, it is expected, will lead to a further IDA credit.
6.3       Confirmation has been obtained from the French Government that (a)
the present Technical Assistance Agreement with Niger may reasonably be
expected to remain effective over the next four years (paragraph 3.10) and
(b) it will be extended to cover the cost for the assignment of the Chief
Mechanical Engineer for at least two years (paragraph 4.11).
6.4       The Government has given assurances that (a) the DPW will finance
all recurrent expenditures under the program, (b) DPW will also carry out
deferred maintenance and major periodic maintenance through contracts (para-
graph 4.6) and (c) the roads for detailed engineering will be selected in
agreement with IDA on the basis of their economic justification as shown
by the feasibility studies (paragraph 4.17).
6.5       A condition of the effectiveness of the credit will be the
signature of the contracts between the Government and the consultants
(paragraphs 4,12 and 4.29).
6.6       The project provides a suitable basis for an IDA credit to the
Government in the amount of US$6.12 equivalent.
August 27, 1968



AINEX A
NIGER
HIGHIWAY MAINTENRNCE PROJECT
IDENTIFICATION OF ROADS FOR FEASIBILITY STUDIES
1. Niamey - Til.abery - Dessa (160 km) (see Map 1)
This road is part of the main trunk road leading northwest from
the capital, Niamey, along the river Niger towards the Mali frontier.
However, it is not proposed to subject the entire length of the connection
between Niamey and the Mali border to feasibility studies. The last 63 km
extending from Dessa to the Mali border have not been included since anti-
cipated traffic on this northern section was judged too light by SEDES to
warrant road investments before 1975e On the section proposed for the
feasibility study present traffic is 60 - 70 passenger cars equivalent per
day and future growth of traffic is forecast to be about 7 percent per annum.
While the first 40 Im to the north of Niamey are in fairly good condition,
the laterite surface on the remaining section has worn away leaving simply
an earth road which, because of its low level and inadequate drainage, is
subject to flooding over almost its entire length during the rainy season.
Maintenance is costly due to a complete lack of laterite deposits in the
vicinity of the road. Under this condition an investment for bituminous
surface treatment on a soil cement base may be justified.
2. Tchadaoua - Mayahi - Dan Mayro (78 kim)
This is a feeder road project designed to provide an agricultural
area centered on the communities of Mayahi and Dan Meiro with road access
to the main east-west highway at Tchadaoua. The only means of connection
at the present time is by camel or burro. The average haul is about 50 km.
The region to be served is heavily populated, with about 120,000
inhabitants in an area of approximately 7,000 square kilometers (17 persons
per square kilometer).  There are about 530 villages in the area.
The introduction of a new variety of groundnuts, requiring only
2.5 months of rainfall, has sharply increased production from 1,000 tons
(in shell) in the 1963/64 season to 6,200 tons in 1966/67.  Additionally,
during the last season, 10,000 tons of millet and 4.,000 tons of beans
were produced for sale outside the region. Thus agricultural produce of
the order of 20,000 tons annually now requires transport. It is estimated
that 12,000-14,000 tons of groundnuts will require transport by 1972.
3. Dungass - Dantyao - Magaria (62 km)
This proposal incorporates a road section (Dantyao-Dungass - 34 km)
currently being improved under Credit 55--NIR, and envisions its extension
to Magaria, 28 km to the west.  The purpose of the road would be to
facilitate the movement of groundnuts from the producing areas around
Dentyao and Magaria south to Nigerian rail shipment points, principally Kano.



ANNEX A
Page 2
The work being undertaken under the present credit is limited to the
improvement of some water crossings on the Dantyao-Dungass road. The
proposed feasibility study would determirne the economic justifications
including timing, and the technical solutions for upgrading and improving
of the Dantyao-Dungass section and its extension to Nagaria.
4. Dungass Maigatari (30 kmn)
This road is being constructed to lateriate standard and will
be completed late in 1968. The proposed feasibility study would analyze
the justification and determine the timing of further upgrading this road
with a double bituuinous surface treatment.



TABLE 1
NIGR
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Highway Classification in 1967
(in km)
Maintained by
Classification          DPW     Local Authorities        Length
National roads          4,481             496            4,977
Local roads               -             2,300            2,300
Total              4,481           2,796            7,277
Source: Directorate of Publi±c Works
For Comparison
2       Km Roads per
Country                  Km Rds per 1,000 km     100,000 Inhabitants
Niger                                6                    230
Chad (southern)                      6                    210
Ivory Coast                        100                    770
France                           1,100                  1,430



TABLE 2
NIGER
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Length and Classification of National Roads, 1967
Width                   Type of Surfacing
Bituainous
Roadway Surfacing    Two Lanes One Lane    Laterite   Earth    Total
mra)      (m)        (km)       (kmT       (km)      (n)       (km)
3-h                                                 1 -  -  -  ,697-/  1,697
4-6          -          -          -          -        553      553
4-6         3-4         -          -         65        -         65
6-8         4-5         -          -         720       _        720
8-9         5-6         10        472-/   1,460       -      1,942
10        472      2,245      2,250    4,977d/
a/    210 Ian still under construction in November 1967.
b/    One lane bituminous surface treatment in the center of roadway.
c/    About 500 km are trails with practically no traffic.
d/    In addition to this total length of national roads, there are about
2,300 km of local track roads.
Source: Directorate of Public Works



TABLE 3
NIGER
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Road Transport Fuel Consumption
Year                        Gasoline                  Diesel Fuel
1956                          9,944                      2,525
1957                         12,126                      3,118
1958                         12,959                      3,414
1959                         12,919                     3,834
1960                         12,513                      4,151
1961                         13,979                      4,751
1962                         15,510                      5,680
1963                         15,831                      6,929
1964                         15,225                      6,951
1965                         15,282                      8,481
1966                         16,521                      8,659
Rate of Gro-wth Percent
1956-1961                      7.0                        13.5
1961-1966                      3.4                        12.8



NIGER
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Vehicle Fleet-/
Rate of
1961               1966               Growth %
Private cars       1,167              29513               16.6
Public cars          145                145                --
Vans               1,300              2,510               1h.0
Busses                62                 69                --
Trucks:
Less than 5 ton   217                306                7.1
iMore than 5 ton
(Gasoline)       565                636                2.2
(Diesel)         230                529               18.2
Tractors             103                165                9.9
Trailers              99                201               15.2
3,888              7,074               12.7
1/   No reliable statistics are available for 1962-1965, and it is
-possible that the above figures for 1961 include vehicles which
had in fact been taken out of circulation.



TABLE 5
NIGER
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Vehicle Fleet; New Registrations
1961     1962     1963     1964     1965     1966
Passenger cars    204      247      329      303      299      383
Public cars        16        5        4        2        1       -
Vans              195      263      281      247      414      388
Trucks            119       88      121      119       87      102
Buses               9        4        2        6        7       -
Trailers            7        7       19       18       28       41
Tractors            9        8       15       13       28       31
559      622      771      708      864      951



TABLE 6
NIGER
HIGHWAY MAINENANCE PROJECT
Expenditures for Highways 1964/65 - 1966/67
(In CFAF Millions)
Total        Sources of Funds
Fiscal   Admini-                      (US$ Mill.      Local       Foreign
Year    stration Maint. Constr. CFAF Eguiv.)    Budget Road Fund   Aid
1964/65     153      229     538     920  (3.8)     391     136       393
1965/66     162      263     933   1,358  (5.5)     455     132       771
1966/67     169      303   1,211   1,683  (6.8)     488     121     1,074
Note:  Fiscal Year - October 1 - September 30
Source: Directorate of Public Works



Table 7
N I G E R
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Estimate for Consultants' Advisory Services
(In US $)
Contributions
IDA                 FAC          GOVT.
Foreign    Local    Foreign     Local    Local     Total
Salaries                    745,000       -      106,000     -      136,000   987,000
Subsistance allowance           -      210,000      -      20,000      -      230,000
Air fares                     55,000      -        5,000     -       20,000    80,000
Transport                     18,000      -        3,000    6,000    78,000   105,000
Offices, Miscellaneous        23,000      -         -        -       86,000   109,000
Bidding documents, reports    29,000      -         -        -         -       29,000
870,000   210,000   114,000   26,000    320,000 1,540,000
10802000            14.0,000       320L00000
In CFAF Million:              266                    34           79      379
Percent     :                70                    9           21      100
Source: Negotiated contract with BCEOM



N4IGER
'IE"iflAY MAINTENAUiJ PROJLCT
List of Mainterance &uipment to --e Procur.ei and 3ost Estimate
Existing Squipmer.Q   T-    lie;'i Equipment,                              Foreign Costs-
Total        Usa ble  'lee.s  Lo be Ordered  Unit Costs -    Total Costs   (US$ thousands
Item        _    N.            No. N0  o.       rNo.                 FAF Million)            equivalent)
Bulldozers                15             3     10          7            10).C0             70.0           283
Graders                   2. 1           7     19         12             8.2               98.4           400
Tractors                  40            25     40         15            1.5                22.5            91
Tipping trucks (5/6T)     82            50     72         22             2.4               52.8           213
Pick-ups                   7             2     11          9             1.0                9.0            37
Pick-ups (small)          20            12     32         20             0.8               16.0            65
"Jeep" type cars          17             6     10          4            1.5                 6.0            25
Asphalt units 2/                        -       4          4             6.5               26.0           105
Spare parts                                        (initial stock)                         48.0           195
348.7         1,414
Contingencies for price escalation:     36.3           136
385.0         1,550
1/   Customs and import duties excluded.
v/  Each unit consists of a small crusher, heater and mixer.                                                           W
Source:  Directorate of Public Works                                                                               OD



TABLE 9
NIGER
HIGHWAY MAINTENAiNCE PROJECT
Improvement of Workshops and Workshop Equipment to be Procured
(In Million CFAF)
Costs                  US$
Foreign   Local   Total   Million Equiv.
(a) Buildings
Workshop and stores at
CEP Niamey                    11      10        21
Workshops and stores at
Divisions                      6       5        11
Workshops and stores at
Sub-divisions                  3       3        6
Subtotal (a)                20     1l        7         (0.15)
(b) Equipment
Machines and shop equipment
at CEP Niamey                100      --      100
Machines and shop equipment
at Divisions                  12      --       12
Machines and shop equipment
at Sub-divisions              21      --       21
Equipment for 3 mobile
repair shops                  33      --       33
Radio equipment                   5      --         5
Miscellaneous                      3      --        3
Subtotal (b)                         -- 7              (0.70)
Contingencies for price
eccalation on equipment       18       -       18
Total                       212      18      230       (0.95)
1/ Customs and import duties excluded.
Source: Directorate of Public Works
BCEadIs report.



N I G E R
Table 10
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Cost Estimate
-_______________- CFAF Million ---------------     (US$ Mill.)
1968/69   1969/70   1970/71     1971/72    Total   Equivalent
I. 4-Year Maintenance Program
A. Capital Expenditures
(a) Foreign Component
(i) IDA Participation
New equipment and
spare parts 1/            215       170         _         _        385
Workshop equipment 1/       100        92        _         _        192
Buildings                   20         -         -         -         20
Consultants' services 4/    80        80         80        26       266  2/
Deferred maintenance       112        110       100        98       420
Contingencies 3/            -          -         76        -         76
Subtotal (iT            527                  2124              1,359       (5.49)
(ii) FAC Participation
Mechanical engineer           9         9         9         7        34
Subtotal (ii)             9          9         9         7                 (0.14)
Total (a)            536       a61        265       131     1,393        (5.63)
(b) Local Component
Import duties and taxes on
new equipment & spares          56        46        -         -        102
Buildings                       18         -         -         -         18
Consultants' services  4/        20        20        20        19        79
Deferred maintenance            112       110       100        98       420
Total (b)            206        176       120       117       619        (2.50)
Total A.             742        637       385       248     2,012        (8.13)
B. Recurrent Rxpenditures during Program Period
Renewal of equipment                  45        50        75       121       291
Spare parts                           50        50        53        70        223
Fuel, lubricants, etc.                45        50        60       100        255
Miscellaneous materials               61        51        55       156        323
Personnel (operators,
mechanics, laborers)                182       182       182       201        747
Total B.             383        383       425       648     1,839        (7.50)
II. Pre-Investment Studies of Highways_/
(a) Foreign Component
(i) Feasibility studies        109         -         -         -        109
(ii) Detailed engineering         17        30        -                   4 7
Subtotal (a)            126         30        -         -        157       (0.63)
(b) Local Cost
(i) Feasibility studies         32         -         _         -         32
(ii) Detailed engineering          5        10        -                   1
Subtotal (b)              37    10                  _ _                     (0.19)
Total C.             163         40        -         -        203        (0.82)
Source: Directorate of Public Works
1/   10 percent contingency for price escalation included.
2/   Including US$210,000 for subsistance allowance.
T/   To cover miscellaneous needs which may become apparent in fiscal year 1969/70.
V/   Costs based on negotiated contracts with consultants.



NIGER
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Estimated Vehicle Operating Costs
(CFAF per Vehicle/km)
Passenger Vehicles         Vans            Light Trucks        Heavy Trucks
Well                 Well                Well                Well
Exist- Main- One-     Exist- Main- One-   Exist- Main- One-   Exist- Main-  One-
ing    tained Lane   ing   tained Lane   ing    tained Lane  ing    tained Lane
Gravel Gravel Paved   Gravel Gravel Paved  Gravel Gravel Paved Gravel Gravel Paved
Road    Road  Road    Road  Road   Road   Road   Road  Road   Road   Road   Road
Depreciation           3.8     3.h    3.0    5.3    h.8   L.2    15.3  11.3    8.5   31.2  24.1     h.4
Maintenance & Repairs  h.0     3.0    2.5    5.6    h.2   3.5    12.5  10.0    7.5   15.6  11.7    10.5
Fuel & Lubricants      9.5     9.0    7.8   13.2   12.7  11.0    17.2  14.6   11.0   31.1  28.1    21.5
Tires                  1.4     1.1    0.9    1.9    1.6   1.3     9.5   9.1    6.7  22.1   21.4    15.4
Wages                  9.0     7.8   6.o    12.5   11.0   9.4     9.5   9.0    6.6  13.0   11.0     9.1
Interest, Insurance
& Overhead            7.1     5.7    4.6   10.0    8.6   6.5    Lj.5  17.0   11.8   32.8  27.4    17.6
Total in CFAF         34.8    30.0   24.8   48.5   42.9  34.9    83.5  71.0   52.1  145.8  124.0   87.5
Total in IJS¢ Equiv.  14.1    12.1   10.0   19.6   17.4  14.1    33.8  28.8   21.1  59.0   50.2    31.8
Source. SEDES and mission estimates.
Hu



NIGL2
HIGhfvIAY rAINT:21ANCE PROJECTl
Traffic, Construction Cost and Vehicle
Operating Cost for Specific Roads _
(1)           (2)            (3)           (4)                 (5)                     (6)                      (7)
Operating Cost            Operating Cost        Consultants Cost
Traffic 1968                                   in CFAF per               in CFAF per            plus Deferred
Passenger Car                Construction      Vehicular Unit/km         Vehicular Unit/km     Maintenance
Length     Equivalent        Traffic    Cost in CFAF      on Well wiaintained       after Improvement to  Expenditure in
Road Section             in km      per Day           QGiowth    per km            Gravel Road               One-Lane Paved Road    C(AF per km
LIj-       ~(g %)        (R1                     V1)                      (V2)             (E + F)
(365)
Firgoun-Tillaberry             123           52             5.8        9,000,000              34.o                       21.7               lO4,000
Tillaberry-Tondibia            100           74             7.2        6,500,000              28.9                       21.4               364,000
Dosso-Doutchi                  138           107             L.3       6,500,000              29i.6                      22.0               284,ooo
Doutchi-Birni N'konn%          146            92             4.0       6,500,000              28.9                       21.4               31h,000
Birni N'konni-Tsernaoua         14           117             6.8       6,5oo,0oo              28.7                       21.3               314,000
Tsernaoua-Madaoua               74            77             6.8       6,500,000              28.9                       21.4               314,0.00
Madaoua-Guidam Runji            97            71             8.0       6,500,0oo              29.4                       22.0               314,000
Guidam Runji-Maradi             57            88             8.a                             1                                              104, 00
Maradi-Tschadaoua + 10          40           106             3.2                             1/                                             lo  0
Tschadaoua + 10 - Tesaaoua      84            70             5.5       6,50o,ooo              28.8                       20.6               31l400C
Tessaoua - Takieta              62            50             4.2       6,500,000              7.8                        21.0               314,000
Takieta-Zinder                  52           116             6.2                             -'                                             104,000
Zinder - Mirriah                20            84             7.2       9,000,000              37.7                       25.3               104,000
Mirriah-Goure                  153            15             7.6        9,000,000             33.5                       21.8               104,000
Farie-Tera                     lO9            19             8.2       9,000,000              31.5                       20.0               104,000
Niamey-Torodi                   54            89             7.6        9,000,000             31.6                       20.0               104,000
Torodi-Makalondi                69            63             5.2       9,000,000 o31.8                                   18.0               104,000
Dosso-Sabongari                158           103             5.4                                                                            104,000
Sabongari-Gaya                 l5                                                                                                           104,000
Maradi-Dan Issa                 50            91             9.9                            i                                               104,000
Takieta-Matamey                 33            91             4.5                                                                            104,000
Mat-nley-border                 47           101             3.2                                                                           o104,000
Ouallam-Niamey                 100            24             4.3       9,000,00C              31.5                       20.0              104,000
Niamey-Baleyara                 98            84             8.8        9,000,000             33.2                       21.5               104,000
Bonkoukou-Filingue              32            22             9.9       9,000,000              31.5                       20.0               104,000
Tsermaoua--Dabnou               32            26            14.6        6,500,000             24.2                       18.1               104,000
Malbaza-Dabnou                  30             7             9.9        9,0G0,000             30.1                       18.9               104o000
Dabnou-Badeguisheri             42            33             7.4        6,500,000             25.2                       18.9               104,000
Badeguisheri-Tahoua             48            38             5.6        6,500,0oo             26.8                       20.3               104,000
Tahoua-Tounfati                 4G            17             6.8        9,CCO,000             32.1                       20.6               104,000
Tibiri-Dakoro                  105            18             7.2        9,000,000             31.7                       20.3               104,000
Zinder-Tanout                  153            47             7.0        6,500,ooo             28.9                       21.4               1014,000 j0
/ One-lane paved road in 1968.



NIGER
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Cost Functions With and Without the Project2l/
With the Project                                         Without the Project
Vehicle Operating Costs
Gravel Roads                 = T (l+g)t Vi                            = T(l+g)t 1.15 V1 + 0.6 V1 (l-e 0.2t
Paved Roads                  = T (l+g)t V2                            = T(l+g)t V2+ YLX-,V2(1-e -002t)
Maintenance Costs
Gravel Roads                 = 98,000 + 1400 f      (l+g)t            = 180,000 + 1610 36S (+g)t
Paved Roads                  = 120,000 + 175 --    (l+g)t             = 140,000
365
Capital Costs
for Upgrading Gravel Roads   = R1                                     = R1 + (13,000,000-R1)  (l-e-0.2t)
to One Lane Paved Standard
1/ Costs expressed in CFAF;
Read values of T, g, V1, V2p R1, from Table 12



NIGER
Minimum Total Future TransportCosts With and Withotut the Maintenance Project
(CFAF Thousand)
(1)              (2)        (3)
Gravel Roads                 Without the Project     With        1:2
Firgoun-Tillaberry                 20,751          17,645        1.18
Tillaberry-Tondibia                33,1492         29,753        1.13
Dosso-Doutchi                      27,968          24,039        1.16
Doutchi-Birni N'konni              10,127           7,972        1.27
Birni N'konni-Tsernaoua            43,507          39,671        1.10
Tsernaoua-Madaoua                  31,474          27,677        1.14
Madaoua-Guidam Runji               42,275          38,524        1.10
Tschadoua +10-Tessaoua             23,259          19,341        1.20
Tessaoua-Takieta                   14,817          11,756        1,26
Zinder-Mirriah                     43,079          40 ,084       1'07
Mirriah-Goure                      10,643          9,04o4       1.18
Farie-Tera                         14,646          12,775        1.15
Niamey-Torodi                      42,530          39,692        1.07
Torodi-Makalondi                   20,702          17 ,579       1.18
OaUlai-Niamey                       8,1451          6,867        1.23
Niamey-Baleyara                    73,787          70.,970        .0o4
Bonkoukou-Filingue                188,366         185,825        1.01
Tsernaoua-Dabnou                    7,791           6,337       123
Malbaza-Dabnou                     58,486          57,226        1.02
Dabnou-Badeguisheri                16,637          13,783        1.21
Badeguisheri-Tahoua                13,893          10,994        1.26
Tahoua-Tounfati                     9,528           7,945        1.20
Tibiri-Dakoro                      10,723           9,032        1.19
Zinder-Tanout                      22 ,384         18,602        1.20
Representative One Lane
Paved Road
Dosso-Gaya                         23,083          20,406        1.13



NIGER: HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE DIRECTORATE OF PUBLIC WORKS
ADMINISTRATION
DIRECTOR
OF PUBLIC WORKS
_                                          CONTRACTS
CHIEF ENGINEER              CHIEF ENGINEER              CHIEF ENGINEER
H IDR            RADESIGN  DRODS                         UBAN DEVELOPMENTD|
MISCELLAN
DIVISION               DIVISION                DIVISION               EQUIPMENT
NIAMEY                 MARADI                  ZINDER                 DIVISION
SUB- DIVISIONS:         SUB- DIVISIONS:        SUB- DIVISIONS:           WORKSHOPS
NIAMEY                  MARADI                 ZINDER                    STORES
YANTALA                 TAHOUA                 AGADEZ
ORGANIZAT  ~~IRNI N'OFNTENIRETRT         FPBI          OK
LJanuory, 1968                                       I*RD-3696 



p ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                          E~~~~~~~~~~~~L  I B l       A
REPUBLIC OF NIGER                    +       .                                       E2 ~%'                                        ,      -
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE                                                                             .7
PROJECT ROAD NETWORK
1967                                                             ./ 
Asphalt roads                                                                                    0 /  Djado
Laterite roads                                           Fort Flatters                                             t      
* -------- Earth roads                               /
Roads for                                   .
feasibility studies            In Guezzom  7
J rBilmao 
50   0  r0   loo  150  200  250
K  I  L  0  M  E  T r  R  S         j               .
\5<,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .... 9 Agcdes
(                     - ,o In Wagueur
*  1         ,                         TAHOUA -.,. 
|-.   Dessa                 Abala  .        (7                               TANOUT
IZ' *Qu .&*                 6 8oluslom  .   Ille l  Do. ...  Dakoro  I
~~1>~~~~Tera  A?                t~~~~~~Dabnou                                                      NGIM
Dogondoutchi'                 DoZnNMEyro
I NAMEY  :-                  G                                                  .....°
Soy                                            '8        e tN'KONNI        .... D'
U~~~ ~ PPE  (ji jOod         borem                D       MAAD          S   io!a*                       D                     J 
,  !HAIBR 2212R1
______ _____ _____ _____ _____ _____ _____ _____ _____   GoyoD                       , .              oin Oo



NIGER
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT                                       AGADE5
HIGHWAY SYSTEM SCHEMATIC LAY OUT                       INGALI  -
1964
HEAVY VEHICLES  IVNlBER OF VEHICLES /DAY Y
L !7APRI-VATE CARS  LESS THAN3 
TADELAKAT'
jBALAK 
TANOUT
TAHOUA
FILINGUE                            DKR
LABERY  OUALLAM                DABNOU                                 B  l   f
NIAM /to  \
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
GAYA
JANUARY 1968I R-Z
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BD21



