Report No. PID4700
Project Name                     India-Second Renewable Energy (@+)
Region                           South Asia
Sector                           Power
Project ID                       INPE49770
Borrower                         Indian Renewable Energy Development
Agency Limited
Guarrantor                       Government of India
Contact: Dr. V. Bakthavatsalam,
Managing Director,
IREDA
Core 4-A, East Court,
India Habitat Centre Complex
1st Floor Lodhi Road, New Delhi 110-003
Date PID Updated                 September 14, 1999
Appraisal Date                   July 1997
Projected Board Date             December 1999
1. Sector Background. India's power industry is characterized by inadequate
and inefficient power supply with peak capacity and energy supply shortages
exceeding 209 and 10%, respectively.   The bulk of capacity additions in power
supply is expected to come from coal-fired stations supplemented by
hydroelectric power development and medium-sized diesel or naphtha-based
plants. However, fossil-based power has environmental repercussions relating
to emissions of suspended particulate matter (SPM), sulfur dioxide (S02),
nitrous oxide (NOx),   carbon dioxide (C02),  and other gases.    Large hydro
power plants could lead to loss of forests, wildlife habitat and biodiversity
and most importantly, the displacement of people.     Cognizant of the need for
environmentally sustainable energy investments, development of renewable
energy and promotion of energy efficiency are priority thrust areas under
India's National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP).
2. GOI estimates a potential of 50,000 MW can be harnessed from renewable
energy sources. In the small hydro sub-sector alone, a potential of 10,000 MW
is estimated, but their development is dependent on ability of entrepreneurs
to build them efficiently so as to yield sufficient economic and financial
returns. Accordingly, several states have established policies and incentives
specifically designed for private sector development of small hydros,
including wheeling and third-party sales arrangements. To date about 500 MW
of small hydro capacity have been developed in India with another 500 MW
underway.
3. On the demand-side, inefficient pricing and a variety of market and non-
market barriers to energy efficiency have contributed to the inefficient end-
use of electricity and thermal energy. This inefficiency exacerbates the
energy shortage situation. Energy pricing reforms emerging from restructuring
of the power sector at the state level is expected to heighten consumer
awareness of  the need for energy conservation.     However, many consumers in
the industrial and commercial sectors who already pay high prices (above the
cost of supply) continue to under-invest in energy efficiency. While the



technical and economic potential for improving energy efficiency and thereby
reducing carbon emissions in India is sizable, a host of barriers exist to
capturing this potential.
4. Project Objectives.     The project supports Government initiatives to: a)
augment power supply through environmentally sustainable small hydro
investments; b) mobilize private sector investments in small-scale renewable
energy power projects; and c) promote energy efficiency and demand-side
management (DSM) investments .
5. The Global GEF objectives are to enhance and sustain improved end-use
energy efficiencies with consequent reduction in carbon emissions.     The key
project concept is to catalyze an energy efficiency services industry in India
by addressing market development barriers and helping develop entrepreneurial
initiatives including the formation of Energy Service Companies (ESCOs).
6. Project Description.          The project is a follow-up Bank lending
operation with IREDA to expand the small hydro program beyond the southern
region and to include innovative types of small hydro schemes. In addition,
the proposed project will support a new initiative within IREDA to promote and
finance the delivery of energy efficiency services and equipment,
implementation of DSM schemes, and development of energy service companies
(ESCOs).
7. The Small Hydro component will finance 200 MWs of small hydro investments
by the private sector, with focus on the following types: (i) canal-based and
dam toe schemes; (ii) run-of-river schemes; (iii) rehabilitation and/or
upgrading of old plants; (iv) use of tail ends of cooling water systems of
thermal power plants; and (v) stand alone micro-hydro schemes.     It is
envisaged that about 80t of the schemes would fall into categories (i) and
(ii) ranging in size from 1MW to as large as 20 to 25 MW.     Irrigation canal-
based and dam-toe schemes are already being demonstrated to be relatively low-
risk and cost-effective under the on-going IDA operation with IREDA.
8. The Energy Efficiency/DSM component will finance investments associated
with: (i) design, development and implementation of integrated energy
management services operated by ESCOs and end-users on a performance guarantee
basis; (ii) purchase and installation of energy efficiency and/or load
management devices and systems; (iii) production of energy efficient
equipment; and (iv) end-user participation in SEB-and other utility-sponsored
DSM programs.
9. The Technical Assistance component to be financed by GEF will support the
activities:    (i) pre-investment studies aimed at developing a sustainable
pipeline of energy efficiency investments, preparation of standard bidding
documents for procuring ESCO services, operational and business development
modules and information dissemination; (ii) establishing in-house capacity
within IREDA to appraise, supervise and promote energy efficiency services and
schemes; (iii) assisting participating states in promoting end-use
efficiency including development of appropriate policy incentives; and (iv)
training of public and private sector energy and industry officials and staff
on energy conservation and DSM.
10. Project Costs and Financing.    The project has an estimated cost of US$ 300
million. The financing plan is currently envisaged as: private investors
-2 -



(US$ 110 million), IREDA (US$ 25 million ), IBRD (US$ 80 million), IDA (US$50
million) and co-financing   from GEF (US$ 5 million).    IREDA will onlend the
proceeds of the Loan to the sub-borrowers at interest rates determined on the
basis of IREDA's operational policies, cost of funds and on previaling market
conditions. Currently the on-lending rate for small hydros is at 16.5 to 17.0
percent, with a repayment period of 10 years including a grace period of 3
years.
11. Project Implementation.    IREDA will have overall responsibility for
project management and for supervising and coordinating the implementation by
its clients of the various project components. As a financial intermediary,
IREDA will on-lend the proceeds from the IDA Credit and Bank loan to private
developers and would ensure that sub-projects and their promoters comply with
the eligibility criteria agreed upon between IREDA and the Bank.     The sub-
borrowers will implement the respective sub-projects and will handle the
bidding and contract awards, supervise construction and own and operate the
facilities upon commissioning. IREDA would monitor and evaluate project
performance through regular field visits and progress reports from the
clients.   IREDA will administer the technical assistance program, establish
linkages among various stakeholders in the small hydro and energy efficiency
service industries, and disseminate information on emerging investment
opportunities. IREDA will make funding available to assist prospective energy
efficiency investors in arriving at cost-effective technical solutions and
workable business arrangements, so as to build up a sustainable investment
pipeline that IREDA as well as commercial banking institutions can finance.
12. Environmental Aspects. The project will have a positive environmental
impact through promotion of non-polluting renewable energy sources and energy
conservation. Most of the small hydroelectric projects will be installed on
existing canals or dams and will not lead to any changes in timing or
magnitude of water and sediment flows in canals, rivers, or reservoirs.
They will largely be built in the right-of-way of existing works, hence there
will be minimal land acquisition, and resettlement of people will not be
required.   Micro hydroelectric plants will have a beneficial impact on the
environment since they will reduce the use of firewood and charcoal and the
attendant deforestation. They will be run-of-river projects and present no
adverse changes in sediment or river flows. Negative environmental impacts
will be nil. Nevertheless, sub-borrowers will be required by IREDA to conduct
environmental and social impact assessments to ensure that Government and Bank
environmental and social policy guidelines are followed.
Contact Point:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street NW.
Washington DC. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Magdalena Manzo
Task Manager
(202) 458-1466
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
- 3-



components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending September 17, 1999.
- 4 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it is
prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.



