Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3396 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Renewable Energy Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated August 11, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3396 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 11, 2000, between INDIA, 
acting by its President (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied 
itself as to the feasibility and priority of the 
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has 
requested the Association to assist in the financing 
of the Project;
(B)
by an agreement of even date herewith 
between the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) and Indian Renewable Energy 
Development Agency Limited (IREDA), (the IREDA Loan 
Agreement) the Bank has agreed to make a loan to IREDA 
in an amount equal to $80,000,000 (the Loan) to assist 
in financing Parts A and B of the Project on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement;
(C)
by an agreement of even date herewith 
between the Bank acting as implementing agency of the 
Global Environment Facility (GEF) and IREDA (the GEF 
Grant Agreement), the Bank has agreed to make a grant 
(the GEF Grant), to IREDA (as such the Recipient) in 
Page  2
an amount equivalent to three million eight hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,800,000) to 
assist in financing Part C of the Project on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the GEF Grant Agreement;
(D)
the Project will be carried out by IREDA 
with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make available to IREDA 
the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the 
basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend the 
Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement and in the Project 
Agreement of even date herewith between the 
Association and IREDA;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as 
follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable 
to Development Credit Agreements” of the Association, 
dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), (the General Conditions) constitute an integral 
part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General 
Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have 
the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Eligible Category” means the category, 
set forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
(b)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the 
expenditures for goods and services referred to in 
Section 2.02 of this Agreement. 
(c)
“Environment Analysis Guidelines” means 
the Guidelines as approved by IREDA on May 6, 1998 
setting forth, inter alia, the policies and procedures 
for carrying out environmental assessment and 
preparation of environment mitigation plans;
(d)
“Energy Efficiency Services” means 
services provided by an ESCO to an energy consumer 
under Part B of the Project for an Investment Project;
(e)
“Engineering Services” means supervision 
services, and erection, testing and commissioning 
services provided under Parts A and B of the Project 
for an Investment Project;
(f)
“ESCOs” means Energy Service Companies 
approved by IREDA in accordance with eligibility 
criteria satisfactory to the Bank, and “ESCO” means 
each such company;
(g)
“Fiscal Year” means the Fiscal Year of 
Page  3
the Borrower or IREDA beginning on April 1 of a 
calendar year and ending on March 31 of the following 
calendar year;
(h)
“Investment Enterprise” means an 
enterprise, including an ESCO, which intends to carry 
out an Investment Project under Part A.1 or Part B of 
the Project and to which the Borrower proposes to make 
a Subloan;
(i)
“Investment Project” means a specific 
scheme, including Energy Efficiency Services and 
Engineering Services, to be carried out under Part A.1 
or Part B of the Project by an Investment Enterprise 
utilizing the proceeds of a Subloan;
(j)
“IREDA” means Indian Renewable Energy 
Development Agency Limited, a company registered under 
the Companies Act, 1956 of the Borrower;
(k)
“Memorandum and Articles of Association” 
means the Memorandum and Articles of Association of 
IREDA as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(l)
“Policy Statement” means the operational 
policy statement dated December 24, 1992 of IREDA, as 
amended to the date of this Agreement, and as further 
revised pursuant to Section 6.01(c) of this Agreement;
(m)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement 
between the Association and IREDA, of even date 
herewith, as the same may be amended from time to 
time, and such term includes all schedules and 
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(n)
“Project Management Report” means each 
report prepared in accordance with Section 3.07 of the 
Project Agreement;
(o)
“Rupees” means the currency of the 
Borrower;
(p)
“Social Impact Assessment Framework” 
means the Framework as approved by IREDA on May 6, 
1998 setting forth, inter alia, the policies and 
procedures for carrying out social impact assessments 
and where applicable, preparation of resettlement and 
rehabilitation plans and other developmental plans for 
people adversely affected as a result of the 
implementation of the Project, carrying out 
consultations, processing and redressing grievances 
and monitoring related impacts;
(q)
“Special Account” means the account 
referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 of this Agreement;
(r)
“Subloan” means a loan made or proposed 
to be made by IREDA from the proceeds of the Credit to 
an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project 
under Part A.1 or Part B of the Project; and
(s)
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the 
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
IREDA pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, 
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes any schedules to the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement.
Page  4
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to 
the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty 
seven million two hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 37,200,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be 
withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with 
the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, 
to be paid) by the Borrower on account of withdrawals 
made by an Investment Enterprise under a Subloan to 
meet the reasonable cost of goods, works and services 
required for the Investment Project in respect of 
which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is 
requested.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 
31, 2006 or such later date as the Association shall 
establish. The Association shall promptly notify the 
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the 
Association a commitment charge on the principal 
amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time 
at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 
of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half 
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) 
from the date sixty days after the date of this 
Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates 
on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower 
from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the 
accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from 
time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall 
be applied from the next payment date in that year 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) 
at such places as the Association shall reasonably 
request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in 
the currency specified in this Agreement for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or 
in such other eligible currency or currencies as may 
from time to time be designated or selected pursuant 
to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the 
Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service 
charges shall be payable semiannually on April 15 and 
October 15 in each year.
Page  5
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and 
(c) below, the Borrower shall repay the principal 
amount of the Credit in semiannual installments 
payable on each April 15 and October 15 commencing 
October 15, 2010 and ending April 15, 2035. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable 
on April 15, 2020 shall be one and one-fourth per cent 
(1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each 
installment thereafter shall be two and one-half 
percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower’s per capita 
gross national product (GNP), as determined by the 
Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive 
years the level established annually by the 
Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall 
consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, 
the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the 
Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above 
by: (A) requiring the Borrower to repay twice the 
amount of each such installment not yet due until the 
principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; 
and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence repayment 
of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first 
semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) 
above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the 
events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, 
provided, however, that there shall be a grace period 
of a minimum of five years on such repayment of 
principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the 
Association may revise the modification referred to in 
paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all 
of the increase in the amounts of such installments, 
the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with 
the Association on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided 
that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained 
under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of 
terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the Association 
determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so 
requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of 
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments 
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States 
of America is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its 
commitment to the objectives of the Project as set 
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this 
end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of 
its other obligations under the Development Credit 
Page  6
Agreement, shall cause IREDA to perform in accordance 
with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the 
obligations of IREDA therein set forth, shall take and 
cause to be taken all action, including the provision 
of funds, facilities, services and other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to enable IREDA to perform 
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be 
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with 
such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall re-lend the proceeds 
of the Credit to IREDA under a Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
IREDA, under terms and conditions as prescribed by the 
Borrower from time to time for IREDA.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights 
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as 
to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the 
Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate 
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any 
provision thereof.
(d)
The Borrower shall: (i) no later than 
October 31, 2001 provide to the Association a 
time-based action plan for the future development of 
IREDA, agreed to with the Association, taking into 
account the recommendations referred to the Borrower 
by IREDA pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of Schedule 2 to 
the Project Agreement; and (ii) thereafter implement 
such action plan in accordance with the provisions of 
such plan.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works and 
services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by 
the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association 
hereby agree that the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the 
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of 
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, 
respectively) shall be carried out by IREDA pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with 
respect to which withdrawals from the Credit Account 
were made on the basis of the Project Management 
Reports or statements of expenditures, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained 
in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
Page  7
other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures are retained until at least one 
year after the Association has received the 
audit report for the Fiscal Year 
in which 
the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made; 
and
(iii)
enable the Association’s 
representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts 
referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of this Section 
and those for the Special Account for 
each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon 
as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each 
such year the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have 
reasonably 
requested, including a separate opinion by said 
auditors as to 
whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such Fiscal 
Year, 
together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such 
other information concerning said records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of 
the General Conditions, the following additional 
events are specified:
(a)
IREDA shall have failed to perform any of 
its obligations under the Project Agreement, the IREDA 
Loan Agreement or the GEF Grant Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred 
after the date of the Development Credit Agreement, an 
extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that IREDA will be able to perform 
its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
The Policy Statement as revised pursuant 
to Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so 
as to affect materially and adversely the operations 
or the financial condition of IREDA or its ability to 
carry out the Project or to perform any of its 
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d)
The Memorandum and Articles of 
Page  8
Association of IREDA shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to 
affect materially and adversely the ability of IREDA 
to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(e)
(i)
The right of IREDA to withdraw the 
proceeds of the Loan or the GEF Grant made 
to IREDA for the financing of the Project shall 
have been suspended, cancelled 
or 
terminated in whole or in part by the Bank, pursuant 
to the terms thereof, 
or
(ii)
the Loan shall have become due and 
payable prior to the agreed maturity 
thereof.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of 
the General Conditions, the following additional 
events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (a) of 
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall 
continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Association to the 
Borrower; and
(b)
any event specified in paragraphs (d) or 
(e) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified 
as additional conditions to the effectiveness of the 
Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of 
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been 
executed on behalf of the Borrower and IREDA;
(b)
all conditions precedent to the 
effectiveness of the IREDA Loan Agreement and the GEF 
Grant Agreement have been fulfilled other than those 
related to the effectiveness of this Agreement; and
(c)
the Policy Statement has been revised in 
a manner satisfactory to the Association.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as 
additional matters, within the meaning of Section 
12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in 
the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the 
Association:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by IREDA, and is legally 
binding upon IREDA in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and 
IREDA and is legally binding upon the Borrower and 
IREDA in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after 
the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the 
Page  9
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The provisions of Section 5.02 of 
this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date 
on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate or on the date 20 years after the date of 
this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional 
Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary 
or Under Secretary of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are 
specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the 
General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi
India
Cable address: 
Telex:
ECOFAIRS
953-3166175
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA) 
or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (WUI) 
or
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting 
through their duly authorized representatives, have 
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in New Delhi, India, as of the day and year 
first above written.
INDIA
By /s/  R. S. Sharma
Authorized Representative
Page  10
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edwin R. Lim
Country Director, India
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
Part A:
 General
1.
The table below sets forth the Category of items 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the 
allocation of the amounts of the Credit to such 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items 
so to be financed in such Category:
   Amount of the
 Credit Allocated
% of
   (Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
Subloans for
37,200,000
100% of amounts 
Investment Projects
disbursed by IREDA 
under Parts A.1 and
under Subloans
B of the Project
TOTAL
37,200,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 
above, no withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of 
this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an 
aggregate amount not exceeding SDR 3,800,000 may be 
made on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after July 1, 1999; and (b) a 
Subloan unless the Subloan has been made for the 
relevant Investment Project in accordance with the 
procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth 
or referred to in Schedule 3 to the Project Agreement.
3.
The Association may require withdrawals from the 
Credit Account to be made on the basis of statements 
of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods for a 
private sector Investment Enterprise under contracts 
costing the equivalent of $5,000,000 or less; (ii) 
goods for a public sector Investment Enterprise under 
contracts costing the equivalent of $200,000 or less; 
(iii) works under contracts costing the equivalent of 
$5,000,000 or less; (iv) Energy Efficiency Services 
under contracts costing the equivalent of $1,000,000 
or less; (v) consultant services under contracts less 
than $100,000 equivalent for employment of consulting 
firms; and (vi) consultant services, $50,000 for 
employment of individual consultants, all under such 
terms and conditions as the Association shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.
Page  11
Part B:
 Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars 
a special deposit account in the Reserve Bank of India 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association.
2.
After the Association has received evidence 
satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts 
to be deposited into the Special Account shall be made 
as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have 
received: (i) the first Project Management Report 
referred to in Section 3.07 of the Project Agreement; 
and (ii) a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on 
the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a 
Project Management Report pursuant to Section 3.07 of 
the Project Agreement accompanied by a request from 
the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project 
Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to 
this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be 
made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.  For each 
payment made by the Borrower out of the Special 
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the 
Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing 
that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of 
this Schedule, the Association shall not be required 
to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time 
that any Project Management Report does not adequately 
provide the information required pursuant to Section 
3.07 of the Project Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time 
that all further withdrawals should be made by the 
Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to 
furnish to the Association within the period of time 
specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, 
any of the audit reports required to be furnished to 
the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of: (A) the records and accounts for the 
Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which 
withdrawals were made on the basis of Project 
Management Reports or statements of expenditures.
5.
The Association shall not be required to make 
further deposits into the Special Account in 
Page  12
accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this 
Schedule if, at any time, the Association shall have 
notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such 
notification, the Association shall determine, in its 
sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Account may be made and what procedures should 
be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify 
the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time 
that any payment out of the Special Account was made 
for an expenditure which is not an Eligible 
Expenditure, or was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide 
such additional evidence as the Association may 
request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if 
the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, 
no further deposit by the Association into the Special 
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time 
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account 
will not be required to cover payments for Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following 
such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Association, refund to the Association 
such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the 
Association, refund to the Association all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant 
to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this paragraph 6 
shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the 
provisions of the Development Credit Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account when Withdrawals are not 
made on the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
The term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount 
equivalent to $3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special 
Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association a request or requests for deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which in the 
aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On 
the basis of each such request, the Association shall, 
Page  13
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, 
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests 
for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify. Prior to or at the 
time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested.  On the basis of 
each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have 
been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible 
Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special 
Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the 
Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible 
Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make 
further deposits into the Special Account, once the 
total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall 
follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent 
that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account when Withdrawals are 
made on the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify 
by notice to the Borrower, all withdrawals from the 
Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association 
into the Special Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by 
the Association from the Credit Account under one or 
more of the Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit 
Account for deposit into the Special Account shall be 
supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each applications for withdrawal 
of an amount of the Credit, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount 
equal to the lesser of: 
(a)
the amount so requested; and 
Page  14
(b) 
the amount which the Association has 
determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said applications, is required to be 
deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following the date of such 
report; provided, however, that the amount so 
deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said 
Project Management Report to be remaining in the 
Special Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of  
$10,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) 
increase power supply through investments in small 
hydro schemes; (ii) mobilize private sector investment 
in renewable energy; and (iii) promote energy 
efficiency and demand-side management investments.
The Project consists of the following parts, 
subject to such modifications thereof as the Borrower 
and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Small Hydro Schemes
1.
The carrying out of a total of about 30 MW of 
small scale hydro Investment Projects of up to 3 MW 
each including: (i) canal-based and dam toe schemes; 
(ii) run-of-river schemes; (iii) rehabilitation or 
upgrading of old plants; (iv) schemes using tail ends 
of cooling water systems of thermal power plants; and 
(v) stand alone micro-hydro schemes of up to 100 KW 
each.
2.
The carrying out of a total of about 170 MWs of 
small scale hydro Investment Projects of up to 25 MW 
each including: (i) canal-based and dam toe schemes; 
(ii) run-of-river schemes; (iii) rehabilitation or 
upgrading of old plants; (iv) schemes using tail ends 
of cooling water systems of thermal power plants; and 
(v) stand alone micro-hydro schemes of up to 100 KW 
each.
Part B:
Energy Efficiency and Demand-Side 
Management Investments
The carrying out of Investment Projects for (i) 
purchase and installation of energy efficiency systems 
devices and systems; (ii) production of energy 
efficient equipment; (iii) design, development and 
implementation of integrated energy management 
services operated by ESCOs on a performance guarantee 
basis; and (iv) other utility-sponsored demand-side 
management programs.
Part C:
Technical Assistance and Training
(a)
Strengthening IREDA’s capacity to 
appraise and supervise energy efficiency Investment 
Projects through the provision of consultancy services 
and training.
(b)
Improving the marketing of the energy 
Page  15
efficiency and demand-side management investments 
under Part B of the Project through the provision of 
consultancy services to prepare business development 
modules, model bid documents and informative packages.
(c)
Promoting private sector participation in 
end-use efficiency including thorough development of 
appropriate policy incentives through the provision of 
consultancy services to various state energy 
development entities, and training for public and 
private sector on energy conservation and demand-side 
management.
*   *   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by 
September 30, 2005.
