Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF 020169
Global Environment Facility
Trust Fund Grant Agreement
(Second Renewable Energy Project)
between
INDIAN RENEWABLE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY LIMITED
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global 
Environment Facility
Dated August 11, 2000
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF 020169
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 11, 2000, between INDIAN 
RENEWABLE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY LIMITED, a company 
registered under the Companies Act, 1956 of India (the 
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an implementing 
agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in 
respect of grant funds provided to the GEF Trust Fund 
by certain members of the Bank as participants of the 
GEF.
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 
91-5 of March 14, 1991 of the Executive Directors of 
the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the 
protection of the global environment and promote 
thereby environmentally sound and sustainable economic 
development;
(B)
following the restructuring of the GEF, 
such arrangements are continued in place on the basis 
set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of 
Page  2
the Executive Directors of the Bank establishing the 
GEF Trust Fund;
(C)
India, acting by its President (India) 
and the Recipient, having been satisfied as to the 
feasibility and priority of the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, have 
requested assistance from the resources of the GEF 
Trust Fund in the financing of Part C of the Project, 
and the Bank has determined that such assistance would 
be in accordance with the provisions of Resolution No. 
94-2 referred to above; 
(D)
by a loan agreement of even date herewith 
between the Bank and the Recipient, the Bank has 
agreed to make a loan to the Recipient in an amount 
equal to eighty million dollars ($80,000,000) (the 
Loan) to assist the Recipient in financing Parts A and 
B of the Project on the terms and conditions therein 
set forth; and
(E)
India has also requested the 
International Development Association (the 
Association) to provide additional financing towards 
the financing of the Project and by an agreement of 
even date herewith between India and the Association, 
the Association has agreed to provide such assistance 
in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to 
thirty-seven million two hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR37,200,000) (the Credit).
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter 
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as 
follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01 (a) The following provisions of the 
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Currency Pool Loans dated January 1, 
1985 as amended through October 6, 1999, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this 
Section (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), 
(6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), (18) and 
(20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first 
sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), 
(e), (f), (i), (k), (l), (m), (n), (o) and 
(p), 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06;
Page  3
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii) Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Sections 12.01 (c), 12.03 and 
12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified 
as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to 
the end of Section 2.01 to read as follows: 
“the term “Special Drawing Rights” and the 
symbol “SDR” mean special drawing 
rights as valued by the International Monetary Fund in 
accordance with its 
Articles 
of Agreement”;
(ii)
the term “Bank”, wherever used in 
the General Conditions, other than in 
Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the 
last use of such term in 
Section 
5.01 thereof, means the Bank acting as an implementing 
agency of the 
GEF, except that in 
Section 6.02, the term “Bank” shall also include the 
Bank 
acting in its own capacity;
(iii)
the term “Borrower”, wherever used 
in the General Conditions, means the 
Recipient; not a member of the Bank, and in this 
context, all references to 
the 
“Guarantor” and the “Guarantee Agreement” in the 
General Conditions shall 
be 
disregarded;
(iv)
the term “Loan Agreement”, 
wherever used in the General Conditions, means this 
Agreement;
(v)
the term “Loan” and “loan”, 
wherever used in the General Conditions, means the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant;
(vi)
the term “Loan Account”, wherever 
used in the General Conditions, means the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account; and
(vii)
a new subparagraph is added after 
subparagraph (p) in Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions, as follows: “an 
extraordinary situation shall have arisen 
in which any further disbursement under the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant would exceed 
the 
resources available for disbursement from the GEF.”
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, 
unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the 
Recitals to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
Page  4
(a)
“Development Credit Agreement” means the 
agreement of even date herewith between India and the 
Association for the Project, as such agreement may be 
amended from time to time; and such term includes the 
“General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 
(as amended through October 6, 1999), as applied to 
such agreement, and all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Development Credit Agreements;
(b)
“Eligible Categories” means categories 
(1) and (2), set forth in the table in Part A.1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(c)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the 
expenditures for goods and services referred to in 
Section 2.02 of this Agreement. 
(d)
“Fiscal Year” means the Fiscal Year of 
the Recipient beginning on April 1 of a calendar year 
and ending on March 31 of the following calendar year;
(e)
“Loan Agreement” means the agreement of 
even date herewith between the Bank and the Recipient 
for the Project, as such agreement may be amended from 
time to time; and such term includes the “General 
Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 
1995 (as amended through October 6, 1999), as applied 
to such agreement, and all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Loan Agreement; 
(f)
“Memorandum and Articles of Association” 
means the Memorandum and Articles of Association of 
the Recipient as amended to the date of this 
Agreement;
(g)
“Policy Statement” means the operational 
policy statement dated December 24, 1992 of the 
Recipient as revised pursuant to Section 6.01 (c) of 
the Development Credit Agreement;
(h)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement 
of even date herewith between the Association and the 
Recipient, as the same may be amended from time to 
time, and such term includes all schedules and 
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
(i) 
“Project Management Report” means each 
report prepared in accordance with Section 4.02 of 
this Agreement; and
(j)
“Special Account” means the account 
referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The GEF Trust Fund Grant
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available 
to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant in an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to three million eight hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,800,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the GEF Trust Fund 
Page  5
Grant may be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 
1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for 
carrying out Part C of the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 
31, 2006 or such later date as the Bank shall 
establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the 
Recipient of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Recipient declares its 
commitment to the objectives of the Project as set 
forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit 
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part C of 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate financial, administrative 
and engineering practices and shall provide, promptly 
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, procurement of the goods, works and 
consultants’ services required for Part C of the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Conditions
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain a 
financial management system, including records and 
accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to monitor and record 
the progress of the Project and of each Investment 
Project (including its costs and benefits to be 
derived from it) and to reflect in accordance with 
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the 
operations and financial condition of the Recipient 
and to register separately the operations, resources 
and expenditures related to the Project and each 
Investment Project.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records referred to in 
Section 4.01 of this Agreement, accounts and 
financial statements (balance sheets, statements 
of income and expenses and 
related 
statements) and records and accounts for the Special 
Account for each 
Fiscal Year audited, 
in accordance with sound auditing principles 
consistently 
applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as 
available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of said financial 
Page  6
statements for such years as so audited and (B) the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other 
information concerning said records, accounts 
and financial statements and the audit thereof 
as the Bank shall from time to 
time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to 
which withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management 
Reports or statements of expenditures, the Recipient 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be 
maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year 
after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account 
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts 
and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives 
to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and 
accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as 
to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such Fiscal Year, 
together with the procedures 
and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can 
be relied upon to 
support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02.  The Recipient shall prepare, in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the 
end of each calendar quarter, a Project Management 
Report for such period, which:
(a)
(i)
sets forth actual sources and 
applications of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered 
by said report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following 
the 
period covered by said report; and
(ii)
shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during 
the period covered by said report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan during the six-month 
period following the period 
covered 
by said report;
Page  7
(b)
(i)
describes physical progress in 
Project implementation both cumulatively and 
for the period covered by said report; and 
(ii) 
explains variances between the 
actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(c)
sets forth the status of procurement 
under the Project and expenditures under contracts 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of 
the General Conditions, the following additional 
events are specified:
(a)
the Recipient shall have failed to 
perform any of its obligations under the Loan 
Agreement or the Project Agreement;
(b)
as a result of events which have occurred 
after the date of the Development Credit Agreement, an 
extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the Recipient will be able to 
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement;
(c)
the Memorandum and Articles of 
Association of the Recipient shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to 
affect materially and adversely the ability of the 
Recipient to perform any of its obligations under this 
Agreement;
(d)
the Policy Statement as revised pursuant 
to Section 6.01 (c) of the Development Credit 
Agreement shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect 
materially and adversely the operations or the 
financial conditions of the Recipient or its ability 
to carry out the Project; and
(e)
(i)
the right of the Recipient or 
India to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan or 
the Credit made to the Recipient or India, as 
the case may be for the 
financing of the Project shall have been suspended, 
cancelled or terminated in 
whole or 
in part by the Bank or the Association as the case may 
be, pursuant 
to the terms thereof, or
(ii)
the Loan or Credit shall have 
become due and payable prior to the agreed 
maturity thereof.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified 
as an additional condition to the effectiveness of the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement within the meaning of 
Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely, 
Page  8
that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of 
the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan 
Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those 
related to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after 
the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. This Agreement shall continue in 
effect until the GEF Trust Fund Grant has been fully 
disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have 
fulfilled all their obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Managing Director of the 
Recipient is designated as representative of the 
Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.02 The following addresses are 
specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the 
General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Indian Renewable Energy Development 
Agency Limited
Core 4-A, East Court, 1st Floor, India 
Habitat Centre Complex
Lodi Road, New Delhi 110003, India
Cable address:
ALTERNATE-ND-3
New Delhi
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting 
through their duly authorized representatives, have 
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in New Delhi, India, as of the day and year 
first above written.
INDIAN RENEWABLE ENERGY 
   DEVELOPMENT AGENCY LIMITED
By /s/ V. Bakthavatsalam
Page  9
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
As an Implementing Agency of the 
Global 
   Environment Facility
By /s/ Edwin R. Lim
Country Director, India
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant
Part A:
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of 
items to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed 
in each Category:
Amount of the GEF
Trust Fund Grant
   % of
Allocated (Expressed
Expenditures
Category
 in SDR Equivalent) 
to be Financed
(1)
Equipment and
1,140,000
100% of foreign
materials
expenditures,
100% of local 
expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 
80% of local 
expenditures for
other items 
procured locally
(2)
Consultants’
2,660,000
100%
services and training
TOTAL
3,800,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means 
Page  10
expenditures in the currency of any country other than 
that of India for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of India; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means 
expenditures in the currency of India or for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of India.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 
above, no withdrawals shall be made in respect of 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of 
this Agreement.
4.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time 
that any payment made from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account was used for any expenditure not consistent 
with the provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank for deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account, an amount equal to the amount so used or the 
portion thereof as specified by the Bank.
5.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for (i) goods; (ii) 
consultant services under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent for employment of consulting 
firms; and (iii) consultant services under contracts 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent, all under such 
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Recipient.
Part B:
Special Account
1.
The Recipient shall open and maintain in dollars 
a special deposit account in a commercial bank on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence 
satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts 
to be deposited into the Special Account shall be made 
as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) 
the first Project Management Report referred to in 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement; and (ii) a request 
from the Recipient for withdrawal on the basis of 
Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project 
Management Report pursuant to Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement accompanied by a request from the Recipient 
for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management 
Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this 
Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be 
made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.  For each 
payment made by the Recipient out of the Special 
Account, the Recipient shall, at such time as the Bank 
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment 
was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
Page  11
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of 
this Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make 
further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that 
any Project Management Report does not adequately 
provide the information required pursuant to Section 
4.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that 
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower 
directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Recipient shall have failed to 
furnish to the Bank within the period of time 
specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, 
any of the audit reports required to be furnished to 
the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the 
audit of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special 
Account; or (B) the records and accounts reflecting 
expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were 
made on the basis of Project Management Reports or 
statements of expenditures.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further 
deposits into the Special Account in accordance with 
the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right 
of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Loan 
Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions. Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further 
deposits into the Special Account may be made and what 
procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its 
determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that 
any payment out of the Special Account was made for an 
expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank 
may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until 
the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that 
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not 
be required to cover payments for Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following 
such determination, the Recipient shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the 
Bank, refund to the Bank all or any portion of the 
funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to 
subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this paragraph 6 shall 
Page  12
be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the 
provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account when Withdrawals are not 
made on the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
The term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount 
equivalent to $500,000 in respect of the Special 
Account for Part C of the Project to be withdrawn from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this 
Annex.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special 
Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish to the Bank a 
request or requests for deposit into the Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate 
do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, 
the Recipient shall furnish to the Bank requests for 
deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as 
the Bank shall specify. Prior to or at the time of 
each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such 
request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each 
such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under one 
or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further 
deposits into the Special Account, once the total 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount 
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, 
withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made 
only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have 
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for 
Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Page  13
Operation of Special Account when Withdrawals are 
made on the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by 
notice to the Recipient, all withdrawals from the Loan 
Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such deposit into 
the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under one or more of the 
Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan 
Account for deposit into the Special Account shall be 
supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each applications for withdrawal 
of an amount of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of 
the Recipient, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to 
the lesser of: 
(a)
the amount so requested; and 
(b) 
the amount which the Bank has determined, 
based on the Project Management Report accompanying 
said applications, is required to be deposited in 
order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the 
six-month period following the date of such report; 
provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when 
added to the amount indicated by said Project 
Management Report to be remaining in the Special 
Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of 
$1,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 1 of the “Guidelines for 
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Association in January 1995 and 
revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this 
Section, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 
thereto.
2.
The following provision shall apply to goods to 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods 
and Domestic  Contractors
Page  14
The provision of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the 
Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Guarantor and 
works to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:
National Shopping
Specialized equipment (office equipment, 
monitoring and testing equipment, computer hardware 
and software and instruments for monitoring and 
testing estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $1,000,000 equivalent may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Section II
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of the Introduction and 
Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and 
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II 
of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this 
Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of 
consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of 
Consultants
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services under Part C of the Project shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for training under Part C of the 
Project may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 
3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Single Source Selection
Services under Part C of the Project which are 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Page  15
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements 
set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded 
to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of 
Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any 
requests for proposals, the proposed plan for the 
selection of consultants under the Project shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of 
all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the 
employment of consulting firms estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to 
the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment 
of the consultants shall be furnished to the 
Association for its prior review and approval.  The 
contract shall be awarded only after the said approval 
shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by 
paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set forth in 
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
