Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4571 IN
CREDIT NUMBER 3396 IN
Project Agreement
(Second Renewable Energy Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INDIAN RENEWABLE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY LIMITED
Dated August 11, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 4571 IN
CREDIT NUMBER 3396 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 11, 2000 between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and INDIAN RENEWABLE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY LIMITED (IREDA).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
India, acting by its President (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
thirty seven million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 37,200,000) (the 
Credit), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, 
but only on condition that IREDA agree to undertake such obligations toward the 
Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and IREDA, the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit 
Agreement will be relent to IREDA on the terms and conditions set forth in said 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(C)
IREDA and the Borrower have also requested the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) to provide additional financial assistance 
towards the financing of the Project and the Bank is agreeing to provide such 
assistance in an amount equal to eighty million dollars ($80,000,000) (the Loan);
(D)
IREDA and the Borrower have also requested the International Bank for 
Page  2
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) acting as implementing agency of the Global 
Environment Facility (GEF) to provide additional financial assistance towards the 
financing of Part C of the Project and the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance 
in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to three million eight hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,800,000) (the GEF Grant); and
WHEREAS IREDA, in consideration of the Association's entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) IREDA declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out Parts A.1 and B of the Project and conduct its operations and affairs 
in accordance with sound financial standards and practices, with qualified management 
and personnel, and in accordance with its Memorandum and Articles of Association and 
the Policy Statement.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and IREDA shall otherwise agree, IREDA shall: (i) carry 
out Parts A.1 and B of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and (ii) make the Subloans on terms and 
conditions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and services required for Parts A.1 and B of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. IREDA shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. IREDA shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, IREDA shall not take 
or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning 
or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof. \0c
Section 2.05. 
(a) IREDA shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views with the 
Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
IREDA shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by IREDA of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. IREDA shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the 
Page  3
Bank, adequate to monitor and record the progress of the Project and of each 
Investment Project (including its cost and benefits to be derived from it) and to 
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the 
operations and financial condition of IREDA and to register separately the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project and each Investment Project.  
Section 3.02. IREDA shall:
(a)
have the records referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement, its 
accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses 
and related statements) for each Fiscal Year audited in accordance with sound auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(b)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year (A) certified copies of said 
financial statements for such year as so audited, and (B) the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.03. IREDA shall take such steps satisfactory to the Association as 
shall be necessary to protect itself against risk of loss resulting from changes in 
the rates of exchange between the currencies (including the currency of the Borrower) 
used in its operations.
Section 3.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, IREDA shall 
not incur any debt, if after the incurrence of such debt the ratio of debt to 
revolving fund shall be greater than 5 to 1.
(b)
For purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term “debt” means any indebtedness of IREDA maturing by its 
terms more 
than one year after the date on which it is 
originally incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred:  (A) under a credit contract 
or agreement 
or other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its 
terms of payment, on the date, and to 
the extent, the amount of such debt has 
become outstanding 
pursuant to such contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) 
under 
a guarantee agreement, on the date of the agreement providing for such 
guarantee has been entered into but only to the extent that the guaranteed 
debt is outstanding.
(iii)
The term “revolving fund” means the aggregate of equity and 
grants.
(iv)
The term “equity” means the sum of the total unimpaired paid-up 
capital, 
retained earnings and reserves of IREDA not allocated 
to cover specific 
liabilities.
(v)
The term “grants” means the sum of the total non-reimbursable 
funds made 
available to IREDA other than equity and program 
subsidies.
(vi)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in 
terms of the currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in 
another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Association.
Page  4
Section 3.05.  (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, IREDA shall 
ensure that for each Fiscal Year their cash flow available for debt service shall be 
at least 1.3 times their debt service requirements.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term “cash flow available for debt service” for any year means 
the sum of 
net cash revenue of IREDA, cash loan collections (repayments 
only), and 
interest and other charges on debt for that year;
(ii)
The term “net cash revenue” for any year means the sum of the net 
profit after 
tax, depreciation and other non-cash operating charges, and 
accrued interest 
differential for that Fiscal Year;
(iii)
The term “accrued interest differential” for any Fiscal Year means 
the 
difference between the accrued interest income outstanding 
at the beginning of 
the year and the accrued interest outstanding 
at the end of the year;
(iv)
The term “debt service requirements” means the sum of the 
aggregate amount of 
interest and other charges and principal 
repayment liabilities on debt;
(v)
The term “debt” means any indebtedness of IREDA maturing by its 
terms more 
than one year after the date on which it is 
originally incurred;
(vi)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a credit contract 
or agreement 
or other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its 
terms of payment, on the date, and to 
the extent, the amount of such debt has 
become outstanding 
pursuant to such contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) 
under 
a guarantee agreement, on the date of the agreement providing for such 
guarantee has been entered into but only to the extent that the guaranteed 
debt is outstanding; and
(vii)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in 
terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, in the case of currency converted 
under swap 
agreements the rate at which such currency was converted, or in the 
absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the 
Association.
Section 3.06. IREDA shall take all such measures as may be necessary or 
required, satisfactory to the Association, in order to meet the financial performance 
targets set out in the Policy Statement, and shall not take any action that may 
prevent or interfere with the achievement of such targets.
Section 3.07.  IREDA shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter, a Project Management Report for such period, which:
(a)
(i)
sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said 
report; and
(ii)
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan during 
the period covered by said report and expenditures proposed 
to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan during the six-month 
period following the period 
covered by said report;
Page  5
(b)
(i)
describes physical progress in Project implementation both 
cumulatively and 
for the period covered by said report; and 
(ii) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; 
and
(c)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as at the end of the period 
covered by said report.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
IREDA thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in 
accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify IREDA of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (WUI) 
For IREDA:
Indian Renewable Energy Development Agency Limited
Core 4-A, East Court, 1st Floor, India Habitat Centre Complex
Lodi Road, New Delhi 110003, India
Cable address:
Page  6
ALTERNATE-ND-3
New Delhi
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of IREDA may be 
taken or executed by the Managing Director or such other person or persons as IREDA 
shall designate in writing, and IREDA shall furnish to the Association sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edwin R. Lim
Country Director, India
INDIAN RENEWABLE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT
   AGENCY LIMITED
By /s/ V. Bakthavatsalam
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Association in January 1995, revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods, works and Energy 
Efficiency Services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provision shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods and Domestic Contractors
Page  7
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Limited International Bidding
Energy Efficiency Services estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or 
less per contract which the Association agrees can only be purchased from a limited 
number of suppliers, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Competitive Bidding
Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000,000 or less per contract 
and goods for a public sector Investment Enterprise estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $200,000 or less per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
3.
International/National Shopping
(a)
Goods for a private sector Investment Enterprise estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $5,000,000 or less per contract may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Specialized equipment (office equipment, monitoring and testing 
equipment, computer hardware and software, and instruments for monitoring and testing 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $5,000,000 equivalent from the proceeds of the Credit and the Loan may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Commercial Practice
(a)
Goods for a private sector Investment Enterprise estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the 
equivalent of $30,000,000 from the proceeds of the Credit and the Loan may be procured 
on the basis of established commercial practice acceptable to the Association.
(b)
Civil works for a private sector Investment Enterprise estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $5,000,000 or less per contract may be procured on the basis of 
established commercial practice acceptable to the Association.
(c)
Energy Efficiency Services estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
less per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $5,000,000 
from the proceeds of the Credit and the Loan may be procured on the basis of 
established commercial practice acceptable to the Association.
5.
Force Account
Works for a public sector Investment Enterprise which meet the requirements of 
paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, and costing $50,000 equivalent or less per contract 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent may, with the 
Association's prior agreement, be carried out by force account in accordance with the 
provisions of said paragraph of the Guidelines. 6.
Definitions
For purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “public sector Investment Enterprise” means an enterprise 
registered under the relevant laws of the Borrower in which at least 51 percent of the 
shares are owned by the Borrower and/or any of its constituent States or Union 
Territories and/or their public sector enterprise(s); and
(b)
the term “private sector Investment Enterprise” means an enterprise 
Page  8
registered under the relevant laws of the Borrower which is majority-owned by the 
private sector.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for: (i) works estimated to cost more than the 
equivalent of $5,000,000; (ii) Energy Efficiency Services estimated to cost more than 
the equivalent of $1,000,000; (iii) goods for a private sector Investment Enterprise 
estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $5,000,000; and (iv) goods for a public 
sector Investment Enterprise estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $200,000, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services under Parts A.1 and B of the Project shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services under Parts A.1 and B of the Project which are estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Page  9
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
IREDA shall: (i) at all times implement the Project in accordance with its 
Policy Statement; (ii) promptly inform the Association of any changes made, or 
proposed to be made, by its Board to the Policy Statement; and (iii) consult with the 
Association prior to introducing any material changes to the Policy Statement.
2. 
IREDA shall engage in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association the services of independent consultants to perform a comprehensive 
financial audit and review of the portfolio risk based on international accounting 
standards and international auditing guidelines, and shall complete such audit and 
review no later than November 30, 2000.
3.
IREDA shall: (a) no later than March 31, 2001 provide to the Association a 
time-based action plan for the future development of IREDA, satisfactory to the 
Association, taking into account the recommendations of the financial audit and 
portfolio review referred to in paragraph 2 above in respect of those matters which 
are within the jurisdiction of IREDA; (b) refer those recommendations to the Borrower 
which are within the jurisdiction of the Borrower; and (c) thereafter implement such 
action plan in accordance with the provisions of such plan.
4.
Each Investment Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or more, 
the first two Investment Projects under Part B of the Project (other than those 
carried out by ESCOs) and the first Investment Project to be carried out by an ESCO 
irrespective of value, shall be submitted to the Association for prior approval.
5.
Each Investment Project shall comply with the environmental, resettlement and 
social standards set forth in the Environment Analysis Guidelines and Social Impact 
Assessment Framework. To that end, IREDA shall require each Investment Enterprise 
applying for a Subloan to furnish evidence satisfactory to IREDA and the Association, 
showing that the Investment Project in respect of which the application has been made 
has been prepared in accordance with such standards, such evidence to include an 
environmental impact assessment and where applicable, an environmental mitigation 
Page  10
plan, a resettlement and rehabilitation plan and an indigenous peoples development 
plan for adversely affected and/or displaced populations, for such Investment Project.
6.
IREDA shall provide to the Association:
(a)
by December 31 of each year, financial statements as well as cash flow 
estimates showing the estimates for the current year and projections for the next five 
years, comparing IREDA’s projected performance with the parameters set forth in the 
Policy Statement; and
(b)
by March 31 of each year IREDA shall inform the Association of its 
approved budgetary allocation for the following Fiscal Year.
7.
Without any limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section 9.01 and 
9.07 of the General Conditions, IREDA shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the 
Association, within forty-five days of the end of each quarter, a report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, on the progress of the Project and each 
Investment Project during such quarter.
8.
IREDA shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association and the Borrower, by October 31, 2002, a report integrating 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the participation of the Borrower and the Association, by 
December 31, 2002, or such later date as the Association shall agree, the report 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report 
and the Association’s views on the matter. 
SCHEDULE 3
Procedures for, and Terms and Conditions of Subloans
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise agree:
(a)
the terms and conditions of each Subloan shall be as set out in the 
Policy Statement; and
(b)
only an Investment Enterprise that has not carried out any schemes in the 
hydro sector either by itself or through its subsidiaries shall be eligible for 
receiving Subloans to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit for carrying out 
Investment Projects under Part A.1 of the Project.
2.
No expenditures for goods, works or services required for an Investment Project 
shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit unless:
(a)
the Subloan for such Investment Project shall have been approved by the 
Association, and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than ninety days 
prior to the date on which the Association shall have received the application and 
information required under paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule in respect of such 
Subloan; or
(b)
the Subloan for such Investment Project shall have been a free-limit 
Subloan for which the Association has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account 
and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than ninety days prior to the 
Page  11
date on which the Association shall have received the request and information required 
under paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule in respect of such free-limit Subloan. For the 
purposes of this Agreement, a free-limit Subloan shall be a Subloan in an amount to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit which shall not exceed the sum of 
$5,000,000 equivalent except for the first two Subloans for Investment Projects under 
Part B of the Project (other than those carried out by ESCOs) and the first Subloan 
for an Investment Project to be carried out by an ESCO irrespective of value.
3.
(a)
When presenting a Subloan (other than a free-limit Subloan) to the 
Association for approval, IREDA shall furnish to the Association an application, in a 
satisfactory form, together with: (i) a description of the Investment Enterprise and 
an appraisal of the Investment Project, including a description of the expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Subloan; (ii) the proposed terms 
and conditions of the Subloan, including the schedule of amortization of the Subloan; 
(iii) evidence of compliance with the Policy Statement, the Environment Analysis 
Guidelines and Social Impact Assessment Framework set out in paragraph 5 of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement; and (iv) such other information as the Association shall reasonably 
request.
(b)
Each request by IREDA for authorization to make withdrawals from the 
Credit Account in respect of a free-limit Subloan shall contain: (i) a summary 
description of the Investment Enterprise and the Investment Project, including a 
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Subloan; (ii) the terms and conditions of the Subloan, including the schedule of 
amortization therefor; (iii) evidence of compliance with the Policy Statement, the 
Environment Analysis Guidelines and the Social Impact Assessment Framework set out in 
paragraph 5 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and (iv) such other information as the 
Association shall reasonably request.
(c)
Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of 
sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be presented to the Association on 
or before March 31, 2004 for Part A.1 of the Project and March 31, 2005 for Part B of 
the Project.
4.
Subloans shall be made on terms whereby IREDA shall obtain, by written contract 
with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to 
protect the interests of the Association and IREDA, including, in the case of any 
Subloan, the right to:
(a)
require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, 
financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records;
(b)
without limitation to the generality of the provisions of the preceding 
paragraph (a), require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the 
Investment Project with due regard to applicable ecological, environmental and 
pollution control standards and in accordance with the provisions of the environmental 
mitigation plan, resettlement plan and indigenous peoples development plan referred to 
in paragraph 5 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(c)
require that: (i) the goods, works and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Subloan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods, works and services shall be used 
exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment Project;
(d)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Association if 
the Association shall so request, such goods, works, plants and construction included 
in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and 
documents;
(e)
require that: (i) the Investment Enterprise shall take out and maintain 
with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as 
shall be consistent with sound business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon 
the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Subloan to 
the place of use or installation;
Page  12
(f)
obtain all such information as the Association and IREDA shall reasonably 
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial 
condition of the Investment Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from the 
Investment Project; and
(g)
suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of 
the proceeds of the Subloan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform its 
obligations under its contract with IREDA.
