Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4571 IN
Loan Agreement
(Second Renewable Energy Project)
between
INDIAN RENEWABLE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY LIMITED
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated August 11, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 4571 IN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 11, 2000 between 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(the Bank) and INDIAN RENEWABLE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT 
AGENCY LIMITED (THE BORROWER).
WHEREAS (A) India, acting by its President (the 
Guarantor) and the Borrower, having been satisfied as 
to the feasibility and priority of the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of Parts 
A and B of the Project;
(B)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) 
of even date herewith between the Guarantor and the 
Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the 
obligations of the Borrower in respect of the Loan and 
to undertake such other obligations as set forth in 
the Guarantee Agreement;
(C)
the Guarantor and the Borrower have 
requested the International Development Association 
(the Association) to provide additional financing 
towards the financing of Parts A.1 and B of the 
Page  2
Project and by an agreement of even date herewith 
between the Guarantor and the Association (the 
Development Credit Agreement), the Association has 
agreed to provide such assistance in an aggregate 
principal amount equivalent to thirty seven million 
two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights      (SDR 
37,200,000) (the Credit) on the terms and conditions 
set forth in the Development Credit Agreement;
(D)
by an agreement of even date herewith 
between the Bank acting as implementing agency of the 
Global Environment Facility (GEF) and the Borrower 
(the GEF Grant Agreement), the Bank has agreed to make 
a grant (the GEF Grant) to the Borrower (as such the 
Recipient) in an amount equivalent to three million 
eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
3,800,000) to assist in financing Part C of the 
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
GEF Grant Agreement.
(E)
by an agreement of even date herewith 
between the Association and the Borrower (the Project 
Agreement), the Borrower has agreed to carry out Parts 
A.1 and B of the Project as set out in the Development 
Credit Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter 
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the 
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in 
this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as 
follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency 
Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General 
Conditions have the respective meanings therein set 
forth and the following additional terms have the 
following meanings:
(a)
“Eligible Category” means the category 
set forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
(b)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the 
expenditures for goods and services referred to in 
Section 2.02 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
“Environment Analysis Guidelines” means 
the Guidelines as approved by the Borrower on May 6, 
1998 setting forth, inter alia, the policies and 
procedures for carrying out environmental assessment 
and preparation of environment mitigation plans;
(d)
“Energy Efficiency Services” means 
services provided by an ESCO to an energy consumer 
under Part B of the Project for an Investment Project;
Page  3
(e)
“Engineering Services” means supervision 
services, and erection, testing and commissioning 
services provided under Parts A and B of the Project 
for an Investment Project;
(f)
“ESCOs” means Energy Service Companies 
approved by the Borrower in accordance with 
eligibility criteria satisfactory to the Bank and 
“ESCO” means each such company;
(g)
“Fiscal Year” means the Fiscal Year of 
the Borrower beginning on April 1 of a calendar year 
and ending on March 31 of the following calendar year;
(h)
“Investment Enterprise” means an 
enterprise, including an ESCO, which intends to carry 
out an Investment Project under Part A or Part B of 
the Project and to which the Borrower proposes to make 
a Subloan;
(i)
“Investment Project” means a specific 
scheme, including Energy Efficiency Services and 
Engineering Services, to be carried out under Part A 
or Part B of the Project by an Investment Enterprise 
utilizing the proceeds of a Subloan;
(j)
“Memorandum and Articles of Association” 
means the Memorandum and Articles of Association of 
the Borrower as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(k)
“Policy Statement” means the operational 
policy statement dated December 24, 1992 of the 
Borrower, as amended to the date of this Agreement, 
and as further revised pursuant to Section 6.01(c) of 
the Development Credit Agreement;
(l)
“Project Management Report” means each 
report prepared in accordance with Section 4.07 of 
this Agreement;
(m)
“Rupees” means the currency of the 
Guarantor;
(o)
“Social Impact Assessment Framework” 
means the Framework as approved by the Borrower on May 
6, 1998 setting forth, inter alia, the policies and 
procedures for carrying out social impact assessments 
and where applicable, preparation of resettlement and 
rehabilitation plans and other developmental plans for 
people adversely affected as a result of the 
implementation of the Project, carrying out 
consultations, processing and redressing grievances 
and monitoring related impacts;
(p)
“Special Account” means the account 
referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and
(q)
“Subloan” means a loan made or proposed 
to be made by the Borrower from the proceeds of the 
Loan to an Investment Enterprise for an Investment 
Project under Part A or Part B of the Project.
ARTICLE II
Page  4
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the 
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to 
eighty million dollars ($80,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for amounts 
paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by 
the Borrower on account of withdrawals made by an 
Investment Enterprise under a Subloan to meet the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required 
for the Investment Project in respect of which the 
withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 
31, 2006 or such later date as the Bank shall 
establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower 
and the Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank 
a commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of 
one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal 
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay 
interest on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each 
Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR 
Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the 
initial period from and including the date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest 
Payment Date to, but excluding the next following 
Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any 
date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each 
Interest Period, the London interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars 
for value the first day of such 
Interest 
Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest 
Period, for value the 
Interest 
Payment Date occurring on or next preceding the first 
day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for 
each Interest Period: (A) one half of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) 
the weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank 
offered rates, or other 
reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the 
Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
Page  5
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single 
currency 
loans or portions thereof 
made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of 
LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total Spread for each 
Interest Period, promptly upon the determination 
thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market 
practice affecting the determination of the interest 
rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers 
as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan 
other than as provided in said Section, the Bank may 
modify the basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) 
months’ notice to the Guarantor and the Borrower of 
the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the 
expiry of the notice period unless the Guarantor or 
the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of 
its objection thereto, in which case said modification 
shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall 
be payable June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the 
principal amount of the Loan in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its 
commitment to the objectives of the Project as set 
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this 
end, shall carry out the Project and conduct its 
operations and affairs in accordance with sound 
financial standards and practices, with qualified 
management and personnel, and in accordance with its 
Memorandum and Articles of Association and Policy 
Statement.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of 
paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the 
Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall carry out Parts A and B of the Project 
in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, 
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, Subloans will 
be made in accordance with the procedures and on the 
terms and conditions set forth as referred to in 
Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights in 
relation to each Investment Project in such manner as 
to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank, Guarantor 
and the Borrower; (ii) comply with its obligations 
Page  6
under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes 
of the Project.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, procurement of the goods, works and 
consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.08 
of the General Conditions and without limitation 
thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines 
acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not 
later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s 
objectives; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity 
to exchange views with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01.  The Borrower shall maintain a 
financial management system, including records and 
accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to monitor and record 
the progress of the Project and of each Investment 
Project (including its costs and benefits to be 
derived from it) and to reflect in accordance with 
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the 
operations and financial condition of the Borrower and 
to register separately the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project and each 
Investment Project.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records referred to in 
Section 4.01 of this Agreement, its accounts 
and financial statements (balance sheets, 
statements of income and expenses 
and related statements) and records and accounts for 
the Special Account for 
each Fiscal 
Year audited in accordance with sound auditing 
principles consistently 
applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank, as soon as 
available but in any case not later than six 
months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of said financial 
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the 
report of such audit by 
said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have 
reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other 
information concerning said records, accounts 
and financial statements and the audit thereof 
Page  7
as the Bank shall from time to 
time 
reasonably request.
(b) 
For all expenditures with respect to 
which withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports or statements 
of expenditures, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with 
Section 4.01 of this Agreement, records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year 
after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account was 
made, 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other 
documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives 
to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and 
accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as 
to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such Fiscal Year, 
together with the procedures 
and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can 
be relied upon to 
support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take such steps 
satisfactory to the Bank as shall be necessary to 
protect itself against risk of loss resulting from 
changes in the rates of exchange between the 
currencies (including the currency of the Guarantor) 
used in its operations.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not incur any 
debt, if after the incurrence of such debt the ratio 
of debt to revolving fund shall be greater than 5 to 
1.
(b)
For purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term “debt” means any 
indebtedness of the Borrower maturing by its terms 
more than one year after the date on 
which it is originally incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be 
incurred:  (A) under a loan contract or agreement 
or other instrument providing for such 
debt or for the modification of its 
terms of payment, on the date, and to the 
extent, the amount of such debt has 
become outstanding pursuant to such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) 
under a 
guarantee agreement, on the date of the agreement 
providing for such 
guarantee has been 
entered into but only to the extent that the 
guaranteed 
debt is outstanding.
Page  8
(iii)
The term “revolving fund” means 
the aggregate of equity and grants.
(iv)
The term “equity” means the sum of 
the total unimpaired paid-up capital, 
retained earnings and reserves of the Borrower 
not allocated to cover specific 
liabilities.
(v)
The term “grants” means the sum of 
the total non-reimbursable funds made 
available to the Borrower, other than equity and 
program subsidies.
(vi)
Whenever for the purposes of this 
Section it shall be necessary to value, in 
terms of the currency of the Guarantor, debt 
payable in another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing 
lawful rate of exchange 
at which such 
other currency is, at the time of such valuation, 
obtainable for 
the purposes of 
servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, 
on the 
basis of a rate of exchange 
acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.05. (a)  Except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that for 
each Fiscal Year their cash flow available for debt 
service shall be at least 1.3 times their debt service 
requirements.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term “cash flow available for 
debt service” for any year means the sum of 
net cash revenue of the Borrower, cash loan 
collections (repayments only), and 
interest and other charges on debt for that year;
(ii)
The term “net cash revenue” for 
any year means the sum of the net profit after 
tax, depreciation and other non-cash 
operating charges, and accrued interest 
differential for that Fiscal Year;
(iii)
The term “accrued interest 
differential” for any Fiscal Year means the 
difference between the accrued interest 
income outstanding at the beginning of 
the year and the accrued interest outstanding at the 
end of the year;
(iv)
The term “debt service 
requirements” means the sum of the aggregate amount of 
interest and other charges and 
principal repayment liabilities on debt;
(v)
The term “debt” means any 
indebtedness of the Borrower maturing by its terms 
more than one year after the date on 
which it is originally incurred;
(vi)
Debt shall be deemed to be 
incurred: (A) under a credit contract or agreement 
or other instrument providing for such 
Page  9
debt or for the modification of its 
terms of payment, on the date, and to the 
extent, the amount of such debt has 
become outstanding pursuant to such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) 
under a 
guarantee agreement, on the date of the agreement 
providing for such 
guarantee has been 
entered into but only to the extent that the 
guaranteed 
debt is outstanding; 
and
(vii)
Whenever for the purposes of this 
Section it shall be necessary to value, in 
terms of the currency of the Guarantor, debt 
payable in another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing 
lawful rate of exchange 
at which such 
other currency is, at the time of such valuation, 
obtainable for 
the purposes of 
servicing such debt, or, in the case of currency 
converted 
under swap agreements 
the rate at which such currency was converted, or in 
the 
absence of such rate, on the basis 
of a rate of exchange acceptable to the 
Bank.
Section 4.06.  The Borrower shall take all such 
measures as may be necessary or required, satisfactory 
to the Bank in order to meet the financial performance 
targets set out in the Policy Statement, and shall not 
take any action that may prevent or interfere with the 
achievement of such targets.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall prepare, in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the 
end of each calendar quarter, a Project Management 
Report for such period, which:
(a)
(i)
sets forth actual sources and 
applications of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered 
by said report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following 
the 
period covered by said report; and
(ii)
shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during 
the period covered by said report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan during the six-month 
period following the period 
covered 
by said report;
(b)
(i)
describes physical progress in 
Project implementation both cumulatively and 
for the period covered by said report; and 
(ii) 
explains variances between the 
actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(c)
sets forth the status of procurement 
under the Project and expenditures under contracts 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as at the 
Page  10
end of the period covered by said report.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of 
the General Conditions, the following additional 
events are specified:
(a)
The Borrower shall have failed to perform 
any of its obligations under the Project Agreement or 
the GEF Grant Agreement;
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred 
after the date of the Development Credit Agreement, an 
extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the Borrower will be able to 
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement;
(c)
The Policy Statement as revised pursuant 
to Section 6.01 (c) of the Development Credit 
Agreement shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect 
materially and adversely the operations or the 
financial conditions of the Borrower or its ability to 
carry out the Project;
(d)
The Memorandum and Articles of the 
Association shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect 
materially and adversely the operations or the 
financial condition of the Borrower or its ability to 
carry out the Project or to perform any of its 
obligations under this Agreement;
(e)
The agreement referred to in Section 6.01 
of this Agreement shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived without the prior 
approval of the Bank, or the Borrower or the Guarantor 
shall have failed to enforce or implement any 
provision of such agreement;
(f)
(i)
the right of the Borrower or 
Guarantor to withdraw the proceeds of the GEF 
Grant or the Credit made to the Borrower 
or Guarantor, as the case may be, for 
the financing of the Project shall have been 
suspended, cancelled or 
terminated in whole or in part by the Bank or the 
Association, as the case may 
be, 
pursuant to the terms thereof, or
(ii)
the Credit shall have become due 
and payable prior to the agreed maturity 
thereof.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of 
the General Conditions, the following additional 
events are specified:
(a)
Any event specified in paragraph (a) of 
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and 
continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
Page  11
(b)
Any event specified in paragraphs (d), 
(e) or (f) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall 
occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified 
as additional conditions to the effectiveness of the 
Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) 
of the General Conditions:
(a)
That the Borrower shall have entered into 
a guarantee fee agreement with the Guarantor, 
satisfactory to the Bank, for:
(i)
indemnifying the Guarantor in the 
event that it is called upon to pay the 
principal of, and interest and other 
charges on the Loan or any portion 
thereof pursuant to the provisions of the 
Guarantee Agreement; and
(ii)
paying to the Guarantor on the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time a guarantee 
fee satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b)
All conditions precedent to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement and 
the GEF Grant Agreement have been fulfilled other than 
those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after 
the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Managing Director of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are 
specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the 
General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Indian Renewable Energy Development 
Agency Limited
Core 4-A, East Court, 1st Floor, India 
Habitat Centre Complex
Lodi Road, New Delhi 110003, India
Cable address: 
ALTERNATE -ND-3
New Delhi
Page  12
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 
(MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 
(MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting 
through their duly authorized representatives, have 
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in New Delhi, India, as of the day and year 
first above written.
INDIAN RENEWABLE ENERGY 
DEVELOPMENT AGENCY LIMITED
By /s/ V. Bakthavatsalam
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
/s/ Edwin R. Lim
Country Director, India
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
Part A: General
1.
The table below sets forth the Category of items 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the 
allocation of the amounts of the Loan to such Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in such Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
Page  13
Subloans for
    80,000,000
100% of amounts
Investment Projects
disbursed by IREDA
under Parts A and B
under Subloans
of the Project
TOTAL
    80,000,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 
above, no withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of 
this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an 
aggregate amount not exceeding $8,000,000 may be made 
on account of payments made for expenditures before 
that date but after July 1, 1999; and (b) a Subloan 
unless the Subloan has been made for the relevant 
Investment Project in accordance with the procedures 
and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
3.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan 
Account to be made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods for a 
private sector Investment Enterprise under contracts 
costing the equivalent of $5,000,000 or less; (ii) 
goods for a public sector Investment Enterprise under 
contracts costing the equivalent of $200,000 or less; 
(iii) works under contracts costing the equivalent of 
$5,000,000 or less; (iv) Energy Efficiency Services 
under contracts costing the equivalent of $1,000,000 
or less; (v) consultant services under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent for employment 
of consulting firms; and (vi) consultant services 
under contracts costing less than $50,000 for 
employment of individual consultants, all under such 
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.
Part B:
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars 
a special deposit account in a commercial bank on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence 
satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts 
to be deposited into the Special Account shall be made 
as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) 
the first Project Management Report referred to in 
Section 4.07 of this Agreement; and (ii) a request 
from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of 
Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project 
Management Report pursuant to Section 4.07 of this 
Agreement accompanied by a request from the Borrower 
for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management 
Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this 
Page  14
Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be 
made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.  For each 
payment made by the Borrower out of the Special 
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank 
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment 
was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of 
this Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make 
further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that 
any Project Management Report does not adequately 
provide the information required pursuant to Section 
4.07 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that 
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower 
directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to 
furnish to the Bank within the period of time 
specified in Section 4.02 (a) (ii) of this Agreement, 
any of the audit reports required to be furnished to 
the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the 
audit of: 
(A) 
the records and accounts for 
the Special Account; or 
(B) 
the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which 
withdrawals were made on the basis of 
Project Management Reports or 
statements of expenditures.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further 
deposits into the Special Account in accordance with 
the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. 
Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in 
its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Account may be made and what procedures should 
be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify 
the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that 
any payment out of the Special Account was made for an 
expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank 
may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until 
the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that 
Page  15
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not 
be required to cover payments for Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following 
such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the 
Bank, refund to the Bank all or any portion of the 
funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to 
subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this paragraph 6 shall 
be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the 
provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account when Withdrawals are not 
made on the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
The term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount 
equal to $5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex, provided, 
however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equal to $2,500,000, the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the
amount of $14,800,000. 
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special 
Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a 
request or requests for deposit into the Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate 
do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, 
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for 
deposit into the Special Account at such intervals, as 
the Bank shall specify. Prior to or at the time of 
each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such 
request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each 
such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under one 
or more of the Eligible Categories.
Page  16
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further 
deposits into the Special Account, once the total 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount 
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, 
withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such 
procedures, as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures.
Annex B toSCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account when Withdrawals are 
made on the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by 
notice to the Borrower, all withdrawals from the Loan 
Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  Each such deposit into 
the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under one or more of the 
Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan 
Account for deposit into the Special Account shall be 
supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each applications for withdrawal 
of an amount of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to 
the lesser of: 
(a)
the amount so requested; and 
(b) 
the amount which the Bank has determined, 
based on the Project Management Report accompanying 
said applications, is required to be deposited in 
order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the 
six-month period following the date of such report; 
provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when 
added to the amount indicated by said Project 
Management Report to be remaining in the Special 
Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of 
$16,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) 
increase power supply through investments in small 
hydro schemes; (ii) mobilize private sector investment 
in renewable energy; and (iii) promote energy 
efficiency and demand-side management investments. The 
Project consists of the following parts, subject to 
such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the 
Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
Page  17
objectives:
Part A:
Small Hydro Schemes
1.
The carrying out of a total of about 30 MW of 
small scale hydro Investment Projects of up to 3 MW 
each including: (i) canal-based and dam toe schemes; 
(ii) run-of-river schemes; (iii) rehabilitation or 
upgrading of old plants; (iv) schemes using tail ends 
of cooling water systems of thermal power plants; and 
(v) stand alone micro-hydro schemes of up to 100 KW 
each.
2.
The carrying out of a total of about 170 MWs of 
small scale hydro Investment Projects of up to 25 MW 
each including: (i) canal-based and dam toe schemes; 
(ii) run-of-river schemes; (iii) rehabilitation or 
upgrading of old plants; (iv) schemes using tail ends 
of cooling water systems of thermal power plants; and 
(v) stand alone micro-hydro schemes of up to 100 KW 
each.
Part B:
Energy Efficiency and Demand-Side 
Management Investments
The carrying out of Investment Projects for: (i) 
purchase and installation of energy efficiency devices 
and systems; (ii) production of energy efficient 
equipment; (iii) design, development and 
implementation of integrated energy management 
services operated by ESCOs on a performance guarantee 
basis; and (iv) other utility-sponsored demand-side 
management programs.
Part C:
Technical Assistance and Training
(a)
Strengthening the Borrower’s capacity to 
appraise and supervise energy efficiency Investment 
Projects through the provision of consultancy services 
and training.
(b)
Improving the marketing of the energy 
efficiency and demand-side management investments 
under Part B of the project through the provision of 
consultancy services to prepare business development 
modules, model bid documents and informative packages.
(c)
Promoting private sector participation in 
end-use efficiency including thorough development of 
appropriate policy incentives through the provision of 
consultancy services to various state energy 
development entities, and training for public and 
private sector on energy conservation and demand-side 
management.
*           *           *           *          * 
The Project is expected to be completed by 
September 30, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(
Page  18
Expressed in Dollars)*
December 15, 2005
1,690,000
June 15, 2006
1,740,000
December 15, 2006
1,795,000
June 15, 2007
1,845,000
December 15, 2007
1,900,000
June 15, 2008
1,955,000
December 15, 2008
2,015,000
June 15, 2009
2,075,000
December 15, 2009
2,135,000
June 15, 2010
2,200,000
December 15, 2010
2,265,000
June 15, 2011
2,330,000
December 15, 2011
2,400,000
June 15, 2012
2,470,000
December 15, 2012
2,545,000
June 15, 2013
2,620,000
December 15, 2013
2,700,000
June 15, 2014
2,780,000
December 15, 2014
2,860,000
June 15, 2015
2,945,000
December 15, 2015
3,035,000
June 15, 2016
3,125,000
December 15, 2016
3,215,000
June 15, 2017
3,310,000
December 15, 2017
3,410,000
June 15, 2018
3,510,000
December 15, 2018
3,615,000
June 15, 2019
3,720,000
December 15, 2019
3,830,000
June 15, 2020
3,965,000
___________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount 
in dollars to be repaid, except as provided 
in 
Page  19
Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I:
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines 
for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995, revised in 
January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 
1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this 
Section, goods, works and Energy Efficiency Services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provision shall apply to goods and 
works to be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this 
Part B.
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of 
the Guidelines and Appendix 2 hereto shall apply to 
goods manufactured in the territory of the Guarantor 
and works to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Limited International Bidding
Energy Efficiency Services estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $1,000,000 or less per contract, which 
the Bank agrees can only be purchased from a limited 
number of suppliers, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Competitive Bidding
Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$10,000,000 or less per contract and goods for a 
public sector Investment Enterprise estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $200,000 or less per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.
3.
International/National Shopping
(a)
Goods for a private sector Investment 
Enterprise estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$5,000,000 or less per contract may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of international 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
Page  20
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Specialized equipment (office equipment, 
monitoring and testing equipment, computer hardware 
and software, and instruments for monitoring and 
testing estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$5,000,000 equivalent from the proceeds of the Credit 
and the Loan may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 
3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Commercial Practice
(a)
Goods for a private sector Investment 
Enterprise estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 
or less per contract up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed the equivalent of $30,000,000 from the proceeds 
of the Credit and the Loan may be procured on the 
basis of established commercial practice acceptable to 
the Bank.
(b)
Civil works for a private sector 
Investment Enterprise estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $5,000,000 or less per contract may be procured on 
the basis of established commercial practice 
acceptable to the Bank.
(c)
Energy Efficiency Services estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of 
$5,000,000 from the proceeds of the Credit and the 
Loan may be procured on the basis of established 
commercial practice acceptable to the Bank.
5.
Force Account
Works for a public sector Investment Enterprise 
which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the 
Guidelines, and costing $50,000 equivalent or less per 
contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$2,000,000 equivalent may, with the Bank's prior 
agreement, be carried out by force account in 
accordance with the provisions of said paragraph of 
the Guidelines.
6.
Definitions
For purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
The term “public sector Investment 
Enterprise” means an enterprise registered under the 
relevant laws of the Guarantor in which at least 51 
percent of the shares are owned by the Guarantor 
and/or any of its constituent States or Union 
Territories and/or their public sector enterprise(s); 
and 
(b)
The term “private sector Investment 
Enterprise” means an enterprise registered under the 
relevant laws of the Guarantor which is majority-owned 
by the private sector.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement 
Decisions
Page  21
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to 
prequalify for bidding or to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods 
and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for: (i) works 
estimated to cost more than the equivalent of 
$5,000,000; (ii) Energy Efficiency Services estimated 
to cost more than the equivalent of $1,000,000; (iii) 
goods for a private sector Investment Enterprise 
estimated to cost more than the equivalent of 
$5,000,000; and (iv) goods for a public sector 
Investment Enterprise estimated to cost more than the 
equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by 
paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set forth in 
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of the Introduction and 
Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and 
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II 
of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this 
Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of 
consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of 
Consultants
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services under Parts A and B of the Project 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
through 3.4 of the
Consultant Guidelines.
Page  22
2.
Single Source Selection
Services under Parts A and B of the Project 
which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, may, with the Bank's prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements 
set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded 
to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of 
Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any 
requests for proposals, the proposed plan for the 
selection of consultants under the Project shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of 
all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the 
employment of consulting firms estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to 
the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment 
of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for 
its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by 
paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set forth in 
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall: (i) at all times implement 
the Project in accordance with its Policy Statement; 
(ii) promptly inform the Bank of any changes made, or 
proposed to be made, by its Board to the Policy 
Page  23
Statement; and (iii) consult with the Bank prior to 
introducing any material changes to the Policy 
Statement.
2. 
The Borrower shall engage, in accordance with 
terms of reference, satisfactory to the Bank, the 
services of external auditors to perform a 
comprehensive financial audit and review of the 
portfolio risk based on international accounting 
standards and international auditing guidelines, and 
shall complete such audit and review no later than 
November 30, 2000.
3.
The Borrower shall: (a) no later than March 31, 
2001 provide to the Bank a time-based action plan for 
the future development of IREDA, satisfactory to the 
Bank, taking into account the recommendations of the 
financial audit and portfolio review referred to in 
paragraph 2 above in respect of those matters which 
are within the jurisdiction of IREDA; (b) refer those 
recommendations to the Guarantor which are within the 
jurisdiction of the Guarantor; and (c) thereafter 
implement such action plan in accordance with the 
provisions of such plan.
4.
Each Investment Project estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $5,000,000 or more, and the first two 
Investment Projects under Part B of the Project (other 
than those carried out by ESCOs) and the first 
Investment Project to be carried out by an ESCO 
irrespective of value, shall be submitted to the Bank 
for prior approval.
5.
Each Investment Project shall comply with the 
environmental, resettlement and social standards set 
forth in the Environmental Analysis Guidelines and 
Social Impact Assessment Framework. To that end, the 
Borrower shall require each Investment Enterprise 
applying for a Subloan to furnish evidence 
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, showing 
that the Investment Project in respect of which the 
application has been made has been prepared in 
accordance with such standards, such evidence to 
include an environmental impact assessment, and where 
applicable, an environmental mitigation plan, a 
resettlement and rehabilitation plan and an indigenous 
peoples development plan for adversely affected and/or 
displaced populations, for such Investment Project.
6.
The Borrower shall provide to the Bank:
(a)
by December 31 of each year, financial 
statements as well as cash flow estimates showing the 
estimates for the current year and projections for the 
next five years, comparing the Borrower’s projected 
performance with the parameters set forth in the 
Policy Statement; and
(b)
by March 31 of each year the Borrower 
shall inform the Bank of its approved budgetary 
allocation for the following Fiscal Year.
7.
Without any limitation or restriction upon the 
provisions of Sections 9.01 and 9.07 of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower shall furnish or cause to be 
furnished to the Bank, within forty-five days of the 
end of each quarter, a report, in form and substance 
Page  24
satisfactory to the Bank, on the progress of the 
Project and each Investment Project during such 
quarter.
8.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate 
to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing 
basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the 
Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank and 
the Guarantor, by October 31, 2002, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; and
(c)
review with the participation of the 
Guarantor and the Bank, by December 31, 2002, or such 
later date as the Bank shall agree, the report 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and 
the Bank’s views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 6
Procedures for, and Terms and Conditions of Subloans
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the 
terms and conditions of each Subloan shall be as set 
out in the Policy Statement.
2.
No expenditures for goods, works or services 
required for an Investment Project shall be eligible 
for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless:
(a)
the Subloan for such Investment Project 
shall have been approved by the Bank, and such 
expenditures shall have been made not earlier than 
ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank shall 
have received the application and information required 
under paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule in respect of 
such Subloan; or
(b)
the Subloan for such Investment Project 
shall have been a free-limit Subloan for which the 
Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account 
and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier 
than ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank 
shall have received the request and  information 
required under paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule in 
respect of such free-limit Subloan. For the purposes 
of this Agreement, a free-limit Subloan shall be a 
Subloan in an amount to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan which shall not exceed the sum of 
$5,000,000 equivalent, except for the first two 
Page  25
Subloans for Investment projects under Part B of the 
Project (other than those carried out by ESCOs) and 
the first Subloan for an Investment Project to be 
carried out by an ESCO irrespective of value.
3.
(a)
When presenting a Subloan (other than a 
free-limit Subloan) to the Bank for approval, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application, in 
a satisfactory form, together with: (i) a description 
of the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the 
Investment Project, including a description of the 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Subloan; (ii) the proposed terms and 
conditions of the Subloan, including the schedule of 
amortization of the Subloan; (iii) evidence of 
compliance with the Policy Statement, the Environment 
Analysis Guidelines and the Social Impact Assessment 
Framework set out in paragraph 5 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement; and (iv) such other information as the Bank 
shall reasonably request.
(b)
Each request by the Borrower for 
authorization to make withdrawals from the Loan 
Account in respect of a free-limit Subloan shall 
contain: (i) a summary description of the Investment 
Enterprise and the Investment Project, including a 
description of the expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Subloan; (ii) the 
terms and conditions of the Subloan, including the 
schedule of amortization therefor; (iii) evidence of 
compliance with the Policy Statement, the Environment 
Analysis Guidelines and the Social Impact Assessment 
Framework set out in paragraph 5 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement; and (iv) such other information as the Bank 
shall reasonably request.
(c)
Applications and requests made pursuant 
to the provisions of subparagraphs (a) and (b) of this 
paragraph shall be presented to the Bank on or before 
March 31, 2004 for Part A of the Project and March 31, 
2005 for Part B of the Project.
4.
Subloans shall be made on terms whereby the 
Borrower shall obtain, by written contract with the 
Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate legal 
means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the 
Bank and the Borrower, including, in the case of any 
Subloan, the right to:
(a)
require the Investment Enterprise to 
carry out and operate the Investment Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound 
technical, financial and managerial standards and to 
maintain adequate records;
(b)
without limitation to the generality of 
the provisions of the preceding paragraph (a), require 
the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the 
Investment Project with due regard to applicable 
social impact, ecological, environmental and pollution 
control standards and in accordance with the 
provisions of the environmental mitigation plan, 
resettlement and rehabilitation plan, and indigenous 
peoples development plan referred to in paragraph 5 of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(c)
require that: (i) the goods, works and 
Page  26
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Subloan shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (ii) 
such goods, works and services shall be used 
exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment 
Project;
(d)
inspect, by itself or jointly with 
representatives of the Bank if the Bank shall so 
request, such goods, works, plants and construction 
included in the Investment Project, the operation 
thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
(e)
require that: (i) the Investment 
Enterprise shall take out and maintain with 
responsible insurers such insurance, against such 
risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with 
sound business practice; and (ii) without any 
limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall 
cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of 
the proceeds of the Subloan to the place of use or 
installation;
(f)
obtain all such information as the Bank 
or the Borrower shall reasonably request relating to 
the foregoing and to the administration, operations 
and financial condition of the Investment Enterprise 
and to the benefits to be derived from the Investment 
Project; and
(g)
suspend or terminate the right of the 
Investment Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of 
the Subloan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise 
to perform its obligations under its contract with the 
Borrower.
