Documet of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Ct? i/>- 1c
/7 --2/ kC't:
Report No. P-4278-KE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 17.6 MILLION
AND A
PROPOSED AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT OF SDR 35.1 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
June 2, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       -        Kenya Shilling (KSh)
and Pounds (KE)
KSh 20               K KI£
KSh 1.00       =       US$0.06 a/
US$1.00       =       KSh 16
US$1.00       =        1.13827 SDR b/
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
1 ha       =       2.47 acres
1 km       =       0.62 miles
1 sq. km       =       0.39 sq. miles
j&FC     Agricultural Finance Corporation
ASMP     Agricultural Sector Management Project
ATAP     Agricultural Technical Assistance Project
BRP      Budget Rationalization Program
CLSMB    Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Board
DPD      Development Planning Division
GID      Government Investments Division, Ministry of Finance
IADP     Integrated Agricultural Development Project (I and II)
ICOR     Incremental Capital-Output Ratio
_SB      Inspectorate of Statutory Boards
KCC      Kenya Cooperative Creameries
KGGCU    Kenya Grain Growers Cooperative Union
KMC      Kenya Meat Commission
KPCU     Kenya Planters Cooperative Union
KSC      Kenya Seed Company
KTDA     Kenya Tea Development Authority
MALD     Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development
MENR     Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources
MOCD     Ministry of Cooperative Development
MOF      Ministry of Finaixce (Treasury)
MPND     Ministry of Planning and National Development
NCPB     National Cereals and Produce Board
NIB      National Irrigation Board
NSQCS    National Seed Quality Control Service
PAC      Parastatal Adivsory Committee
SAL II   Second Structural Adjustment Program
SCIP     Smallholder Coffee Improvement Project
SCB      State Corporations Bill
SONY     South Nyanza Sugar Company
THS      Tractor Hire Service
FISCAL YEAR
Government: July 1 - June 30
a/   Since August 1985, the Kenya Shilling has been pegged to the SDR at a
rate of SDR 1 = KSh 17.74. The rate vis-a-vis the US dollar
fluctuates. A rate of US$1 = KSh 16 has been used in evaluating this
Project.
b/   As of March 31, 1986.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KENYA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:                Government of Kenya
Amount:                  IDA:  SDR 17.6 million (US$20 million equivalent)
African Facility: SDR 35.1 million (US$40 million
equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard for IDA and the African Facility
Program Description:
(a)  Objectives:   The proposed Credits would support the first
phase of implementation of the Government's program of adjustments
in the agricultural sector. The principal objectives of the
program are to stimulate sectoral growth through promoting
intensification of production and better use of Kenya's limited
land; improve producer incentives; and expand the flow of
investment resources to the sector. Above all, the program is
geared to lifting the obstacles to increased production by the 1.9
million smallholder farm families who are the backbone of Kenya's
agricultural sector. To achieve these objectives, actions have
been taken and others will be implemented in the following two
years to (i) improve the availability of key agricultural inputs
and services; (ii) increase production and investment incentives,
with a focus on prices, marketing and private sector development;
[iii) implement programs to address critical parastatal problems,
including divestiture and rehabilitation; (iv) launch a major
restructuring of the public investment and expenditure program;
and (v) increase flows of credit and expand access to credit,
particularly for smallholders. The adjustment program is
described in the Government's Letter of Development Policy (Annex
IV). The foreign exchange provided by the Credits would be used
to finance an agreed program of imports of inputs needed for the
sector, including fertilizers, pesticides, seeds, veterinary
supplies, agricultural machinery and spare parts, transport
equipment and fuel.
(b)  Benefits:     The main benefit of the Operation would be to
contribute to increasing real agricultural growth from its present
level of 3.2% p.a. to between 4 and 5% p.a., thus at the minimum
maintaining and potentially increasing per capita production. The
estimated contribution to overall economic growth would be to
raise GDP growth from 3.5% to between 3.8 and 4.2% p.a. Growth
would benefit primarily the rural population (85% of the total) in
the medium term and the population at large in the long term.
Farm incomes would rise due to increases in production increases
and real producer returns. Public and private investment would
increase. Public investment would become more efficient and
savings would be realized through reduction of subsidies. Net
This e -cument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonmance
of th jr official duties Its contents may not otherwise be discksed without World Bank authoration .



(ii)
foreign exchange earnings will be positive, reducing the current
account deficit by 5-10%.
(c)  Risks:        The main risk is the possibility that several
of the difficult policy reforms may be reversed due to political
considerations, particularly reluctance to divest parastatals,
reduce subsidies and public sector employment and cut back
development projects. These are major themes of an important new
Government sessional paper, however. Also the active
participation of the Government in preparing the operation and the
positive impact of the adjustment program on rural growth and
incomes will serve to offset such opposition. There is also the
risk that, since the Operation is broad and relatively
complicated, management problems may compromise some of the
reforms. Mitigating factors include strong Government commitment,
training and technical assistance in key areas (supported by a
complementary project, the Agricultural Sector Management
Project), and intensive IDA supervision. To ensure that the
budget rationalization process and policy reforms do not conflict
with other donor programs, key donors have been coopted to support
aspects of the reform program. Finally, agricultural growth in
sub-Saharan African could be compromised by exogenous factors such
as export crop prices, and droughts. However, in the absence of
the adjustment program, the alternatives for the Kenyan
agriculture and general economic development in the face of 4Z
population growth, would be politically unacceptable.
Financing Plan:                                       (US$ million)
IDA                          20
SFA/SJA                      40
TOTAL                        60
Estimated Disbursements:    The Credits would be disbursed in two tranches.
The first tranche of US$20 million equivalent
from the African Facility and US $10 million
IDA would be available at the time of Credit
Effectiveness. The second tranche of US$20
million equivalent from the African Facility
and US$10 million from the IDA would be
released approximately one year later after
implementation of specific actions, including
an overall satisfactory review of the
implementation of the sector adjustment
program. The Credits are expected to be fully
disbursed at the end of FY88.
Rate of Return:             Not applicable.
Appraisal Report:            This is a combined President's and Staff
Appraisal Report. A detailed Technical Support
Volume is available on request.
Map:                         IBRD 16468R



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Credit of SDR 17.6 million (US$20 million equivalent) and a proposed
African Facility Credit of SDR 35.1 million (US$40 million equivalent), to
the Republic of Kenya on standard terms, to assist in the financing of an
agriculture sector adjustment operation. This program is described in a
Letter of Sector Development policy, received from the Government (Annex
IV).
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Country Economic Memorandum (Report No. 6021-KE) dated March
24, 1986, has been distributed to the Executive Directors! A summary of
social and economic data is in Annex I.
Trends in the 1960s and 1970s
3.        Kenya became an independent nation in 1963.  Kenya's first decade
as an independent nation was one of remarkable growth and structural trans-
formation. Total GDP grew at an annual average rate of 6.6% during
1964-73. Both agriculture and manufacturing grew rapidly, at 4.7% and 8.4%
per annum respectively. The expansion of agriculture was stimulated by the
conversion of considerable high-potential land from extensive use to small-
holder cultivation, the introduction of high-value production activities,
and the adoption of high-yielding maize varieties. Growth of manufacturing
was made possible very largely by the expansion of domestic demand due to
rising agricultural incomes, while investment for domestic production was
being encouraged by high levels of protection, a liberal attitude towards
foreign investment, and active Government promotion of and participation in
manufacturing ventures.
4.        Following the first oil crisis of 1973, growth decelerated to 4%
p.a., or virtual stagnation in per capita terms, reflecting not only the
oil shock, but also the emergence or intensification of structural con-
straints largely unrelated to the post-1973 terms of trade deterioration.
These problems are briefly described below.
(a) First, agricultural growth decelerated, due partly to the
tapering off of the specific positive factors which had sustained
agricultural growth in the first decade after independence and
partly to Government policies, including trade and exchange rate
policies which turned the internal terms of trade against the
agricultural sector, and inefficient, monopolistic Government
involvement in agricultural marketing which discouraged
production and placed undue burdens on the budget.



-2-
(b) Second, industrial growth also decelerated, and was being
accomplished at an increasingly higher cost in terms of the
capital-intensity of investment, low labor absorption, and the
burden on the balance of payments of a sector which imported a
substantial volume of intermediate goods for 'final touch'
processing and assembly, but exported very little. These
undesirable features resulted from Government policies which
included high and increasing levels of protection, and
inadequately selective Government financial participation in
industrial firms.
(c)  Third, energy supplies became relatively more expensive, due to
increases in world oil prices, and imbalances between consumption
and replenishment of domestic woodfuel.
(d) Fourth, the public sector over expanded and was inadequately
managed.
(e) Fifth, export volume grew by less than 1% annually, and exports
became more concentrated on coffee, tea, and petroleum products.
(f) Sixth, population growth accelerated to one of the highest rates
in the world, refle.ting a decline in mortality, and health
improvements enabling fertility to move closer to its biological
limit.
Developments During 1980-85
5.        The Fourth and Fifth Plans.  The above structural issues were
generally well recognized in the Fourth Development Plan (1979-83) and the
-ifth Development Plan (1984-88), which have provided broad guidance to the
Government's economic policies during the first half of the 1980s. The
Fourth Plan stated that quantitative import restrictions (QRs) for purposes
of industrial protection would be discontinued, and that restrictions on
private sector agricultural marketing activity would be relaxed. It
projected GDP growth of 6.3% annually. The Fifth Plan declares that
"Growth in the private sector is the core of the development process in
Kenya," and proposes to provide a more favorable environment for private
sector activity by lowering the claim of Government expenditure on
available resources; curtailing or in some cases eliminating Goverment
investment in non-essential activities; and reviewing Government procedures
for obtaining various approvals and licenses to determine whether any can
be eliminated or simplified. GDP growth is projected to be 4.9Z annually.
6.        Macroeconomic Developments.  Actual developments in the Kenyan
economy during the first half of the 1980s have been less favorable than
projected in the Fourth and Fifth Plans. Because of the second oil crisis,
the deterioration in the external terms of trade was sharper than had been
projected in the Fourth Plan; additionally, in the wake of the -coffee
boom" of the late 1970s there had been an erosion of fiscal discipline. As
a result, at the beginning of the decade, the Kenyan economy was
characterized by large financial imbalances. The large excesses of
domestic demand over domestic supply, of expenditure over revenue, and of
imports over exports, meant that the Kenyan economy was on an unsustainable
path.



-3-
7.        The period since 1980 has been characterized by a steady
reduction in the excess of domestic demand over domestic supply. The
Government has restrained domestic demand by lowering its budget deficit;
decelerating monetary growth; raising interest rates so that they become
positive in real terms; and permitting real wages to fall, beginning in
1982. In 1981, the Government began to use exchange rate policy to bring
about adjustment and, in addition, in 1982 import restrictions were
intensified. As a result of these measures, by 1984 real domestic demand
was 5% less than in 1980, despite the fact that the population increased by
almost 17% during this period, and inflation, which peaked at 22Z in 1982,
fell to a rate of 10% in 1984. The current account deficit, which was 13X
of GDP in 1980, was brought down to less than 4% of GDP in 1983 and 1984.
The burden of reduction in domestic demand has fallen largely on investment
rather than on consumption. On the external side, the resource gap has
been narrowed entirely by a reduction in imports, since exports have
declined in real terms. The Government's stabilization efforts were
supported by a series of IMF programs, the most recent of which was
completed in February 1986.
8.        Growth of supply has been somewhat erratic, and the trend growth
rate slightly less than the population growth rate. Real gross domestic
product grew by 3.7% annually during 1980-83, and then by only 0.9% during
the drought-affected year, recovering to an estimated 4.2Z in 1985. During
this period of time, Kenya's external terms of trade have deteriorated, and
therefore its real income grew more slowly than its real product. From
1980 to 1984, real product per capita fell by 5%, real income per capita
fell by 1OZ, and real domestic expenditure (i.e. consumption plus
investment) per capita fell by 18%.
9.       The record current account deficits of 1980-82 were financed
partly by a record level of borrowing, and partly by a substantial
reduction in the level of gross reserves. In the period since 1982, the
Government has succeeded in bringing the borrowing requirement down to a
level which could be financed largely by official sources. Because of the
combination of rising debt service payments and generally lower export
receipts, the debt service ratio rose sharply from 13% in 1980 to 30% in
1985.
10.       Agricultural Sector.  Performance and prospects of the
agricultural sector are discussed below in Part III (para. 37).
11.       The Industrial Sector.  Value added in the manufacturing sector
grew by 3.7Z p.a. during the period 1980-84. Since the volume of
manufactured exports declined, the growth was entirely attributable to
production for the domestic market, reflecting expenditure-switching away
from imports in the wake of exchange rate depreciation and intensification
of import restrictions, particularly on consumer goods.
12.       Implementation of the Governmect's program for reforming the
protective system has lagged behind the schedule originally envisaged. Due
to inadequate coordination of exchange rate, demand management, and trade
policies, a foreign exchange shortage developed in 1982, following which
the Government re-restricted some of the import items which had been
liberalized. Progress has recently resumed. The June 1985 budget



- 4 -
contained the first increase in several years in the number of items on the
free list, and there has been an increase in foreign exchange
authorizations for imports. The June 1984 and June 1985 budgets also
included lowering of many tariffs. Despite the recent resumption of
progress, it appears that effective protection has remained high and
uneven. Because the protective system remained largely in place during
1980-84, its consequences of inward-looking bias and encouragement of
inefficient use of capital in the manufacturing sector persisted.
13.       Aside from exchange rate depreciation, relatively little was done
to promote exports until the June 1985 budget, when an increase in the rate
of export compensation (a fiscal incentive for selected nontraditional
exports) to 20% (of export value) was announced. During 1980-84, the
volume of Kenya's manufactured exports declined by 38Z, to a level of only
4.5% of gross output. The low level of manufactured exports is
attributable to the incentive structure which has remained biased against
exports, while the decline seems to be attributable to foreign exchange
problems in neighboring African countries.
14.       Energy Sector. Energy consumption in the Kenyan economy
increased by 3X annually during 1980-84. Fuelwood consumption is estimated
to have increased by 4% annually and charcoal consumption by 6% annually
while 'modern sector' energy consumption (i.e., petroleum products,
electricity, and coal) decreased during 1980-83, reflecting adjustment to
higher energy prices, before beginning to recover in 1984. Energy pricing
policies have provided an appropriate incentive for conservation.
Dependence on imported petroleum has been reduced somewhat by development
of domestic geothermal and hydroelectric resources, and by a very limited
amount of conversion of coal.
15.       The Public Sector.  The Central Government budget deficit went
down from 9% of GDP in FY81 to 4% of GDP in recent years, despite a
significant decline in the ratio of revenue to GDP, because of sharp
reductions in expenditure and an increase in grants from abroad. The ratio
of government revenue to GDP decreased from 25% in FY81 to 22% in FY85.
The decline in revenue is due to decreased collection of import duties,
arising primarily from contraction of import volume and secondarily from
lowering of tariff rates.
16.       The ratio of government expenditure to GDP has decreased sharply
from 35% in FY81 to 28% in FY85. Among expenditure categories, interest
payments increased and personnel expenditure was relatively protected,
while non-wage operating and maintenance expenditure, fixed capital
formation expenditure, and transfers to parastatals are the three
categories which were reduced. The problem of inadequate non-wage
operating and maintenance expenditure, which has existed since the late
1970s, has thus been exacerbated. At the same time, because lower levels
of capital expenditure have been spread out over a large number of ongoing
projects, not all of which have been of equally high priority, completion
dates for many projects have been postponed.
17.       The Government has begun to address these expenditure issues
through its Budget Rationalization Program (BRP), initiated in 1985. The
objective of the program is to increase the productivity of Government
investment, by concentrating capital expenditures on a smaller number of



priorities projects and by providing adequate resources for operation and
maintenance of the existing Government capital stock. In order to
implement the budget rationalization concept, ministries are now required
to prepare policy statements on recurrent and development expenditure
priorities, and to rank projects in their portfolio according to priority
criteria. Additionally, the Government intends to develop norms and
standards for capacity utilization, and to achieve greater collections of
user charges, as part of the program.
18.       The Government's intention has been to implement a two-pronged
strategy to address parastatal issues, consisting of divestiture of some
investments to the private sector, and strengthening the performance of
those parastatals which remain in the public sector. A Task Force on
Divestiture was established in 1983. So far, divestitures have been few
and of a small scale. In a significant move, the Government recently
decided to divest the Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Board (CLSMB) of its
processing and marketing activities. The Government has checked the
further expansion, through utilization of budgetary funds, of the
parastatal sector. However, during FY83 and FY84, the parastatals
responded to the decrease in budgetary transfers by increasing their
utilization of banking system credit. It is difficult to assess, due to
lack of readily available and consistent data, what progress there has been
in improving the economic efficiency and financial performance of the
sector. In the area of institutional and procedural strengthening, the
pace of progress has been relatively slow.
19.       Population.  Kenya's population growth rate, currently 3.9Z per
annum, is the highest in the world. Fertility has begun to decline in
Kenya, but at a slow rate, from an extremely high level. The total
fertility rate has declined from a peak of 8.1 in 1977 to 7.7 in 1984. At
the present time, Kenya is one of the only three countries in the world
with a total fertility rate greater than 7.0. The recent rate of fertility
decline of 0.7% per annum is well below the declines of 2Z per annum or
more achieved by countries with vigorous population programs. The
Government has recently intensified its commitment to addressing the
problem of rapid population growth. The National Council on Population and
Development (NCPD) has adopted a target of slowing population growth to
3.3% p.a. by 1988, the end of the Fifth Plan period. This would represent
a dramatic acceleration in the rate of fertility decline. However, an
adequate program to meet this objective has not yet been defined. In order
to achieve or move closer to the demographic objective, an expansion of
both demand-creating education activities and service delivery will be
needed.
20.       Summary Assessment of Recent Developments.  In view of the
combination of the economy's structural problems and adverse exogenous
developments such as terms of trade deterioration and drought, the
deceleration of growth and decline in per capita incomes taking place in
Kenya during the first half of the 1980s were inevitable. What was not
inevitable was whether this deceleration would take place in an orderly
fashion, with declining financial imbalances and rates of inflation, and
maintenance of a manageable external position; or, as in many other
developing countries, in a disorderly fashion, with persisting large
financial imbalance, high rates of inflation, and external payments



-6-
difficulties.  Of those developing countries which faced large financial
imbalances at the beginning of the decade, Kenya is among those which have
successfully reduced them toward sustainable levels in an orderly fashion.
Progress in addressing long-term issues of 'supply side' structural reform
has been slower and less complete than in the area of demand management,
and less than envisaged in the Fourth Plan, but has included significant
steps in the right direction.
Prospects for the Kenyan Economy
21.       Growth Prospects.  Because of higher coffee prices and lower oil
prices, Kenya's external terms of trade are expected to improve by 21% in
1986-87, as compared with 1985. There will be substantial increases in
export receipts, national income, and government revenue. GDP growth
should approach 5% annually in 1986-87. In order to maintain the economy
on a stable path, the Government intends to apply some of the exceptional
coffee revenues to reducing the Government budget deficit in FY87, and to
generally manage domestic demand in such a way as to permit an accumulation
of international reserves in 1986-87, in order to provide a cushion for the
eventual return of coffee prices to more normal levels. Depending on the
pace of implementation of policy measures to improve the efficiency of
investment, expand exports, and mobilize domestic resources, after 1987
growth could either be sustained at about 5% p.a., or else could lapse back
to 3.5Z p.a.
22.       The Sessional Paper.  In early 1986 the Government published its
Sessional Paper on Economic Management for Renewed Growth. With the
drought emergency over and with the economy successfully stabilized, the
objective of the Sessional Paper is to provide a framework for Kenyan
development for the remainder of this century. The Paper emphasizes that,
in order to provide productive employment for a labor force which is
expected to increase by 86Z between 1985 and by year 2000, an acceleration
of output growth is needed. GDP growth is targeted to be 5.6% annually.
The Paper targets coffee production to triple, and tea production to more
than double, by the year 2000, arising from replanting with higher-yielding
varieties and area expansion (para. 48). In the area of trade and
industry, more uniform import tariffs and more liberal import licensing are
expected to encourage exporting and promote greater efficiency in the
manufacturing sector. The exchange rate will be managed in such a way as
to establish Kenya's competitiveness in world markets.
23.       The Paper devotes considerable attention to rural-urban balance,
with an emphasis on town and secondary city development in order to avoid
concentration of urban population growth in Nairobi and Mombasa. The local
authorities are to be strengthened, and the District Development Committees
are to play an increasing role in planning rural development. The fiscal
chapter of the paper incorporates the budget rationalization program
(para. 17 above). The Paper states that the private sector must play the
dominant role in revitalizing Kenya's economy, and that the Government will
establish market-based incentives and regulatory structures to channel
private sector activity in desirable directions, while relying less on
instruments of direct control.



24.       Consultative Group Meeting.  The Consultative Group for Kenya met
in Paris in April 1986. The documentation circulated to the meeting
consisted of the Sessional Paper; a paper by the Government on its budget
rationalization program (para.17 above), in which the Government requested
greater aid flexibility, including a shift from project to nonproject aid;
and the Bank's economic report. Delegates commended the Government for its
management of the impact of the drought, and for sustaining economic and
financial stability. All participants agreed that the Sessional Paper
provides an appropriate broad framework for formulating necessary specific
measures. Delegates endorsed the strong role envisaged for the private
sector in the Paper, with some delegates expressing concern as to whether
the Government's intentions regarding various controls were fully
consistent with this objective. Delegates emphasized the need for more
rapid fertility decline.
25.       There was considerable discussion of the interlinked issues of
budget rationalization, aid flexibility, aid coordination, and aid
administration. Members of the Group agreed that the Government would have
to more rigorously establish and enforce priorities for public
expenditure. Donors expressed their willingness to re-examine existing
programs to explore possibilities for greater aid flexibility, within their
legislative contraints. It was agreed that the Government would strengthen
aid administration. It was further agreed that, in addition to the
existing local aid coordination group for the agricultural sector, local
aid coordination groups would be established for some other sectors.
26.       External Capital Requirements and Debt Servicing. The Fifth Plan
provides for current account deficits (net external borrowing) averaging 4%
of GDP over the Plan period. This is an appropriate and sustainable level,
taking into account the concessionality of Kenya's capital inflow, and
assuming that export growth can be accelerated as intended. Due to the
increase in coffee export receipts in 1986-87, its is expected that the
current account deficits during 1986-87 will be lower than usual - about 3X
of GDP. During 198b-87, it is expected that gross loan disbursements from
official sources will be about $450 million annually, while gross loan
disbursements from private sources (chiefly suppliers' credits) will be
about $100 million annually. In addition, Kenya receives grant aid of
about $130 million annually. At the present time, Kenya does not have a
balance of payments need to qualify it for drawing on ordinary IMF
resources. Kenya is expected to draw upon the IMF Structural Adjustment
Facility, beginning in 1987. Over the next two years, the stock of
external debt owed to private sources is expected to remain approximately
constant, while the stock of debt owed to official sources would grow by 5%
annually. The debt service ratio is expected to drop sharply from 30% in
1985 to 24% in 1986, reflecting higher coffee receipts, and then decrease
gradually to 19% in 1990.
27.       IMF Relations with Kenya.  As noted earlier, Kenya's
stabilization efforts have been supported by a series of IMF programs. The
two most recent programs were successfully completed, with all planned
purchases actually made. The most recent IMF mission found that, at the
present time, Kenya does not have a balance of payments need to qualify it
for drawing on ordinary IMF resources. The Government's planned demand
fo-



- 8 -
management stance for 1986-87 (para. 21) is consistent with IMF views on
appropriate economic policies under current circumstances. Kenya is
expected to draw upon the recently established IMF Structural Adjustment
Facility, beginning 1987.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
28.       To date, Kenya has received 45 Bank loans, including three on
Third Window terms, and 45 IDA credits, including one Special Fund Credit,
amounting to US$1,891.2 million, in support of 78 operations. In addition,
Kenya was one of the beneficiaries of 10 loans totalling US$244.8 million
which were extended for the development of common services (railways,
ports, telecomunications, and finance for industry), operated regionally
for tle three partner states of the former East African Community (EAC).
As of June 30, 1985, IFC had committed a total of US$68.5 million for 12
operations in Kenya. Annex II contains summary statements of Bank and IFC
loans, as well as IDA credits to Kenya.
29.       Since 19B0, Bank Group lending has been oriented towards
assisting the Government in its efforts to restructure the economy,
resulting in the inclusion in the program of structural adjustment
assistance. SAL I supported policy reform, institutional development, and
studies in the areas of trade and industry, public expenditure planning,
and external debt management. SAL II supported continuation of the
structural adjustment program to the additional areas of agriculture,
energy, and population. Government implementation of SAL I and especially
SAL II was relatively weak, reflecting divided or inadequate commitment,
administrative weaknesses, inadequate preparation of some program
components, and diversion of Government attention toward urgent short-term
problems, including the exceptionally severe drought of 1984. The drought
contributed significantly to distracting the focus of reform in the
agricultural sector. In p^-rticular institutions like the National Cereals
and Produce Board (NCPB) which had been earmarked for reform were unable to
proceed on account of changed priorities. In view of the difficulties that
had been experienced, in 1984 the Bank and the Government agreed that, Bank
financial support for the Government's structural adjustment efforts would
be more narrowly focussed on policy-oriented sector loans. The proposed
agricultural sector operations would be the first of such loans. In the
future subject to satisfactory progress under the proposed operation, it is
envisaged that industrial restructuring, trade policy, and budget
rationalization may be supported by quick-disbursing lending. Drawing upon
the lessons of the SAL experience, greater attention has been paid to
consensus building through more active Government participation in program
preparation. This we believe, has allowed for a more realistic assessment
of the scope and pace of required policy reforms and institutional
development processes. It is our view that this approach will result in
more rapid policy reform than would occur without the Bank's involvement.
3u.       Projects for financing and their design have been selected with a
view to consolidating or complementing policy actions under the structural
adjustment program. While continuing priority has been given to
agricultural and development finance projects, increasing attention has



-9-
been given to infrastructure projects. Thus, in FY84, the Kiambere
Hydroelectric Power Project, the Second Highway Sector Project and a
Geothermal Exploration Project were approved. In FY85, a Nairobi Third
Water Supply Engineering Project and a Third Telecommunications Project
were approved.
31.       In contrast to FY82 and FY83, when disbursements improved over
immediate prior years, FY84 disbursements on projects as a percentage of
amounts outstanding at the beginning of the year fell slightly to 13% (19%
including disbursements against structural adjustment operations) compared
with 16% in FY83. Improvements during this period were explained by
greater use of Procedure III (direct payments), and the application of a
Treasury Circular requiring operating ministries to make prompt
reimbursement claims under penalty of freezing funds. In FY85, the
disbursement percentage rose sharply to over 37% due primarily to the
introduction of Special Accounts, the rationalization of problem projects
and the cancellation of funds, and a few projects with unusually high
disbursements.
32.       Project implementation deteriorated in the 1980s, in contrast to
the successful implementation performance in the past. However, recent
efforts by the Government and the Bank have begun to reverse this trend.
Factors accounting for implementation delays have varied widely, but some
of the more pervasive factors have been institutional/management
constraints, procurement problems, and budgetary constraints leading to a
lack of local financing. These factors, together with delays in preparing
and submitting reimbursement claims, have led to Kenya's poor project
disbursement record. An in-depth review of the causes of this situation
has been undertaken by the Bank Group and the problems and possible
solutions have been discussed with the Government at Country Implementation
Review (CIR) meetings. During these discussions, the Government and the
Bank are continuing to review the Government's development objectives,
project portfolio and investment priorities in the context of
implementation capacity and resource constraints. Recent improvements in
budgetary and financial management in the Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock Development which are to be introduced gradually to other
ministries, are reaping benefits. To respond swiftly to urgently required
drought relief assistance, US$20.0 million for fertilizer, chemicals, and
agricultural seasonal credit has been reallocated under the Fourth
Agricultural Finance Corporation Project (Loan 1995-KE/Cr. 1143-KE) from
loan funds which would otherwise have been unused and cancelled.
33.       At the end of 1984, IBRD held 25%, and IBRD/IDA combined held 39%
of Kenya's stock of external debt. During 1984, IBRD's share of Kenya's
debt service payments was 22%, and IBRD/IDA's share was 23%. Over the next
few years, our expectation is that Kenya's debt owed to private sources
will grow more slowly than Kenya's debt owed to official sources, such as
the Bank Group, reflecting the Government's success at reducing, through
stabilization measures, the country's borrowing requirements. Therefore,
by 1990, the IBRD/IDA share of the stock of external debt is expected to
increase sharply to 40%, and the share of debt service payments to 25%.



_ 10 -
PART III: THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
General BackRround
34.      Analysis of Kenya's agricultural sector objectives, performance
and constraints is contained in the Kenya Agricultural Sector Report
(Report No. 4629-KE, January 7, 1986) which was recently distributed to the
Executive Directors.
35.      Despite Kenya's progress in industrialization, the agricultural
sector remains vitally important for the continued growth and development
of the domestic economy, as well es for the livelihoods of most of Kenya's
people. Kenya is fundamentally an agricultural country: agriculture's
share of GDP (31Z in 1984) remains the highest of any sector. The
population is still predominantly rural (85Z) and agriculture provides
employment (directly or indirectly) for nearly 70Z of the nation's people.
The sector produces nearly all of Kenya's food, and serves as the main
source of export earnings (68Z in 1985) and raw materials for the
predominantly resource-based industrial sector. The two major agricultural
exports, coffee and tea, still account for over 50% of foreign exchange
earnings.
36.      While Kenya's agricultural structure has undergone considerable
change since independence in 1963, it is still characterized by a degree of
dualism. Ranches and large farms cover about 40% of total farmed area,
while smallholdings cover the remaining 60Z. With the continuing
subdivision of large group-owned farms, the proportion of land owned and
farmed by smalholders is increasing. Smallholder agriculture is the
dominant mode of production, accounting for an estimated 75% of production
and 85% of total agricultural employment. The average size of Kenya's 1.7
million smallholdings is 2.3 ha, with over three-quarters of these under
2 ha. Although smallholders consume much of their own output, they also
play a crucial role in commercial production of both export crops, and
domestically consumed cash and food crops. Maize is Kenya's staple crop
and dominates the cropping patterns. Smallholders produce about 45Z of the
marketed production of maize, 60Z of coffee, 35% of tea, 45% of sugarcane,
5OZ of milk, and almost all the marketed production of rice, pulses, cotton
and pyrethrum. The large farm sector includes plantations and estates
producing cash crops, ranches, and mixed farms; the sector is a major
commercial producer of maize, wheat, cattle, coffee, tea and sugarcane.
Performance and Near-Term Prospects
37.      The slow rate of agricultural growth in recent years has caused
concern because of the critical links between agriculture and the rest of
the economy. Kenya's rapid economic growth during the first decade
following independence was, in no small measure, due to the strong growth
of the agricultural sector, which expanded at the impressive rate of 4.7%
per annum. These vigorous growth rates decelerated to an average 3.2Z per
annum between 1972-83. Over the same period, the population growth rate
accelerated to 3.9%, signaling a decline in per capita production.



- 11 -
Droughts afflicted Kenya in 1979, 1980, 1984. Growth of agricultural GDP
fell to -3.7% in 1984, and the country incurred heavy financial burdens due
to massive food imports, even with generous donor assistance. However, the
sector recovered in 1985, with record maize and wheat crops. The overall
sectoral growth rate masks important differences in performance between
commodities and between years. Production of traditional export crops
(coffee and tea) has shown strong growth over the period 1972-83 (averaging
7.6% and 10.1% respectively), while the growth of domestically consumed
commodities has lagged behind population growth.
38.      Although drought has contributed to low agricultural growth rates
uneien sectoral performance is due to a number of factors, of which weather
is but one. Further contributions to growth from the factors which
stimulated production in the 1960s (para. 3) are limited. Since the early
1970s, agricultural growth has also been affected by: (i) an unfavorable
economic environment, including unstable prices for export crops in most
years, deteriorating internal and external terms of trade and rising input
costs; (ii) severely constrained supplies of arable land; (iii) stagnating
use of key inputs, notably fertilizer and improved seeds; (iv) inadequate
production incentives; (v) falling investment, both public and private, in
agriculture; and (vi) problems in the delivery of essential agricultural
services (extension, research, credit, and marketing) due to weaknesses in
Government and parastatal institutions.
Maior Constraints and Policy Issues
39.      Land Availability.  The major constraint for agricultural
development in Kenya is the shortage of good quality arable land,
exacerbated by already high population densities and continued rapid
population growth. Only about 20% of Kenya's 575,000 sq. km can be
considered high or medium quality land; another 9Z can produce crops, but
is subject to periodic drought, and the remaining land area is suitable
mainly for cattle production. In the early 1960s, Kenya had about two
acres of high potential land per person; by the year 2000, there will be
only half an acre of such land per person. On account of political
sensitivities, Kenya is grappling to develop a coherent land policy and
institutional framework for addressing land issues. Other major land-
related problems are soil ertsion and forest depletion; the slow pace of
land adjudication and subdivision of large farms; and limited tax and other
incentives to intensify production and use land efficiently.
40.      Use of Improved Inputs.  Although input use in Kenya is relatively
high, use of agricultural inputs, especially fertilizer and improved maize
seeds, has virtually stagnated in the last decade. Although fertilizer use
by smallholders has increased since independence, consumption is
concentrated on major cash crops and in certain geographical areas; there
is also a clear divergence between large and small farms. Consumption of
fertilizer has been constrained by: (i) low financial returns
(particularly for foodcrops and maize); (ii) technical constraints, notably
a lack of research and weak extension services; and (iii) chronic
fertilizer shortages in rural areas, caused by a restrictive import quota
allocation system, late price and allocation announcements, and poor
coordination of aid fertilizers (late delivery, inappropriate fertilizer
types, and problems in distribution). About half of Kenya's 1.2 million ha



- 12 -
of maize is covered by hybrid or improved seed. Problems center on
assuring seed supply: deteriorating retail price margins and seed
certification fees, problems funding the National Seed Quality Control
Service (NSQCS), and incipient management and financial problems in the
Kenya Seed Company (KSC), which has the de facto monopoly for maize seed
production. The Government has provided mechanized land preparation
services through its Tractor Hire Service (THS), but performance has been
mediocre, costs are high, and few farmers have benefitted. In contrast,
there is an active and competitive private sector providing these services.
41.      Incentives (Pricing and Marketinz).  Prior to 1982, official
prices for major domestic commodities (maize, wheat, milk, meat, sugarcane
and cotton) lagged behind world prices and the agricultural sector terms of
trade deteriorated relative to the rest of the economy. Prices for the
major export crops, coffee and tea, are not controlled. In 1982, the
Government significantly increased official prices for major crops.
However, official prices remain inflexible, applying uniformly throughout          (
the country and allowing no seasonal or quality variation. Many farmers do
not receive official prices, due to lengthy delays in payment (up to 15
months) by monopoly marketing parastatals and cooperatives, excessive
marketing deductions often unrelated to marketing activities, and
underdeveloped marketing channels. The Government also sets retail price
ceilings for major foods (maize meal, wheat flour, vegetable oil, milk,
beef, coffee, tea and sugar), which have resulted in subsidies to
consumers, often hidden through squeezing parastatal distribution margins
and resulting massive parastatal losses. The Government has restricted
participation in marketing and processing of maize, wheat, cotton and milk
to high cost, inefficient parastatal marketing enterprises. Of particular
importance is the National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB), which plays
the central role in assuring food security, yet is troubled by massive and
mounting losses, weak financial management, and poor performance. The
recently formed Kenya Grain Growers Cooperative Union (KGGCU) appears
destined to play a role in primary grain marketing, but this role remains
poorly defined, and KGGCU is also experiencing financial difficulties.
Even without legal barriers to entry, the private sector and cooperatives
have been hampered in developing marketing channels due to lack of long-
term credit, administrative regulation of investments, exports and imports;
and lack of promotion by Government of smallscale enterprises.
42.      Investment.  Capital formation in the agricultural sector has been
declining over the last 10 years, from 2.5% of GDP in 1978 to 1.5% in 1983.
Causes have included a combination of falling public and private
investment, inefficient public resource use, domestic liquidity squeezes
and poor returns. In the public sector, real budget allocations to
agriculture have aropped, with a particularly negative effect on essential
farmer services (research, extension). At the same time, there have been
important shifts in the internal structure of the Ministry of Agriculture
and Livestock Development's (MAID's) budget which also decreased real
productive invcstment. The agricultural development budget has been
characterized by an excess of projects, mostly underfunded, with a heavy
emphasis on parastatal investments and subsidies, undisciplined public
sector credit schemes, and costly large scale investments with limited
beneficiaries. In the recurrent budget, personnel accounts for 75% of



- 13 -
expenditures (net of subsidies), leaving inadequate funds for operation and
maintenance. Returns to public sector investment have in most instances
been low because management has been weak at every level - planning,
budgeting, project implementation, accounting, monitoring, and evaluation.
It is becoming increasingly apparent that there is a widening gap between
management resources in public sector institutions, and the demands placed
upon these, affecting policy, project and program implementation, delivery
of services and absorptive capacity for external assistance. As the public
deficit mushroomed in the early 1980s, Government's domestic borrowing
dried up funds for private sector investment. Although the Government
deficit is now under control (para. 7) and interest rates are positive,
commercial flows of credit to agriculture remain limited and concentrate on
short term lending to the large farm sector. Term lending to agriculture
dropped to 25Z of total term lending in 1983 against an average of 35Z in
the 1970s. Private investment has been discouraged by low returns,
interest rate policy (limited spread between deposit and lending rates, and
in the past, negative interest rates), and legal barriers to entry in
processing and marketing of many commodities.
43.      Agricultural Services.  Agricultural growth has been affected by
uneven development of essential agricultural services, particularly those
directed towards smallholders and food crops. After major successes in the
1960s, Kenya's research system has declined markedly. No new major
technological breakthroughs on food crops have occurred since the 1970s,
although research on coffee and tea has been more successful. The
Government is preparing a national research program to revitalize
agricultural research; IDA and other donors are now considering funding for
the program. Throughout the 1970s and early 1980s, the extension system
was also weak, suffering from poor management, inadequate funding, and
inadequate training. Significant improvements have been made through
adoption of the training and visit system under the National Extension
Project (Cr. 1387-KE), although efforts need to be sustained to maintain
these improvements. Livestock services are largely provided by the
Government; high costs and large subsidies (90 - 100Z) are the main issues.
Net costs of livestock services (including research and extension) totaled
25% of MALD's entire budget in 1982183. Funding problems, excessive
staffing and poor management have led to unreliable delivery, shortfalls in
drug supplies, and under-strength dips.
44.      Public sector agricultural credit schemes reach few smallholder
families; out of some 2 million farm households, only 20,000 (mainly medium
and largescale farmers) recei7e credit from the Agricultural Finance
Corporation (AFC), and commercial bank clients are even fewer and
concentrated at the larger end of the scale. The Cooperative Bank, inputs
suppliers and crop development institutions serve only a small part of the
smallholder market, and credit to cooperatives is rendered almost
unmanageable by the multiplicity of donor schemes, managed on an agency
basis, with inconsistent terms and interest rates. Performance of public
sector institutions and schemes has been dismal in recent years. AFC,
which accounts for half of term lending to agriculture, has severe
institutional problems: poor quality portfolio, unclear objectives and low
recovery rates (in recent years, 50% of what was due).



- 14 -
45.      Parastatals play an important role in Government development
strategy, and poor performance of these central institutions has emerged as
a significant constraint in several areas: provision of marketing and
processing services, food security, farmer incentives, credit supply, and
public finance. In the agriculture sector, where there are now more than
100 statutory boards and commercial concerns with Government investments,
the burden on the national budget has become especially acute. Over the
1977-84 period, the aggregate losses of 16 agricultural parastatals
amounted to almost KSh 3 billion (US$183 million). Although some of the
enterprises are financially sound and well managed, many are seriously
undercapitalized; both financial and general management is poor. The
parastatals also share various external problems which impede their
management as autonomous, accountable enterprises: controlled prices, ill-
defined sector policies, political interference, and frequent conflicts of
interest between commercial objectives and social responsibilities.
Several of the poorly performing parastatals operate under out-dated
statutes which oblige them to continue to perform services now available
from other sources at much lower cost.
Goverrment's Development Strategy
46.      In addition to the recently issued Fifth Development Plan, which
covers the period 1984-1988 and contains the thrust of Kenya's agricultural
development policy, Government has recently issued an important economic
sessional paper (Sessional Paper No. 1 of 1986, 'Economic Management for
Renewed Growth', para. 22). This paper presents a bold strategy for growth
over the long term, and encompasses the major planks of the Government's
agricultural sector adjustment program. The Sessional Paper, while further
supporting the broad objectives of balanced food self-sufficiency and
export production outlined in an earlier Food Policy Paper (Sessional Paper
No. 4 of 1981), places agricultural growth and rural prosperity at the
heart of the strategy to rekindle economic growth and create new jobs. It
proposes three broad strategies:  (i) intensification of production for key
food commodities; (ii) revitalization of research; and (iii) a limited
expansion in area and intensification of production of high value crops
(coffee, tea and horticulture) for both export and local consumption. The
underlying action measures contained in the Sessional Paper Are consistent
with those of the sector adjustment program, namely increased input use;
maintenance of price incentives; budget rationalization; improvement of
research, extension and marketing services; and credit policy.
Potential for Increasing Production
47.      The Sessional Paper estimates that agricultural production will
need to grow an average 5.OZ p.a. through the end of the century to meet
targets for increasing per capita incomes, employment, food security and
export earnings. Despite important land constraints, Kenya's agricultural
potential is far from being realized. Significant yield increases are
possible for key crops (coffee, tea, maize, milk and other fooderops),
especially in the smallholder sector (Table 1), through widespread



_ 15 -
Table 1. Actual and Potential Yields (ton/ha)
Small-      Large Farms    Research
Averaze      holders      and Estates      Plots
Maize                   1.86       0.5-5.0       2.3-5.4       up to 8.0
Coffee                 0.86          0.54           1.37       up to 2.5
Tea                     1.34         0.93          2.39           n/a
introduction of improved husbandry and input use.  The Sessional Paper also
recommends modest expansion in area devoted to high-value export crops
(from the present 4Z to 8Z of cultivated area) coupled with intensification
of food commodity production. This will require renewed attention to
critical agricultural services and specifically towards reorienting these
services to smallholder producers. Despite strong verbal support for
smallholder development, actual services and investments still tend to
favor larger farmers because of lingering biases and intertia in effecting
shifts in new directions. Kenya also has significant potential for
expanding irrigated production in the medium to long term, but at present,
irrigation is plagued by high_costs and limited management capability.  In
the longer term, population pressures may make irrigation more economically
attractive.
Bank Strategy and Experience in the Sector
48.      The Bank's strategy for assisting Kenya's agricultural development
supports Government objectives, as described in the Plan and other policy
documents. It is growth-oriented, with a primary emphasis on
intensification of production, particularly smallholder production, which
offers much untapped potential and meets complementary goals of income
distribution, employment and foreign exchange generation. The Bank's
operational program is geared to address major constraints and to stimulate
growth, through actions to improve basic farmer services (especially
extension, research, input supply, marketing and credit), to address key
physical resource management issues (forestry and conservation), support
better policy planning and above all, implementation, assist in
restructuring public investments and in strengthening management of
services, training for agricultural staff, and better aid coordination.
49.      The proposed sector adjustment program builds upon the Bank's long
and extensive involvement in Kenya's agricultural sector. To date, we have
financed 30 projects in agriculture, forestry and fisheries. Investments
have been spread across all key subsectors, with an emphasis on
smallholders: export crops (coffee and tea); industrial crops and agro-
industry (sugar and cotton); foodcrops and rural development (the
Integrated Agricultural Development Program or IADP); large- and smallscale
irrigation; semi-arid lands development; forestry; fisheries; livestock;
extension; credit; and technical assistance. Our present portfolio of ten
on-going projects reflects substantial pruning of investments and
redirection of efforts towards strategic priorities, especially
improvements in farmer services. The extensive practical operational
experience gained through project implementation has been complemented by
considerable sector work, both formal and informal, undertaken over the



- 16 -
last five years. In addition to the recent Agricultural Sector Report,
which distills the detailed sector knowledge acquired through project and
other work, studies have been done on agricultural inputs, credit, maize
marketing and pricing, incentives, irrigation, land issues, the grain
sector, cooperatives, the public investment program, resource allocation,
private sector investment, and nongovernmental organizations. Future
project lending and sector work will directly complement the sector
adjustment program as well as our broader strategy, providing integrated
support for longer term institution building and development of services
and subsectors. The policy and institutional reforms of the sector
operation and investments in complementary projects, are both essential to
achieve the objectives of the Government's sector adjustment program
(para.52). Ongoing and planned projects for key agricultural services
(extension, research, livestock and credit) provide the support for
improving the quality and delivery of these services. In addition, our
pipeline includes project proposals in the areas of forestry, cooperative
management, semi-arid land development, coffee and smallscale irrigation.
Sector studies are planned or underway on the coffee subsector and
forestry. The policy and institutional reforms of the sector operation and
investments in complementary projects, are both essential to achieve the
objectives of the Government's sector adjustment program.
50.      A recent group of Project Completion Reports and Project
Performance Audit Reports (PPARs) has emphasized many lessons for Bank
involvement in Kenya's agricultural sector. These include the importance
of project design, limits to institutional and management capacity, and the
need to recognize the impact of policy issues such as pricing and marketing
arrangements, and the need for better aid coordination. These observations
are also confirmed by our ongoing supervision of the existing portfolio. A
concerted effort has been made to reflect the lessons learned from these
projects in supervision, project preparation and appraisal work, and in
support for institutional development through the ongoing portfolio.
PART IV: THE GOVERNMENT'S ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM IN AGRICULTURE
A. Origin and Objectives
51.      The Government developed its medium-term sector adjustment program
in agriculture over the last two years, in response to growing concern with
sector performance. The program encompasses intensive work done within the
Government, and specifically within the Development Planning Division (DPD)
in MALD, in the context of preparation of the Fifth Development Plan and
the new Economic Sessional Paper (para. 46). IDA has provided assistance in
the form of considerable sector work (para.49) and sector discussions, and
joint involvement in the preparation process (para. 77).
52.      The program for sectoral adjustment covers a five-year period of
which the proposed Agricultural Sector Adjustment Operation would encompass
and support the first two years of the program. This Chapter reviews the



- 17 -
adjustment program and discusses specific action plans for implementation
within the time-frame of the Sector Operation. The objective of the
Government's sector adjustment program is to encourage agricultural growth
through removing policy constraints, stimulating investment and promoting
institutional development. It is geared above all to lifting the obstacles
to increased production by the 1.9 million smallholder farm families who
are the backbone of Kenya's agricultural sector. Specifically, the program
aims to:
(a) promote intensification of production and better use of
Kenya's limited land, by stimulating the use of farm inputs,
improving farmers' access to agricultural credit, and improving
essential agricultural services;
(b) improve producer incentives, with a focus on increasing real
producer returns, speeding up payments to farmers, and developing
efficient, low-cost marketing channels; and
(c) expand the flow of public and private resources for
agricultural investment, through increasing the country's
absorptive capacity, improving the structure, efficiency and
management of public resource allocation and expenditure,
directing funds toward high priority investments and services, and
increasing incentives for private investment.
53.      To achieve these objectives, actions would be pursued in five
areas, which constitute the components of the Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Operation to be supported by IDA and the Special Facility for
Africa (SFA) Credits. The programs are summarized below, and actions and
timing discussed in more detail in the following section.
(i) Agricultural Input Supply: Goals would be to increase
fertilizer supplies and boost fertilizer use, especially among
smallholders, through increasing efficiency and participation in
the fertilizer import and marketing systems and improving
fertilizer distribution incentives; improving incentives for
producing and distributing improved maize seeds; reorganizing
MALD's Tractor Hire Service; and phasing out subsidies for
livestock services while simultaneously improving their quality.
(ii) Incentives: Measures would focus on maintaining adequate
official prices and increasing the flexibility of price
adjustment; containing consumer subsidies; speeding up payments to
farmers by marketing boards; promoting the development of
processing and marketing channels; and addressing food security,
financial and institutional issues in grain marketing.
(iii)  Budget Rationalization and Sector Management:   This
component entails a restructuring and rationalization of public
investment and expenditure in the agricultural sector to ensure
that public investments contribute more directly and effectively
to sectoral growth. Actions include increasing real public
investment in agriculture through a combination of bigher
allocations to the agricultural sector and a reduction of



- 18 -
parastatal subsidies and personnel costs within the sectoral
budget; reorienting expenditures toward high priority programs;
and improvements in the resource allocation process. In addition,
it would support strengthening institutional capacity for
agricultural policy planning and analysis, project management, and
aid coordination.
(iv) Parastatals: The adjustment program aims to refine the
Government's strategy for handling parastatals; begin divestiture
of specific parastatal functions and activities; resolve common
management problems (especially financial management); and
rehabilitate certain economically or politically vital parastatals
responsible for incurring regular financial losses, with an
emphasis on financial restructuring to reduce costly public
subsidies.
(v) Agricultural Credit: Under the Sector Operation,
smallholders' access to credit would be improved, the flow of
credit through market channels (particularly commercial banks)
would be increased, financial discipline of public sector credit
schemes and institutions would be improved, and a coherent
Government agricultural credit policy developed.
A summary of the adjustment program and specific actions to be pursued
under the Sector Operation is given by component in the following sections.
Information on supporting programs and policies, including detailed
implementation plans, are in a separate Technical Support Volume, available
on request; the outline of this document appears in Annex VI. Complementary
measures to address major sector constraints would be pursued through
project lending to improve agricultural services (extension, research,
marketing and veterinary services), to address resource and land issues
(forestry and technical assistance) and to strengthen public sector
institutions (Agricultural Sector Management Project, para. 87).
B. The Program of Reform
ARricultural Input Supply
54.      Input use will play a central role in intensification of
production and is at the heart of Kenya's agricultural growth strategy.
The Government proposes to address major problems in input supply and
demand through the agricultural sector adjustment program and through
related investments. Actions will focus on four major areas: (i)
fertilizer; (ii) improved seeds; (iii) tractor hire services; (iv)
livestock services.
55.      Fertilizer.  Under the sector adjustment program, the Government's
objeetive is to increase fertilizer use by all farmers, but most
importantly smallholders. The strategy for achieving this goal is to
increase fertilizer availability throughout the country through making the
fertilizer marketing and import allocation systems more efficient,
improving the management of aid-supplied fertilizer, and revising the



- 19 -
pricing system. Because of the importance of aid fertilizers in total
fertilizer supply (50-60Z of total supplies), it will be difficult for
Government to dismantle the import allocation system without seriously
disrupting commercial channels. The Government therefore intends to
improve the efficiency of the import system and to increase participation
in fertilizer marketing, with the longer-term goal of moving towards a more
market-oriented import system, once aid fertilizers no longer figure so
importantly in overall supplies. Donors will also be encouraged to provide
import financing for fertilizer rather than physical commodity aid, which
will allow fertilizer markets to operate on a commercial basis and reduce
direct Government involvement in fertilizer handling and allocation.
56.      Specific steps to be taken over the two year time-frame of the
Sector Operation are (i) increases in fertilizer imports (commercial
imports plus aid fertilizers) consistent with national demand; (ii)
expansion in the number of distributors and end-users licensed to import;
(iii) strengthened import planning and timely announcement of import
allocations; and (iv) better coordination of aid fertilizer with commercial
supplies. The Government has already begun to implement several of these
steps. As a condition of Credit effectiveness, the Government will
increase imports, expand the number of distributors and endusers, and
improve aid coordination. As a condition of second tranche release,
continued progress in expanding participation and improving import timing
and planning would be made in the July 1987 fertilizer allocations. The
Government will also revise the fertilizer pricing system to link it more
closely to world prices, to introduce a separate retail margin in the
pricing structure and to include prices for smaller bags; these actions
will encourage wider distribution in rural areas. The Government and the
Bank would agree on the formula by October 1987, pending completion and
review of further technical analysis, and 1988 fertilizer prices (set in
October 1987) would be based on this formula. This would be a condition
of second tranche release.
57.      Improved Seeds.  The Government will also take steps to ensure the
production and distribution of quality improved maize seed. This will
include maintenance of incentive prices for maize seed producers (i.e.
incorporating the additional costs required for production of seed versus
food maize) and distributors; attention to seed quality and inspection;
planning for contingencies in seed supply due to drought or other factors;
and addressing incipient management problems in KSC. Under the Sector
Operation, the Government will: (i) increase retail price margins for maize
seed by October 1987 and continually monitor seed producer prices to insure
that they are adequate; (ii) increase seed certification fees to cover
NSQCS's operating costs by December 1986, and improve NSQCS's funding and
management; and (iii) review performance of KSC and address management and
financial problems beginning in 1986. Future actions will include
encouraging the development of new seed companies and continued attention
to research to develop new seed varieties.
58.      Agricultural Mechanisation.  As part of its sector adjustment
program, the Government will promote the development of private contractors
for mechanized land preparation services and reduce (with the medium-term
aim of eventually phasing out) the public Tractor Hire Service (TES). The
Government will concentrate the THS only in areas not served by the private



- 20 -
sector. Measures to be taken under the Sector Operation beginning in
October 1986 include reorganizing and rehabilitating the THS (including
retiring obsolete machinery, repairing serviceable machinery, and improving
management), restricting services to areas without sufficient private
contractors, and improving collection of revenues.  User charges for both
THS and the Plant Hire Service will be increased to market levels by
October 1987. Private contractors will be encouraged through credit
programs, and increased foreign exchange allocations for machinery and
spare parts.
59.      Livestock Services.  The Government's sector adjustment program
aims to stimulate livestock productior through: (i) improving the quality
of Government-provided livestock services and (ii) reducing costs through
improved management, increased user charges, and improved revenue
collections. By October 1987, the Government will implement the first
increase in fees as a condition of second tranche release. The Government
will increase fees for those services providing essentially private rather
than public benefits (i.e. artificial insemination (AI), dipping, clinical
veterinary services and drugs). The intention is to increase fees
gradually for AI and dipping, and institute full cost recovery for clinical
service and drugs. By October 1987 the Government will also complete the
preparation of a national livestock development program aimed at
strengthening Government serviices, exploring the options of privatization
of some services, and providing a framework for aid coordination.
60.      The inputs component of the sector adjustment program focuses on
supply constraints closely linked to Government regulation. Additional
complementary steps will also be taken to stimulate input use. The
incentives component (paras 61 following) will increase real returns to
farmers, which will promote greater input use, and the credit component
(para. 73) will stimulate increased flows of credit to finance inputs.
Projects in the area of research and extension (para. 49) will tackle the
central problems of developing and promoting new technologies. As part of
the budget rationalization program (paras. 66 following) the Government
will ensure adequate funding for these programs.
Incentives (Prices and Marketing)
61.      Government's objectives under the sector adjustment program are to
maintain attractive producer price incentives for major domestically
consumed commodities, to introduce increased price flexibility and move
toward a system of support prices, to speed up farmer payments and reduce
excessive deductions by public sector and cooperative marketing agents, to
reduce consumer food subsidies and to begin deregulation of agricultural
markets. In parallel with its efforts to allow an increased role for
market forces, the Government intends to promote development of private
sector marketing and agro-processing and to improve food security policy.
62       Producer Prices.  As part of its adjustment program, the
Government will both improve the empirical basis for setting administered
prices and maintain prices near or at world price levels (import and export
parity, as appropriate). In February 1986 the Government increased
producer prices of maize, wheat, sugarcane and beef, relative to world
prices, and maintained the domestic cotton price in the face of declining



- 21 -
world prices. The only other producer price which is administered in Kenya
is rice, the level of which is presently at 93Z of the world price all
other agricultural prices are market determined. All administered prices
except beef are now approximately at world price levels. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that from February 1987, administered producer
prices would be established on the basis of world prices, and adjusted if
necessary so as to maintain adequate incentives for farmers. Assurances
were also obtained at negotiations that from February 1987, all
administered prices will become floor prices. Marketing boards, marketing
agents and processing enterprises will be allowed to purchase at prices
above the official price. This is consistent with Government's long term
goal to increase the role of market-determined prices and to move towards a
system of official support prices, set at a world price parity.
63.      Delays in farmer payments and excessive marketing deductions
reduce real returns to farmers. The Government's Letter of Development
Poliry (Annex IV) commits it to introduce measures to speed up farmer
payments and to prevent excessive marketing deductions by major marketing
parastatals and cooperatives. Specifically, this would be done for cotton
(by March 1987), grain (by October 1987) and coffee (b, October 1987).
Payments have already been streamlined for milk and pyrethrum, and the
Government is carrying out a study for improved payments for tea, to be
completed and implementation begun by October 1987. Speeding up cotton and
grain payments will require financial restructuring of the Cotton Seed and
Lint Marketing Board (CSLMB) by March 1987 and the National Cereals and
Produce Board (NCPB) to begin by October 1986. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations to this effect.
64.      Consumer Subsidies.  The Government will eliminate consumer food
subsidies as part of its agricultural adjustment program. This process
began in 1985 when the retail prices of beef and maize flour were increased
several percentage points over the rate of inflation. In the February 1986
price announcement, food subsidies were maintained at existing levels, as
consumer price increases equaled the general rate of price inflation. Food
subsidies are inextricably tied to parastatal marketing and financing
issues, and are not explicitly set. The Government's Letter of Development
Policy (Annex IV) commits Government to a two-step process to reduce
subsidies beginning with a further analysis of the levels of subsidies,
followed by decreases in these levels.
65.      Market Deregulation. A key objective of the Government's sector
adjustment program is to develop efficient, low cost marketing systems to
encourage increased production and to hold down consumer food prices.
Under the Sector Operation, the Government will introduce measures to
improve marketing for key crops and to stimulate the development of
alternative private sector channels. The Government has recently taken
several steps to deregulate maize marketing, allowing direct sales from
farmers to millers (February 1986), purchase of maize and wheat by the
Kenya Grain Growers Cooperative Union (KGGCU) (January 1986) and exports of
surplus maize (January 1986). Further steps to be undertaken during the
Sector Operation are: (i) completion of organizational, management and
financial restructuring of NCPB, to strengthen NCPB's role in food
security, to reduce its muzalve claims orn the Treasury, and to ensure
timely payments to farmers for grain: (ii) preparation and implementation



- 22 -
of a food security plan providing for better management of security grain
stocks; import and export policy for grain; a grain monitoring system; and
a contingency plan for managing stocks, imports, exports and domestic
purchases in case of drought; (iii) completion of a review of the grain
niarketing system to define the role of the present participants in the
system (NCPB, cooperatives, millers, farmers, private enterprises).
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the3e three steps would be
completed by October 1987 as a condition of second tranche release.
Assurances were also obtained at negotiations that the Government would
divest CLSMB of all its cotton marketing and ginning activities to the
private and cooperative sectors by March 1987. The Government began to
deregulate milk collection, processing and distribution in 1985 by
licensing two cooperative dairies, and has committed itself in its Letter
of Development Policy to beSin immediately to increase the number of
licenses to private and cooperative dairies for milk processing. A
reduction in the monopoly powers of parastatals in marketing and processing
must be combined with the promotion and financing of private and
cooperative sector enterprises to compete with or replace parastatals. The
Government, with Bank assistance, is now designing a program to promote
smallscale private sector agro-processing and marketing. The program will
include credit, support to private enterprises by promotional institutions,
and reduction in administrative obstacles to private rural investment.
Budget Rationalization and Sector Management
66.      Under its agricultural sector adjustment program, the Government
will improve the allocation of scarce public resources to ensure that they
are used more productively, and improve sector management and aid
coordination to assist in this goal. This will involve: (i) increasing
public investment in the agricultural sector; (ii) improving resource use
by shifting the emphasis and structure of the budget toward productive,
high priority investments and expenditures; (iii) strengthening the
resource allocation and planning processes; and (iv) strengthening MALD's
management and policy analysis capabilities, and improving aid
coordination. Early in 1986, the Government initiated an ambitious four-
year Budget Rationalization Program (BRP), which aims to improve the
efficiency of public investment and expenditure throughout the public
sector. The BRP emphasizes the following criteria for public investment:
concentratlon of resources on fewer, high-priority projects; selection of
projects on the basis of contribution to growth and sectoral objectives;
priority to use of existing capacity, and operation and maintenance;
implementation of the recommendations of the Government Task Force on
Divestiture; review of donor-funded projects for consistency with
priorities, and full funding of priority projects; and more selective use
of external resources, with an emphasis on increasing use of grants and
soft loans. MALD has already begun to take steps, with IDA assistance, to
strengthen the plannirg and budgeting process.
67.      The Government has placed agriculture at the center of its
development strategy, as outlined in the recent Sessional Paper (para.
468). One element of this strategy is to increase public and private
investment in agriculture, to arrest a decade-long decline. Under the
Sector Operation, the Government will increase budRet allocations for major
sectoral ministries (MALD and the Ministries of Cooperative Development and



- 23 -
Environment and Natural Resources) and maintain these in future years. The
Government will free up additional resources and increase the efficiency of
their use, by improvint resource use, through implementation of the BRP.
Actions will include reducing the numbers of projects, defining priorities
and shifting funds toward priority services and investments, reducing
subsidies and parastatal claims on the budget, and controlling personnel
costs. The Government will also continue its efforts to Improve the budRet
process, including improved information flows, greater involvement of
technical staff, streamlined procedures, improved analysis of budget
issues, and staff training. Following BRP guidelines, the Government has
prepared an action plan for budget rationalization over the first year of
the Sector Operation. This plan was discussed at negotiations; the action
plan for the second year will be agreed by June 1987. To monitor progress,
the Bank will continue to review annually with the Government the content
of the public investment and expenditure programs, and will specifically
monitor shifts in resources toward priority investments, following the BRP
criteria and including full funding of critical agricultural services;
specific reductions in subsidies; restraint of personnel costs; and quality
of proposed project investments. The quality of the public investment
program, together with progress on implementation of the agreed action
plan, will be reviewed as conditions of Credit effectiveness and release of
the second tranche.
68.      Improvements in sector manaRement are critical complements to
realizing the full benefit of public investments to restructure the
resource allocation process and to improving agricultural policies. As
part of the sector adjustment program, the Government wi'll improve
management of projects and programs delivery of agricultural services,
financial management, policy formulation and aid coordination. This will
be supported by the Agricultural Sector Management Project (para. 87). Aid
coordination will be encouraged through continuing the Agricultural Aid
Coordination Committee as a forum for reviewing aid issues among donors and
the Government, and through designing nacional development programs for key
subsectors. An extension program was completed in 1983 (National Extension
Project), a national research program is scheduled to be completed in June
1986, and a livestock development program is planned (para. 59).
Parastatals
69.      The Government's long term objective for parastatals is to reduce
substantially their share of public expenditure. In line with this goal,
the Government's parastatal policy is to divest itself of parastatals which
are essentially commercial in nature, and to maintain and strengthen those
central to public welfare. Considerable financial resources, management
skills and public policy dialogue are needed to achieve these goals, and
thus the Government has set a priority objective for its medium-term
adjustment program: to reduce public expenditures among major loss-making
on agricultural parastatals. In this period, Government plans to implement
various measures to improve financial management and operational efficiency
in parastatals which are politically or economically essential and to begin
divestiture of non-strategic commercial parastatals and activities. Over
the two years of the Sector Operation, the Government will take action in
the following areas: (i) development of a sounder legal framework and
strategy for improving parastatal performance; (ii) divestiture of non-



- 24 -
essential enterprises and activities; (iii) improved organization and
management of viable parastatals; and (iv) rehabilitation of key
enterprises in critical sectors of the agricultural econo!my. The
Government has already taken significant steps in these areas, xiotably the
strengthening of parastatal oversight agencies, the drafting of a State
Corporations Bill (SCB), divestiture of several small commercial companies,
and in 1986, initiation of a fundamental restructuring of the cotton
industry and divestiture of the buying, processing and marketing functions
of the Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Board (CLSMB).
70.      During the next two years, Government's program comprises the
following main features. Specific steps will be taken to refine the
Government's policy instruments and strate2v for parastatals. A State
Corporations Bill, scheduled to be presented to Parliament in 1986, will
set common standards for performance and will strengthen Government's legal
powers to enforce compliance with parastatal regulations. The Government
will further in FY87, undertake a related review of all existing
legislation affecting agricultural parastatals and begin revision and
updating as necessary. MALD will complete its parastatal strategy by
September 1986, classifying parastatals in its portfolio as to potential
for divestiture or need for rehabilitation. The Government intends to move
cautiously but deliberately into divesting the trading assets or functions
of parastatais which could be better handled by private entrepreneurs and
cooperatives. Constraints to rapid action are the limited pool of
potential buyers and local capital constraints; the need for financial
restructuring and capital injections (for example, loan write-offs) to make
an enterprise saleable; the considerable staff and senior management time
and skills required to divest (as evidenced by the CLSMB case); and
political opposition to moving rapidly in this area. MAID will therefore
proceed with divestiture of the trading activities of CLSMB and divestiture
of Uplands Bacon Company in the first year of the Sector Operation, and in
the second year, begin divestiture of other selected enterprises included
in its strategy.
71.      The Government will undertake a range of actions to improve
operating efficiency and management of parastatals which are identified as
potentially viable enterprises. Under the Sector Operation, actions will
center primarily on improving financial management and personnel
development: standards and formats for parastatal accounting and auditing
will be established, financial training will be provided, new staff
development policies introduced, and basic management information systems
established.
72.      The most important element of Government's reform program is the
design and implementation of comprehensive and time-bound action plans to
restructure and rehabilitate several parastatals in strategic sectors of
the agricultural economy. The objective is to wean these economically and
politically important, but financially sick parastatals from public
subsidies, through financial restructuring (with an aim towards returning
these enterprises to a sound financial footing), divestiture of non-
essential activities, and amendments in legislation to meet development
objectives without excessively costly interventions. Under the Sector
Operation, the Government will follow up reform of CLSMB during 1986187;
restructuring of CLSMB will be completed by February 1987. The Government



- 25 -
will also initiate restructuring and rehabilitation in NCPB; the South
Nyanza Sugar Company (SONY); and the National Irrigation Board (NIB), all
of which are among those enterprises responsible for heavy financial
losses. This will be a condition of Credit effectiveness, and continued
satisfactory progress in rehabilitation a condition of second tranche
release.
Agricultural Credit
73.      There are three main objectives of the Government's adjustment
program for agricultural credit: improvement in the performance of public
sector credit institutions and schemes, promotion of credit supply to
smallholders to support intensification, and increased reliance on market
channels and signals to improve credit supply and distribution. Under the
Sector Operation, the following steps will be taken in each area to achieve
these goals.
74.      Market Channels.  Following a pilot bilaterally-funded project
which provided funds for rural private enterprise through a commercial
bank, the Government is preparing a broader program to encourage donor
funds to flow through commercial intermediaries to agriculture through a
rediscount facility at the Central Bank. This program is expected to
become operational by 1987 and IDA has begun work with Government on
preparing an IDA project contribution to the program. The Government has
improved the interest rate structure since 1983: interest rates are now
positive and are adjusted regularly, and rates for Government-run seasonal
credit schemes are at market levels. The Government intends to smooth out
remaining distortions in the interest rate structure that inhibit term
lending, especially to agriculture, based in part on a broader review of
interest rate structures being undertaken with the IMF. These actions,
however, are outside the scope of the agricultural adjustment program.
75.      Credit to Smallholders.  To promote credit supply to smallholders,
actions under the Sector Operation will center on improving flows of credit
through the cooperatives. The Government is starting a Cooperative
Management Pilot Project in July 1986 to test means of improving
cooperative management, including credit management. During 1986,
Government will implement a program on cooperative credit drawn up by the
Ministry of Cooperative Development following a study in 1985 in which IDA
and other donors participated. Specifically, before December 1986,
Government will begin to consolidate donor credit schemes for cooperatives
into a single program (at present some 15 donor schemes are operated on a
bewildering variety of terms and conditions). In addition, Government
proposes to use the newly revised extension service, in conjunction with
credit institutions, to develop credit as a major extension theme, in order
to disseminate information on credit programs and credit use to
smallholders.
76.      Public Sector Credit Institutions and Schemes.  The Government
will improve the performance of AFC and the Cooperative Bank. Over the
last two years, with IDA support, progress has been made in strengthening
AFC's management and credit operations, including making AFC a principal
for seasonal lending and introducing a tough package of loan appraisal and
recovery measures. By October 1986, AFC and the Government will adopt a



- 26 -
rehabilitation program for AFC which will comprise a two to three year
consolidation period with no expansion of the portfolio. During this
period the focus will be on arrears recovery, training and institutional
development, cost control, financial restructuring and improvements in
field level management, based in part on an IDA-supported pilot project.
The Government will set up a task force to review the future role, finances
and institutional status of AFC as well as the future of the public New
Sesonal Credit Scheme. The scope of this review was agreed at
negotiations. The review will be completed and the results communicated to
IDA by October 1987, and by the same date AFC will define its target
population and set ceilings on Lhe amount to be lent to individuals in the
light of Government's objective of increasing credit availability for
smaller farmers. Finally, the Cooperative Bank will join AFC in becoming a
principal, rather than an agent, for public seasonal credit lending,
beginning in the next major crop season (early 1987).
PART V: THE CREDITS
A.  Origin and Objectives
77.      Proposals for an agricultural sector operation first emerged in
the Agricultural Sector Report and in programming discussions held with the
Government on that report in early 1984. Preparation work was coordinated
by a joint Government-Bank team, and Government involvement has been
strongly emphasized. The preparation process has entailed protracted
analysis and discussions, exchanges of analytical work, and formulation of
options and action proposals. The process culminated in November 1985
during a preparation mission, when the program was discussed at a forum,
attended by the highest level Government civil servants and by Bank staff.
Agreement was reached on the broad content of the adjustment program at
that meeting, and formed the basis for a preparation report prepared by the
Government and submitted to the Bank in February 1986. The reform program
is also reflected in the recently issued Government Economic Sessional
Paper (para. 46). An appraisal mission visited Kenya in February 1986.
Negotiations took place in Paris in AprillMay 1986; the Kenyan delegation
was led by Mr. J. Kamunge, Permanent Secretary/MALD.
78.      The primary objectives of the Agricultural Sector Operation
Credits  are:
- to support the first two years of implementation of Government's
agricultural sector adjustment program described in Part IV,
designed to increase production over the short and long term
through promoting the intensification of production, improving
producer incentives, and expanding the flow of resources to the
sector; and
- to provide additional foreign exchange for inputs and counterpart
funds for public investment required to realize fully the benefits
associated with the program.



- 27 -
Technical assistance will be provided through a separate project, the
Agricultural Sector Management Project (para. 87). A Credit and Operation
Summary is attached as Annex III.
B. The Action Program Under the Credits
79.      The agricultural sector adjustment program covers a period of five
years; actions under the IDA/SFA Credits will be taken over the first two
years of the program.  The matrices in Annex V summarize both the medium
term action programs for each component, and the specific actions to be
undertaken during the Agricultural Sector Operation. The medium term
action programs and implementation plans are elaborated in more detail in
the Technical Support Volume, which will form the basis for monitoring
implementation. A review of the implementation of the entire adjustment
program would be undertaken at the time of release of each tranche of the
Credits. Under the Operation, selected measures crucial to the overall
process of adjustment would be closely monitored, and will be either
conditions of release of the tranches or dated covenants (Table 2).
C. Financing and Implementation Arrangements
Financing
80.      The Agricultural Sector Adjustment Operation would be supported
with Credits of US$60 million equivalent (US$40 million from the SFA and
US$20 million IDA), which would fund the foreign exchange cost of critical
agricultural imports for the sector. Eligible goods are listed below, with
indicative amounts:
Table 3. List of Eligible Imports
Item                                           Indicative Amount
(USS million)
1.   Fertilizer                                       18.0
2.   Pesticides and Chemicals                         16.0
3.  Agricultural Machinery Equipment &
Spare Parts                                      10.5
4.   Veterinary Supplies                               5.0
5.   Seeds                                             1.5
6.   Petroleum                                         6.0
7.   Transport Equipment for Sector                    3.0
TOTAL                                           60.0
MALD, in consultation with the Treasury, will draw up an import forecast
plan for proceeds of the Credits for each tranche. The first plan will be



- 31 -
exchange. The Central Bank will forward documentation to the External
Resources Department of the Treasury, which will be responsible for
maintaining accounts and preparing disbursement applications, detailing the
transactions, certification of payment of the amounts involved and of their
eligibility under the Credits. Applications for withdrawal would be
consolidated and submitted in amounts not less than US$1 million. The
Credits are expected to be fully disbursed within 18 months of
effectiveness. Disbursement for petroleum products would be limited to
US$6.0 million and for transport equipment to trucks of 10 tons or less and
pick-up trucks, in an amount not to exceed US$3.0 million.
84.      Two Special Accounts in US dollars (one for IDA funds and one for
SFA funds) will be established by and in the name of the Central Bank in a
corresponding off-shore commercial bank (as foreign exchange accounts
cannot be held in Kenya). The Central Bank will immediately purchase the
foreign exchange and pay the Shilling equivalent to a 'counterpart fund
account" held in the name of the Treasury in the Paymaster General group of
accounts. The Government proposes to use these funds consistent with its
budget priorities. The Central Bank will receive interest and bear the
foreign exchange risk for its own account. Payments from the accounts will
nevertheless be made only on the instructions of the Foreign Exchange
Allocation Committee. This instruction will be given by the marking of the
import licenses (para. 83). It was agreed during negotiations that US$5
million will be deposited in each of the Special Accounts. All
disbursements under the IDA and SFA credits will be chanmreed through these
accounts. However, applications in excess of US$1 milli-in equivalent may
be made through direct payment. Replenishments would be made according to
normal procedures, which require the submission of the aw>propriate
documentation of expenditures. The level of the Special Accounts was set at
negotiations at US$5 million for each account.
Accountinz and Auditing
85.      The Treasury's External Resources Department will keep the
Operation accounts. These accounts will comprise: a record of drawings on
the Credits and copies of all disbursement requests and underlying
documentation; a record of transactions on the Special Accounts and copies
of the Central Bank statements of these accounts; and a record of
transactions on the counterpart fund accounts and documentation relating to
these transactions. These records will be updated on a daily basis and
monthly statements of transactions and balances together with necessary
recommendations (e.g. disbursement claims in process) will be prepared.
The monthly statements will be forwarded to IDA. The statements and
underlying records will be audited annually by the Auditor General and the
accounts and auditor;s report will be submitted to IDA not less than six
months following the end of the financial year.
D. Management and Coordination
86.      Management and coordination of the sector adjustment program will
be the prime responsibility of the Permanent Secretary/MALD, who will chair



- 32 -
an Operation Management Committee. Representatives will include directors
and department heads from MALD and delegates from all ministries
participating in the operation and parastatals as necessary. The
Development Planning Division (DPD) in MALD will provide the secretariat
for the Committee. The Management Committee will produce status reports on
the operation every four months, which would form the basis for discussion
with IDA supervision missions on implementation of the program. At the end
of the operation, DPD will prepare a project completion report, and would
incorporate lessons from the Operation into design of a possible second
phase to support completion of the adjustment program.
Technical Assistance
87.      Technical assistance required for implementation of several
aspects of the sector adjustment program will be provided through the
Agricultural Sector Management Project (ASMP), the second phase to the
Agricultural Technical Assistance Project which supported reform programs
under SAL II. The project was appraised in June 1985, with a post-
appraisal in October/November 1985 to link with the preparation of the
sector adjustment program. ASMP will explicitly support the agricultural
sector adjustment program through the following components:
(a)   technical assistance and training for implementation of the budget
rationalization program in MOF and MALD, and for improving
financial management in MALD;
(b)   technical assistance and training for the Development Planning
DivisionlMALD, to improve policy analysis, the annual price
review, sector strategy, project and program analysis linked to
public investment planning, monitoring of the Sector Operation,
and preparation of further action programs for the adjustment
program;
(c)   technical assistance and training to improve management and
management systems in MALD, with a focus on parastatals,
monitoring and restructuring;
(d)   technical assistance, equipment and training for NCPB to implement
an integrated financial and stock management system as part of its
financial restructuring, and to strengthen its Forward Planning
Unit;
(e)   technical assistance and training for key parastatal oversight
institutions (ISB, Investments Division of Treasury) and
parastatals including NIB to improve financial and management
information systems and parastatal policy; and
(f)   technical assistance, equipment, operating support and training
for the Kenya Rangeland Ecological Monitoring Unit (KREMU) to
strengthen its ability to provide good quality and timely data on
land use and resources for planning and decision making.
Like its predecessor, ASMP would provide a vehicle for supporting longer-
term reform processes and programs requiring funding and sustained



- 33 -
involvement beyond a relatively fast-disbursing sector credit, with an
emphasis on institution building and training rather than on carrying out
studies. In particular, ASMP would build the Government's capacity to
design and implement sector reform, through resident advisors working
closely with Government officials, and through extensive training.
Experience in Kenya has shown that close involvement of civil servants in
carrying out analysis of policy issues and designing reform programs leads
to greater commitment to adjustment measures.
E. Economic and Social Impact, and Risk
Benefits
88.      The major benefit of the agricultural sector adjustment program
would be to stimulate agricultural growth and arrest the declining trend
evident over the last decade by addressing critical policy constraints and
through complementary investments. Annex VI of the Technical Support
Volume presents a detailed quantitative analysis of the economic and social
impact, -'hich is summarized below.
89.      The immediate impact of Government actions undertaken during the
Agricultural Sector Operation would be as follows:
a) fertilizer pricing and import policy improvements and
increased fertilizer imports financed by the Credits would make
fertilizer more widely available, increasing use by 2-6% p.a.;
b) adjustment in input policies and financing of imported inputs
would make more improved seeds, chemicals, agricultural machinery
and animal health services available, increasing the use of these
inputs by 2-6% p.a. compared to the "without project" situation;
c) expansion in agricultural credit availability through credit
policy reform, and expansion in the supply of imported investment
goods financed by the Operation Credits would increase the rate of
farm investment by 2-6Z;
d) increased official producer prices would improve agricultural
terms of trade, and both increased prices and improved marketing
systems would increase farmer incentives to invest and to
intensify production through use of farm inputs;
e) increased Government budget allocations to the agricultural
sector for critical farmer services (3-6Z in real terms) would
contribute to increasing farmer knowledge, encouraging input use
and improved practices, and result in increased crop and livestock
yields;
f) increased public investment in agriculture on the order of 2-
4% in real terms, would be possible by savings resulting from
parastatal divestiture and restructuring, reduction in consumer
and agricultural input subsidies, increased credit recovery, and
curbing of personnel costs;



- 34 -
g) the efficiency of investment in agriculture would be increased
by shifting resources to priority activities under the Budget
Rationalization Program, improving sector management and aid
coordination, and promoting private sector investment.
The results of a quantitative analysis of the above relationships, using a
model of agricultural growth in Kenya, suggest that the agricultural sector
adjustment program would increase real agricultural growth over the medium
term by nearly 1-2Z p.a. (i.e. from its present level of 3.2% p.a. to
between 4 and 5Z p.a., ceteris paribus) (see Annex VI of the Technical
Support Volume). Although this is high by sub-Saharan African standards,
the potential growth rate is even higher, but was discounted to account for
likely delays and exogenous shocks (declines in export crop prices or
drought). Kenya achieved average growth rates of 4.7Z p.a. in the decade
following Independence, and in 1982 and 1983, again suggesting that the
projected growth rate is feasible. GDP growth will increase from its
present rate of 3.5% p.a. to 3.8-4.2% p.a. as a result of the Sector
Adjustment Program, as agriculture accounts for one-third of GDP.
90.      Impact on Farm Income and Rural Employment.  The Sector Adjustment
Program would increase per capita farm income from 1-2% p.a. faster than in
the 'without project" situation, would directly contribute to greater
incomes for the rural poor, and would stimulate employment generation by an
additional 0.3-0.6% p.a. Per capita farm income for Kenya's 1.9 million
farm families was estimated at US$110 per year in 1985. Income
distribution is presently highly skewed toward the urban population; the
rural 85% of the population accounts for 40% of GDP, and about one third of
the rural population lives below the poverty line, compared to 5% of the
urban population. By raising farm incomes, the program will contribute
towards poverty alleviation. Expansion in rural employment is critical to
cope with the increasing number of labor force entrants. The agricultural
labor force now totals 4.9 million and is growing at about 2.9% p.a. The
sector adjustment program would contribute about 15,000-30,000 new jobs a
year, or from 10-20Z of the estimated need. Since most rural workers live
at the poverty level, employement creation will also largely benefit the
rural poor.
91.      Impact on the Urban Population and Urban Poor.   In the medium
term, the Government intends to reduce consumer food subsidies, which would
have a major impact on the urban population and particularly on the urban
poor, who spend 40% of their income on food. If subsidies are reduced in
real terms by 10 over five years, based on present incomplete knowledge of
the level of such subsidies, this will mean a 4% decline in real income for
this group, which numbers somewhat less than 200,000 people. In
comparison, increased producer prices would benefit a substantial number of
the over 5 million rural people living below the poverty line. In the long
term, several trends would cushion the impact on the urban poor: urban job
creation would be stimulated by private investment in agro-processing and
marketing (at the rate of 0.5-1% above what it otherwise would be) and
urban incomes would increase. However, because these are long term
benefits, in the initial years of the program, when the impact would be
negative, the Government's strategy is to pursue a slow increase in real
consumer prices. This will stretch out the costs to the urban population
during which time the benefits of employment and income growth would begin
to be realized.



- 35 -
92.      Impact on the Balance of Payments.  The agricultural adjustment
program would stimulate growth of gross agricultural exports and import
substitutes by about 1-2% p.a. The total value of agricultural exports and
import substitutes was KSh 1.4 billion (US$885 million) in 1984. Increased
growth would require increased imports of agricultural inputs. The
resulting foreign exchange savings and earnings, net of input costs, would
grow at about 1-1.5% more than the "without project" situation, amounting
to US$6-13 million equivalent in each year of the program.
93.      Impact on Public Finance.  The most important impact of the
adjustment program on public finance in the long term would be the savings
from reduced Government payments to parastatals, resulting from
divestiture, financial restructuring, and reduction in consumer food
subsidies. In 1984, financial losses by the five key parastatals to be
dealt with during the adjustment program (NCPB, SONY and Nzoia Sugar
Companies, CLSMB, and Uplands Bacon Factory) amounted to KSh 520 million
(US$32 million). After three years, measures to be taken should reduce
this annual loss to no more than US$10 million equivalent. A second major
impact would be on recovery of outstanding loans to farmers by AFC,
amounting to about KSh 700 million (US$44 million) or 75Z of recoverable
arrears over the initial three years of the program. The third major
benefit to the public purse would be increased recovery charges for tractor
hire services and veterinary services amounting to about KSh 200 m_llion
per year (US$12.5 million) when fully phased in. The major costs would be
connected with parastatal restructuring, particularly writing off loans and
increasing capitalization. The full amount would depend on the financial
restructuring programs of each parastatal, but could be substantial (CLSMB
requires injection of capital of US$15 million and NCPB considerably more).
The net effect is that the impact of the Sector Adjustment Program on
public finance will be about zero in the first two years, and increasingly
positive thereafter.
Risks
94.      Risks are related to potential political opposition to some
difficult reforms, negative effects on the urban population, external
factors affecting growth and thus the benefits from reforms, and management
of the program. The major risk to the program is the possibility that
several of the difficult policy reforms will encounter implementation
problems due to political opposition. Cutting projects and restraining
public sector employment under the BRP will encounter difficulties among
politicians, while raising user fees for services will meet resistance in
rural areas. However, these measures are being taken as part of the
Government-wide efforts to rationalize public expenditure, and have been
supported at the highest political levels. Moreover, reforms in all areas
of the program are already launched, indicating th,at processes of
consensus-building are ongoing. The urban population would be affected by
iood price increases in the later years of the program, and for this
reason, an extremely slow and cautious program of increases will be
followed. Nevertheless, there will be political debate on many of these
issues; consequently. the Government has adopted an approach of measured,
not radical, reform in most areas of the program.



- 36 -
95.      The high agricultural growth rates expected under the adjustment
program could be compromised by falling world prices for coffee and tea, or
by persistent drought. If increases in agricultural growth are not
forthcoming, political commitment to reforms could erode.  To counter this,
the Sector Operation would be carefully monitored. The alternative
"without adjustment program' scenario is relatively bleak, and is the
baseline from which the achievements of the adjustment program are
measured. This alternative includes low and decreasing agricultural growth
due to expanding parastatal deficits, requiring diversion of funds from
investment (public and private), restricted availability of important
agricultural inputs, and declines in incentives for production. It is the
unacceptable consequences of the alternative scenario in conjunction with
the 4% population growth rate, which is the major rationale for the
adjustment program.
96.      Finally, management of the program will require sustained
involvement and commitment by senior Government officials, particularly in
MALD. The program is broad, and encompasses actions in many areas.
However, most of these reforms are already ongoing (for example, budget
rationalization, improvement in producer incentives and agricultural
credit, and restructuring of parastatals), many in the context of
supporting project investments (in agricultural credit, extension, and
technical assistance).  The Government has demonstrated its commitment
throughout the preparation and appraisal process, and in launching the
reform programs (for example, the divestiture of CLSMB). Exogenous factors
affecting growth or waning political commitment could deflect attention
from reform programs. Intensive IDA supervision and monitoring, technical
assistance and training during the implementation period will assist in
this area.
Rationale for IDA Involvement
97.      Agriculture is at the heart of the Kenyan economy, and thus the
focus of the Government's strategy, as articulated in the recent Economic
Sessional Paper, to accomplish development objectives of growth, income
distribution, food security, foreign exchange earnings, and employment
generation. Without improvements in agricultural growth, Kenya's economic
development will suffer. The proposed sector operation represents the
launching of a five-year agricultural adjustment program aimed at removing
the important policy and institutional constraints hampering sectoral
growth and affecting both Kenya's absorptive capacity and efficiency of
investment. The sector operation is the keystone of the Bank's sector
lending strategy, providing the policy and institutional reforms vital to
development of institutions, sector growth, and project implementation.
The Bank has assisted Kenya for over two decades with numerous agricultural
loans and credits (para. 49). The Bank's experience throughout the
agricultural sector and extensive knowledge of issues and constraints make
it uniquely placed to assist the Government in implementing its Sector
Adjustment Program.



- 37 -
PART VI. RECOMMENDATION
98.      I am satisfied that the proposed IDA Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association. I am also satisfied that the
proposed African Facility Credit would comply with provisions of Resolution
No. IDA 85-1 of May 21, 1985. I reco mend that the Executive Directors
approve the proposed IDA Credit and the proposed Africa Facility Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 2, 1986



-38 -                                                    ANEX I
T A 0 L  * 14                                       AI  I
MOST               (MMlis  mKCmm STlNaUE) lb
CIJI           LOW tNCO   AFRICA         NIUIZ 1j2
116dt|    L-piaL, itnUTiNTI          sun  w m  0F4A1      ASIICA S. woA.A
a.(ima    .  is
TWtAL                   ;512.o                 532.4       12..
AC8IULTURAL                         53.7       5".1        41.5
mw   ( cwr                              ..         .. CM.                       23m.8                    :U03
¶iLaJcms or OKL WILVAUtT)          114.0      140.0       147.0               02.3                   S5.J
PtoW"U   .NIU-UA  (CUSAI)   7903.0    11290.0          190.0
UZ3  POPU7ATes CZ OF TaTAL)          7.4        10.2       17.1               20.1                     32.0
POUIA4TION ftUflCTX'IN
PIULATlU  In    5 2000 CH.LL)                            36..
sTATiOKAA  POPULATIoF (hILL)                            120.0
POFUIATION  hhU                                           2.1
0POUI.TION 09111
PI Sq. al.                        13.6       19.4        32.4               33.2                     45.1
PM SQ. IJI. lCOl. LNO            147.        191.0      294.0              112.5                    124.8
FOPIATZUM CA STUCOUK CZ)
0-14 135                         47.5        40.3       51.7               46.0                     41.
15-44 VMS                         49.5       43.5        4.5.               50.8                     11.5
45 mm AMC                          Z.1         2.5        2.4                2.9                      A.
FPOHLATIOF Comm1 NAU CE)
TOTAL                              3.1         3.0        4.0                2
URBN                               5.3         0.8        7.3                0.4                      1.1
Cm   3Km  m    (Ka TM0U5)           5U.0        33.4       54.7               47.2                     47.
amD3  O1WN1 ua   (PM "SIIO)         19.2        15.0       U.0                17.6                     11.0
GOSS PlOuCTIUU 3n                    3.3         3.3        3.9                3.3                      3.2
WAKIIX PLAIAhZU
ACCS ,S. MUM.L (2160)              *-         30.9       43.0 IC
usCKS CZ aF "1A51   VOiN)          ..         4.0 1,       .0 J. f           3.3                      0.4
mm  An IMINTO.
.13 OF F0  MM. Na CaPTA
C 199-71-100)                       ".0        100.0       U.0                 3.3                     32.9
M CAPIT  SUPLT OF
:ALOEXER CZ or U UqUIu    )      107.0       94.0   *     7.0               87.7                     93.1
P3021216 (GEAMS P   DAY)          74.0         M0        54.0               51.9                     35.4
or W610 6INDAL APO fULlS         23.0        20.0       24.0 1s            10.7                     10.5
- UD (A035 1-4) 0D4A1 3TX           23.1       21.9        14.0               23.1                     10.4
LI  UPCT. AT uIMS CLAMT.            40.6       51.7        57.u               47.                      52.u
51s6 osm. Mt CmU 13)               137.5      112.0        *1.0              119.                     10.84
CCUS S TO sn mana (11)
TarL                               ..        15.0        20.0 /h            27.1                     6A.4
GlUE                               ..       100.0        3s.0 71;          *s.5                      47.1
NAL                               ..          Z.u        I S.O71            19.3                     35.8
ACTS I0 EOESTA DISPOSAL
(Z OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        lo.o        30.0 lb            z.                       2a.
aaoS                               ..        l.0         0.0 7C            65.4                      3r.7
NLRAL                                        45.0        1.0 7ii           20.3                      20.7
POPULATION PM  PSCA              10320.0     734O.0 11  7390.0 11         27901.7                   11791.7
PO. Q  NURSIN  3550               2210.0  1.  430.0 Dr   550. D            3303.4                    2459.8
PW.  U NOSPiTAL UD
TOTAL                            760.0      730.0       o20.0 is          IZ73.                    9B1.1
URAL                              30.01.      .. .      6Z                 42O.0  34.2
630.0 7k         3292.1                   4371.9
-01M50NS M  ImSPTAL 3ED              ..         ..          9.7 /k            ..                       27.
4913*05 SU r OF HOFSNOLD
TOTAL                                           .        .                ..7
UR   .9  i 4.7
IAL                                ..         4.7
AVEoS 30. OF p n /SOUS/R000
TOTAL                              ..          ..
a31                                2  s.. IL  .....
;L                                 ..         .. ..
1ar3      OFU UOSLL.13G  W   L UL .
TaTAL                              ..          ..
Uam                                ..          ..
URL                                ..          .. .....



- 39 -
ANNME I
T A a L LS.                                       Page 2
IN                      - l ctpL 1toots
^~~~~%dV                                      calmi szavmj LL 
MO sTmum   sa..  Tsui..                   T
rAw             LOM tV  atci               mtm toni
Iod         iiOal    u19Td-            sum  w  bAd"           Abm . w   _ai
m'aa  -_t.t
TCILWAL 3.7                                       SI.A        3.3.
m  us CASI ()                             ..           ..        -w.A                233.                      1033.
- m wum CM) 2
tKloGm_ or . OU ZUVAUTl               16.0       140.0        147.0               42.3                      381.3
Founa* lo.NU-1    CtAWAamom)    7M03.0         11JO.O       3902.0
caw  poeUIAUM  (Z0   me ABL)           7.4        10.2         17.1               20.1                       32.
POPULATION  fILICTIOUI
POrUIAftOU IN SOr 20AO (KtLL)                               24.3
5rAT10115  POPULAIMA CMZLL)                                120.0
POULAT10U IUU3AM                                              2.1
PDOHIATaOt hS       t
PM go. M.                           13.S        1.4         32.4                33.2                        3.1
M0 S0. 33. &:1t. L*                147.1       191.0       294.                112.6                      124.6
POtULATION AN SURICTINUA (S)
0-14 13                            47.3        46.2        31.1                44.0                       43.4
33.44                              ".43         6.3         '3.3                                           3oa $1.3
43 An AME                            2.3         2.S          2.                 2.                        21.7
FOPULATu Glows S    3X (O)
?OTAL                                3.1         3.          4.0                 2.4                         .9
gu5m                                 3.1         64.          .3                4GA                         3.1
cUSS Kau  mg 3n   (35 TNOS)           3u.0        33.4         34.7               47.z                       47.0
cRUD   AIIIU (I CCPU       )          1.2         13.0         A.                 17.4                       13.0
C80S5 U    WllcUoU 342                 3.3         3.           3.9                3.3                        3.2
IFAILT PL*11M
£CIVFDROS. _AM . (2tOUS)             ..         30.9          .0
01I5(C O3  3AS31   VO)               .            .0 Id   a .  jo                3.3           °o4
*86  O- VO  Pm. a MR CwTA
t(169-71-0to)                        ".0         100.0         WA.0                3.3                       62.9
PM  CAPT  3xMP    at
CLAUIS CX  1CsOr    .min)          107.0        94.0        67.0                67.7                       96.3
iuznms (03*1   M   AT8)             74.0 A       3.0        34.0                S1.9                       33.4
OF 16103 iNwD   laM   u            26.0        24.0        24.0 s              16.7                       14.3
031    (*AM  1-41 062N 3IM           .26.1        21.9         14.0               23.1                      1A.
LIn u:Cr. a exam (3t        )        444          3L.7        $7.                 47.A 
t0A5r MM. 3115 (M  2001)             137.3       112.0        61.0               119.3                      10.
TOTAL                                ..         1s.0        24.0 11             27.1                        .
3US                                  ''        100.0        6s3. 7K             43.3                      47.3
W"L                                 ..           2.          3.0 7I             19.3                       33.6
*C0ISS T0O 3CTEA DISPOSL
CS OF FOFULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         30.0        30.0 IN             24.5                       2D.J
_5                                   ..         13.0         ao 7K              43.4                      37.7
MURAL                                ..         43.0       i1. 7F              2s.6                        '
UOLATION   M  rnsw CIAu           10320.0       7660.0 11   7690.0 t/         27901.7                    11791.7
POP. 33  U 5IG PERM                2210.0 1    140.0o 7r   s300 M              330.                       24".6
POP. PM IUrriL  M
TTL                               760.0        760.0       420.0 1            12A.                       961.3A
0 3                                60.0          .-         20o0 7K            426.2                     366.6
L                                    ..          ..         30.0              392.5                     4371.9
a0151i       1 iMn5TAL B33             ..          ..          9.7 n      *    -                             27.2
AVOu5Z Slze or OUSEILD
TOTAL                                --&.7'''*
ZOT*L                      ..          *'           ....7
035*                                 4.9         4.7
NUAL                                             4 ..  4.7
033*013N. or P1350U5110
TOTAL                                ..          ..
03198                                2.3 IL      ..           ..
F,gm or UMULLIOF Q .nS Wm 0.
TOMAL                                ..          ..          ..
033,8..                                 ..          .                    ..
uwL                                  ..          ..          .                    ..



- 40-
ANEX I
Page  3
.~~~~~Dpao BD OrSOCA^L BTO S
NIL: Aimhba  &b data mIndla fI         lb _   _ Ji_d mbm.eaambAmt awumm nd aliable. itld al Am In i o te q my ma   be m n y
o"aemd   mu of WM lakh of umdaudi does mid   dl_t mad by dElwait cauum im coiaw  b dm. du  . dtal m. t         I
d.alb  od_a_ amumi_. _mles um_h ma hrmm,ak           or dinesin baum emmfta.
Tb. udnia;m poop an (1) the - amt rAy raw of ibm ubmas comuny mand (2) a coma"y srom walb inOawlat blabar avwanp inceium lma the cmetrm
--poflbaui_ teri       P INHI osbla 0 E-wsmp abu              ddkle iLanu Nonb A!ntr ad Middim  E   sts  brum   uroepr
mo.aIemmJ msuii). lo t fe I    uo  da do avXwa  m ppiaum minomd a*bmawc mea *_n _su  idinc_e sadr and dyw o  whm omnty
dthn_      m poqie baa -dat er i  lm. S   e mapofa ymuim motswmb o in en dr_pm em tl *mlatbiy ofda tad m*t inet ta
ciation m  be .bmd In ma  amaaea  of m  _dim tor loamrb Thm amwamm an nJy u~il in  gp g te vales _o oindacma at e_a u osaw
do mmuy ad  I s_ po_p.
AREA (thusad  rqkm.)                                           Cmd  mi Rate (par thsoned-Number of ive births n the yr
Tend-Total sfaem   coampfing lnd aea and inlad wa,m            per tbod of mid-yeer populaio; 1960.1970. and 1983 daga.
1960.1970 and 1983 data                                        Cr Daub Rae (pear tr  e)-Number or deatbs in the year
u8"i m         of agrin atuai     id te       y or      per thouand of mki-)ear populatio; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permanently for aops pastures, market and kbuthen pdn or to    Guwm Repmwden Rae-Avra  number of daughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 nd 1982 data.                           will bear m her normal reproducive peiod if he ex
prent a-specfic fertility mtm uslly five-year avcras ending
GNP I    CAPITA (tSS)-GNP per capta estimae at curent          in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
mrket pras. cakCUated by saw comvenon method a  World
Amt Ada (1981J3 boo); 1993 datL                 be f o1,                                 Ama  {1__hamaiAnnual numn-
Bmmk Arias (198143 baSiS). 1963 ~~a.           her of aeprsof birth-control devices under aLspices of natioral
ENEGY CONSUMTIION PER C                 -A      l     rt           y pmin prgam
conamption of comman    l pimay ener  (oal and lignitc.    Fkatd PIesf4MUm   (perce  afMued winm--Tbe pam-
petrolum. natural ps and hydro. nuear sod geothermal elec      tage of married women of child-bearing age wbo ar prscicing or
tricity) in kilograns of oil equivalnt per capita; 1960.1970. and  whosc husbands ae practicing any forn of coutracepmion. Womnc
1982 data                                                     of chikdbeaing ae ale genay  ic agd 1549. altbougb for
some countre  - -cacive usge is measured for otber ag
POPULTI- ON AND VWAL STATSFICS                                 groups
Twtal_ Immdn. Mid-Y   (wad-As of Juy 1; 1960.1970.              OOD  AND NUTRMON
and 1983 data.
''-  P_pdr- (mo e of mad)--Rana or urban to tot               lade, ofFeed Pl daesu Pew CapIta (1 -71 - In -index of per
popDt*n; diuf (tdefirantin of urba       ofuran tomp ta-       capita annua productin of a!l food commdities Production
papilaty of ditaferont dcfinition  1960u 19am   area   19ay  datsec compudes an     feed and sand for agriculture Food commodities
ability of data among counies 1960.1970. and 1983 data.      indude primary commodiies (c.g. supane instead of supr)
,hpmldgi P-ejedr a                                             whicb are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffe and te ar
Popdarin yr war 2000-The projection of population for 2000.    crduded); they compris cereals. root cops puls  oil seds.
rmae for each economy separtdy. Surang with informaton on      vegetables, fruits, nuts. sugrc    and sutgr  bee  livestock and
total popul ionby age and sex fertility rates, mortalitym* and  iivestock products. Agrepte production of each country is bsed
intenutionat migration n the boe year 1980. these paaneters    on national aveage producer price weights: 196165. 1970. and
we  proected at five-year intrvals on the bais of generaiurd   1982 data.
asumptions until the population became sationay.               Per Capta SpIy of Csaies (pce  4of r eaees)-.Compum-
Stwriawy populanmm-As one in which age- and se-specific mor-   ed fromn calorie equivalent of net food supplies availablk in Cow:ary
tality ras bave not chnged over a long period, wbile age-specific  per capit per day. Avaible supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have smultaneously remained at replacement leved  tion. imports less export  and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate- 1). In sucb a population. the birth rate is    exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age sructure is also  food procesing. and losss in distribution. Requirements were
constant, and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
sire was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temnpeature. body weights
the population mi the year 2000. an the rate of decline of fetility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 perent for
rate to replacement 1evel.                                    waste at household level 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Ptapdatrne Maopiemum-ls the tendency for population growth to  Per Capta Sappy7f Phrein (grem, pgr day)-Protein content of
continue beyond the utme that repbcment-levd fetility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is ddined
achievd. that is. even after the net reproduaion rate has rched  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year i is neasured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the utimte sauonary populaton to tne popWulaton in  day and 20 grams of aniul and pulse protein. of which 10 grms
the year t, given the assumption that fertlity mais at replace-  should be animal protein. Tbes standards.are lower thaD those of
ment kvel from year t onward. 1985 data                       75 grVns of total protein and 23 grams of animl protein as an
Ppmkzm D                                                      aveage for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Aer sqkm.-Mid-year populaon per square kilometer (100 hec-    Supply. 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
mae) of toul area; 1960,1970. and 1983 data.                  Per Capta herde  Supl From Aaimtand Pre-Protein supply
Per sq.km. qarieznzhmwllad-Computed as above for agricultural  of food deived from anmals and pulses in grams perday: 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                         1970 and 1977 data.
PJps/agi  Age S5crr e(jerceut)-Children (0-14 years). work-   CAl (aes 1-4) Death Rae (per thoumad-Number ordeaths of
ing age (15-64 years). and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population 1960, 1970. and 1983 data.             group in a given year. For maot developing countnes data derived
pt  Greth Roe (A u  l growth rates of                         from life tables 1960, 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population fr 1950-60.1960-70. and 1970-83.     HEALTH
P  puasw Growr w er             hAnnual growth rates           Life Expectrwy  at SPA (Ja")-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60.1960-70. and 19783 dta..      infant would live if prvailing patterns of mortality for all people



- 41-
ANNEX I
at th time of of its birth w o the do S througOut its lf        PA-kUeher Ra - Fbnwy. Jd ucUIolU-Towu stden a-
1960 1970 ad 1983 datn                                         roiled n puma  an  aondary kwv  didd by  umedn of
lmew M_wahaf  la  (per  am)-Number of infants who die           aches in the con_espag klels
befrae reaing on ye  of ae per thouand live binrhs in a give
year, 1960.1970 and IM3J data.                                 CONSUMPTIrON
Acm  toSO  m         PM          peea)-wArn  M                 ?EJEEq   Cw  (per 1ahn_  papailalondm-Pammenger can cwm-
w e-Numbor ar peob (totaL  ban and rural) with rea             prne moor cors matin les hn eigt peromosi; xcludes mmbul-
aco   to ae water  upply (indes ueaed surfam waters or         mcess he s Nd Military veide.
umaimted bet unownonand wter w mcm as that tu frm po tece d- a-I R      Rete, (pop uhms dpepemie.j-AI typea or rnenm
bOIshIol  spril  5d  aIy Uwe) mpeantags of thr mapc-.    for radio broadcao enr public pe thouand or popltio:
tive populations. In an urb  ansaea a publi fountain or sanmipoe  excudes uni-liemed recevm  in couies and in year when
loed n2 more than  0 mer from a home my be considered a            ution  radio ss wa in effect. dt  r rcent yean my
as being within mumomble acornm of that home. In nata   -       o  ecpmkso    ot oti  biWlcnig
reasonableinutes would implythat the hotuewife or  m   t                                   cout   aihed li
bomelbold do not bh   to spend a diproporooa  pa of t  day     TrvAti Ve(per s mdp.a            -TV.reiver forbroadcast
m fe    s be faW s wtk needs                                  tto gener  public per thousad population; excude unliend TV
Acmi Eua  DIWd (pem  of                   kfi-v  an counties and in yeas rsm w     regstration or TV s  wau
d rre-Num.nber of people (totaL urban, and rural)            ind by  efrlcL
ema   dispol as psuages of thir respecdve popula .                                                   -      ows the aver-
Excta dispos  may include the collcon and disposaL with or     ag crculation of -daily Iual imnee  newspper defined as a
without treatment, of human ceeta and wase-waeer by water-     peiodical pubcto devoed primay to rawrding pnaw
born systi or the mae of pit privio and simlar    iouL         It is conidered to be -daily" if it appes at east four tim.es a week.
PoahI -r pop Phy*Am-Populo  divided by nmber of pr-            Cumm Amnl Au,wdrnor p           _Cq    par Yer-based on the
ti    phyician quifioed from a medical school at univrty level.  number of tics sod dunng the yea  icluding admison to
F-lip'  per Nwsisg P.auas-o pulation divided by number of     dniv4m cinmn and mobile mn.
practiig male and remale grdua  aute. assi t nurses,           LABOR FORCE
practical nurses and unuring auxiliaries.                      TuaI Le  AwFea (thousi-Econocy Rctive persons, in-
toal uI   n and  ua) diid  by their rsp         numnber of     cuding armed forns and unmpoyed but exludig housewives
(totaL urb-ablcinpS_anuld r_    divided by dm -porti  nmber of  students, etc.. cov   populaon   all as. Ddinitions i
hota beds a        in pubic and pivat generladspecialied       varo  counies aite not compaa_k 1960, 1970 and 1983 da.
hopitals and rehablitaton centrs Hospital are establihments      
pemaenty saftd by at lea one physicia  Establishments proy-                         I (p F l labor form as pecata  of total labor
iding princip.ly comodial ca  aw  ot included. R.J hosil       foce
row.e include heth ad medcld         not pemanenty saffed      A      ,vmhw (eJpuarr-Labor for in fu rmingforefry, hung
by a physicin (but by a medic  aint. ntnure mnwif   ec)        and fishing at pntage of total lbor form; 1960. 1970 and 1980
whicho fr in-pae  accmmdonnd povide a limited ran              datL
of modiedica facilities.                                       ladesry,      fu)Labor for in mining, consructon, mann-
Ad k  pw Heasp    Sed-Totl number of admissonsto or           factunng and eecticity. watr and S as percentage of tota lb
discharges from hospita divided by the number of bes           fonm. 1960. 1970 and 1980 dta.
A"4F siMA m(  Wk-aLml, rndfeaaL-ft -ii-1ti
HOUSING                                                        or acty rms ae computd as touaL. nal and   al Mabor faom
Amqe Sa of HmwiM (p.               per hWMseM.-eo"ML Ne,6    as percentages of totaL mal and fema  popuato  of al ago
endud-A housbcod co t of group ofindividuals who share         mpecdvey; 1960. 1970. and 1983 duaa. These baed on WLs
living qars and tbeir mai meal A bouder or dger may or         partcpauo rtes  i          age-scx sture ofthe populto  and
may not bc included in the bouseold for stal purposs.         long time trend. A few estmat  are from national sa s
A,ere- ANw   of JPersi pnr p,Rm-E.aml, w        _s, emd nwW-   Ecaaeuc Depedeny Jtio-Ratio of population under IS. and
Avage number of peron  per roam  in all urban. and rural       65 and over. to the working age popuaton (those aged 15-64).
occupied convetional dwellinlp, respectively. Dwdling  eclude
nu--permanent stur  and unoccupid p                            INCOME DlltRlBUTlON
Pecarq  *fDmEw *t* Elcriia-y 1"ms          , _,d MWrL-         PArcer  J of Ted Dile lm.. (her  i cas ed kind)-
Conventional dwelUin  with eletrcity in living quartr as perc-  Accruing to pemrtile groups of households raoked by tota house-
tag of total, urban and ra dwedlin    evedy,                  hold inoome
EDUCATION                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A4asiW Ewanudh- Ra_o                                           The following estimates are very approximate measures or poverty
PJmay whool - iogld. mk  amd fak --Gross totaL male  nd       levels and should be interpreted with consideable caution.
fermaleenrolmnen or al   e at the priry level as peentges of   Esumtled Absolat Powr lcer  Land (USS per cpiar)-wam
respective prinmary school-age populations. While many countries  and nral-Absolute poverty income level is that income level
consider primary chool age to be 6-11 yeas othen do not The    below which a minimal nutntionaly adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practics in the ages and dumtion of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
a reflected in the rtios given. For some countries vith universal  Ei.moed Rekuuie Povfey lace    Lewd (LSS per cWpinSraci- i
ducation. gross enrollment may exeed 100 percent since some     d rra--Rural relative povcrt  income lkvel is one-third of
pupils are below or above the countrv-s tandard primary-school  avemge per capita personal income or the countrv. Urban level is
age.                                                           derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secoarad    school - total, mal andfemk--Computed as above:    living in urban areas.
scondary education requi at last four years of approved pri-   Ersjred Pop          ,Iow. Absolure Povery Incom  Lel (per-
mary insthon  provida  eneraL vocatKomal. or teacher trang     cenJ_-wrn aaid rarel- Percent of population turban and rural
insuctions for pupils usully of 12 to 17 vears of agc correspond-  who are -absolute poor.
ence cours  ar generally excluded.
VeelnJ Eimiohz   (pnw  of sCOAnr-Vocational institu-                     Comparative Analysis and Data Division
toos include technicaL indutriaL or otoer programs which operate      Economic Anialsis and Prjctions Department
independently or a departments of secondary insttutions.                               June 1935



- 42 -
Foulatelon   39.7 .111cm (1956*)                                                     AIIIUI I
off per Capital  053300 (1936)
KENTA   zOmiNIC sNICATOWI
JA_.?t                     Animal eouti rots (2) at Cmtnt aPricie
(milli" U3S
st eurr ne ptle n)          Aetuel        ~        ~ prl-otn   fte1-ette
NATIONAL ACCODUM
Crean domeatic Pr*dmctr-          5.93               . 3    3.9    1.7    3.5    0.9          4.0        6.7
Agriculture                     1.93              1.1    5.9    6.7    *.5   -3.3 5          .n        64.
Zaduatry                          933             5.1    6.3   -0.6       1.5    2.1        *.0       5.2
Serviesr                        2.407             5.5    6.9    0.3    3.5    3.5          4. n         .7
Consumption                       *.754            -1.3   -135      6.6    6.4   -6.3         2.1       4.3
Creg  invaoteat                    1.289           39.0   -2.1  -23.1   -6.5    6.0           6.3       6.1
Iprta of GM1                      1.560             5.5   -6.5    0.3    0.0   -4.1          8.3        4.6
Imort of on                       1.706            10.5  -20.7  -16.6   -6.2    0.0          2.4        *.5
Crown domestic  *avlng             1.114           40.7   25.3   -6.5       1.7   -1.0      -0.9        4.9
"RICES
aOP deflator (1934-100 In U5$)                       51.5   62.8   73.3   92.A  100.0    111.0.
Rxe_cba     rat. (lAb/US)                             7.4    9.0   10.9   13.3   164.          16.5
Share of CM at Narket Prcam (1)              Avarag Aemml Ineraa_  (Z)
(at Currat oe.rt)                         at e         ri'ce )
1950    19"    196        1990     19-75-7   19734 193831-    1956-36  1915-90
Croa  dome_tic prod.ctL4  100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0         9.6      6.0      2.2     4.0      6.9
Agriculturm             27.3    26.7    26.7    26.4          3*O      3.2      2.1     4.0       6.5
luduary                 1858     15.7    1538      16.1      13.6      7.9      1.2     4.2      5.4
Sarzyiea                33.6    43.8    63.7    43.8          7.5      5.4      2.7     4.0       4.9
Cananaptico               51.4    50.3    78.5    77.6         11.5      6.2      3.0      3.1     4.4
Cream lumt_tn            30.0    21.6    21.7    23.2         -3.5    12.2    -4.9       4.2      6.6
Itport t of GM            23.6    26.5    30.3    27.2          1.7      1.3    -2.2    11.2       2.1
I_porTm of GM"15          40.0    28.6    30.9    23.0         -2.0      6.4    -3.4      5.0      2.3
Cream natienal marln      17.5     13.5    19.2    21.5        -0.9     11.2    -0.2      8.7      1.3
An I of COP
CENTEIL CO9UIHZN  nflID   zr                                                Prawiniam  re  et
19J0/81    1981/82    1982/33    19631U6   1956/5    195/6g
imuanom and Granta                 26.1       26.0       24.7       24. 1      23.3      26.0
amnum                          25.3            124.6  -         22.8       22.1      21.9
Crant                           0.3        1.6        3.5        1.2        1.7        Z.1
ExpaWIturam                        36.8       33.6       26.4       25.6       27.9      25.0
Currmnt expandiura            -fI         23.5  22 !            2321.0   Z 0T7   Z    07
Capital axpenetura             10.1        9.9        6.2        7.6        7.2       7.1
Overall eab dtticit                 9.5        6.7        3.1        4.2        L0       4.1
Avmraum Annual Growth (3)
(at cansant riaes)
1960-70    1970-75     1975-0      195-3"6     196-90
o07Z   sDcATS
orP  eow h rate (X)                       5.2         5.5         6.3         6.2        5.2
C   paw capita groth rem (Z)              2.2         2.2         1.3         0.2         1.2
Eru eonmmtie        e ermth rt-. tS)       -           -          6.9          -          -
IO0                                      6.1         A.2         *.5         5.3        4.3
Wargml mawlg  TWA                          .27        0.00        0.21        0.355      0.069
import  lsaticty                          0.9        -0.2         1.1         0.1        0.9
.    At ma_t pric-m; ce tare aprmm  at factor coa tnd OW VW             am   dm to emcluam. of
-  indiract cma and muadi
i aecl yTaac  maang Jaw 30.
March 1936



- 43 -
Populatlon:      19.7 million (1984)                                                                AINN" I
CGP Per Capita: USS300 (1984)                                                                       Pa8
KENYA: EXTERNAL TRADE
Amount         - - - - - - - - -  Annual Growth Rates (C) - - - - - - - - -
(million USS                         (At constant 1984 prices)
Indicator                  at current pricee)                     Actual                           Projected
1984           1980    1981    1982    1983    1984            1985    1986
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports            1,078              3.2   -5.2    -3.3    -1.5   -1.9              9.5    18.9
Priary                         917            -7.3      6.7    13.9   -1.1   -2.0             10.5    21.3
Manufactures                   161            29.6  -16.3  -16.5   -3.0    -0.8                4.0     4.0
Merchandise imports            1,548             14.7  -22.8   -12.5   -11.3       7.3           2.8      5.3
Food                           155            57.6  -48.4    58.4  -10.1        8.8            6.8   -15.7
Petroleum                      523             16.7  -21.5    -6.7   -18.2      0.4           -0.4     3.5
Machinery and equipment        450             19.0  -22.0   -19.2  -13.4    12.1              4.2    10.0
Others                         420              5.0   -7.1    -3.6    -1.3    11.5             3.7    10.6
PRICES
Export price index               100.0          57.6    63.2    69.4    83.3  10(1.0            85.8   105.5
Import price index               100.0          50.4    64.4    74.0    94.8   100.0            97.2   101.4
Term  of trade lndex             100.0          114.4    98.1    93.7    87.9   100.0           A8.3   104.0
Composition of Merchandine
Trade (2)                            Average Anmul Growth
(at current prices)                       (at conntant prices)
1981     1984     1986      1990       1974-79   1980-4   1984-86   1986-90
Exports                             100.0    100.0    100.0      100.0          -        -2.2      14.1       1.5
Primary                           87.7     85.1     87.6       84.8         2.1        2.2      15.8      0.7
Manufactures                      12.3      14.9     12.4      15.2       -11.3      -3.4        4.0      6.7
Isports                             100.0    100.0    100.0      100.0          -        -7.3       4.0      4.2
Food                               4.8     10.0      8.4        7.7       -10.4        5.9      -5.1      2.2
Petroleum                         36.9     33.8     32.2       30.1        -2.8      -8.5        1.5      2.5
Machinery and equipment           27.2     29.0     30.7       33.1         1.7      -7.6        7.1      6.2
Others                            31.2     27.2     28.8       29.1          -         0.9       7.1      4.6
Dlrection of Trade
Share of trade with          Share of trade with        Share of trade with capital
industril-  countries (Z)    developing countries (Z)      surplus oll exporters (2)
1979     1981     1984       1979     1981     1984       1q79      1981      1984
Exports       54.4     42.1      56.3      34.0     45.0      33.8       1.8       2.3        0.7
Imports       67.4     57.3      56.5      10.0      8.2      17.7      20.3      33.5       24.1
March 1986



- 44 -
Population:  19.7 mllion (3984)                                                                               ANNEX I
GNP per CaPita:  USS300 (19R1)                                                                                 Page 7
KENYA: BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(millionm USS at current prtces)
Actual                                   Estimated
19A0        10R1       1492        1983        1984        1985        198h
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods and services             2.038       1.747       1.hl6       1.507       1.621       1.577       2.101
Exports of goods                        1,ZF43      T.T50         934         923       1.07R       1,013      1.480
Exports of services                       795         697         6R2         584         543         564         621
Imports of goods and services             3.07n       2.584       2.161       1,7A7       1.q56       1.966       2,2R9
Imports of goods                        2,633       2,148      i72        1T.426        T17N        1,547       P1,P4/e
imports of services                       437         436         440         361         405         419        445
(of which:  interest)                  (131)       (162)       (178)      (362)       (181)       (191)       (198)
Transfers (net)                             140          95          67         115         147         104          87
Current Account 8alance                    -R92        -743        -477        -165        -185        -285        -101
Direct investment (net)                      7R          60          60          74          40          42          43
Public MLT  loans (net)                     444         275         217          A4         167         215         274
Gross disbursements                       S62          37         397         262         3AZ         1.6A       1.-6
Repayments                                1IR         162         3R0         178         215         753        222
IMF Credit (net)                             69          27         147          96         -11         1.         -42
Purchases                                  7R          35         165   16.2    6           7         113        -
Repurchases                                 9           8          19          16          59          69         92
Ocher capital (net) /8                      168         131          33          76           A         -36         -1.
Change in Gross Reserves                   -153        -250         -20         165           2         -20         lin
Memorandum items:
Gross reserves at year's end              500         250         230         196         398         378        488
Reserves as weeks imports                  10           6           7          10          11          9          10
Current account deficit as 2 of GOP
Including official grants /b           12.5       I1.n         7.7         2.R         3.1         4.7         1.5
Excluding official grants /c           14.2        t2.3        9.n          5.n        5.5         6.5         2.A
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross Disbursements
official grants /d                      123          82         80         125         1SO
Concessional loans                      178         149        191          92         204
Bilateral-DAC                         6*         106.         85           4q
Bilateral-OPEC                        -            R           6           A          38
IDA                                   72          15          85          20          16
Other                                 41          22          15          26          39
Nonconcessional loans                     383         28R        Z06         171         179
Official export credits                  16          31         16          51          17
IBRD                                     66         59          85          99         128
Other multilateral                       16          15         25           R           18
Private-source                          307         IR3         RO          13          16
Public MLT loans - total                  562         437         397        262         3R2
/a  Includes short-ter, capital, commercial hunk's net foreisn position. errors and omissions and valuation
adjustment.
/b  Including official grants  above the line  as an item contributing to the determination of the current
account deficit.
/c  Treating official grants as a  belov the line  Item which contributes to the financinz of the current
accounc defizit.
/d  -Government transfer receipts- In the balance of payments.
7e  Including the purchase of the gun boats and airplanes.
March 1986



- 45 -
ANNEX I I
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as of March 31, 1986
- - -  US$ Million
Loan or                                                              Amount (Less CancelLations)
Credit I   Year   Borrover   Purpose                                Bank 1,    IDA    Undisbursed
Thirty-six (36) Loans, of which six were cancelled, twenty-eight
(28) Credits and two (2) Third Window Loans Fully Disbursed*         561.45    360.06
1449       1977    Kenya     Bura Irrigatlon Settlement              31.00                8.31
750       1978    Kenya     Small Scale Industry                               7.67      2.76
1550       1978    Kenya     Second Urban                            25.00               21.23
1637       1979    Kenya     Rural Water Supply                      20.00               18.20
1684       1979    Kenya     Highway Sector                          90.00                5.74
914       1979    Kenya      Smallholder Coffee Improvement                   27.00    22.02
959       1980    Kenya      Second Integrated Agric. Dev.                     12.00     6.74
962       1980    Kenya      Baringo Semi-Arid Areas                           4.00      1.08
1799       1980    Kenya     Third Power (Olkaria Geothermal)        40.00 21             2.32
1817       1980    IDB       Fourth Industrial Dev. Bank             30.00               11.36
1045       1980    Kenya     Export Promotion Technical Asst.                   4.50      3.74
1051       1980    Kenya     Fisheries                                          6.50     6.33
1107       1981    Kenya     Fifth Education                                   40.00    29.16
1976       1981    Kenya     Railway                                 58.00               10.40
1995       1981    Kenya      Fourth Agriculture                     25.00                6.29
2065       1982    Kenya      Petroleum Exploration                   4.00                0.55
(2098      (1982   (Kenya    (Forestry III 3/                         21.50               21.50
(1213      (1982   (Kenya    (Forestry III                                      16.00      6.19
1237       1982    Kenya     Cotton Proc. & Marketing 3/                       22.00    20.33
1238       1982    Kenya     Integrated Rural Health &
Family Planning 3/                             23.00    13.75
2155       1982    Kenya      Second Telecommunications              44.70               18.26
1277       1983    Kenya      Agric. Technical Assistance 3/                    6.00      2.23
2237       1983    Kenya     Olkaria Geothermal Expansion            12.00       -        6.70
1387       1983    Kenya     National Extension 3/                             15.00    10.27
(2319      (1983    Kenya    (Secondary Towns                          7.00                6.98
(1390      (1983    Kenya    (Secondary Towns 3/                                22.00    15.21
2359       1984    Kenya     Kiambere Hydroelectric                  95.00               62.05
(2409      (1984   (Kenya    (Second Highway Sector                   50.00              (49.88
(P017      (1984   (Kenya    (Second Highway Sector                             40.00   (43.02
1486       1984    Kenya     Geothermal Exploration                            24.50    26.01
1566       1985    Kenya     Water Engineering 3/                               6.00     4.21
2574       1985    Kenya      Third Telecommunications 4/           32.60                32.60
1673       1986    Kenya     Sixth Education4/                                 37.50    37.50
1675       1986    Kenya     Petroleum Explor. Tech. Assist.4/                  6.00      6.00
Total                               1,147.25    679.74   538.91
of which has been repaid            136.20      7.60
Total now outstanding               1,011.05    672.14
Amount sold                  11.81
of which has been repaid  11.81        .00
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA                   967.10    632.49
TOTAL undisbursed                               282.38    256.53   538.91
*   In addition, Kenya was one of the beneficiaries of 10 loans totalling US$244.8 million
which were extended for the development of common services (railways, ports,
telecommunications, and finance for industry), operated regionally for the three partner
;tstteq of the former East African Communitv (EAC).



- 46 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. Statement of IFC Investment in Kenya as at
April 30. 1986
Fiscal Year  Obligor                      Type of Business        Amount in USS Million
Loan   Equity   Total
1967, 1968,  Kenya Hotel Properties       Hotels                    5.2     0.7      5.9
and 1973
1970, 1974,  Pan African Paper Mills      Pulp and Paper          22.2      6.3     28.5
1977, 1979
and 1981
1972         Tourism Promotion            Hotels                   2.4      -1/      2.4
Services
1976         Rift Valley Textiles Ltd.   Textiles                  6.3      2.8      9.1
1977         Kenya Conmercial Bank Ltd.  Capital Market            2.0      -        2.0
1980         Development Finance          Development Finance      4.7      1.3      6.0
Company of Kenya Ltd.
1981         Kenya Commercial Finance    Money & Capital Market  5.0        -        5.0
1982         Bamburi Portland             Cement & Construction   4.4       -        4.4
Cement Co., Ltd.             Material
1982         Diamond Trust of Kenya       Money & Capital Market  -         0.8      0.8
Limited
1982         Industrial Promotion         Money & Capital Market  -         0.6      0.6
Services (Kenya) Ltd.
1983         Tetra Pak Converters         Pulp & Paper Products   2.2       0.3      2.5
Limited
1384         Leather Industries of        Tanning                  1.9      0.6      2.5
Kenya Limited
1984         Madhu Paper International   Pulp & Paper Products  37.1        2.0     39.1
Limited
1985         Equatorial Beach             Tourism                  3.7      -        3.7
Properties
1985         Oil Crop Development Ltd.                             9.1      1.4     10.5
Total Gross Commitments                             106.2    16.8    123.0
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                                 62.3     3.7      66.0
Total Commitments now held by IFC                    43.9    13.1      57.0
Total Undisbursed                                    12.2     0.9      13.1
/ S51,395.



- 47 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
KENYA
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
Supplementary Proiect Data Sheet
I. Timetable of Key Events:
(a)  Time taken to prepare the operation:        12 months
(b)  Operation prepared by:                      MALD with
assistance from
World Bank staff
(c)  Project identification:                     February 1984
(d)  IDA appraisal mission:                      February 1986
(e)  Negotiations:                               April/May 1986
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:               October 1986
II.  Special Implementation Actions:
Technical assistance, training and logistical support for
implementing reform programs in the areas of pricing policy, parastatal
reform, and budget rationalization, and for preparing a second phase
operation will be provided through a companion Agricultural Sector
Management Project.
III. Special Conditions:
Special conditions are summarized in Table 2 in the text.
(a) Condition of Board Presentation: The Government will sign an
agreed Letter of Development Policy.
(b) Conditions of Effectiveness for release of first tranche
(US$30 million equivalent):
(i) The Government will implement measures to improve
fertilizer marketing including: an increase in the fertilizer imports,
expansion in the number of distributors and selected end-users, assured
allocations to established importers, and improved coordination of aid
fertilizer;
(ii) The Government will make satisfactory progress in
completing the first phase of the budget rationalization program and will
incorporate the first steps in budget rationalization in the 1986 Forward
Budget;



- 48 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(iii) Financial restructuring and rehabilitation of SONY,
NCPB and NIB will begin;
(iv) The Government will begin implementation of a program to
rehabilitate AFC.
(c) Conditions of Disbursement for release of the second tranche
(US$30 million equivalent):
(i) The Government will make satisfactory progress in
implementing its sector adtustment program;
(ii) The Government will fully implement measures to improve
fertilizer marketing, including increases in fertilizer availability,
expansion in the number of distributors and end-users, assured allocations
for established distributors, announcement of allocations in July,
preparation of an import plan, and improved coordination of aid
fertilizers;
(iii) The Government will adopt a new fertilizer pricing
formula based on world prices and including adequate retail margins and
margins for smaller bags;
(iv) The Government will increase user charges for livestock
services (artificial insemination, dipping, clinical services, and drugs);
(v) The Government will improve grain marketing through
organizational and financial restructuring of NCPB; definition of the roles
of various participants, including KGGCU, in grain marketing; and
improvements to and implementation of its food security plan;
(vi) The Government will complete the first-year action
program for budget rationalization in MALD and the Fv 88 annual budget will
reflect this budget rationalization;
(vii) The Government will make satisfactory progress in the
financial restructuring and rehabilitation of NCPB, SONY and NIB;
(viii) The Government will define AFC's target population
and loan ceilings;
(ix) The Government and the Association will agree on an
Import Forecast Program for the second tranche.
See Table 2 in the main text for a list of major dated covenants.



flZKI3IU Of KTA                            ANNEX IV
MIlNImY OF FINANC-
To  *mMOft A                             49                       THE TREASURY.
PIK. c1.mouI                                                        P.O. box 30007.
Tua'uwm SISuI -NAIRDBI.
Who                                                                    KENYA.
°". 53/017.                                           7tJ      .     I9  .
.... ............ . .... ..                     ........ .       ... . .
o dt.
CONFIDENTIAL:
W. Ward V. K. Ja,yc,
Vice Presidnt,
Easn wd Sothem Africa Region,
World Bank1
WA,1N': D.C. 20433.
Der Mr. Jaycox,
Attached to this covering letter is a docwunt outlining the mderlying
loqg-tern objectives and Tatiwale of Kna' s Agricultural Sector
AMjustent programme, in the inplnhntation of  hidch the Gove=nnt is
seking assistane from the Bank. The programme Was developed in
respnse to growing cowcem with sector perfoTmance. It encompasses
intensive p atry work by the Goveruut of Kenya in the context
of the preparation of our Fifth Devlopment Pla  and the Sessional
Paper No. 1 of 19B6, "Eccmnic Mwanagent for Renewed Growh".
Overall, the Govenuint has detetmined that to meet its dewlopment
challenge, the econ=ry should grow at the rate of about six percent
a year. If the goals wd targets laid don in both the Sessioaul
Paper and the Plan are to be achieved, agriculture will have to play
a decisive Tole.   hPt the goals of the Government ihose attaimmnt
will depend on agcultural perforunce are :  i) provision of food
security for a pqaulation estimted at 35 million in year 2000,
(ii) generation of far family ncmes to sustain an adequate growth
rate for at least the  ext 15 years; (iii)  "eratiRn o£   uplyent
opportwiities to absorb new farm workers; (iv) stiating the growth
o£ prouction of off-fam activities in rral areas, so that off-fa
jobs can gmrow  ahd (v) increasing levels of production and productivity,
thereby generating an incTeased exportable surplus. It is clear to the
Government that to attain goals for agrcultural production and growth,
the widespread  rlketing oi npts, especially fertilizer, will be
crucial. The marketn  arrangements for agricultual commodities (e.g.
grain, mnilk, etc.) will also have to be expanded Wd iproved to better
serve the farmer. Adequate producer prices 3nd incentives should be
aintaed. Access to other inputs such as credit need to be iMproved.
Key organizations or parastatals which provide agricultural support
services to farmers need to be rehabilitated. Finally, the management
of the entire sector needs to be enhanced to allow for better allocation
and utilization of budget resources.  in suary, the Goverrwnt has set
agriculture at the centre of its econmic growth strategy. The proposed
program  wold be a critical step towards meeting the Gverremnt's
objectives. We are of the fim belief that its swcessful inpleentation
wuld provide a smd basis for  enyars econwmic velfare well into the
next century.



ANNEX IV
- 50 -
Ibre spcifically, the objective of tw PrqIo. program  is to proto
ugriculturl growth by rdving policyq  otints, stimulating 1nvetsnt
azid supporting institutional dmln .  The prr focus i5 to lift
the obstacles to Increasing the prouction inmd poductivity of the nearly
tw  illion smllholdor fam families a r o            tho backbo  of Koym'I s
agricultural sector. 7hus the prognum aims to:
Ca)    pxuto intenification of prodction and better use
of Kenya's limited land;
Cb)   iprove prTodcer inwentives; and
(c)    expand the  aIcw of public and private rosources for
agricultural investment.
In order to achieve these objectives the Government has already initiated
or is proposing to implement reform u2asures in five distinct areas:
Wi)    6icultural Irpt §M1: Oir gal is to ensure that farmers
have access to an        equatnd tinely delivery of necessary inputs.
We therefore aim to increse fertilizer supplies and boost fertilizer
use, especially awng sllholiders, tough increasing the efficiency
of fertilizer ilport and mrketing systoms and improving distribution
incentives; assure the supply of improved maize seeds; and improve
the quality and reliability of livestock services while embarking
on a gradual phasing out of related subsidies.
Cii)   Incentives : The program  would focus on maintaining adeqate
proWducer incentives through apprriate pricing policy; decreasing
emsuer subsidies; speeding up payments to farers by marketi
boards;      ng tdelo,un of processing and marketing
chmmels;   d addressing food security, financial und institutional
issues in gri    reting.
(iii)  P!d_eet Rationalizatim  and Sector  Yemnt: This compment
ent&ls a restrucCiiring ukdraf iolazation of public investment
and expenditure in the agricultural sector to ensure that public
investments contribute uore directly and effecU.vely to sectoral
growth. The programe includes increasing real public investment
in agriculture throug  igher sectoral allocations; reduction of
parastatal subsidies and a more regoros control of personnel
costs; reorienti Tipenditures toward high priority prgranuues;
and izprovuets 2n the resource allocation process. In addition,
it would uport strengthening institutional capacity for
agricultural policy plaiming ad anlysis, project managemnt,
and aid coordinaticf.
(iv)   Parastatals: The adjustment progrmt aims to clarify Government
policy an parastatals; begin divestiture of non-strategic parastatals
and zn-strategic parastatal activities; resolve comui parastatal
problems (including  qa t and financial magunt); and
rehabilitate parastatals which are prently uable to f ion on
a financially Lndpedent basis in order to reduce laTge public
subsidies.



ANNEX IV
- 51 -
fly)     c               t    bd:r ftR  pector s   st¶N   s
to ceit &M  be         fh oflow of
credit throuh uwket chles (Delu           ercial bwns)
wwld be Incresed, finaial dcip;ine of public sactor
credit sdm   md inwtitutiia           bu ,nd an
Wrlsd Gt ariultu l credit polirc     lo;ped.
ie scope and content of those reforms hrve bom th  subject of extesive
betwee varinS officials of the Smnyn Gernrit and Bonk Stafj
The prepatim prcess indted in Nbimer 1985 when the progrri.g was
discussed at a form    ended by snler rinm  Gove=umnt Officials and
BM* Staff.  he pc n    f that meting farmd the basis for a
pe     tion report dtted b G v t a  suitted to the Bnk apraisal
missin in Febkuary, 1986.  it s the upted version of that prepartion
report which, attached to this covering letter, makes up the Devoloj=nt
Policy Statant.  It wad be the GIemuint'  ntention to use the
Bank's finaial assistance to support the first two years of the five
year sctor pogram.
In conclusion, I wish to assure you of the Kenya Goenmnt' s caditent
to carry out the necessary oconmic policy refoxms to set the basis
for structural adjustment and self-sustaining developmnt. To that end,
Goerruet lays considerable value an the Bank's participation in this
oeratioa, the first of a series direced at structural adjustnt in
the agriculture sector,
Yburs sierely,



ANNEX IV
Attachment
- 52 -
THE GOVERNMENT OF KENYA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR OPERATION
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1         The Government of Kenya has identified the need for further
World Bank supported structural adjustment of the Kenyan economy. In the
light of the experience gained during the structural adjustment programmes
undertaken over the past five years, it has been agreed that a set of more
limited "sector operations" will be the most appropriate means by which the
Bank can continue to support adjustment of the Kenyan economy. The
agricultural sector has been selected for the first such operation.
1.2         The agricultural sector operation will aim at strengthening
Kenyan agriculture through the support of sectoral policy reform and
institutional development. Structural adjustment has already been the
subject of two broad reform programmes supported by Bank loans, although
only the second of these programmes specifically addressed problems in the
agricultural sector.
1.3         The first loan, approved in 1980, was in support of policy
reforms in the areas of trade and industry, government budgeting, external
debt and interest rates. In July 1982, a second structural adjustment
credit of US$130 million was approved. In addition to continuing to
support the programme initiated under SAL I, measures in the fields of
agriculture, energy and population were also to be supported. Within
agriculture, reforms were to be undertaken in agricultural pricing, grain
marketing, public and financial management and land ownership.
1.4         Performance under SAL II has been mixed. While some reforms
were undertaken, others proved difficult to implement or were precluded by
changed conditions. Within the agricultural sector, the onset of the worst
drought for fifty years prevented any significant change in grain marketing
and only moderate progress has been made so far in the area of land reform.
However, the agricultural pricing objectives were met and substantial
progress was made in budgetary and financial management.
1.5         Despite the problems experienced with the two structural
adjustment programmes, both the Government and the Bank consider that Bank
supported adjustment of the agricultural economy represents a potentially
effective KLeans of accelerating sectoral development. The agricultural
sector operation is seen as a vehicle for achieving this which will allow
the drawbLcks of the previous structural adjustment programmes to be
avoided.
1.6         With the objective of avoiding the problem experienced with SAL
II and tco ensure that the cooperation between the Government and the Bank
is as rproductive as possible, the agricultural sector operation will have
the following features:
a)   policy reforms and institutional change will be limited in
scope;



ANNEX IV
Attachment
- 53 -
b)   they will be concentrated in areas where genuine need has
been identified on both the appropriate nature of the
changes to be made, their importance and their
desirability;
c)   Bank funding will be used to support processes and to
assist the establishment and modification of institutions
rather than being disbursed against the attainment of
targets; and
d)   concensus will be built within the Government by including
in the preparation process those ministries and
parastatals which will be involved in or affected by
implementation;
1.7         In conformity with the above principles, preparation has
involved extensive dialogue between the Government and the Bank.
Participation in this dialogue has included representatives of all the
ministries most closely concerned with the operation and senior officers
from a wide range of parastatal agencies.
1.8         On 12th and 13th November 1985, a high level Agricultural
Sector Operation Forum was held at which there was a detailed exchange of
views between representatives of the Bank, the Government and parastatal
organizations. The purposes of the forum were to: (i) increase
understanding of the nature of the operation at senior levels of the
Government, (ii) discuss the content of possible components of the
operation, and (iii) obtain the reaction and comments of involved
ministries and parastatals.
1.9         The following five agricultural subsectors have been identified
for inclusion in the operation:
a)   Incentives and Marketing;
b)   Agricultural Inputs;
c)   Agricultural Credit;
d)   Agricultural parastatals;
e)   Budget Rationalisation
1.10        Within each of these five subsectors a number of policy and
institutional adjustments will be considered. In sections II to VI these
areas are reviewed in detail and the need for each adjustment is justified
in the context of current policies towards the subsector and the need to
break specific constraints to development. In some areas further study is
required before an optimal solution to particular problems can be
developed.  In such instances analytical studies are proposed.



ANNEX IV
Attachment
-54 -
2. AGRICULTURAL INCENTIVES AND MARKETING
2.1.        Administered AMriculture Prices
2.1.1       Since the mid-1970s, Government-administered producer prices
for the main agricultural commodities have been subjected to systematic
review. The procedure has been gradually refined over the past decade and
the review has become progressively more integrated into the decision-
making process. Since 1980, all changes in the gazetted producer prices of
major commodities have resulted from systematic and integrated review by
the Government, culminating in a decision by the Cabinet.
2.1.2       Details of the procedures adopted during the Government's
Annual Review of Agricultural Prices and of the principles employed in the
determination of recommended producer price levels are well documented.
2.1.3       Since 1980, the review procedure has resulted in substantial
increases in gazetted producer prices for the major commodities. The
producer price of maize has been increased by 109 percent and the producer
price of milk by 154 percent. Other gazetted producer price increases
since 1980 are: wheat (91Z), sindano rice (141Z), sugarcane (126%), seed
cotton (39Z), domestically marketed tea (122Z) and beef (73Z). The most
recent annual review of agriculture producer prices resulted in significant
price incre&ies for maize, wheat, rice, sugarcanu, domestically marketed
tea, milk and beef. These increases were announced in February 1986.
2.1.4       The methodology employed in the Lnnual Review of Agricultural
Prices is considered to be basically sound. However, the empirical basis
for this review will continue to be improved. The following aspects will
be addressed:
2.2         Methods for Setting Prices Aimed at Self-Sufficiency
2.2.1       Export and import parity principles will continue to be
employed in the setting of administered agricultural prices. However,
empirical problems are encountered for those commodities where the aim of
pricing is national self sufficiency. The empirical basis for setting
administered producer prices will be further strengthened for maize, beef,
milk and sugar. This process will continue to be refined each year.
Administered prices are floor prices at which marketing boards, processing
enterprises and private individual purchase farmers' produce.
2.3         Analysis of the Import Parity Producer Prices for Maize and Whe
at
2.3.1       The current methods for determining the export and import
parity producer prices for maize are considered to give estimates of
sufficient accuracy. However, the producer price necessary to ensure
national self-sufficiency in maize will move towards the import parity
producer price over time and more accurate estimation of the import parity



ANNEX IV
Attachment
- 55 -
producer price will therefore be undertaken. This, in turn, will require
more detailed analysis of NCPB marketing costs. More accurate estimation
of the import parity producer prices of maize and wheat is also necessary.
Pricing of seed cotton on quality basis will continue to be improved.
2.4.        A2ricult.xral Commodity -ayment Systems and the Acceleration of
Parastatal and Cooperative Pavments to Farmers.
2.4.1.      For six important agricultural commodities - coffee, tea,
maize, milk, cotton and pyrRthrum - producers in recent years have received
full payment two to fifteen months after delivery to their cooperative or
to a marketing parastatal. For some of these commodities, delays are built
formally into the payment system and farmers in effect fund the crop while
it is held by the marketing agency prior to sale. For other coumodities,
payment delays have been due to partial breakdown of the payment system
resulting from a lack of finance or from inefficient management. Often the
length of payment delay has varied and growers have faced uncertainty over
the size and timing of payment.
2.4.2       The causes of payment delays and the mecaanism through which
they affect farmers are complex and differ substantially between
commodities. Whereas for some commodities payment delays have almost
certainly been damaging, for others it is conceivable that they have been
of net social benefit. Variations in payment delays will have a different
impact from the delays themselves and delays which occur routinely will
have a different impact from those which occur irregularly and cannot be
easily predicted. Moreover, the impact of a particular type and length of
delay will differ between annua. and perennial crops and between crops
which are produced throughout the year and those which have distinct
harvest seasons. The impact of payment delays will also depend an the
structure of production and the access of farmers to capital markets.
Thus, payment delays must be analysed commodity by commodity and remedial
measures specific to each commodity must be developed.
2.5         Coffee
2.5.1       There have been a number of studies of parts of the coffee
payment system. However, there has been no comprehensive study of the full
system, of the relative importance of the different payment delays, which
exist in the system, or of the impact of these delays on growers' welfare
and incentives.
2.5.2       While further research into payment delays is urgently needed
prior to the taking of corrective measures, this is not the case for the
size of payments from cooperatives to farmers. Without further research,
it is evident that large cooperative deductions have been damaging to the
coffee sector and need to be eliminated. It is important that a system be
developed and implemented which prevents cooperatives from deducting from
the payout for coffee any costs which are unrelated to the processing and
marketing of coffee. Such a system will have a substantial impact on the
national average payout to smallholders for coffee and could, in addition,
be expected to lead to a minor improvement in the speed of payment. By



ANNEX IV
Attachment
- 56 -
October 1986, both coffee cooperatives and all other cooperatives which
market farmers' crops and livestock products, will not be permitted to
deduct from payouts to farmers any costs unrelated to the processing and
marketing of the commodity in question.
2.5.3       The present system of payment has remained broadly unchanged
for over thirty years. It is extremely complex and would seem unsuitable
for an industry in which small producers and small deliveries are dominant
and are continuing to gain in importance. Possible changes range from a
comprehensive set of measures aimed at improving the present system, to the
introduction of a new system of marketing and payment.
2.5.4       Given the great importance of coffee payments, priority will be
given to the development of a set of proposals for an improved system of
marketing and payment after a comprehensive study of the coffee industry
has been undertaken.
2.5.5       In the light of the f'ndings of this study, a system will be
introduced by October 1987 under which the timing of payment of coffee
farmers is improved.
2.6         Smallholder Tea
2.6.1       Tea smallholders receive a first payment for deliveries made
during each month and a final payment after the end of the crop year. The
first payment is 'nvariably received within thirty days of the end of the
month and the second payment is made in the October following the 30th June
end of the crop year. The system operates efficiently and growers have
experienced no uncertainty as to the timing of the first and final
payments.
2.6.2       However, the proportion of the final price accounted for by the
first payment has declined from 92 percent. in 1968/69 to an average of 32
percent over the past five years, with the result that the payment system
now embodies substantial delay. The affects of this delay are not known.
The future ratio of the fir:t to the second payment is the main issue
related to the payment system for smallholder tea.
2.6.3       The government will carry out a study to determine the optimal
size of the first payment relative to the second, aimed at developing
guidelines for the setting of the first payment. These guidelines will be
developed by October 1987.
2.7         Pyrethrum
2.7.1       The delays in payment by the Pyrethrum Board of Kenya in
1980181 were entirely the result of stock accumulation and a lack of
adequate working capital. The Board is now in a healthy financial
situation and is accumulating a cash reserve from profits which it is
making on its export sales. The key to ensuring prompt payment in the



ANNEX IV
Attachment
- 57 -
future is the careful management of domestic and exports aimed at ensuring
that domestic stocks do not accumulate beyond the level which the Board can
fund from its own resources or the level which is nationally optimal.
This, in turn, requires a more flexible pricing system than that existing
at present.
2.7.2       In line with Government policy on the accounting practices of
the parastatals, the Board's financial year will be changed from October-
November to July-June as from July 1986. However, a July-June year is not
suitable as a basis for domestic pricing or for export price policy. Given
this, a more flexible producer pricing system than that which exists at
present would seem desirable, the PBK intends reviewing the current system
during the course of 1986.
2.8         Cotton
2.8.1       Payment delays in cotton have stemmed from administrative
problems at the primary marketing level and from the financial structure of
the Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Board. A package which addresses these
two problems has been developed jointly by the Government and the Bank.
The objective of the package is to restructure the cotton industry and the
Board in order to speed up payment to all farmers within one month from
1987.
2.9         Maize
2.9.1       With the exception of 1983/84 and the current 1985I86 crop
year, maize farmers have not experienced payment delays during the 1980s
for maize delivered to the National Cereals and Produce Board. The system
normally operates smoothly, with farmers being paid by cash or cheque
either immediately or with very little delay.
2.9.2       The delays which have occured have resulted from the Board
having insufficient working capital to finance the purchase and storage of
above normal crops. Payment delays are one aspect of the broader food
security issues of national reserve and external trade policy for maize and
cannot be useful if treated in isolation. However, the Government
recognises the importance of paying maize farmers on time. The NCPB
finance and management will be restructured in order to ensure that farmers
are paid within one month of delivery of their produce.
2.10        Milk
2.10.1      Existing legislation and the licensing powers embodied in the
Daily Industry Act are to a large degree, to determine the structure and
hence the performance of the milk marketing system. A policy of granting
licenses to cooperatives and the private sector to collect and distribute
milk will continue using existing legislation.
2.11        The Reduction of Consumer Subsidies
2.11.1      The policy of the Government on the pricing of basic foodstuffs
to consumers is set out in Sessional Paper No. 4 of 1981. Government
policy is to subsidise the consumer price of formally-marketed imported



ANNEX IV
Attachment
- 58
maize, should the nation be forced to import at a price higher than the
comparable price in the official domestic price structure. The Government
also explicitly subsidises food for famine relief in drought-stricken areas
and finances school feeding programmes. With these exceptions, no formal
policies exist for the subsidization of foodstuffs and no explicit consumer
subsidies are built into the official price structures for domestically-
produced agricultural commodities. Where there are in-build implicit
subsidies, the government is taking steps to eliminate such hidden
subsidies in domestic price structures. In 1985 the retail prices for beef
and maize flour were increased in real terms and, in the recently announced
price structures for 1986, food subsidies have been reduced.
2.12        The Grain Marketing System
2.12.1      The Government's objective is to improve efficiency of the
grain marketing system and to ensure food security through measures to
increase NCPB's efficiency and to increase the number of participants in
the system. A number of initiatives have already been made in this regard:
a)   In February 1986 a decision was made to allow maize
producers to sell directly to millers without the
involvement of the NCPB;
b)   The KGGCU is now buying wheat as an agent of NCPB;
c)   A study of NCPB financial and management systems is being
undertaken and will be completed by October 1987, with a
view to strengthen these systems;
d)   Government is studying the recommendations of the Grain
Marketing Study, on how to further improve grain
marketing. Any further role of the KGGCU and other
participants may be considered in this context.
2.12.2      It should also be noted that 70Z of maize produced is either
consumed on the farms or handled privately.
2.13        Food Security
$.13.1      The central objective of national food security policy is to
ensure that an adequate supply of nutritionally balanced foods is available
in all parts of the country at all times. Given current resource
constraints, the immediate aim of food security policy is to obtain a
calculated degree of security at the lowest cost. This is achieved
through:
a)   increasing food production in all areas of the country;
b)   emphasizing drought-resistant crops such as sorghum and
millet in dryland areas;
c)   the establishment of a food commodity monitoring and
reporting system;



ANNEX IV
Attachment
_ 59 -
d)   improved monitoring and forecasting of weather conditions
in the main agricultural zones, and wider dissemination of
information on expected weather trends;
e)   regulation of food exports to maintain domestic supplies
and importation of food as necessary to meet nutritional
requirements; and
f)   accumulation of a multi-commodity strategic food reserved
from domestic surplus and grain supplied on concessional
terms to be used during periods of crop failure or other
emergency situation.
2.13.2      A review will be undertaken, to suggest improvements in the
food security plan, and stepR taken to commence implementation by October
1987.
3.          AGRICULTURAL INPUTS
3.1         Introduction
3.1.1       The structure of the commercisil sector of Kenyan agriculture
has changed fundamentally during the past 20 years. Whereas at
Independence it was dominated by the large farm sector, by the 1980s it had
become dominated by smallholdings, i.e. 60 percent of the arable land in
Kenya is now occupied by some 2 million smallholdings of which 75 percent
are less than 2 hectares. Smailholders now produce an estimated 45 percent
of marketed maize, 50 percent of marketed milk, 60 percent of marketed
coffee, 35 percent of marketed tea, 60 percent of marketed beef and almost
all of the marketed production of rice, cotton and pyrethrum.
3.1.2       The process of subdivision, which led to this fundamental
change in the structure, was accompanied by a change in the structure of
production. Large areas of land which had been used for livestock
enterprises were turned to crop production, particularly maize, and as a
result the production of maize kept pace with population growth. However,
the process of subdivision has slowed considerably, and the scope for
bringing new land into agricultural production is now extremely limited.
The MALD estimates that the area planted to maize cannot grow by more than
1 percent per annum. Thus the only way to maintain the growth in the
production of food crops at the same rate as the increase in population is
through increasing the yields on the areas already under cultivation.
3.1.3       There is considerable scope for increasing the yield of
smallholder agricultural enterprises. Average maize yields are at present
around 2 tonnes per hectare, yet good husbandry combined with fertilizer
and improved seed varieties can lift this to something in the order of 6
tonnes per hectare. Smallholder dairy enterprises produce around 900
litres per cow per year, yet can easily reach 2,500 litres given improved
management and a wider access to veterinary services and inputs.



ANNEX IV
Attachment
-60 -
3.1.4       The marketing channels which have developed in Kenya for the
supply and distribution of inputs are both comprehensive and sophisticated,
and the Government perceives no need for fundamental changes in these.
Inputs distribution is largely carried out by cooperative and commercial
distributors. Changes will take the form of modification in Government
policies, shifts in responsibility between institutions and the
strengthening of existing institutions. The Government has identified four
areas where changes can be made which will have a substantial impact on the
use of improved inputs and through this on the growth in agricultural
production. These are fertilizer supply and distribution, improved seeds,
agricultural mechanization, and the supply of livestock inputs.
3.2         Fertilizer
3.2.1       While fertilizer usage grew very rapidly during the 1960s and
early 1970s, the rate of growth in recent years has been very low and
during the 1980s availability has fallen well below estimated requirements.
Furthermore, it would seem that most of the growth during the earlier
period was associated with the estate and large farm sectors with very
little being used by smallholders. It has been estimated that in 1983
smallholder maize producers aecounted for only 6 percent of total
fertilizer use. If maize producers applied the recommended rates of
fertilizer, it is estimated that a further 100,000 tons would be required.
This compares with present annual imports of around 200,000 tons.
.3.2.2      Aid fertilizer makes an important contribution to total
fertilizer supplies. However, coordination of aid supplies and commercial
imports will continue to be improved in order to ensure that they promote
the development of market channels.
3.2.3       The objective of the Government is to increase the availability
and use of fertilizer by all farmers, particularly the smallholder farmers,
to promote efficiency and to increase participation in fertilizer marketing
and distribution through the development and strengthening of the role of
cooperatives and commercial importers and distributors. Measures will
include: i) strengthening fertilizer planning; ii) expansion of commercial
importers and distributors; iii) coordination of aid and commercial
fertilizer; iv) timely allocations; v) packing in small bags; and vi)
giving sufficient retail margins as incentives to distributors.
3.2.4       In the past, inadequate volumes of imports and a less than
optimum timing of the arrivals have been experienced.  As a result there
was often a shortage of fertilizer at critical times, particularly at
planting. The Government has already taken steps to address these
problems, and substantial improvement has taken place.
3.2.5       National requirements for fertilizers are estimated each year
on the basis of crop acreage to be planted adjusted for actual imports the
previous year. Account is taken both of past actual use and the likely
growth in fertilizer consumption. After considering carry over stocks,
donor assistance is sought. The import plan is formulated thereafter. The
difference between the estimated national requirements and donor-pledged



ANNEX IV
Attachment
- 61 -
fertilizer plus carry over stocks is allocated for commercial importation.
A flexibility margin is allowed on expected consumption in order to offset
any shorfalls. The aid and commercial import plan is formulated and
allocations made by May/June. From 1987, the Government will consider
giving allocations in July f4.r the long and short rains, and specifying
quotas for each season.
3.2.6       A Fertilizer Unit will monitor the fertilizer situation and
develop a fertilizer information system covering national fertilizer needs,
imports, sales, stocks and importers performance. This information will be
used for decision-making.
3.2.7       Total fertilizer availability has been increased and will
increase each year, consistent with national deaiLd. Allocations are made
to commercial importers and distributors, cooperatives and other endusers.
In the future, allocations will be expanded, particularly to cooperatives
and endusers.
3.2.8       Proven importers are normally given preference during
allocation exercise in order to encourage investment in specialized
fertilizer handling facilities and the development of distribution networks
in smallholder areas with an overall improved fertilizer availability and
allocation; such proven importers and distributors will have enhanced
allocations.
3.2.9       Currently, fertilizer prices are fixed on the basis of
estimates of international prices. The procedure to establish Benchmark
International C & F prices (BIP) for fertilizer is being developed. Once
this has been completed, wholesale prices for fertilizers will be set on
this basis. Prices of fertilizer will continue to be reviewed once a year
and announced by October each year subject to review ar.d adjustment to take
account of international price changes.
3.2.10      A sufficient retail margin will be included in the pricing
structure to encourage widespread distribution by rural stockists. The
magnitude of the margin will be determined after the result of further
investigation being carried out on costs in the country. The investigation
is scheduled to end in July 1986. In the long term, control prices for
fertilizer will be set for a limited number of distribution centers only
and retailers will be permitted to set their own prices. This will
encourage local dealers to move fertilizer into more remote locations while
assuring farmers the opportunity of purchasing at controlled prices in the
major centres.
3.2.11      Prices for small bags will continued to be reviewed and
gazetted annually as part of the general fertilizer price review.
3.3         Improved Seed
3.3.1       Kenya has one of the best developed commercial seed industries
in Africa and the use of improved seeds is widespread, even amongst
smalIholders.



ANNEX IV
Attachment
- 62 -
3.3.2       The standards of seeds quality control maintained by the
National Seed Quality Control Service (NSQCS) are at present high, but
these are currently threatened by inadequate Government financing.
3.3.3       The major producer of seeds in Kenya is the Kenya Seed Company.
Its effective functioning is therefore critical to the maize industry in
Kenya. The Kenya Seed Company has built up an effective distribution
system for its products, built around an extensive network of rural
stockists. Two essential ingredients to this success have been appropriate
package sizes and retail margins which encourage retailers to stock the
seeds.
3.3.4       Following the recent drought there was a shortage of some
varieties of improved maize seed in some districts. Although the KSC
normally carried stocks of between 25 and 30 percent of annual sales in
order to allow for changes in demand, the shortages of certain varieties of
seeds following the 1984 drought have alerted the Government to the
advantages and the needs of making adequate contingency plans to produce
seeds sufficient each year.
3.3.5       In order to address these issues the government will take the
following actions:
a)   increase user charges for seed certification in order to
help fund adequately the NSQCS by October 1986;
b)   review (with a view to increasing) seed retail margins so
as to encourage seed distribution by October 1987;
c)   provide to NSQCS adequate funding and improve its
management system beginning in 1986; and
d)   review performance of KSC and its management and financial
problems.
4.4.        Mechanization
3.4.1       As smallholder agriculture has gained prominence in the
structure of the agricultural economy, the form and nature of the
mechanization requirements have also changed. Very few smallholdings
require the full time use of a tractor, and there has been an increase in
demand for tractor hire services, as well as in the use of animal draught
and hand tools for land preparation and cultivation.
3.4.2       The Government established the Tractor Hire Service in order to
provide a service to farmers where none existed previously. It has,
however, proved expensive and inefficient compared with private
contractors, and in recent years the area cultivated by the service has
fallen sharply.
3.4.3       A major area of concern has been the proliferation of tractor
makes and models imported into Kenya. This had led to problems of



ANNEX IV
Attachment
- 63 -
maintaining an adequate supply of spare parts, and of providing adequate
servicing and maintenance facilities. The government will take the
following actions:
a)   continue to monitor the importation of tractors and
agricultural machinery with the objective of standardizing
imports so that servicing and maintenance facilities for
farmers are adequate;
b)   continue to assure foreign exchange allocation for
agricultural machinery and spare parts;
c)   continue the development of private contractors and owner
operators by assisting the acquisition of machinery
through credit;
d)   rehabilitate and reorganize the Ministry's machinery
service through boarding of obsolete machines, repair of
serviceable machinery and also instituting a more
effective system of management and user charges and
collections beginning in 1986187;
e)   concentrate its machinery services in areas where the
private sector is not operating;
f)   review the Tractor Hire Service and Plant Hire Service
charges with the view to increase the charges by October
1987;
3.5.        Livestock Services and Inputs
3.5.1       The use of improved inputs in the livestock industries has led
to a remarkable increase in the commercial production of some livestock
products - particularly milk and poultry products. The increase has
largely come about as a result of (a) the growth in the use of manufactured
feeds and (b) an improved veterinary service supplying an increasing number
of farmers with improved inputs and services, e.g. tick control, A.I. etc.
Recently both the supply of feeds and the level and quality of services
provided by the Department of Veterinary Services have declined. The
Government is concerned to find ways of reversing this decline.
3.5.2       There are four major services provided by the Veterinary
Department of MALD. These are: (a) vaccinations, (b) Artificial
Insemination Services, (c) clinical services, and (d) tick control
services, i.e. the dipping programme. These services require
rehabilitation and strengthening through the following actions:
(a) MALD will design and implement a national livestock
development programme aiming at coordinating and
prioritizing livestock development activities by December
1987.



ANNEX IV
Attachment
- 64 -
(b) The Kenya National Artificial Insemination Services,
Central Artificial insemination Service and Kenya Milk
Records will be rehabilitated and improved;
(c) The government ls considering a gradual increase in user
charges for A.I. and dipping and full cost recovery for
clinical services and will improve collection methods;
(d) The Government will encourage the production and
availability of sufficient quantities of quality livestock
feeds.
4.          AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
4.1         Introduction
4.1.1       The Fifth Development Plan identified agricultural finance
(along with financial institutions) as one of the three major problem areas
requiring policy and institutional reforms during the Plan period (1984-
88). This priority is explained in part by concern over the amount of
public money that has been pumped into agricultural credit in recent years.
The massive size of this investment already made and persistent problems of
arrears (40% of New Seasonal Credit remains unrepaid) provides a strong
justification for the Government's priority to take action to improve the
credit system.
4.1.2       Credit markets in Kenya are relatively well developed and
provide opportunities for promotion of development. The role currently
played by private banks and other financial institutions needs to be
expanded, particularly in the agricultural smallholder sector. However,
development of credit through the private sector presents an opportunity
for promoting agricultural development without additional strain on
Government management and financial resources.
4.1.3       While the number of farmers using agricultural credit,
especially the new Seasonal Credit Scheme, has increased substantially, the
capacity of the Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC) and the Cooperative
Bank of Kenya (CBK) to train farmers in proper credit utilisation, to
evaluate, service and supervise loans and to provide the credit in a timely
fashion, has not. The fact that the AFC and CBK, until 1985, have been
merely agents in the disbursement of NSCS loan funds, and t:ius have not
been held responsible for the loans defaulted, has probably contributed to
the poor repayment record.
4.1.4       The multiplicity of existing funding sources and lending
criteria for public sector credit has led to duplication and inefficiency
on the part of lenders and borrowers alike. This has led many borrowers to
accept credit for inappropriate purposes, obtain credit from more than one
source for the same purpose and play one source of credit against another
as they have borrowed beyond their repayment capacity.



ANNEX IV
Attachment
- 65 -
4.2         Action to be Taken
4.2.1       It is the Government's objective to make the agricultural
credit system more efficient by increasing credit availability within
agriculture; promoting credit supply to smallholders; and by improving the
financial discipline of public sector credit schemes.
4.2.2       AFC will enter a period of rationalization of its loan
portfolio and of institution building: (a) in this process, AFC will
determine by October 1987, its optimum target population and lending levels
to individual customers and review its administration of development and
seasonal credit; and (b) the focus will be mainly on arrears recovery,
training and institutional development, cost control, financial
restructuring, implementation and evaluation of the North Rift Pilot
Project and replication of the lessons learned from the Project.
4.2.3       Review, by October 1987, AFC's financial structure, its future
role and its institutional status including the administration of the NSCS.
4.2.4       AFC and CBK, as lending agencies for dispensing credit will
have legal responsibility for loan recovery. AFC is already principal for
NSCS lending and the lending rate for NSCS has been harmonized with
commercial banks rates at 14Z. Cooperative Bank will likewise operate NSCS
on a principal basis from 1987.
4.2.5       MALD will provide credit information through its extension
service to farmers.
4.2.6       The Government will improve the coordination and management of
future donor aid chanelled through the Cooperative Bank.
4.2.7       Government will encourage aid donors to increasingly channel
funds to commercial banks at concessional rates of interest for lending to
the agricultural sector, especially smallholders.
4.2.8       Government will improve the management of agricultural
cooperatives by the implementation of the Cooperative Management Pilot
Project from July 1986.
5.          AGRICULTURAL PARASTATALS
5.1.        Introduction
5.1.1       Public institutions and Government investment play an important
role in Kenyan agriculture. Government involvement ranges from
institutions which have a general advisory and regulatory role to those
which are directly involved in the production, processing and marketing of
agricultural commodities. The general objectives of this involvement have
been to promote development and to ensure public control in areas
considered vital to the national welfare.
5.1.2       The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development is
responsible for a large number of parastatal organizations. The share of



ANNEX IV
Attachment
- 66 -
public fu-nds allocated to MALD parastatals from the ministry's annual
development budget has, in recent years, exceeded fifty percent of the
Ministry's total development budget. The range of economic and financial
performance of these investments varies, but an analysis of the 13 largest
processing and marketing parastatals shows large cumulative net losses
(measured in pre-company tax profits) in every year since 1979.
5.1.3       It is recognized that improvements need to be made in the
management of parastatals, both in the ways in which the Government manages
the parastatal sector generally, and in the internal management of the
individual institutions themselves. In this regard, the Government's
objective is to minimize parastatals' share of nublic expenditures through
various measures to reduce their financial losses. Progressively,
parastatals playing a strategic role in the national economy will be
restored to healthier financial and management operations.
5.1.4       Government policy is to maintain and strengthen those
parastatals which have a public welfare role and to divest itself of those
which are essentially commercial in nature and which can best be left to
the private sector. In the light of this policy, the work program of MALD
will focus on four areas of activity:
(a) Development of policy instruments and strategy to
streamline the operations of parastatals;
(b) Progressive divestiture of non-stragegic parastatals, and
reduction of operations of those which are financially
over-extended;
(c) Improvement of organization and management in parastatals;
and
(d) Rehabilitation or restructuring of those parastatals in
key sub-sectors which are presently unable to function on
a financially independent basis.
5.1.5       The main objectives of the action in these four areas will be:
(a) To reduce Government expenditure by improving financial
management and cooperational efficiency in potentially
viable enterprises;
(b) To undertake selective divestiture of either assets or
functions in the parastatals which are no-strategic; and
(c) To implement an improved forward budget process for
selecting public investment activities.
5.1.6       With a view to improving the performance of parastatals, the
Government estatlLished the Inspectorate of Statutory Boards (IS8) in 1966.
A Parastatals ALivisory Committee (PAC) was formed in 1979, and in the same



ANNEX IV
Attackment
- 67 -
year the Investments Division of the Treasury was restructured. A Task
Force on Divestiture was established in 1984, and the office of the Auditor
General (Corporations) was established by the Exchequer and Audit
(Amendment) Act of 1985. The main thrust of the work of these bodies is to
streamline the operations of parastatals to ensure accountability, to
provide advisory instruments and to regulate the parastatals.
5.1.7       Guidelines to parastatals on forward budgeting, financial
control and maangement were issued by the Treasury in 1985. These provide
a basis for control and monitoring of the performance of parastatals by
MALD.
5.1.8       In the meantime; the Government has taken steps towards the
divestiture of some parastatals each being treated on its merit. Partial
divestiture of the Kenya Cashewnut Company and Mwea Rice Mills has taken
place. Procedures have been initiated to restore the Uplands Bacon Factory
to its former owners, UPSA, and to divest the Cotton Lint and Seed
Marketing Board of its functions in buying, processing and marketing of
cotton. A work plan and schedule have been drawn-up to restructure and
rehabilitate SONY and Nzoia Sugar Companies. Plans are also being prepared
to deal with the financing and the operations of the National Cereals and
Produce Board (NCPB) and the National Irrigation Board (NIB) is also
scheduled for rehabilitation/restructuring over the next twelve months.
5.1.9       Training of a number of parastatal staff has been facilitated
by MALD. Such training has already taken place in the case of KCC and
NCPB. Courses on management and business administration (such as accounts
control and auditing) will continue to be offered to managers, chief
executives and other staff. Hence, in view of the shortage of trained
manpower, the Directorate of Personnel Management (DPM) is addressing
itself to manpower development not only to meet the needs for parastatals,
but also to satisfy the national demand for trained manpower. A major task
here is a quantification of the nation's specific needs and drawing-up a
schedule for training.
5.1.10      MALD established a new parastatals division in 1983.  Under the
leadership of the Deputy Secretary (Parastatals), this division is
responsible for the implementation and coordination of MALD'S activities in
this area in consultation with the other Government bodies concerned.
5.2         Action To Be Taken
5.2.1       A State Corporations Bill is under preparation to be an
instrument to provide a policy framework for parastatals.
5.2.2       The Government is carrying out a review of existing laws
affecting agricultural parastatals. During the next two years, this review
will continue, with revision and updating of parastatals' statutes so that
they may reflect the current agricultural situation.
5.2.3       The Government has started to strengthen the Parastatal
Division of MALD so that it is able efficiently to monitor the agricultural
parastatals. Improvement of analytical capability of the personnel of this



ANNEX IV
Attachment
- 68 -
section will be accorded the highest priority over the next two years. An
operational strategy for handling parastatals will be established by
September 1986, which will set out a work plan for dealing with specific
enterprises.
5.2.4       Consideration will be given to the parastatals to be divested;
the aspects (functions or assets) to be divested; the timing of
divestiture; the availability of capital market resources; the methodology
and mechanisms for disposal.
5.2.5       The Government will continue to improve parastatals'
methodology and procedures in accounting and auditing. The aim of the
Government is to standardize accounting and auditing, taking into account
the functions and services rendered by each parastatal.
5.2.6       Needs for training of business managers, market analysts,
financial analysts, accountants, internal auditors and financia3 analysts
have been identified, to improve their ability to carry out effective
project appraisal and monitoring.
5.2.7       Parastatals will be required to draw up staff development
pclinies, on thu. basis of which improved training plans will be elaborated
and implemented.
5.2.8       The parastatals will develop management information systems to
provide timely data on financial status and project performance. This will
enhance the process of management decision-making.
5.2.9       Divestiture of the cotton trading and piocessing activities of
CLSMB will proceed in 1986, and its transformation to the status of a
regulatorv agency for the cotton industry is scheduled to take effect by
mid-1987.
5.2.10      The first steps in reorganizing operations of SONY Sugar
Company have recently been taken under the guidance of an interim
management ccmmittee. A plan for financial and management restructuring is
being drawn up which would lead to full restructuring and rehabilitation of
SONY during 1987/88.
5.2.11      Ar. organizational study of NCPB will be taken in 1986, with a
view to strengthening its management and restructuring its finances. This
study will be completed by October 1987, and implemented thereafter.
5.2.12      In response to a management audit of NIB already completed,
this parastatal is now being reorganized planned financial and management
improvements in NIB will be introduced by October 1987.
5.2.13      Rehabilitation of Nzoia Sugar Company is also a priority, to
reduce recurrent financial losses. MALD is preparing an action plan for
Nzoia which is scheduled to take effect in 1986187.
5.2.14      The Government is currently reviewing the case for divestiture
of the Kenya Meat Commiss'on (KRC). A decision on KMC's future will be
taken in 1986, and follow-up action in i987.



ANNEX IV
Attachment
- 69 -
6.          BUDGET RATIONALIZATION
6.1.        Introduntion
6.1.1       Taking the total GOK budget in 1985/86 of KE 1,562.1 million,
that of MALD is KR 131 million or 8 percent of the total. The recurrent
vote for Agriculture is about 5 per cent of the total recurrent votes while
the Development vote for Agriculture forms about 16 percent of the total of
all developments.
6.1.2       Grants and loans to parastatals have been the major and
expanding items of the expenditure during the 1975176 to 1985/86 period.
On average, 43% of MALD allocations have gone to parastatals, making it the
major expenditure group in the total MALD budget. There is also a
consideration variation between the various budget stages within any one
year, reflecting the frequent need for emergency funding. These emergency
allocations result in funds being unavailable for regular MALD programmes.
6.1.3       Personnel costs constitute the second major group of cost
items, taking , average of 25Z of the MALD budget.  Over the past ten
years, personnel costs have increased by 465Z %nd their share of the total
budget has gradually increased from around 20Z to around 30Z. In the
Recurrent Vote, less parastatals, the share going to personnel costs has
increased from 672 in 1975176 to 73Z in 1985/86. The fact that staff costs
have virtually doubled in real terms, over this period, has led to a sharp
reduction in the recurrent resources available for operating expenses,
since these are treated as a residual after meeting personnel costs. The
inadequate funding of operating costs from the Recurrent Vote has also
resulted in an increasing share of the Development Vote going to the
funding of recurrent programmes.
6.1.4       The shortfall in allocations for investments has also been
substantial (50-70%). Almost all investments consist of new constructions
and the incremental needs of new activities. The heavy emphasis on new
structures takes resources away from maintenance and efficient utilization
of existing facilities, while at the spme time increasing the need for
future allocations for maintenance and operating costs.
6.2.5       In 1981, MALD decided to experiment with the computerization of
their expenditure monitoring system. As a result, final reports were
available more quickly; the accuracy of the reports was improved; the
compiled reports were more focussed and therefore more useful for decision-
making.
6.2.6       The decision to issue the 1982/83 AIEs directly to districts
was designed to solve the problem of delays and misailocations at the
provincial level. It also tripled the amount of work at headquarters since
more AIEs had to be issued. Because of the use of microcomputers, the MALD
issuance was earlier than in any previous year despite the higher work
load. All districts and other spending stations now know their level of
spending authority within two weeks of the start of the financial year.



ANNEX IV
Attachment
- 70 -
6.1.7       Progress has been made in disaggregating ceilings to the level
of the MALD programe divisions, and in the timeliness of budget
submissions to Treasury.
6.1.8       In preparation for the 1986/87 - 1988/89 Progr-ame Review and
Forward Budget, a review of portfolio ox projects was made. This was the
first comprehensive review of its kind, and the lessons learned in its
preparation and use will eni.ure more detailed and accurate documents in
future.
6.1.9       A Budget and Financial Management Calendar, based upon the
budget calendar of the Treasury Circular of July 1985, was prepared and
circulated to all AIE holders. The preparation of a Budget and Finance
Manual was initiated in mid-1985. These documents will form the basis for
a series of field workshops designed to improve further the standard of
budget management in MALD. Six provincial workshops have been undertaken
in 1985.
6.1.10      A start has been made on improving reimbursement procedures in
connection with externally aided projects. The World Bank has now allowed
reimbursement claims to be made on the basis of ledger printouts, instead
of relying on returns from the field and this procedure has solved many
problems. During a recent donor coordination meeting, the Ministry
suggested that other donors might also adopt the procedure already accepted
by the World Bank. Treasury has been requested to formally raise this
matter with the donors.
6.1.11      A Mini Task Force on vehicle management was organized during
November 1984. A Property Control Unit has also been established under the
Finance Section. This has concentrated on clearing pending cases of
accidents and misuse of vehicles, but a start has also been made on
improving the vehicle monitoring system by designing better monthly motor
vehicle reports and ensuring a closer supervision of the reporting system.
6.1.12      Problems affecting extension and research services have been
identified, with regard to both the current levels of budgetary support and
in the way in which these resources are managed. The MALD agricultural
research strategy has highlighted several areas of weaknesses. However
positive steps to rationalize the national research programme have been
initiated.
6.1.14      A start has been made to redress the problems associated with
the MALD portfolio of agricultural development projects through the
establishment of a Project Management System (PMS). This cover all aspects
of the project cycle and is fully integrated into the budget system. It is
the task of the PMS to ensure that decisions are guided by an efficient
flow of information of the field, and that field officers are kept fully
informed of any decisions made at headquarters.



ANNM IV
Attachment
- 71 -
6.3         Actions to be taken
6.3.1       The new Budget Rationalization Programe (BRP), outlined by the
Ministry of Finance in December 1985, will affect the levels of budgetary
allocation to MALD and will provide a comprehensive set of guidelines to
influence the way in which they are managed. The core element of the
entire BRP is the improvement in the allocation of budgetary resources to
ensure that they are used more productively. Initial actions to achieve
this objective will concentrate a smaller number of development projects
more careful selection of projects; more attention to district development
prioritios; the use of operating funds to improve the utilization of
existing capacity.
6.3.2       Treasury Circular No. 3 of February 1986 requires that
Operating Ministries develop an action plan for implementing the GOK Budget
Rationalization Programme. At the same time the Budget Rationalization
Component of the proposed Agriculture Sector Operation requires a similar
action plan. This plan is intended to fulfill both needs. It describes
the actions, responsibilities and timing necessary to carry out the
following:
(a) Establishment of the necessary managerial framework;
Budget Committee and Budget Secretariat;
(b)  Development of a MALD Policy Statement; in project
management, (Parastatals, Capacity Utilization, Revenue
Collections, and Salary and Personnel Expenditures.



KENYA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR OPERATION
BUDGET RATIONALIZATInN AND SECTOR MANAGEMENT
Imolmentstion Schedule
GOALS                                  PROCESS
TIMING
1.  Managerial Framework:             A standing budget and Projects Comittee  with the Permanent
Creation of Budget Committeo           Secretary an the Chairman has been constituted.  This                  Already established.
and Budgot Secretariat                 comittee will be in chargo of policy formulation, solection
of projects assignment of prioritles among various projects
and monitorino the execution of proJects. To assiet the
comittee, s Budget and Projects Secretariat with the Deputy
Socrotary and Admnin tration and Finance has also been
established.
2.  Preparation of MALD Policy        The two MAiLD technicel departments will prepare their                For the preparation of Draft Etimtes 196/U7, this was
Statement                             departmental internal priorities and policy statemnts,                undertaken and the policy statement was finalized by the
DPD will collect them and with an analysi, present to the            Budget and Projecte Committee.  By March of each year
Budget and Projects Committee -hich  11 decide the overall           hereafter.
policy for the Ministry and develop the policy statement
required by Treasury Circular 3 of 18th Feb. 191.
The detailed process of preparation of policy statements,            The Budget and Finance Management Calendar will incorporate
3.  Strengthening of Forsard           information flow to the field and analysis of proposals              the procedure by June 1981.
Budget Procedure                      will be incorporated as part of Budget and Finance
Managent Calendar so that all AIE holders are fully aware
of the process.
4.  Improved Resource                 A combined budget and project comittee has been
Utilization                           established.  Quidelineo  on the Identificatlon, appraisal,           June 19Ss
tJ) Implemntation Project             selection of projects as well as monitoring and evaluation           JU
anagement System effectively          of ongoing projects have been propared.  Items of
activities on which the field officers will send reports
will slsn be decided. Responsibilities for various
activities will bo fixed for different sections of tho
Ministry. A detailed circular Incorporating these vill be
issued.
(b)  As part of the              As part of the preparatlon of Draft estimates  19086/87 has          Already done for the Forward Budget; September, each year, begin
project mnagemnt syste,          been done by the budget and projects comittee.  For the              1916, and March each year for the Annual Estimates.
make decisions on                Forward Budget and the annual Estimates, each year the
priorities among tho             project list will be prepared In accordance with guidelines
ongolng projects as well         of BRP to zchleve progress towards tho goal of projocts
as projects In the               rationalization.  Tho overall prlority of the Ministry will
pipellne  wIth the Intent        be evolved by the Budget and project comIttoe.
of reducing the number of
projects to those high
priority projects the
Milnlstry's budget can
effectively sustaln.
proposals of the parastatals. The Standing groups will
lc)  To ensure the proper             The MALD has established Standing Groups of Ministry                  also examine the functions of the parestateIn and make
functloning and effective              officials to monitor the working of group of perastatals.            proposals for financial restructulig and divostiture, where
financial control of                   They are at present examining the Draft Forward Budget               nocessary.
parastatals.



Suitable monitoring packagoo will be designed by the
Standing Groups, taking the latest Treasury Clrcular No. 2          Already done
of 3rd Feb. US on perastatals as the basia and
Incorporating elemnts specially relevant to the category
of parrstatols.  Results of the examination by the Standing         Every year before Forward Budgot
Group will be used In finalizing parastatal allotments,             boglnning In 196.
Jan. 1997
(d)  An attempt to reduce the         The necessary financial reforms and restructurlng sill lay           Underway continuing through 1988.
trend of parastatals taking a         emphasis on parastetals which have the largest Impact on
larogr share of Mlnistry's Vote       MALD's budoet, as part of the Action Plan for Parastatale
and to progressively enlorge          Reform, Section V, paras. 3.9 to 3.14.
the funds avallable to roguair
Minsltry operations, prograes
and projects.
(e)  To Increaso  the capacity        The two technical departmnts will undertake analysis of              Selection of major services or organization by Sept. 8.
utilization of specific               the present capacity utilization, the priority choices
servicos and selected                 necessary to Increase capacity utillzation and the benefit           Analysis and Initiation of steps by July '87.
organizations,                        that will flow from such Increase In capacity utilization
will be made.  Specific Indlators of performance will be
Identifld so that capacity utiliz lIon, present and future
are measured In quantifiable terso.
(f)  Improve revenue                  A-In-A's will be analysed by services rendered.  baosd on            Before each Forward Budget, starting from the next Forward
collections, reduce arrears and       past trends projections for future will be made as to how            Budget - Lepteber 198S
Increase the revenue sources,         it Is possible to ach7eve the Trasury's proposal of 11X
annual Increase.
Procedures to Improve collection will be evolved;
bottlenecks will be Identifld and steps taken to *elminate         Before beginning of each fiscal year starting from FY '87.
them.                                                               1986
(g)  Attempt to control               The Establishment and Comploments Registers, by category             April '66
salories as a X of recurrent          and by station have boon propared and comunicated to all             by July '66
vote, so that adequato funds          field stations.
are available for operating
expenses.                              MALD will review  Its staffing requirements, Job                    To begin by Sept. '86
descriptions and trends In the eploymnt of various
categories of staff to develop projections of staffing and
appropriate deployment of staff to Increase productivity
and to bring about a balance between personnel and                  Sept. '°6
operating costs.
A policy for the Intake of students In the training
Institutions of the Ministry, Including the possibilities
and need of using the institutlons for In-service training,
wIll be evolved.



AGlICULTURE SECTOR OPEIlATION
Timetable for Adluetment Measures
Asriculturel Inpute
Oblecttvees  To intensify agricultural productlon and met growth, tood   d
foreign exchange targets througb Increasing use of Improved tpuets.
Medium-Term AdJustment Prosram             Encent Actions Taken by                            Actions under the                                      Timing                                Future Actioa
Governent                               Sector ODeration Credit
1.  Pro2ote fertiliser wie,           1(e) - Partial lsport plsn done         l(a) Fertilizer Marketing. leowrt Licansina *nd    l()(t)            t-port plan produced        Ica)    Inpute Ueit to becae fos
epecially among                          In 1985.                        Plinn n  J   J                                                       annouly In J3U                       for initetrig fertilizer.
seallholders, through:                 - Availability target                   Ci)  Strengthen fertilizer planning                            beginning In 1986.                   Ones fertilizer _rket is
substantlally Increased                   through establishing an Inputs Unit,                                                            developed, grsdal pfasag
(a) increasing supplies and              for 1988 long reins                        producing an Annual Import Plan, end              (if)    Increases In each                     Mt of elliuga e  fertilizer
improving efficiency of            -  Ton and users received                    Improving fertilizer statistics.                          annual lmpo-t plan                   tmport, sbject to
fertilizer merketing;                allocations In October               (11) Fertilizer availability target to                          (Jum  1986 and beyond)               Importance of ald fertllzr
1985.  Number of                          incorporate stocka and flexibility               (Oii)   lecreasa  gn each                     is  oteal supply.
comercial distributors                    ergin, and to Increase annually.                          inmnal import plan
incressed.                          (lit) Expand allocations to major end-users                     (Jus. 1986 end beyond)
-  Inputs Unit established                   and new distributors.  Assur.
in April 1986.                           allocations for established                        CIv)   July 1987 and beyond
distributors.
(iv) Simplify procedures and announce b
annual allocations by July each year
for following year's Imprts.
Allocations to be specified by season
(long or short rfans)
(b) Improving coordination        l(b) - Informal coordination of         l(b) Coordination of Aid Fertilizers c/ d/
of aid ferCtilixers and              donors supplying aid                   (i)   Aid fertilizer policy to be                l(b)(1) June 1986                         l(b) Aid fertillrzrs to be allocated
reducing impact on                   fertilizer                                   developed and discussed with                                                              joistly itb   e  rcial licam
commercial channels;                                                              donors.  Enccurage.ent of balance of                                                      to me   dietrtibetors 
- 5000) tons of aid                            payments support.                                                                          adesiers.  Ceett_in
fertilizer allocated In               C1I)  Aid requests to be made on baeds                (LI)  Jlne 1986 and beyond                eeco ragei         to dcemrs to
July 1985 to end-users                       of annual import plan and                                                                 provide fertilizer as belace of
coordinated tbrough Inputs Unit                                                          payments suport,  et eeemoity
kIii) Aid fortilisers to be offered to               (111) June 1986 and beyond                 aid.  8sdectlou  of impertsce In
many distributors and endusere.                                                          total suply.
(c) ImprovIng pricIng             l(c) - A single International          lCc) Pric;ne I  J                                       iCd)(i)Cli) Studies to be eoer
policies and                         price was used for October             Cif  LReise pricing slstem on bals of                        pleted by July 1926.          ICe) Se& ublesale prices for a
distribution Incentives;             1985 prices, and separate                    benchmark international prices.                        Se  formnla and mrgins             lImited mbr of rural
prices for esaller beqgs               11)  Introduce edequate retail margin In                     to be diseussed with IDA           distribtito  cemters ealy. em
introduced,                                  rural areas and adequate margins for                  by October 1987. nd                  llme  retailers to deterdme  e
small bags.                                           used for Janary 1[S8                prices.
prices.
Ciii) Announce prices by Jamwary each year.              (ill) segining Is Jauary
1987
(Cv)  Ald fertilizer to be priced on s
basis as commercial supplies                      (IT)   seginning In January
1987.
*/  Government comitment in Letter of Development Policy.                                                                                                                                                      e
6/  Dated Covenant.
e/ Condittin of effectiveness.
d/ Condition of second tranche release.



Agricultural Inputs (continued)
hadiu_-Tere Adjustment Frogram            Recent Actions Takn by                             Actlons under the                                    Tldng
Government                             Secor Onerstion Credit
2.  Aseure availability and           2(a) Producer seed prices raised    2Cm)  sintsin adequate producer prices. lestore    2(e) Sy October 1987.                          2(a) Naintal  Incentive seed prices.
quality of improved aside,             in April 1985.                        seed retell prices to adequate levels. b/
ib) Dutch study on NSqCS vich         (b) Establish adequate seed certificstfon fees         (b) Certirication fees to be             (bi Establiseb eSQCS an a
action and recommendations.           and fundlig arrangefents for KSQCS. /                  ralsed by December 1986.                 self-filuecing basis.
Adequate funding and Improved
management beginnin4 In 1986
snd beyoed.                         (c) lapleegnt recoendations of
(ci Study on national seed             (ci Develop a contingency plan to assure              Cc) By October 1937.                         plan as o esesarv.
security roeerve completed In         edequate seed supply. ^/
1982.                                                                                                                             (d) Conslder expanding farmer
(d) CDC propoeel to teproved KSC    (d) Address financal snd management problems In    (d) Plan to be discussed by                        ownership of KSC. witb view to
management                            KSC.  5/                                               October 1986. Impleiwntetito             returndng to private  aer bp.
by October 1987.                       EKnourage develoimest of e_
seed c3upanets.
3.  Proeote private contract         3(a) Study of TNS problems             3(a) Encourage development of privdte                  3(a) ongoing                             3(a) Itplement recnidtios of
mechansetion services and            completed in 1934.                     contractors. /                                                                                  study.
phase out public Tractor                                                 Cb) Reorganize and reduce n:s activities,
Hire Service ITHS).                                                          concentrate only where privast  sector not         (bi Beginning July 1986;                 (b) Phase oet Tn8.
operating, Introduce menagme nt                       completion by October :97.
improveents. !/
(c) Increase THS and Plant Hire Service charges
to sarket rates.  b/                              (e) By October 19S7.
4.  Phase out subsidies *nd          4(8) Analysis of subsidies done        4(a) Gradually increase east shsring for Al,           4(a) First Increases by October          ACa) Contineod review and inease Is
improve livestock services            and recommendations before             dips, clinical services and drugs.                     1987. with annual rewlewv  and           rates as  aceasry.
and inputs.                           Cabinet for Increases.                 Clinical services and druge to be priced on            inereases thereafter.
full cost-recovery basis. d/
tb) IFAD to support Animal Health   (b) Develop national strategy and program  to            (b) Desigs  of program  by Octobe:       (b) Zmplew tatioen of progra.
Services Rehabilitetion               liprove livestock eervleee. t/                         1987. Impleentatfon to begin
Project beginning rY18.  IDA                                                                 In July 1988.
cofitnncing under
consideration
*/   Zovorneent comiteent In Letter of Devslopment Policy
b/   Dated covenant                                                                                                                                                                                    a  l
e/   Condition of effectiveness.                                                                                                                                                                         ' R
d/   Condition of second trenche release                                                                                                                                                               e



KENYA
AGRICULTURE SFCTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
Timntable for Adjustment Measures
Agricultural Price and Karketing Policy
Objectives: Provide Iuproved incentivee for effielent fare production through more
appropriate and flexible prices (prcducer, wholesale, and retail), and
more efficient narketing systems.
Hedium-Term Adjusteent Program          Recent Actions Taken bS  Actons under the                                                      Timing                             Fettre Actions
Government                          Sector Operation Credit
1,  Establish administered             1.  Methodological changes   ICe) 1986 agricultural price announcement                  1Ca) February 1986          1.  Maintain flexible produeer prices
ru       prices on the basis       in the Price Review              increased producer prices relative to                   (implemoted)               (floor pries fixd).
ong-run world price                resulting in increased           world prices for miste, beef, and milk.
levels, and increase their             official producer                 All official producer prices except beef
flexibility tn response to             prices,                           nov at world price levels.
market changes, in order to
increase farmor incentives,                                         (b) 1987 price announcement to:  (IL  improve           (b) February 1951.
the empirical basis for determining
producer prices,4/ (ii) employ export and
Import parity principles In establishing
floor prices for agricultural
enmodftlem, vhile providing ag;quate
price incentives to farmarers,
(c) Administered prices to become floor
prices with flexibility in upward                 tc) February 1987.
direetion. b,
2,  Improve timing and amount of   2.  Timing of payments               2  Farrmer  and/or coops to be paid for milk,                                      2.  Maintain syutem  for rapid payment
parastatal payments to                 improved for milk and           cotton, grain and pyrethrum within one                                              to farmer.
farmers for coffee, tea,               pyrethrum.                      month of commodity delivery.
cereals, milk, pyrethrum,                                              (a) Milk (by KCC) and pyrethrum (by                 2(a) Februsry 1986.
cotton.                                                                    Pyrethrum Board).                                    (Implemented)
(b) Cotton (requiring restructuring of
CLSIM). b/                                      Cb) March 1987.
(c) Grain (requtring restructurting of
1CPS).  '                                       (e) October 1957.
(d) Government vill not allow coffee                 (d)  December, 1986.
cooperatives to deduct costs unrelated
to tha processing and marketing of
coffie from coffee payments. b/
(e) Government to improve timing of payment    (e) October 198?                                                             '
to caffee farmers   b
(f) Guidelines to be established to                  (t) October 1957                                                       _ EL
determine payments to tea farmera, f/
a,  Covernment comaittent in its Agricultural Development Poitcy letter.
b/ Dated covenant
c/ Condition of effectiveness
d/ Condition of Second Tranche release



Incentives (caitinued)
Medium-Tert Adjustment Proaram          Recent Actions Taken by                        Actions under the                             Timing                             Future hcious
Government                         Sector Operation Credit
3.  Reduce coneuser food               3.  Real retail prices of    3. (a) Consumer subeidies not Increased vith              3(a) February 1986.        3.  Fartber reducttos to coosir
subsidies for male  flour,             beef and maize flour                February t986 price announcemnt.                    (Impletmnted)             eubeidles.
vheat flour, tea and coffee            increased in 1985.
for local consumption,                                                (b) Governmnt to eliminate food subsidias           (bI February 1988.
vegetable oil, and rice in                                                 progressively.   /
order to liberate fund. for
Investment and to persit
higher producer prices.
4.  Deregulation of agricultural   4(a) Maize producers can            4(s) Maize Marketing                                   4(a)                        4(a) Completely free maze  marketing
markets to increase                     set directly to                 (1)   Restructuring NCPI  d            /           (i)   October 1987.             (alloing ay liceaned buyer to
efficiency and reduce the               millers; KGCU is                (11)  Determination of the role of                 (11)  October 1987.            participate).
cost to Government.                     marketing maize.                       verioue participants In the grain
Strategic grain                       marketing syxtem, including the
reserve established                    role of cooperative organizations,          :itI) OCtober 1987.
a,id maize exported to                 based on :he reviev of the grain
reduce etorage                        marketintg study; di
problems.                       Cii) Preparation sad ImplementatIon of a
(b) Government has                         food security plan. dt
decided to divPst
CLSM8                       (b) Cotton.  CLSMb to divest all of It.               (b) March 1987.            (b)  Complete a9St  diwestittue.
cotton and ginning activities to the
private and cooperative sectors. */
(c) Milk.  Licences to be granted to private          (e) I_ediate effect.
and cooperative Enterprise. for the
collection, procexming and distribution
of milk and mlik products, '/
a/  Government comaitmnet in its Agricultural Development Policy letter.
b/  Dated covenent
c/  Condition of effectivsnese
d/  Condition of Second franche release                                                                                                                                                          4



ACIICULTUU SECTOP OPERATIOI
Tlsetable for Adurtsent Masures
Sudget Iationlitsation and Sector Manaueent
Obiectiyesa (a) To improva the contribution of pubtle investmeet to agricultuiral growth;
(b) to Improve the management of projects, delivery of key agricultural services ed
policy analysis cod lepleentation; and
(e) to encourage better coordination of donor actlvitles.
MHdium-Term Sector              aeert Actions Taken by                    Actions for Sector Operation                         TimSig                               uture Actloeo
AdWuStfent Proram                      Governmnt
A. budnet kationalisation
Improve contribution
of public investment and
expenditure program to
agricultural growth:
1.  Increase real flow      1.  Forward budget cealing          I    Increase sector allocations to egriculture.       )I S m l udget with         1. Meintail adesste allecatloee to
of reaources to             Increased for agriculture            Including eatablieltent of budgat ceilings            menitoring  s              agrlculture COUID . M. d  lO, Q .
agriculture.                tn 1945.                             to incorporate donor funds.                           subsequent years.
2.  improve resource        2.  tetablistmnt of Budget          2.  Continue to ratioa lias              I riltural ector                          2.  dget ltatioullxstto  Ceodttee to
utilization byl             ltionalisation Task force           portfolio                                                                         follow-npcoordite to ple _totlen of eP
in Trensury. lunehking of                                                                                             tarough euistieg   tiatas b            t rom e
Sudget tationalisation                                                                                                (EW) and Sectorul Plamig OtCre
PtogrfA.  Creatton Of                                                                                                 (SP).
Sudget and Project
Comittee  end preparation
of policy stateent.
a. allocation of            s.  Analysis of budget              a. Phase out poorly perfornian/                   2(c) Draft Actian Plea by       a.  issue  eidelia. -on prioctties for
scarce resourees             Issuee through hudget              non-priority projeete and shift resources           Negotistions (April              editutres  ad ays to lapre
to high priority             Tecak  orct.                       to priority activities *ad Investmente.             1986) (impleeneted)            effictency In the eJe of bdgetary
projects.                                                                                                                                          resources.
Ci)  Creatlon of                   Mi) Prepare anual polley statemate an            (1)   March each year          - Actloe  Iam to be reveed  arly.
project Management               priortties.
System CPS).
(11) gatablish prtoritles end reduee             (Ci)  Identity
nuaber of projects.                                priorities by
Sptemer 1966;
reflect
redactione li
1986 Forerd
Budget.
(iii) Isplementation of         (iii) Consolidate activities Into national         (ILI)  C4otieOUS
National                        progrm  (livestock end researeb)
tztenaion Progrm
and preparation
of National
esearch Program.
b. Reduce burden of         b.  Iseuance of guidelines          b. Pasatatal CeIsms,                                                              b. Contime ftnasncl reform sad a
pareatatale es-              for pcrastatals for the            CI Sat.blish Standing Croups sod encttr           Ci)   J       UK                 restructural divstteu    of
pecditures on                preparation of Progrm                  sapendituree of mejor parastatals.                                             pereatatals.
MAID's budget and            Review  and Forward               Ui) implement financial restructurinl  of          (ii)  CLU, SC.
ensure effective             hudget, but compliance                 selected paruecatals.                               KPR and VIE to
linancial control            low.                                                                                       begit by October
of parastatals.                                               (iti) Include parsutstals in budget                       1956.
process.                                     (iii) 1956 Torwrd
ludget.
C. Improve revenue          c. Analysis of problem              C. Revenues$                                      c. eefore eaeb Forward          C. Cutiodt improviag memo   Colltetil_m.
collections,                 done end proposals to              Mi) Propose measures to met ISZ mandated          Budget, beginning in
reduce arrears               inerasse sarvie                       Increase In reenues.                          September 1986.
end increase                 charges and reveaun               (ii) Identify bottlenecks end Improve
revenue sources.             collections under                      revenus collections.                          eefor  begitnnig of
discussion.                                                                          each fiscal yer
beginning ti m7.



sudsrt Rarionalization and metor managemnt (continuad)
edlum-Tero Sector             Recant Aetione Taken by                    Actiona for Sector Operation                             tg fttre Actions
Ad4uer_nt Frosra                       Govern_ent
d. Contain pereonnel        d.  Initiation of               d.  Personnel:                                                                        e. sold salaries cetant a  peremtage of
coats.                       Eatabliahent and                T-iF -Ii plesent Pereonnel Establishment and   d(t)        July 15986                   get.
Complement Registriea.                 Complement RllaStry.
(IL)   Analyze stuffing requirementa and          (1i)    Analyis eto
eployent trends. and reco  nd                      begln by
meacures to contain coets.                         September 1986
(IIi)  Develop manpower training policy.          (111)   September 196
including hiring of agrticultural
gradu4te..
3.  Improve the             3. Analysia  of probleus            3. Link budsat to oriorities and policies             3. Forward udgets In          3. Cotime atrean.Ie.Ig proced1sre  for
reeourea llocation          Initaued.  Improvesaet  in          ri)    Carry out pollcy-orlented foriwrd             1906, 19S7; strateg          improvement of quality of Forved re    i t
________and                 the Forward budget begun In                 budget process,                              paper by October 19U7.         ubimissions.
aEM _nt of oublic          F66; a progran r10ev of             (11)   Draft Agricultural Strategy Pae r.
zoe nditureas               KALD's ongoing Invretuenta          CIIi)  Analyue key budget Ieaues
vwa prepared b7 DPD. Other                 (IrrigatLon, sugar,  redit and
Ilprovemnta Include coupu-                 mrketing).
terized systaee
(itpenditure monitoriogs
Field budget allocatione;
Monthly financial review;
Vehicle) and progress mde
in atreamlining
recibureeent procedures.
8.  Sector manuaecat
I-4. J                      1. Successful Implementation        1.  tacova project and  roraem manament               1. Ongoing throeugb 1991.    1-4. Sueeseful impl-taailm  of ASe
.nt of              of first phase ATPF.                 through the Agricultural Sector Manuagent                                           (project w1il atart In July 19U).
teU  and                                                   Project (A3Sw).
ems, delivery
Icultural         2.  Implementation of TAP L and   2. Develop a perm snnt capability In DOD to             2. OngoLng throegb 1M1.
I     ea, and policy        11; TAP 1t1 to begin in             carry out policy analvUis, through the TAP.
an    .t and                July 1986.
implemntation and
atrengthen tinancial   3.  Improvemnts In AlC's and         3.  tntroduce improved financial management           3. October 1967.
mnagement.                  expnditure monitoring.              avstem  and procedurea.
4.  System developed for            4.  Eltablih a ceent control seytem for              4. may 1986.
aalignment of personnel             pereonnel  by diltriet.
according to planned and
national developmnt of
2uthorized posts.
S.  Encourage better        5.  Cetablishment of proces of   5.  Maintain Aid Coordination Sub-Cdttee:               S. May 1986; preparation    S. Maintain Aid Cordination Smb-Cottm.
coordination of             coordination In Agricul-            define an agenda. establiah a steering               of prograe in U196.
donor projacta and          tural Aid, and Coordinati&n         ceeittee, and prepare nattonal ptrgrama.
activities to               of drought rallef aid
Increase davelopment        through Agricultural Aid
impa,zt and efficient       Coordination Sub-Comeittee.
uee of external
resources.



ALR   TL   SECllR AanDr MUAT0
Tmatable for MJius t Nmztt
Cbjectiws: Th MM&= Q,merieit
eaeditie by (a) iqtoviL   fiwilal
innqint ad amratlmiul efficicy ad
(b) dlvestitiwe of  rnotrateLe pastAtal
Wuit temr                       Ihent ktlns                         Ation urder
MJustnt Progwram                        by                          th  ector Cpraifn                        d1                      R e A*tl
1. Ivlopint of H>Uy           Parastatal Avisory Ottee (PAC)   (a) Rolatlim of gricldture    (a) by October 19i6                    Ntan1im  ot  xtt Eg
Imtrita  and Strategy       found in 1980 has draftel State          hector stratMy for                                           4      rom2ta1   of palic ad
Cbrporation Bll (SCB) for                panstatals ,/                                             r fio      aof     -
Establish ard iqaet         mimaim to Parliat, dthadaI focuha attewtiqim
9ural policy on             pFALan  for stricter reulation of  (b) Pas     of State               (b) by  Dmor  1985           atnq   of haltby
pratatals, ad               borro p, emmic analyusi of               0nrForatiom   Ull                                         pastatals ad rmzEJzg ami
ms-ector d-erlopent         invrsst propqala, etc. It would          (SCB)                                                     for G      _      1rtios.
pelicies affect1ig          astablish FAS N    coordinati.x                                                                    1I1   off s        ' of
prastatals hmtli[S key      aurity with lepl teeth to                                                                               s        bodl   mild be
odie             e          intetea. 1MID Paratatal              (c) lnitorLg of fitst-.me        (c) by 9ept. 1987                   by 1990 (ewa1i:m of
Diviusm ws foard In 1983 to              i1intatiw of motor                                        effvename of ASP
stmsgthen mWerviauon.                    strateg  ad State                                         aaistam to 1B, HIMG   wd
Dtjvratinm Act.                                          KWD)
2.  Lvestiture Pragrm          PAC set up  D   bres on Divtitiwe   (a) Clsifica±tin of                (a) by (ct. 1981             DoUmtia  of diw tum,
Osenc zoae of    (IFD) in 1983 a ab-sttee to                         agrioldtural pastatals                 wlth p*ipr  fm
divititure of               idikify cams  fr sla*, diwatitu          iLto 3 gpsp:                                              p    eaiwly ddftlz  to
nm-tratqic perastetala    and 1iuddatio. Omrremnt dum                (1)  to be rmtaliud             a:tive aamlnt of  m-tk
and tmhatImn of             in KMem  Cawts Cb. Cd MI                 wilqe                                                      s'ta1          sd
aperatiam of firaw1auy      ciao .lls red-4, ad   jority            (Ui) to  a redami but                                     tzrepwaxial aqucity of
oyerextemled  peatatalo     holdiig meUid". KeAij                    reqirizp patal purchmr. ftoj
Pihries Orp so1l to frivate             teatzicturif                                              long   for this pzjms my
entzrepmm. Upla,hb         O . woa       (iUi) to be sold, diwatl                                  be fm la b 199b   .
in the Froom  of diatitwe.               or Uul4da*lA. bl
Pvat of  QRB Cotton ly ly Id
divestitwe of mets at finctios    (b) Initiatio  of disposal          (b) by Oct. 1986
mier wy in Feb. 1986.                    pwme  for am-utratq *di
(wp (iii))pastat&ls. 
0
(c) iqpi/a.n1strative            (a) by ot. 1987
divistitum of sdeeed
P&Mtatals (aletio  of
first jis).
Ownt _t-      tt  in letter of Delopit PoLicy
b/Dated tDem
s/ Qditian of Effectivewa
( O tion of eeo  tr   u releme.



KENYA
ACRICULTURAL SECTOR OPERATION
Timetable for Adjuatment Measures
Agricultural Credit
Objectives:  1.  To improve the financial discipline of public mector
schemes so as to use lmtited resources In an optimal
fashion.
2. To promote credit supply to sumalholders am part of
the snaliholder intensification strategy.
3. To Increase credit availability in agriculture and to allocate
It In an optimal fashion by relying on mrket channels and signals.
Medium Term Adjustment Program             Recent Action Taken            Action under the              Tiulng               Future Actions
By Government          Sector Operation Credit
1.a)  Reorientation of AVC Pro-   1a)  AFC has begun                  l.(a) Agreement on a    1.a) October
grams.  AFC to concentrate its        improvement in headquarters   two-year (1986-87)                 1986.
concessional landing on               (MIS, corporate planning,       consolidation period
development activities for target  etc.) and In field                 during which MI)
groups, and to undergo               management (North Rift           continued management
rehabilitation and period of         Credit Pilot),                   improvement vould be
institution building,                                                 undertaken at
headquarters and field
level (including
corporation-wide
applicatton of pilot
lessons); and (tt)
concentration of
recovery and
consolidation of the
extsting portfolio.
b) AFC future role to be defined.                                        (b) Government will       b) October           b)  AFC will develop into
study and define AFC            1987.          a deposit-taking
corporate objectives,                          Institution.
including financial and
development objectives;
define target
population; lending
ceiling; and future
development path.
c) Improve management of seasonal  c) AFC became principal for           (c) - Cooperative         c) October           c) Institute
credit.                           NSCS (seasonal credit) in        Bank will become                1986.                Improvemets in
1985 under stricter             principal In seasonal                                NSCS.
guidelines,                     credit for 1986/7.
- Government will               October
review NSCS.                  1987
2.a)  Improve Cooperative Bank        2. a) Government has begun       2.(a) - Implementa-       2,a) July 1986.
and cooperative performance as a   to study ways of consolida-   tion of agreed Pilot                                                          II!
means of channelling credit to        ting donor credit schemes       Cooperative Management
smaliholders.                         for Cooperative Dank; and       Project.                                                                  °
has prepatxd a Pilot                                                                                      N
Cooperative 4rinagement         - Agreement on plan for       December 1986
Project,                        consolidation of donor
credit schemes and
implementation



hs,t"    acnUmo
M"ium tern                      Pc A tcto    kt                                                      MAP 1                           A*
Adintsbt Picana                   Td= h oes                        the e         %rat
3.  4td   Qairatii ard
(a)     -        ad Ixt    Pxdr &ein1qit of _t.
Resolwan                   Prgrinaive _inpanttion of 1k'.   (s) Dp1.  stadub mu                      plm in plo  by          inauint prm, incirz
orpudnt1m    ad            Ittz  remdatin. dhti,u                   foruz  for purtatul                r     1916            U)  -            of 'm
_m u_  tomtrsint            fro 1979. pmI        of Duq.ar ad       autlnr  ad amtri                                         plo' uystm tn m1Ud
| psratuals, taim           Adt I(ebt) Act in Sqep. 1965                                                                     1rtaca by 19w, (U)
stadrds atf m    nt        euUthl"  ra  of fEn of              (b) lqzra  fimdA  tmdrZ    (b) atmt-    & l9zu                focus an utanrd f
perfonoe, ad lqiroe        Ilitor-Gera  (ORratlau). 1I              for pra tal sff */                fdwAr SUt *-                      ad    d "
prI   tivity ard           him CuTlal A  mozum cig.                                                                          p omm1, (Ll) affc of
efff ierw7 in r-Iumd       sm. atiim atf lftc t                                                                                 EHtu af T9 ad hICm
imrtitutlom, psrtlalArly    eterzisr, 1rIclarf full            (c) Introi. staff durlqe    (C) stut   6ift   ii.    stuff tuaizu  uwdi    w
throug  iqroed                ia t alit of RIB in 1984.             raidm in prmtat                                          A ' (tv) _I  I        stta
~ac.ztirI  Pd f4mvia       Iamov  fini ,ida    t. uytt             oudsia.  o1 of    a                                                   info. s1         La
_mmt                        intrahd in Nos in 194/85.                                                                           -s s
Ftswd. re4stratub 1S af aoS         (d) Stue n   _ t                 (d)  emAi 1g to  ,
tder way in early 1986.                 fizstAat sytem u*/                     A3d .  Wta. r
tum 51alnat ad
by~       t~a b 9
(a) Uthlude fisica               (e) pFosezf  La ge;
Zest ntt,rq of mlactd            jo, SXI ad NIB to
pu- ,tatal.b/ bqn by Otobw 19N6.
4. Rhbl]Qattat   of
StWS&~ fzu.iseam
11bilitate uslacted    NY5 h  pr l a ref idng                   (a) ftkius re-fineing p1m        (a) by tl  19861                 uC matuig LnuX
OpboblaI puratatals in     plan; or,ztian ad    gnt                 for  _a.taas  in eriMa           (oh)                    fimndl rAe Lton
key ab- o  (e.g.            study to be uhwtAi idth  E              ad irdtl*e rvuturbS                                       zd| Utad MStPrIAMS
ceals, ajr, livestock,   f.dis. CUM divatitutz  pim                                                                           I a   I  emustmA of
cotton, 1rrlpUa0) ad   F     qzrad and ord ith M1,              (b) Ih htdi snctural             (b)    in by Ort. 1956          nif b  at-Pimm, .
pl  atstrbWa,               Frbuawy 1981; refinzwidz  plat de       ra nqzatLa, ad                                           tas 11ta ef Ietm
ugnt ad fir'wEiv           by Hsy 31, 19*6. Patial                  rdtJ1taE    cc sm, M                                     awpraa pIAMOUg.
a a mad  ardal              rwrpnu.tit0  of MIM udurtake in         ad lPB inhladi
fatimp, *fzrL  a           erly 1965.  M:  _tqinn   prop"d          introduction df inEt
puut r            1ctin In  to MM Prap1812.                         info-atm  &d
Gytnut t        tw.                                                 rationusatioa of adfirg
(c) CO e   _M_In   ainite    (c) by mt. 1986
ad/or a-m  for char                                                                 *0
pI_tatal  cuiidared a                                                               A.
a irim  for
rahhltstIon (e.g. etto                                                              o
ubdy for auar)
!lGo"Ial a.nu          I In latter of kDveWt kdlicy
Dated Caanmt
_/ Omtiai of Iffettwos
y/ Cdition of mo tud  tr      ra l_e.



- 83 -
ANNEX VI
Page 1
KENYA
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
TECHNICAL SUPPORT VOLUME
Table of Contents
ANNEX I. Asricultural Input Suaoly.
A.   Background ............................................... l
B. Fertilizer .......... - .................. ...........   3
C.  Improved Seeds ......................................... 14
D. Agricultural Mechandsation    ................. ... 16
E.  Livestock Inputs and Services ............... ...... 17
F.  Costs and Benefits                                     19
Attachments:
Tables, Terms of Reference, Action Program, Benefits
ANNEX II.  Agriculture Price and Marketing Policy.
A.  Background and Objectives ...................................... . 1
B. Agricultural Pricing and Marketing Structure ............ 3
C. Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program .................. 8
D.  The Agricultural Sector Operation ...................... 16
E.  Costs and Benefits  . .......... .................... 16
Attachments:
Tables, Action Program
ANNEX III. Parastatals.
A.  Background ..............................................1 
B.  Government Policy on Parastatals ........................ 2
C. Recent Action Undertaken                ...                 3
D.  Strategy and Action for Reform            ...            5
E.  Implementation           .     . .       ................ 11
F.  Conditions and Convenants             . .          .   13
G.  Financial Arrangements .    .     ............................... 13
H.  Benefits and Justification             .    .     .     14
Attachments:
Tables, Action Program



- 84 -
ANNMX VI
Page 2
ANNEX IV. Budget Rationalization and Sector Manaxement.
A.  Background .................................. ...... 1
B.  Major Budget Issues for the Agricultural Sector .........2
C.  Improvements to Date .................. ................. 14
D. Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program ......me........ .18
E.  Implementation and Management  .............. seessm.... .20
F.  Financing and Support....e...... ee......e........... c. 20
G.  Costs and Benefits   .........       .....mmcmcm21
Attachments:
Tables, Action Programs
ANNEX V. Atricultural Credit.
A.  Background  ............ ............ 0.0o.s..cm.cc.m    .ml
B.  Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program ................ e..7
C.  Financing and Support ..... mc......................... 10
D. Costs and Benefits ................ ..* ....... c......11
Attachments:
Tables, Action Programs
ANNEX VI.  Economic and Social Impact. and Risk
A.  Impact on Agricultural Growth.......... ........... l
B.  Impact on Farm Income and Rural Employment .............. 6
C.  Impact on the Urban Population and the Urban Poor ....... 8
D.  Impact on the Balance of Payments-.oo-o. .......... 10
E.  Impact on Public Finance .......... ccc.................... 10
F. Risks ..............  ........................ ll
Attachments:
Tables, Action Programs



- 85 -
ANNEX VI
Page 3
Table 1:
AGRICULTURAL GDP a/
Current Prices                 Constant 1976 Prices
KI million  X of Total GDP   KE million   Z of Total GDP   Rate of Growth
Year
1972     232.63           34            426.04             37               -
1973     269.00           34             437.38            37               2.7
1974     319.37           34             442.19            36               1.1
1975     346.30           33             458.38            37               3.7
1976     466.15           36            466.15             36               1.7
1977     668.01           41             513.60            37              10.2
1978     631.73           35             533.31            36               3.8
1979     648.78           33             529.05            34              (0.8)
1980     688.13           31         .  522.03             33              (1.3)
1981     791.74           31             554.39            33               6.2
1982     907.16           31             578.88            33               4.4
1983   1,030.61           31             602.61            34               4.1
1984   1,083,89           30             580.31           .33              (3.7)
Annual Average Rate of Growth, 1972-1983           3.2
a/   Monetary GDP only.
SOURCE: Central Bureau of Statistics, Economic Surveys and Statistical Abstracts.
IE.



-86 -                              ANNEX VI
Page 4
Table 2:    IO3 CF W VMLUSE W       SUM  AMMTj, OiM rm
Cb odlty                Pto&dumc1  ('000 tom))                                Anal hisre        h  rn (I)
1972     1975      1978      1981      1964 */   1972-81   1972-75 1975-78  197841  1961-04  197244
Imis. b/    373.0D   467.50    236.30    472.90    560.60      99.90     9.3    -21.4      26.0     5.8     3.5
bmmt        164.40   145.50    165.90    214.40    135.40      50.0D    -i.2       3.0      8.9   -11.0    -1.3
arcm n   1,451.20 1,654.60  2,349.20   3,2M2.00  3,60.00  2,370.90       5.1      12.6     17.6   -1.9      7.9
Cbttoo       14.00    16.10     27.20     .25.20     22.80     11.2D     3.5      17.4     -2.5   -3.1      4.2
Cbfef        58.30    66.20     84.30      90.70    118.50     32.40     3.7       9.6      2.5     9.3     6.1
--e          41.10    56.70     93.40      90.90    116.20     49.80     9.5      30.1    -0.9      8.5     9.0
R.sf c/      26.91    16.60      8.89       8.40     38.40     18.51   -17.15   -23.1    -1.9    65.0       3.0
Dairy       268.44   230.61    269,90     222.90    189.9D    -45.54    -5.2       5.4    -6.2    -4.7   -2.2
a/ Prowlsioal. 1984   *a ovem   drouht yer affel  wet, milk ad em£ze productlom wd hicrmlh  offclda
mo intda.
b/  elvrm to NC   my.
I  cufidauy  lema wodctim (awh *O =aiy.
d  ?Ulliten 11         k M eIIc dmdlI .
St : 1) Kenya SatastLca1 Aburwt  ad F          c         v 1aris yms.
2) sZt ut1st1g: me et_m



- 87 -
ANNEX VI
Table  3:                                                                                     Page  5
CROiTH OF THE VALUE OF ARKETED PRWOMCTION, 1972-1981
V: d 0a1                                          :~~~~~~~~~~~~Ot,±unl d  O/hmU  Uo1~.
7a ? 9!6   cm,        o         humL    (X) Q        t C _
Ob*tod Pubatt in   1972        1975     1918               1972-75  1973-78  197841   19721 1       -     --75   1 8   1 1  2-1
Offo             78.3      82.5    106.4      114.5      2.2      9.6      43       4.0   17.76    2A        38.4     3.2
TM                3.2      29.7      49.3      48.1      1.7      3.3    -1.7       0.2    5.1      25.2    -5.7    15.5
Samme             6.3       9.6      13.7      22.2     113      12.8     IA       14.A    11.2      5.3    40.3      IA
Ibit              9.9       9.5       10.5     12.9    -1A        1J       6.8      4.1   -IA        IJ      11.4      23
Cotten             1.8      1.7       2.5       2.5    -1.9       16.9    -0.2      8.5   -03         IA     -IA       0.5
hina C            14.3      18.7      9.0       1.]      9A    -22.0       21.9    -4.      15.0   -12.4      43.2     3.0
lad  i            25.9     2D.1      273        M.2    -6.1       10.7    -4.1      0.o  -19.1        9.2    -5.2      0.2
DMIt>  ct         17.8      16.0     15.0       129     -3.6       1.5    -7.9    -4       -1        -1.    -10.0    -3.8
S*uteal       12.5      188.      214.0     217A       1.1      7.4      3.2      3.9    11.2    56.1    111.0      .33
Mr Jn Aplwtusn   42.A0    455.38    23.533   55439          2.5      5.2      13       3.0   100.0    10.0    100.       10
of lt oot_t*m    8d um.  apt for 1972-1975. di  a           mmmu cpmduwal.
if Fq   i   atlS ul.; dwF me wed Ln cn  pci. bm3 anaq w van. Flare rdlefe totl 1._..  .
to d     lme In price plum dumo  In qumoity for glun yar.
/ sals to mdietlig ba.nh uy.
S5We:  ea. Stactstical Abstrnctsa ud Einme aSucvL70. wela. Ym
ae.: Ib*ece   1A tcan includes pwdu   lqat. mhId atn su  tWd fnE   qP.
t'



- 88 -
ANNEX VI
Page 6
Table 4:
Prices and 'terms of Trade Indices for Agriculture, 1978-1983
(1976-100)-
1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983 a/
Prices Received
Total Crops                119.1   116.4   122.3   129.7   138.0   152.7
Domestic                 116.1   115.9   130.7   141.3   147.8   159.3
Export                   120.9   116.8   117.4   112.3   134.6   158.1
Livestock and Products   129.3   135.6   140.6   151.2   166.7   178.6
Weighted Average           121.0   120.0   126.2   134.4   145.0   162.8
General Index of Agri-
cultural Output
Prices b/                119.2   123.1   133.1   145.8   159.5   183.4
Prices Paid
Purchased Inputs           119.3   124.5   137.9   153.3   182.1   192.6
Index of Purchased
Consumer Goods
(Rural Areas)            117.0   130.1   146.1   169.9   205.5   234.4
Index of Prices Paid       117.6   128.7   144.1   165.8   199.7   224.0
Agricultural Sector
Terms of Trade           101.4    95.6    92.4    87.9    80.0    81.9
a/   Provisional.
b/   Used in calculating terms of trade.
Source:  Kenya, Economic Survey, 1983 and 1984.                                         1



- 89 -
ANNEX VI
Page 7
Table 5:           1-th in Value and volume of Main Agricultural Excports,
-1973-194 
kwua1 Gr.th of                          hl Gmwth of
Voduiw Of d 1 r
1!97377  l977-81 .191-   1973-64    i973-77  1977-81 1981-84 1973-84
Coffee             54.6    -14.5    23.2    17.1           5.8   - 2.3      4.0      2.3
1Ta                43.4    - 4.0    46.0    24.6          8.1      1a       5.3     6.5
SLsal             - 3.9      21.0    13.0      9.2      -13.7    10.1   - 1.3       2.4
Iides & Sdkns      11.4       3.6   - 8.0      2.9         8.5     3.3      1.0   -11.2
l- t Products      18.2    -23.5    32.6       6.0         8.82  -32.8   - 4.0    31.3
Cmud PlnsappL    62.7        3.4    29.4    29.6         35.6   - 2.5    12.8       7.1
O zrent Prices
sJJ:  buipw*e from Oitral b1w  of Statistiw trade data PubUsbad in
ycwcutw s      atiacaL Abstracts.
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



- 90 -
ANNEX VI
Page 8
Table 6:  IMPORTS OF AGRICULTURAL INPUTS
1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983
Quantity
Fertilizers ('000 tons)         155.2    60.8   129.7   208.7   129.6   150.7
Nitrogenous                    78.2    38.4    61.8    63.0    70.8    72.3
Phosphatic                     19.6    11.5    25.5    36.2    28.2    12.8
Other                          57.4    10.9    42.4   109.5    30.6    65.6
Agricultural Chemicals
('000 tons)                     6.7    15.7       6.4     4.9      4.9      5.9
Agricultural Machinery
and Imports
Tractors ('000)                2.8      0.9      5.8     2.7      0.8      1.0
Hand tools ('000)              0.6      0.8      0.9     0.6      0.1      0.1
Value (xE million)
Fertilizers                      10.0      5.3    15.8    24.1    15.6    25.1
Nitrogenous                     4.5      2.9      6.3     6.0      7.3    11.9
Phosphatic                      1.0      1.0      3.1     4.4      3.9      2.0
Other                           4.4      1.5      6.5    13.7      4.4    11.3
Agricultural Chemicals            8.9      9.2    10.8       9.0     9.0    17.9
Agricultural Machinery
and Imports
Tractors                      13.5      5.2      8.3     7.4      6.5      4.0
Hand tools                     0.4      0.6      0.6     0.6      0.2      0.1
Source:  Statistical Abstract, 1984.  Table 59(a) and 59(b).



S U D A  N   .,'        z    
,,/       \  i          Q                       ~~~~~~~E T H  I O  P I A
KEf .d. X g "'< S / g  f I
V    A,A
Af\/   \ {8544 X 1                                                                \
U  G  A N  D A   a  Q  t        >'\        g                   \             V                  |A  F   R   A
NN
<   -.s V  A i  L
TANZANIA                                       xr       \         5'                                       j            __ _
K E N Y A     ......       p       s            \            j-
LOCATION  OF MAJOR CRO PS                                                                                         s>'i
g            ~~~ ~~~~~~~....     ...ro    ... nsX,..                                .....j w                    . 
Y-,
T A N  Z A N                            I A



