Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8797
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION (ASAO)
(CREDIT 1717-KE AND AF021-KE)
JUNE 22, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
his dooment has a resrkted     _m d may be used by esls  only E the perf_om           of
their offieiW duties Its contebs may not otise be disc!       WoM Bank audwuzton



CURRENCY AND EXCHANGE RATES a/
Currency Units: Kenya Shilling (KSh) and Pound (KE); KSh 20-X£ 1.0
(KSh to US$, Annual Averages)
1984         14.41
1985         16.43
1986         16.23
1987         16.45
June, 1988   17.18
June, 1989   18.50
a/   The Kenya Shilling is pegged to a basket of the currencies of its
main trading partners. The rate vis-a-vis the US Dollar fluctuates.
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFC            Agricultural Finance Corporation
ASAO           Agricultural Sector Adjustment Operation
ASMP           Agricultural Sector Mangement Project
ATAP           Agricultural Technical Assistance Project
CBK            Cooperative Bank of Kenya
CLSMB          Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Board
DANIDA         Danish International Development Agency
DCA            Development Credit Agreement
DPD            Development Planning Division of MOA/NOLD
DPM            Department of Personnel Management
EEC            European Economic Commission
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
GID            Government Investments Division of Treasury
GOK            Government of Kenya
IDA            International Development Association
IMF            International Monetary Fund
ISC            Inspectorate of State Corporations
KCC            Kenya Cooperative Creameries
KGGCU          Kenya Grain Growers Cooperative Union
KKC            Kenya Meat Commission
M&E            Monitoring and Evaluation
MOA            Ministry of Agriculture
MOALD          Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development
MOERD          Ministry of Energy and Regional Development
MOF            Ministry of Finance
MOLD           Ministry of Livestock Development
NCPB           National Cereals and Produce Board
NIB            National Irrigation Board
PCR            Project Completion Report
PD             Parastatals Division of the MOA
PS             Permanent Secretary
SAL            Structural Adjustment Loan
SDR            Special Drawing Right
SONY           South Nyanza Sugar Company
THS            Tractor Hire Service
UBC            Uplands Bacon Company
UNDP           United Nations Development Programme



FO  OffCIAL USEONLY
TI* WORLD SANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Of"t of OemctGuuwsau
Opmatwas tIwaktrn
June 22, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECTs Project Completion Report on Kenya - Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Operation (Credit 1717-KE and AF021-KE)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Kenya - Agricultural Sector Adjustment Operation
(Credit 1717-KE and AF021-KE)l prepared by the Africa Regional Office and
the Borrower.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank aut t.



FO  OFFICIL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYAi
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPEATION
Table of Contents
Pgea
PREFACE                                                                   i
EVALUATION SUMMARY                                                       ii
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.   INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND
Introduction                                                        1
Economic & Sector Developments Prior to ASAO
Government Response                                                 2
Economic Developments During ASAO                                   2
Bank Group Strategy and Sector Work                                 3
B.    THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
Origins, Goals and Sector Strategies                                3
ASAO Actions                                                        4
Outcomes of Key Actions                                             S
Strategy% Intensifying Production Through Inputs & Credit        S
Fertilizer - Outcome                                          5
- Evaluation                                      6
Credit     - Outcome                                          6
- Evaluation                                      7
Strategy: Enhanced Producer Incentives & Market Deregulation    7
Producer Prices                                               8
Timely Payments to Farmers                                    8
Deregulation of Markets                                       9
- Evaluation                                      9
Strategy: Improved Allocation and Efficiency
of Sectoral Public Investments and Expenditures         10
Increases in Sectoral Allocations                           11
Budget Processes and Priorities                              11
Containing Personnel Costs                                   11
Parastatals                                                  12
Food Subsidies                                               13
Improved Cost Recovery                                      13
- Evaluation                                     13
Overall Evaluation                                                 14
Loan Conditions and Covenants                                14
Performance of Government and ItDA                           1S
Indicative Effects of the ASAO                                     16
Agricultural Growth During ASAO Implementation               17
Indicative Effects of Adjustment on the Poor                 17
This document has a festricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in ith peffonmuno
of their of ficial duties. Its contents rnay not otherwise be disclosed with1out World Bank authoriain.



Page
Other Aspects of ASAO                                               18
Procurement, disbursements, accounts and audit               18
ASAO Cofinancing Support From Other Donors                   18
C.    MAIN LESSONS LEARNED
Government Commitment and Sustainability                           19
Disbursements and Allocation of Funds                              19
Effective Coordination and Implementation                          20
Complementarity With Other Investments and Programs                20
Mobilizing Multi-Donor Support                                      20
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Background                                                         21
Evolution of the Operation                                         21
Project Implementation                                             24
Evaluation of the Operation                                        25
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
ANNEX I:    Basic Data Sheet, Supporting Tables and Attachments           31
Table 1: Basic Data Sheet on the ASAO
Table 2-12: Supporting Tables
Attachment 1: Summary Assessment of Progress in
Implementing Tranche Release Conditions   43
Attachment 2: Summary Implementation Progress of
Dated Covenants and Other Key Actions      53
MAP: IBRD 16468R



KENYA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
(CREDIT 1717-KE AND AF021-KE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Operation in Kenya, for which IDA Credit 1717-KE and African
Facility Credit AF021-KE, in the amounts of SDR17.6 million and SDR35.2
million respectively, were approved on June 23, 1986. The credits were fully
disbursed, and the last disbursement was on November 10, 1988.
The PCR was prepared by the Agriculture Section of the Regional Mission
in Eastern Africa (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Part I and the Annex), and the
Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was based on, inter alia, the Staff Appraisal
Report, the Credit Agreements, supervision reports, correspondence between the
Bank and the Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda.



- Li -
KENYA - AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
(CREDIT 1717-RE AND AF021-KE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMARY
Background
ti)   At the beginning of the 19809, the Kenyan economy had large financial
imbalances, resulting from a deterioration of external terms of trade
following the second oil 'shock,, and an erosion of fiscal discipline.
Domestic demand exceeded domestic supply, Government expenditures exceeded
revenues, and imports exceeded exports. During the early 1980s, economic
growth was erratic, and the slow growth of agriculture was a particular cause
of concern because of the critical links between agriculture and the rest of
the economy. The performance of agriculture both affected and was affected by
macroeconomic events. Agricultural growth was retarded in part by public
investment declining in both quantity and quality. Agricultural parastatals,
in turn, were major contributors to the budget deficit. Fluctuating prices
for tea and coffee made agriculture's growth unstable, as well as causing
problems in managing the foreign accounts; the breakdown of fiscal discipline
following booming coffee prices resulted in major macroeconomic problems in
the past decade. Agriculture's tardy performance slowed growth of the whole
economy, both of production and employment.
(ii) Supported by a series of IMF programs and two Structural Adjustment
Loans (SALs) from the Bank, the Government of Kenya (GOK) in fair measure in
the early 1980s addressed the problems of tne financial imbalances. Government
restrained domestic demand, let the currency slide downwards, and restricted
imports. The future challenge was to reverse deteriorating growth trends in
the major economic sectors, and lay the groundwork for providing remunerative
employment for 7 million new entrants to the labour force by the year 2000.
These longer-term structural issues were addressed in the important Sessional
Paper No. 1 of 1986, "Economic Management for Renewed Growth", which presented
a bold strategy for long term growth, and provided the framework and original
content for the Goverment's five year agriculture sector adjustment program.
The paper placed agricultural growth and rural prosperity at the heart of the
strategy to rekindle economic growth anu create productive employment.
Objectives
(iii) Taking this overall growth strategy as its starting point, the ASAO was
growth-oriented and included key actions to assist Government implement three
inter-related strategiess intensifying production through increased supplies
of key inputs; enhanced producer incentives and market de-regulation; and
improved allocation and efficiency of sectoral public investments and
expenditures.
Implementation Experience
(iv) Implementation of some of the measures in the ASAO was good, while for
others it was slow or weak. Good progress was made in: maintaining incentive
producer price levels, taking steps toward market de-regulation, particularly
maize and beef; carrying out the financial and organizational restructuring of
two parastatals, the National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB) and the South



- iii -
Nyanza Sugar Company (SONY); and improving cost recovery of animal health
services. Disappointing progress has occurred int removing supply constraints
in fertilizer availability; supervision and management of parastatal reform;
and concrete improvements in rationalizing the composition of sectoral public
investments/expenditures. The noticeable slackening in Government's
commitment and capacity to fully implement the reforms since the final tranche
in early 1988 is in part due to: changes in the key Government decision-makers
since the beginning of the ASAO, and a lack of *ownership" by their successors
of the agreed program; fragmentation of institutional responsibilities within
the agriculture sector (from one to five Ministries), and to some extent
Government's being lulled t- bmproved economic performance in the early part
of the program.
(v)   The main shortcomings from IDA's side were a design which implied
financing too much preparation for adjustment (studies, elaboration of policy
papers, and restructuring plans) and not enough the costs of actual
adjustment, setting too many conditions whose initial definition was too
loose, underestimating the time it would take to carry out difficult reforms
(and especially to initiate actions which required decisions by Cabinet), and
too great a reliance on a small number of key individuals in Government, whose
replacement would make a difference in the commitment to certain actions. The
loose definitions also created problems on IDA's side, as staff who designed
the project were replaced by other staff who had to interpret the conditions.
Results
(vi) The overall conclusions of this PCR are that the ASAO: (a) was well
embedded in a macroeconomic policy framework understood between Government and
IDA; tb) in spite of some design problems, was a useful instrument for
promoting policy and institutional improvements in agriculture which would
lead to faster growth, and improved efficiency in the allocation and use of
sectoral resources; (c) lent momentum to implementing reforms in important
policy areas; (d) contributed to good agricultural growth during its
implementation period, 1986-1988 (average exceeding 42 per year); and (e)
helped mobilize substantial external resources for balance of payments
support. Government met satisfactorily the main agreed conditions to justify
release of the two tranches, although with some delay.
Sustainability
(vii) The quality and speed of ASAO implementation suffered after an initial
satisfactory phase. Towards the latter part of the implementation period in
1987, Government appeared to be more committed to fulfilling the vaguely
defined conditions for tranche release, than to full implementation of a
reform program. While the direction of the policy reforms has remained on
track in most areas, the timeliness and extent of full implementation has
fallen short of expectations. The report has highlighted a number of areas
where actions are still pending and where Government should concentrate Its
efforts to sustain and carry out fully these actions. Among other things, the
followup operation aims at deepening the reforms already begun, and building
more capacity for policy analysis, design and implementation. This deepening
of the reforms should ensure their being sustained in the longer term, and



- iv -
leave behind the capacity for further advances as they are needed.
Findings and Lessons Learned
(viii) The ASAO had some design problems relating to an excessive number of
conditions, in some cases not sharply enough formulated. It also suffered
from waxing and waning commitment on the part of Government to certain
details, and, during implementation, from a proliferation of the Ministries
responsible for agriculture (from one to five). The uneven implementation
performance offers important lessons for future operations, including:
securing and sustaining Government commitment, at both political &'d technical
levels; need to focus on deepening a few strategic areas which are clearly
monitorable; effective coordination and implementstion arrangements, through a
Steering Committee of Permanent Secretaries, and a Technical Secretariat to
prepare and implement policies; need to strengthen explicitly the linkages
between the policy framework and complementary investments and actions; the
use of ASAO as a common framework for multi-donor support, and for encouraging
Government to focus its implementation efforts in priority areas. These
lessons are gniding preparation of a second ASAO.



ENYAs ASAO
(Crs. 1717-RE and A021/SF)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW nROM THE BANK' S PERSPECTIVE
A. INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND
1.    This Project Completion Report (PCR) is in three parts:
(a)   introduction and background;
(b) ASAO goals, strategies, actions, outcomes, evaluation, and effectss and
(c)  main lessons learned.
Annex 1 provides supporting details. Table 1 contains basic data on the ASAO.
In addition to the usual review of project documentation, and new analysis of
available data, insights were obtained from selected Government officials and
IDA staff involved from the operation's inception through implementation.
Economic and Sector Developments Prior to ASAO
2.    At the beginning of the 19809, the Kenyan economy had large financial
imbalances, resulting from a deterioration of external terms of trade
following the second oil shock*, and an erosion of fiscal discipline.
Domestic demand exceeded domestic supply, Government expenditures exceeded
revenues, and imports exceeded exports. During the early 19809, economic
growth was erratic, with a trend slightly below the population growth rate of
about 42 p.a. The slow growth of agriculture (an average of 3.22 p.a. between
1972 and 1983) was a particular cause of concern because of the critical links
between agriculture and the rest of the economy, and the fact that
agricultural production per capita was declining. This deteriorating
agricultural growth was caused by the following main factors:
(a) an imfavorable economic environment, including unstable prices for
export crops in most years, deteriorating internal and external
terms of trade and rising input costs;
(b)   limited supplies of arable land;
(c)   stagnating use of key inputs, notably fertilizer and improved seeds;
td)   inadequate producer incentives;
(e)   falling investment, both public and private; and
(f)   problems in the delivery of essential agriculture services (research,
extension, animal health, credit, and marketing).
Also, during 1984 Kenya suffered its most severe drought of the century, with
consequent negative agricultural growth in that year.



- 2 -
3.    The linkages between agricultural perfet-mance and the macroeconomic
situation were two-way streets. On the one hand, agricultural growth was
retarded in part by public investment declining in both quantity (need to deal
with debt service, parastatal transfera, and the budget deficit), and quality
(rising personnel costs in Government leading to lower performing agricultural
services). On the other hand, agricultural parastatals, especially the
National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB) were major contributors to the
budget deficit (NCPB deficits cost the exchequer KL200 million 1981-1987, and
by late 1987 its debts exceeded KE250 million, 5Z of Kenya's GDP; these were
written off in the 1988/89 budget; without reorganization, it is estimated
NCPB would continue to cost Treasury K£120 million per year). In addition,
fluctuating prices for tea and coffee made for instability in agriculture's
growth, as well as the foreign accounts, and the breakdown of fiscal
discipline following booming coffee prices twice resulted in major
macroeconomic problems in the past decade. Furthermore, agriculture's tardy
growth slowed growth of the whole economy, both of production and employment.
Government Response
4.    Supported by a series of IMF programs and two Structural Adjustment
Loans (SALs) from the Bank, the Government of Kenya (GOK) in fair measure
succeeded in stabilizing the economy in the early 1980s. Government
restrained domestic demand by lowering its budget deficit, decelerating
monetary growth, raising interest rates, and letting real wages fall.  It also
let the currency slide downwards and restricted imports. The future challenge
was to reverse the deteriorating growth trends and remove long-term structural
constraints to sustained and equitable growth in the major economic sectors.
This chellenge included providing remunerative employment for 7 million new
entrants to the labour force by the year 2000. Following the 1984 drought,
Government began to focus on the longer-term structural issues. The result
was the important Sessional Paper No. 1 of 1986, 'Economic Management for
Renewed Growth".
5.    This paper presented a bold strategy for growth at 51 p.a. over the long
term, and provided the framework and original content for the Government's
five year agriculture sector adjustment program. The paper placed
agricultural growth and rural prosperity at the heart of the strategy to
rekindle economic growth and create productive employment. Specifically,
Government was counting on agriculture to provide food for a much larger
population in the car 2000, increase the incomes of farm families, generate
employment for new farm workers, stimulate off-farm activities in rural areas,
and earn more foreign exchange from exports. Agricultural growth was to come
from three sources: (a) intensifying production of key food commodities; (b)
revitalizing agricultural services, especially research and extension; and (c)
a limited expansion in area and intensification of production of high value
crops (coffee, tea and horticulture) for both export and local consumption.
Economic Developments During ASAO
6.    During the period 1985-87, economic growth recovered, but Kenya's fiscal
position weakened considerably. Real GDP growth averaged 5 percent p.a., with
strong growth in all sectors. During 1986 Kenya achieved its highest growth



.- 3 _
rate in many years, which was facilitated by a boom in prices for coffee, the
country's main source of export earnings. Expansionary financial policies of
1986, followed by a significant deteriuration in Kenya's terms cf trade in
1987, resulted in a continuing rise in the budget deficit, which reached 7.6
percent of GDP in 1986/87. The overall balance of payments moved into deficit
in 1987,
7.    These macroeconomic events had both positive and constraining effects on
implementation of the ASAO: good economic growth reduced the sense of urgency
within Government to take bold actions, but an improved macro-economic policy
framework was being developed and initiated, with support of both the Bank and
the IMP; the severe balance of payments problems emerging in 1987, and growing
fiscal imbalance, together intensified the pressure to secure quick-disbursing
program assistance from donors. In addition, the elections, accompanied by
Cabinet re-shuffles and creation of new Ministries, centributed to the
fragmentation of management of sectoral strategies and policies.
Bank Group Strategy and Sector Work
8.    The Bank Group's strategy in Kenya shifted in 1985 away from the
previous combination of Structural Adjustment Loans (SAL I and II, 1980-1984)
and traditional investment projects, towards a r.ew combination of sectoral
policy-based lending, supported by strategic investment projects. The first
sector operation was in agriculture. The new Bank Group strategy for
assisting Keaya's agricultural development supported Government's objectives
as outlined in the Sessional Paper. It was growth-oriented, with a primary
emphasis on intensification of production, particularly smallholder
production. There was an explicit recognition that smallhclders offered
untapped potential, and that promoting smallholder strategies met
complementary goals of growth, improved income distribution, employment and
foreign exchange generation.
9.    The Bank's sector work underpinning the ASAO was summarized in the
Agriculture Sector Report (1986), which distilled the detailed knowledge
acquired through project and other work, including the following Bank sector
studies and papers (formal and informal) carried out during the first half of
the 19809: agricultural inputs; credit, maize marketing and pricing;
incentives; land issues; cooperatives; and public investment programs.
B. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
Origins, Goals and Sector Strategies
10.   In the context of its growing concern with performance of the economy
and sector, Government approached the Bank in mid-1985 with a formal request
to assist it in preparing and implementing the first phase of its five year
agricultural sector adjustment program. This coincided with the shift in the
Bank's strategy toward supporting adjustment programs in the main economic
sectors, beginning with agriculture. In late 1985, the Bank and senior
Government officials held a series of discussions to draw up jointly the



- 4 -
outline of the ASAO, based primarily on the Government's preparatory work for
the above mentioned Sessional Paper. The ASAO was appraised by IDA in
January/February 1986, and approved in early June of the same year.
11.   The main goal of the ASAO was to remove policy and institutional
constraints to accelerated agricultural growth (goal: about 5? p.a.). A
further implicit goal was to assist fiscal stabilization through improved
efficiency in the allocation and use of public resources. These goals were to
be achieved through three broad, inter-linked strategies:
(a)   promote intensification of production through increased use of
farm inputs (particularly fertilizer), improving farmers' access
to agricultural credit, and improving essential agricultural
services;
(b)   improve producer incentives, with a focus on increasing real
returns, speeding up payments to farmers, and developing
efficient, low-cost marketing channels;
(c)   expand the flow of public and private resources for agricultural
investment by directing funds toward high priority investments and
services, and increasing the efficiency of managing public
expenditure.
ASAO Actions
12.   Actions to be taken under the ASAO (some 75 in all), comprising trenche
release conditions, dated covenants, and other measures, were classified in
five groups as follows:
(a)   Agricultural Inputs:   measures to increase the supply and use of two
key inputs (fertilizer and maize seeds); improve the financial viability
of the public sector tractor hire service, and privatize it; and phase
out subsidies for livestock services, while improving their quality.
(b)   Agricultural Credit:  measures to improve performance of the
Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC), the Cooperative Bank, and
cooperatives; increase credit supply to smallholders; and consolidate
implementation of donor credit schemes.
(c)   Incentives:  measures to maintain adequate, efficiency-based producer
prices of the major domestically consumed commodities; speed up payments
to farmers by marketing boards; and promote market deregulation and the
role of private marketing channels.
(d)   Budget Rationalization:  measures to improve the allocat{ois of budgetary
resources for agricultural activities.
(e) Parastatal Reform: measures to reduce the share of public expenditure
allocated to parastatals; divest selected non-strategic enterprises;
restructure three parastatals (South Nyanza Sugar Company/SONY; National
Irrigation Board/NIB; and National Cereals and Produce Board/NCPB); and



- 5 -
strengthen Government's management and supervision of agricultural
parastatals.
Outcomes of Key Actions
13.   Of the large number of agreed actions, some were of more direct
relevance to achieving the three sector strategies outlined earlier, and this
assessment concentrates on these. In the main chey were also the actions
emphasized by Government and the Bank during ASAO implementation, and were
used to determine progress in fulfilling the main tranche release conditions.
The -ections which follow describe the outcomes of the main actions, and
ex.:1- .t. those outcomes. Further details on implementation are summarized in
Ar    d.. attachments 1 and 2.
Strategy: Intensifying Production Through Inputs and Credit
14.   The main ASAO actions were those related to removing constraints on
provision of fertilizers and agricultural credit, the latter focusing on the
Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC).
Fertilizer
15.   The goal was to increase use of fertilizer, especially by smallholders,
by improving fertilizer pricing, import, and distribution. Prior to the ASAO,
the main supply constraints were: inappropriate pricing levels and structure;
late price announcements; inadequate distribution margins; restrictive and
arbitrary allocations of fertilizers; shortfalls in foreign exchange
allocation for imports; and deficient coordination of fertilizer aid. The
ASAO focused on these supply constraints.
16.   The outcome of the main ASAO fertilizer actions has been as follows:
(a)   retail prices of fertilizer were adjusted in each of the past three
years, with substantial increases in 1987 and 1988 (average 20% in each
year), to bring them in line with world market levels. In 1988, the
price increases were based on a new, sound fertilizer pricing formula,
which incorporates world prices and better distribution margins;
(b)   a fertilizer allocation plan prepared in each of the the last three
years provided a better basis for determining and coordinating
commercial imports and fertilizers from aid donors;
(c)   the number of distributors was increased;
(d)   guidelines were drafted for improved coordination of fertilizer aid; and
(e)   smaller fertilizer bags (25 kg, instead of the 50 kg) were promoted,
which has enabled more smallholders to purchase the fertilizer.
In late 1987 Government prepared a draft Fertilizer Policy Paper incorporating
the above improvements; it is to be submitted to Cabinet for formal approval
by mid-1989.



- 6 -
17.   Evaluation.  The actions taken have been positive, but implementation of
them is still partial, and inadequate to generate the desired effect of a
rapid increase in fertilizer consumption, at least within the implementation
span of the ASAO. Average fertilizer availability and use during the period
1985186-1987/88 grew to levels substantially above those in the period
1980/81-1984/85 (60? increase in availability, and 502 increase in use), but
neither availability nor use increased during ASAO implementation i.e. between
1985/86 and 1987/88 (Annex 1, Table 2). Data are not available yet for the
current year. This points to improvements yet to be made:
(a)   late price announcements in the past two years did not allow importers
to procure fertilizer in time for the planting season;
(b)   an unrealistic exchange rate assumption used in the first application of
the improved pricing formula did not leave sufficient margins for
distributors;
(c)   despite relaxation of the allocation procedures for importing
fertilizers, in 1987 and 1988 Government did not allocate as much
foreign exchange as needed by importers;
(d)   the Ministry of Finance, in practice, still encourages donor fertilizer
aid in kind rather than in cash for commercial imports, and has not yet
given adequate guidance to donors on fzrtilizers needed.
18.   In addition, there were various demand constraints which may have also
affected fertilizer use, particularly by smallholders (e.g. delayed crop
payments, significant price increases in fertilizer, and slow progress in
implementing research and extension programs for promoting fertilizer use
recommendations). The ASAO assumed that measures being implemented
concurrently would address adequately the demand constraints. More explicit
attention may be needed to the demand side.
Credit
19.   The main ASAO actions were on improving the performance of the AFC,
which provided about 20Z of the total formal credit to the agricultural
sector. Specific measures were: (a) reorient AFC's lending towards
smallholders through improved lending policies; and (b) initiate AFC's
organizational and financial restructuring to improve the efficiency of its
credit delivery system and recovery levels. Prior to the ASAO, AFC was beset
with various structural problems, including having a large proportion of its
loans outstanding to large farmers with poor repayment records, and lending
terms which varied according to donor source, causing confusion and
misallocation of credit (the latter problem also applied to the Cooperative
Bank).
20.   The outcome of the main ASAO credit actions has been as follows:
(a)   In 1987, AFC (i) adopted improved lending policies, including a
new definition of its target population and a limit on lending
levels to individual customers, with a stated reorientation to



smallholders (from having essentially no lending limits, it
established limits of 50 hectares and KSh 2.0 million per
customer); (ii) reorganized its staff and management, with
increased decentralization of decision-making and accountability,
and improved supervision and credit recovery in some of its
branches (recovrery increased to 80Z in some branches, although
with limited impact on AFC's overall recoveries); (iii) reviewed
its own financial structure, its future role, institutional
status, and administration of its seasonal credit scheme. AFC's
Board approved a financial restructuring plan in late 1987, but
only in January, 1989 did Cabinet direct that this plan should be
finalized for review by Cabinet later in the year;
(b)   In 1987, AFC and the Cooperative Bank adopted uniform lending terms for
credit under all new donor-financed schemes, beginning in 1988.
21.   Evaluation.  The actions agreed in the ASAO were a modest beginning to
implementing the strategies originally stated (paras 10, 11). More
importantly, the ASAO did not require AFC to implement the results of its
studies on financial restructuring and organizational changes, only to do the
studies. Implementing them would have improved AFC's capacity to increase
credit to smallholders. Without implementation AFC's lending levels and
financial position have deteriorated, as exhibited by a shortage of funds and
low recoveries. Recently, Government has become seriously concerned, and is
taking steps to deal with the situation (para 19 (a) (iii)).
Strategy: Enhanced Producer Incentives and Market De-regulation
22.   The main ASAO actions were:
(a)   maintain attractive producer prices for major domestically consumed
commodities, while taking into account principles of export/import
parity; move toward a more flexible pricing system where the official
prices become support prices;
(b)   introduce measures to speed-up payment to farmers, particularly for
maize, coffee, and cotton; and
(c)   promote efficient low-cost market channels through the deregulation of
markets, particularly for maize and beef.
Prior to the ASAO, Government had already started pricing reforms for most
commodities, and had made good progress under the IDA-supported Structural
Adjustment Loan II (1984). The goal under ASAO was one of sustaining and
deepening the pricing improvements, with an emphasis on timeliness of payments
and the phased deregulation of markets. The latter focused oa maize, beef,
and cotton, which were marketed by parastatal monopolies, inefficiently, with
delayed farmer payments and escalating public budget outlays to cover
operating losses.



- 8 -
23.   The outcomes of the main ASAO actions in pricing and marketing have been
as follows:
(a)   Producer Prices.  Farmer prices for domestically consumed major
commodities were increased consistently, and, in general, appropriately over
the past four years (1986-1989). These increases are outlined in Annex 1.
Table 3. The most recent increase was announced in March, 1989. The
underlying technical recommendations have been increasingly reflected in
official prices announced. The price reviews have been prepared and submitted
for Government decision on time, and for most commodities have shown a
consistent movement towards export or import parity price levels. Producer
price increases, after allowing for increases in costs of fertilizers and
other inputs, have maintained producer incentives over the past 3 years (see
Annex 1, Tables 5 and 6 for illustrative crop budgets for maize and
sugarcane). With the exception of milk in some areas, however, there has been
little sign of movement towards more flexible pricing which reflects varying
marketing costs. Measures to develop and improve private marketing channels
for the targetted commodities (maize, wheat, and cotton), are still being
developed.
(b)   Timely Payments to Farmers:  Improvements have been observed for maize,
and sustained for pyrethrum. For cotton and coffee progress has been slow,
while for milk, the past improvements have not being sustained.
*i)   Maizes  The most noticeable improvement for maize has occurred during
the recently completed 1988/89 crop season, when most farmers and buying
agents were paid by the NCPB within one week of delivery, rather than
the previous wait of 4-9 months. Further steps to deregulate and
improve maize marketing are outlined below (part c);
(ii) Cotton: Little progress is being made to accelerate payments for cotton,
largely because of delays in divesting and restructuring the the Cotton
Lint and Seed Marketing Board (CLSMB) (part (c), below). The
improvement in 1986 was short-lived, resulting from a temporary
injection of financial resources into the CLSMB;
(iii) Coffees By late 1987 an improved coffee payments system had been
worked out, based on recommendations of the Coffee Subsector
Study. In early 1988, Government agreed to test the system on a
pilot basis, but did not do so. Government is currently
considering introducing it at the national level, possibly
beginning in 1989. The proposed IDA-supported Coffee II project
includes financial assistance to help launch the improved system;
(iv) Milk: While faster milk payments by Kenya Cooperative Creameries
Ltd (KCC) were observed in 1985 and 1986, in the past two years
these have not been sustained. Currently, Government is examining
the role of the KCC to increase competition and reduce its
marketing and processing costs. These actions, if successful, are
expected to restore the faster payments.



- 9 -
(c)   Deregulation of Markets:  Under the ASAO a number of significant policy
decisions and actions have been taken, which have set the stage for
eliminating monopoly marketing of maize, beef and cotton.
(i)   Maizes  The most important event was the Cabinet decision in late 1987
to reform the National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB) with a view to
eliminating its legal monopoly in maize marketing and containing its
massive drain on Government's budget. The reforms, which include
financial and organizational restructuring of NCPB and an expanded role
for private traders, with NCPB eventually becoming a buyer and seller of
last resort, are in the early stages of implementation, as follows: in
1987/88 NCPB closed down about two thirds of its buying centers in an
effort to reduce costs and to enable the expanded role of other licensed
buyers; in the 1988189 season Government licensed buying agents, small
traders, cooperatives, and millers to purchase maize; targets have been
established for NCPB to purchase and sell a declining share of the
marketed maize over the next three years, beginning in 1988189; the
limit on the amount of grain which can be transported between districts
without movement controls was increased almost five-fold (from 180 kg to
900 kg);
(ii)  Beef.  In early 1987 Government decontrolled beef prices.  At about the
same time, Government decided to divest the Uplands Bacon Company and
the Kenya Meat Commission (KMC), which further opened the way for
private sector marketing, although progress on divesting has been slow;
(iii) Cotton. In mid-1988, Government approved the Cotton Act which
provides for the elimination of CLSMB's monopoly in purchasing
seed cotton and for the divestiture of its ginnery activities to
cooperatives and/or private investors. In the previous year, a
sound pricing system had been worked out to support implementation
of this policy. Although adoption was originally planned by
mid-1987, it is still awaiting review by Cabinet (expected by
mid-1989).
24.   Evaluation.  Progress has been satisfactory in securing important policy
decisions to maintain producer incentive prices and to deregulate commodity
markets, particularly for maize and beef. Slower progress has been achieved
in translating the decisions into more timely payments and lower marketing
costs. The above assessments by commodity indicate the importance of carrying
out the pricing and marketing reforms in a proper sequence. Following are the
more important outstanding issues:
(a) the slow and cautious implementation of the grain marketing reforms
reflects deep-seated views in favor of restricting grain marketing, especially
on grounds of concern for food security, distrust for private traders, and
vested interests in retaining trading by NCPB. These factors also help to
explain why past efforts to liberalize grain marketing (5 attempts within 15
years) have not succeeded. Reversing these views will continue to require
strong policy commitment and disciplined implementation; it is also likely
that the path to liberalization will not be a straight one - some of the
twists and turns already experienced illustrate this:



- 10 -
-     during 1988189 some of the NCPB buying centers closed the previous
year were re-opened to cater for areas whe e private traders did
not purchase surplus grain;
-     whether or not NCPB attained its first year target of reducing its
participation in the maize market by 20Z depends on whose
definition of the market is adopted; NCPB did not issue a clear
statement on the new policy to guide operations at the District
level; as well, the first year's maize harvested under the new
policy had a high moisture content, so that licensed traders,
lacking drying facilities, were reluctant to purchase;
-     during the 1988/89 buying season, application of the more liberal
policy regarding restrictions on grain movement varied according
to districts; those which are food-deficit and adjacent to
Kenya's international borders tended to keep the old restrictions
on inter-district movement.
(b)   delays in overhauling the cotton payment and marketing system have
resulted from lack of clarity on, and commitment to promoting private
traders/ginneries and cooperatives in taking over the role of the Cotton
Board; so far no implementation plan for privatization has been prepared;
(c)   Government is proceeding cautiously on improving coffee payments through
cooperatives, following an unsuccessful attempt to do something similar in
late 1986, when a proposed new payments system had to be withdrawn, following
strong objections from farmers.
Strategy: Improve Allocation and Efficiency
of Sectoral Public Investments and Expenditures
25.   The main actions, collectively known as budget rationalization, were:
(a)   increase public investment in agriculture;
(b)   improve budgetary processes, including better setting of priorities for
investments;
(c)   study how to contain personnel costs in sectoral Ministries;
(d)   reduce the share of parastatals in the Government budget; divest
selected non-strategic enterprises; restructure three parastatals (SONY,
NIB, and NCPB); develop a sectoral strategy of parastatal reform and
divestiture; and strengthen the Government entities reponsible for
advising and supervising parastatals, namely the Inspectorate of State
Corporations/ISC, the Government Investments Division/GID of Treasury,
and the Parastatal DivisionlPD of the MOA;
(e)   eliminate food subsidies progressively; and
(f)   increase cost recovery for animal health services, the tractor



^ 11 -
hire service, and certification of maize seeds.
Prior to the ASAO, there were inadequate allocations of productive public
investments to the agricultural sector, but excessive allocations to
inefficient and often loss-making parastatals (33 parastatals in all, with the
debts of NCPB alone in 1987 amounting to 5Z of Kenya's GDP); a large number of
projects with low returns and questionable justification; an imbalance between
salary and non-salary operating costs (the former consuming about 802 of
agriculture's recurrent budget); low or negligible cost recovery in various
income-generating services; and consumer subsidies for various commodities,
especially maize meal, wheat flour, tea, coffee, vegetable oil and rice.
Government decided to address these issues through a budget rationalization
program which was initiated in early 1986; this provided the basis for the
ASAO actions.
26.   The outcomes of the main ASAO actions have been as follows:
(a)   Increares in Sectoral Allocations.  During the period 1985/86 to
1987/88, public investments to the agricultural sector increased in real terms
by about 15Z, with a major part of the increase accruing in 1986/87. Annex 1,
Table 7 shows a summary of the budgetary allocations for the sector as a
whole. The allocations reflect increased funding for high priority programs
in extension, research, and animal health services, with reduced funding for
parastatals. The unusually large increase in the budget in 1988/89 (150Z in
nominal terms over the previous year) reflects a massive, one-time writing off
of t-e debt of parastatals undergoing financial restructuring (particularly
NCPB and SONY).
(b)   Budget Processes and Priorities.  The most notable improvements were
made during the period 1985/86-1987/88. These included:
(i) formulation of efficiency criteria for deciding project priorities;
(ii) a reduction in the number of projects, and elimination of those with low
developmental priority;
(iii) preparation of strategy and policy papers to guide the establishment of
of annual and forward budgets;
As intended, technical assistance financed by IDA under the Agricultural
Technical Assistance Project (ATAP, draft PCR December, 1988) and the on-going
Agricultural Sector Management Project (ASMP), was instrumental in embedding
these budget improvements.
(c)   Containing Personnel Costs.  The review of staff requirements in the
Ministries of Agriculture and Livestock Development was completed in early
1988, and its findings have been discussed within the Departments of Personnel
Management (DPH) of the two Ministries (MOA and MOLD). Both Ministries have
instituted a hiring freeze within the last year; the MOA held its increase in
staff in 1988/89 to 2-32 over 1987/88 (compared with 10? p.a. previously, when
it had a directive, no longer in force, to absorb large numbers of
agricultural graduates); when the Bank and Government discussed the Public



- 12 -
Expenditure Review (PER) in early 1989, senior Treasury officials reiterated
their intention to pursue vigorously the policy of holding down personnel
costs.
(d)   Parastatals.  Although most of the important actions are in programs of
restructuring which still have a long way to go . completion, following are
the main outcomes to date:
(i) During 1986-1988, Government decided to divest three agricultural
parastatals (Uplands Bacon Company/UBC, the Kenya Meat Commission/KMC, and the
Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Board/CLSMB). For the first two, staff were
laid off and almost all budgetary allocations initially eliminated, although
for all three the final form of the divestiture is still being worked out, and
KMC returned to operation July, 1989, pending final disposition.  The CLSMB is
likely to become a regulatory body, and a transition period will be needed to
minimize disruption to cotton producers and the textile industry.
(ii) During 1986-1988, Government decided to reorganize and restructure three
agricultural parastatals (the National Irrigation Board/NIB, the South Nyanza
Sugar Company/SONY, and the National Cereals and Produce Board/NCPB).
- For NIB, the restructuring started in 1986, but proceeded slowly
until mid-1988, when its finances were improved by bigger budget
allocations, an increase of 45Z in the consumer price for basmati
rice (which NIB produces in its irrigation schemes), and
eliminating NCPB as a market intermed_sry. These actions should
lower NIB's operating losses in 1988/89 by about 25Z, the first
step towards achieving full financial viability by the target
year, 1991/92.
-    For SONY, the reorganization also began in 1986; a sound financial
restructuring plan approved by Cabinet in late 1988 paved the way
for commercial borrowing currently being sought to finance factory
rehabilitation; in April, 1989 Government, with U.K. assistance.
initiated a sugar subsector study whose recommendations should
also contribute to sustaining and deepening the reforms.
-    For NCPB, an organizational &ad financial restructuring plaw was
prepared during 1987 and approved by Cabinet towards the end of
that year; in February, 1988 Government signed an initial
agreement (finalized May 5) on a five-year Cereals Sector Reform
Programme, with the EEC as financier - this agreement spelled out
in detail the main steps which would be taken (and their timing)
to implement both the broader market reforms and the restructuring
of NCPB; major changes in management were made during 1988; a new
balance sheet was approved by Cabinet in mid 1988, and the 1988/89
budget contained provisions for writing off NCPB's accumulated
debt of about KSh 5 billion (US$265 million); still to come, in
the course of the reform program, are improved management
mechanisms and financial accountability, comprehensive staff
training, and the phasing in of an increased role for private
traders, with NCPB becoming a buyer and seller of last resort.



- 13 -
(iii) Under the ongoing Agricultural Sector Management Project, IDA is
financing a limited amount of training for staff of the ISC and GID, some of
which was completed during 1988. Apart from these actions, there has been
negligible progress in formulating strategy about parastatals, or in improving
Government's supervision of them. In early 1989, in the context of the Bank's
discussion with Government of the Public Expenditure Review, Government agreed
to articulate and implement a clear strategy regarding parastatals.
(e)   Food Subsidies.  Between 1985 and 1989, Government has increased the
retail prices of foods and beverages in steps, with the following total
increases: maize meal 37Z. wheat flour 472, white bread 442, Sindano rice 482,
Basmati rice 751, tea 351, and coffee 462 (Annex 1, Table 8 contains details).
In all cases these increases have been greater than the overall increases in
consumer price indexes, ranging from 50X to 1007 greater. Beef prices were
decontrolled in early 1987. The main remaining subsidies are on coffee and
perhaps on vegetable oils. Their reduction is under active discussion.
(f)   Improved Cost Recovery.  In late 1986, Cabinet approved phased increases
in charges for livestock services; charges for livestock dipping and
artificial insemination (AI) have been increased twice since late 1987, the
total increase being nearly 300? for dipping and 10002 for A.I. (Attachment 1,
item 4, p. 15 has further details). These increases, if sustained, will meet
Government's target of eliminating these subsidies within the next 2-3 years.
Subsidies on drugs and clinical services provided by the MOLD were eliminated
in early 1988 when their prices were set at market levels.  Concurrently,
Government is improving the delivery of livestock services. For the Tractor
Hire Service, rather than raise its fees, Government stated its intention to
phase out the service, but has not adopted a specific plan for doing so. In
1987 Government increased user charges for seed certification, but has not yet
increased the retail prices for maize seed (an action due in late 1987).
27.   Evaluation.  Progress on parastatals remains piecemeal rather than
comprehensive, with Government commitment apparently limited to implementation
of reforms only on a case-by-case basis; responsibilities for the agricultural
parastatals are now fragmented among numerous Ministries, which reduces
chances for common approaches and centralized supervision; the roles of the
ISC, GID and PD in supervision have not been clarified (see Attachment 2,
paras 12 and 13 for further details). The protracted process of completing
divestiture of UBC, KMC and CLSMB reflects Government's underlying hesitation.
Good progress was achieved in restructuring NIB, SONY and NCPB, but negligible
advances were made in improving global supervision of parastatals.
Government's recent commitment to formulate and implement a parastatal
strategy, backed by the necessary political will, should provide an better
policy framework for getting the supervision on track.
28.   It is too early to measure increased efficiency in the three parastatals
being restructured. Budgetary outlays for writing off the debt of these three
is about KSh 6.0 billion (US$320 million equivalent), with NCPB taking about
KSh 5.0 billion, and SONY nearly KSh 1.0 billion. The write-off of NIB's
small debt (less than KSh 30 million) is awaiting Cabinet approval. The
budgetary outlays in 1988/89 account for only a part of these write-offs, but



- 14 -
such costs should be compared to possible losses in the absence of a reform
program: for NCPB alone, the Reorganization Study estimated that, without the
reforms, NCPB's operating losses would total about i(Sh 17 billion (1987
constant prices) over the next 10 years.
29.   The consumer price adjustments are reducing the need for the exchequer
to cover financial losses of NCPB (for maize), NIB (for rice) and KCC (for
milk), which might otherwise arise. Inaction on retail prices for maize seed,
coupled with recent producer price increases fcr it, is having an adverse
financial effect on the Kenya Seed Company, the main supplier.
Overall Evaluation
Loan Conditions and Covenants
30.   The ASAO included a large number of conditions (some 75), although the
more important ones, especially those relating to tranche release, were fewer
in number. Attachment 1 summarizes performance in meeting the tranche
conditions, and Attachment 2 dated covenants and other agreements. The
experience suggests there were too many conditions, and that they were not
sufficiently focused and well defined to promote effectively the ASAO goals
and strategies. The lack of precision made monitoring difficult. For
example, the parastatal component first tranche condition called for
"initiating the financial and organizational restrzcturing of NCPB, NIB, and
SONY"; and the second tranche required "adequate progress" in their
restructuring. This lack of definition left too much room for debate about
whether particular conditions had been sufficiently fulfilled to secure the
tranche releases. To make workable decisions, Bank staff, in consultation
with Government officials, established priority areas and performance
indicators with which to assess progress.
31.   That the conditions were not well defined possibly reflects insufficient
agreement on detailed action plans prior to negotiations; in turn this may
have been because Government's request to the Bank in mid-1985 to provide
program assistance was an urgent one, and in responding the Bank was embarking
on something new for it, namely sector lending. Whatever the reason, the
conditions urderstated the complex and sensitive nature of the reforms, which
required many decisions at the level of Cabinet and Parliament; it was assumed
these could be formulated, debated and approved, all within the rather short
lifetime of a quick-disbursing Credit; the loose wording of conditions
concealed the leng'.hy approval processes in Kenya for such major reforms.
32.   These processes were made longer by the many changes in key Government
decision-makers and fragmentation of sector institutional responsibilities
which were experienced, even during the short lifetime of the Credit. For
future sector policy-based lending in Kenya, the ASAO experience points to the
need for more detailed formulation of the key conditions and action plans, and
more aup-fronta decisions by Government prior to approval of the operation
than were made for ASAO, so that commitment to agreed reforms is on the part
of Government itself, and not just certain individuals.



- 15 -
Performance of Government and IDA
33.   Government.  Government's performance in implementing the ASAO was
mixed, better in the first year (1986/87) than in the second and third. Their
best performance was in decisions relating to producer prices; grain marketing
reforms; de-regulation of the consumer price for beef; improved farmer
payments for maize in 1988/89; improving allocation processes for sectoral
public investments; and improving cost recovery for animal health services.
Some of the most important actions took place after second tranche release.
An example was agreement with the EEC in mid-1988 on the Cereals Reform
Program. Government also approved and started (early 1989) a project entitled
"Monitoring and Evaluation of Agricultural Strategies and Policies", financed
by UNDP and IDA, which will include continuing monitoring of the effects of
ASAO.
34.   With the exception of these actions, since the release of the second
tranche in early 1988 there has been a not4ceable slackening in Government's
commitment to many of the reforms initiated under the ASAO (Attachments 1 and
2 outline those areas where implementation has been partial). Examples are:
not making timely fertilizer pricing announcements; not continuing to relax
fertilizer allocation procedures; not starting implementation of the improved
coffee payments system; not issuing clear operational pulicies and
arrangements to expand the role of private traders in grain marketing; and
slow progress on parastatal reforms, especially in establishing an effective
national monitoring system.
35.   The slackening in implementation is partly attributable to two factors,
which were unforeseen at the time of finalizing the ASAO design and
implementation arrangements. First, in the first year of implementation,
three senior Government decision-makers, who played a key role in the design
of the ASAO, retired or were transferred. Second, also during the first year
of implementation, responsibility for the agricultural sector, which had been
predominantly with one Ministry, came to be shared among five Ministries, some
newly created. At the time of preparing and approving the ASAO, the main
decision-making and implementing agency was the Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock Development (MOALD). In late 1986, the Ministry of Livestock
Development was established; in May of 1987, the Ministry of Supplies and
Marketing W8S created to handle NCPB; in May, 1987 NIB was transferred to the
Ministry of Energy and Regional Development (which later split into separate
Ministries); the f!Z.n entity is the Ministry of Cooperative Development,
whose role in implementing a small part of the ASAO continued as envisaged.
36.   These unforeseen changes led to the emergence of the Ministry of Finance
as the critical actor in helping to ensure that the various participating
Ministries implemented the actions required for second tranche release. The
MOF established a Steering Committee, comprising the Permanent Secretaries
(PSs) of the 6 participating Ministries, chaired by the PS of MOF. This new
Committee, meeting frequently in late 1987, played a major role in moving
towards release of funds from the World Bank and the other donors, who were
linking their funding to agreement between Government and the Bank that
conditions had been met. The serious balance of payments prcblem emerging in
1987 was a key motivating factor behind the MOF's active role.



- 16 -
37. While the ASAO Steering Committee played an important catalytic role,
the institutional fragmentation left a void at the technical level. In part,
this resulted from turnover of some key Government staff, and the unforeseen
reduction, in mid-1986, of technical assistance which was to have been
financed by the IDA-supported Agricultural Sector Management Project. The net
result of the above developments was that Go. rnment focused most of its
efforts on fulfilling tranche release conditions, defined as narrowly as
possible, rather than on broad implementation of the ASAO reform program.
This undermined the sustainability of the reforms.
38.    IDA.  The main shortcomings from IDA's side were too loose initial
definition of conditions, too much "preparation for adjustment' (studies,
formulation of policy papers and restructuring plans) instead of adjustment
itself in the operation (the credit should have been used more for financing
the costs of actual ddjustment), underestimation of the time it would take to
carry out difficult reforms, and not foreseeing the effects of departure from
the scene of key individuals in Government. In June 1987, three staff
involved in the ASAO since its inception transferred ar part of the Bank's
reorganization. While they were replaced by other staff in late 1987, these
changes iLlso affected temporarily the depth of IDA's review and implementation
assistance. IDA reviewed progress of the ASAO through three formal missions.
In addition, since the ASAO supervision was managed from the Resident Mission,
IDA staff had opportunities for substantial contacts with officials between
formal missions. This helped to overcome problems arising from loosely
defined conditions and the 'new' actors in Government, but the depth of these
periodlc and informal discussions was still limited by the wide range of
topics needing coverage.
39. The IDA inputs required for preparation (122 staff weeks/SWs), appraisal
(62 SW8) and review (nearly 70 SWs), reflect the staff/consultant intensity of
this type of policy operation (Annex 1, Table 1). This included assisting
Government with prioritizing tranche release conditions, establishing
performance indicators, and mobilizing substantial additional funds from six
other donors.
Indicative Effects of the ASAO
40. Both GOK and IDA viewed the ASAO as a first phase of a five year program.
A proposed ASAO II is being identified and prepared, to follow ASAO. It is
too early to measure the impact of the changes made. Furthermore, there was
no explicit provision within ASAO for monitoring and evaluating the policy
measures and their effects. An M&E initiative identified during ASAO
implementation is barely starting now. All that can be done at this stage is
to ask whether the strategies and actions would still be regarded as the right
ones, and look at selected proxy indicators which reflect progress in
generating the desired benefits, including recent growth performance.
41. The three main strategies and supporting actions which were the basis
for this operation are still regarded as the correct ones to achieve the
desired agricultural growth. With the further experience of three years, it
seems now that the actions should have been more closely defined, that more



- 17 -
thought should have been given to their sequencing, and that they should have
been more explicitly linked with investment programs which were seen as
complementary. The ASAO assumed that cther important supply-side constraints
would be addressed adequately in the context of the investment program (e.g.
through research and extension, credit, cotton marketing, animal health
services, and coffee projects). Implementation problems which delayed the
full benefits of these investments, also delayed realization of full benefits
of actions under ASAO. This is an important lesson for the design of future
operations.
42. Agricultural Growth During the ASAO Implementation Period. During the
three year implementation period of the ASAO (1986-1988), Kenya's growth in
agricultural value-added averaged 4.0-4.52 p.a., with two excellent years in
1986 and 1988 (nearly 5? p.a.). This performance has been significantly
better than that experienced in the years immediately prior to the ASAO, and
that of most other African countries during the same period. It seems to have
been largely the result of favorable weather, coupled with a generally sound
sector policy framework, reflecting cumulative effects of policy reforms
initiated in the early 1980s, culminating in the ASAO. The drop in
agricultural growth in 1987 (officially reported to be 4.8?) came after an
excellent production year in 1986, and was due primarily to poor weather and
low coffee export prices. Annex 1, Table 9 shows the production levels by
major commodity.
43. ASAO actions, resulting in consistent producer price increases (which
maintained producer incentives in spite of increases in fertilizer prices),
more timely payments to farmers for some commodities, price de-control of
beef, and the increased availability of fertilizer, also contributed to this
good sectoral performance. The substantial foreign exchange funds (US$226
million equivalent) from six donors under the ASAO helped to alleviate severe
foreign exchange shortages in 1987 and 1988, and prevented a decline in
imports of inputs such as fertih..er.
44. Indicative Effects of Adjustment on the Poor. Although no detailed
study of this has been possible yet (the M & E project will include it), on
balance it seems likely that the ASAO has had positive effects on the poor.
Smallholders, most of whom are poor, comprise about 602 of the total
population. The producer price increases for agricultural outputs benefitted
this smallholder population directly. Decontrol of beef led to producer price
increases which benefitted poor farmers and pastoralists in arid and semi-arid
areas, among others.
45. On the other hand, consumer prices for maize meal, sugar, milk, bread,
and tea have increased several times in the last three years (see Annex 1,
Table 8). These increases reflect rising producer prices, the Government's
desire to reduce consumer subsidies, and general price inflation. It is these
consumer price increases which are likely to have had the most negative impact
on the poor, particularly those who are landless, or living in urban areas
(together accounting for 20? of the population), for whom there have been no
offsetting output price increases. These effects should be the main focus,
within the M & E study, for monitoring effects of adjustment upon the poor.
The study should recommend measures to alleviate adverse effects, perhaps



- 18 -
through targetted interventions.
Other Aspects of ASAO
46.   Procurement.  ASAO funds were provided as reimbursement for expenditures
on commercial imports incurred during 1986-1988 (Annex 1, Table 10), and there
was no requirement for special procurement procedures.
47.   Disbursements.  The IDA and African Facility Credits, totalling 52.8
million SDRs (US$71.2 million equivalent) were fully disbursed. While the
closing date of end-June 1988 was maintained, disbursements were delayed by
about 4 months. to be completed 2 lZ years after approval and 18 months after
effectiveness.  The disbursement period was extended to end-December, 1988 to
give more time to Government to prepare and submit withdrawal applications.
Annex 1, Table 11 shows the forecast and actual disbursements according to
expenditure category. The differences resulted from IDA's agreeing to
requests for re-allocation, which reflected a need to accelerate disbursements
during periods of critical foreign exchange shortage, when there was not
available in the Central Bank the necessary documentation to draw down certain
categories. Disbursement of the first tranche was delayed after effectiveness
by about 5 months, while Government worked out the best way to do it.
Disbursements were rapid thereafter, and the method devised was also used for
funds from other donors.
48.   Accounts and Audit.  To date, Government has not submitted an audit
contirming that the funds were used for the reimbursement of eligible items.
Treasury is arranging currently the required audit report.
ASAO Cofinancing Support From Other Donors
49.   ASAO played a major catalytic role in helping GOK to mobilize additional
resources (about US$155 million equivalent, on grant or soft terms) from six
additional donors: the EEC, the Saudi Fund, and the Governments of Japan,
Netherlands, Federal Republic of Germany, and Denmark. Annex 1, Table 11
summarizes the funds provided, terms and conditions, and the status of
disbursement. This donor support was not planned at the time of approval of
the ASAO by IDA, and an agreement was formalized between GOK and each donor
during the period from late 1986 to early 1988. During this period, there was
close cooperation amongst the participating donors. The EEC financed the NCPB
Reorganization Study, whose findings provided the basis for Cabinet approval
of the reform program. The EEC also provided substantial funds to help
implement this program, based on a detailed schedule. This action plan was an
important element in triggering IDA's release of the second tranche.



- 19 -
C. MAIN LESSONS LEARNED
50.   The above assessment has highlighted six main lessons, related to:
(a) Government commitment and sustainability; (b) program design;
(c) disbursements and allocation of funds; (d) implementation and coordination
arrangements; (e) complementarity with other investments and programs; and
(f) the usefulness of ASAO as an instrument for mobilizing multi-donor support
within a policy framework.
51.   Government Commitment and Sustainability.  Experience after the first
year with slackening Government commitment to implementation of some of the
sector reforms suggests the following:
a)    thorough efforts are needed right from the beginning (identification
stage) to build commitment at both political and technical levels of the
implementing agencies which will be sustained through and beyond the
disbursements stage; ways to achieve this may include providing
additional budgetary resources to the participating agencies to give an
"ownership stake" in the program, and design of actions so that carrying
them out confers benefits at several levels;
(b)   policy decisions on key reform actions should be secured early in the
reform program; these "up-front" decisions will help reduce the risks of
unforeseen changes and/or weak implementation, and may result in quicker
disbursements.
52.   Design.  ASAO experience highlighted the following lessons:
(a)   focus on a few strategic actions, with appropriate sequencing, which
address directly constraints to sustained and equitable agricultural
growth, or other relevant goals;
(b)   formulate clear, unambiguous and monitorable action plans and secure the
necessary policy decisions "up-front', early in the process;
(c)   allow a long enough implementation period in which to achieve the more
complex reforms in the program;
(d)   establish the necessary institutional arrangements and inducements to
the participating Ministries in order to ensure their "ownership" of the
reform program, from design through implementation.
53.   Disbursements and Allocation of Funds.  ASAO highlighted two important
lessons: First, there was no need for the Special Account originally
specified, because the funds were used to reimburse GOK for past expenditures
on eligible imports; if pre-financing of expenditures is foreseen, then the
Special Account merits consideration; Second, there was a difference in
perceptions between Treasury, which eanted quick-disbursing flexible foreign
exchange resources, in part to assure imports of key agricultural inputs, and
sectoral Ministries, which wanted additional counterpart funds to help finance



- 20 -
priority public investments and expenditures.
54.   In retrospect, ASAO arrangements favored the former objective, which
satisfied Treasury, but implementing agencies perceived that they did not
receive any additional resources, which may explain uneven commitment to some
of the actions. In a future operation the funds for imports should be more
precisely related to targets, and a portion of the operation's funds could be
used to finance priority complementary expenditures through additional
resources in budgets of participating Ministries. It would be important for
Treasury to clarify the allocation formula from the beginning of preparation.
55.   Effective Coordination and Implementation.  The following lessons emerge
from ASAO experience: First, the ASAO Steering Committee (SC), comprising PSs
of the Ministries concerned, and chaired by the PS of Finance, proved to be an
effective instrument which should be continued in any follow-up operation;
Second, there is a need for a Technical Secretariat (TS), staffed by senior
technical officers from the participating Ministries, to review policy options
and sequencing of actions, and to follow-up on the decisions taken by the SC.
The absence of such a Secretariat in ASAO prolonged the formulation of policy
decisions and their effective and timely implementation. In recognition of
this lesson, GOK plans to retain the ASAO SC, and is considering establishing
a TS for a follow-up operation.
56.   Complementarity with Other Investments and Programs.  ASAO experience
suggests that the linkages between it and other related investment activities
could have been stronger and more explicit. For the proposed follow-up
operation, these linkages should be specified and closely monitored during
implementation, focusing on the most important policy and investment
interventions (i.e. research and extension, particularly regarding fertilizer
use; market development and timely payments; credit availability, delivery
system, and recoveries).
57.   Mobilizing Multi-Donor Support.  The ASAO served as an instrument to
articulate Government's policy reform program, assist in its implementation,
and mobilize quick-disbursing assistance from seven donors. It allowed a
wider policy dialogue between Government and donors than would have been
possible with any other instrument, and justified fully the sizeable IDA staff
resources used to prepare, appraise, and supervise it. Government is
currently preparing a follow-up operation in close collaboration with IDA.
Several donors have already expressed interest in participation, as a result
of satisfaction with the framework created and developed by the AZAO.



- 21 -
Part II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
e 1.  BACKGROUND
The Agricultural Sector Adjustment OPeration (ASAO I) was
the first such operation of its kind in Kenya and was a
relatively new form of activity for both the Government of Kenya
and the IDA. As a result, both parties were to a greater or
lesser extent innovating throughout the life of the project. It
is important that this be taken into account when evaluatina the
Operation and that the experience aained during ASAO I be used to
improve the design and implementation of subsequent adjustment
operations.
It is also important that the operation be evaluated in the
light of the difficulties that IDA activities in Kenya faced in
the early 1980's. The agricultural economy of Kenya grew rapidly
in the first two decades after independence and was viewed as one
of the success stories of Sub-Saharan Africa. In contrast with
this, eight of the twelve ongoing Bank/IDA agriculture-sector
projects in Kenya had been classsified by the Bank as problem
projects by early 1984. The Bank's experience with programme
lending had also been mixed and had led to a degree of conflict
with the borrower. Thus, ASAO I was initiated in a difficult
situation and needs to be evaluated against this backaround.
2. EVOLUTION OF THE OPERATION
(a) The Initial Preparation
- the process
Possible areas for further assistance were discussed with a
Bank mission which visited Kenya in February, 1984. The mission
expressed a desire to continue to assist the Government in its
structural adjustment programme and, in particular, in the
implementation of essential reforms. In the months which
followed, discussions took place between government officials
and Bank Staff on the status and direction of agricultural
lending in Kenya. This prepared the ground for a formal approach
by the Bank to the Borrower in June 1986, during which the
possibility of some form of programme-based support for
structural adjustment in the agricultural sector was raised.
This was accepted in principle by the Government in August 1984,
and the Permanent Secretary, Treasury requested the Ministry
of Agriculture to proceed to organise the preparation of a
programme of lenaing to support adjustment in the sector.
The initial preparation comprised two basic elements
undertaken jointly by the Borrower and the Bank. The first was
development of the concept of a sector operation in the context
of Kenya's agricultural sector. The second was development at
the technical level, of the specific components which would
compromise the recommended operation.



- 22 -
work on these two elements was undertaken principally by a
joint Bank-Government working group which comprised the Bank's
Nairobi-based Section Chief for Agriculture and officers _an4
advisors from the Development Planning Division (DPD) of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development. This proved
an extremely efficient means of initial preparation with
excellent cooperation between the two parties throughout. The
basis for the committee's deliberations was a series of draft
discussion papers and project proposals prepared initially by the
Bank and gradually refined over a number of meetings which agreed
on the nature of revisions to the documents.  During this process
redrafting of the documents was undertaken by both parties, with
the Government refining the Bank's drafts and vice versa.
Each potential component of the operation was considered by
the committee in detail and members undertook detailed analysis
of the issues involved as a basis for drafting the proposal.
Government members of the committee, for example, examined the
anatomy of payment delays in the agricultural sector and a
detailed set of working papers analysing payment delays for each
major crop was prepared. The IDA's Participation in the
committee was supported by consultant reports and by the prior
analytical work of its staff.
- the nature'and content of the proposed.:: operation
Drawing on the experience gained during the two SALS, the
working committee developed the following guidelines to be
followed during preparation of the Operation:
-refortis and institutional change should be limited in scope;
- reforms should be concentrated in areas where genuine
agreement existed as to their nature and desireability,
on the part of both Government and the Bank;
- IDA funding should be used to support processes and to
establish and modify institutions rather than being
disbursed against the attainment of targets;
- IDA funds should be used both for direct support of
specific adjustments and for indirect balance of
payments support;
- the timetable adopted should be realistic;
-Kenyans involved ifn-impler.entation should be involved in
preparation;
- consensus should be built within the Government by
including in the preparation process all ministries
and parastatals involved in or affected by implementation;
- Preparation should be careful and detailed.



- 23 -
At the first meeting of the committee, the bank proposed for
consideration eiaht areas of potential reform. These comprised
four of the five areas which were finally selected plus (i)
policies and institutional actions needed to increase the
effectiveness of NGO's (ii) selected policy and management issues
facing cooperatives (iii) the grain market reform foreseen under
SAL II and (iv) expanded private-sector activity in
agroprocessing, agricultural marketing and agricultural credit.
At this stage, credit was not incluJed as a separate area.
During the work of the committee, agricultural research was added
as a further potential area. Issues related to grain market
reform were debated at considerable length within the working
committee and it was eventually decided that selected elements of
reform should be incorporated within the other components of the
Operation.
The prepartion procedure led to a technically sound set of
proposals and as a bonus, to a much bettwe understandina by the
Government and the Bank of the rat onale behind each others
positions on particular aspects of the Kenyan agricultural
economy.
(b) Refinement and Final Agreement of the Form
of the Operation
On completion of the basic set of technical proposals,
formal negotiation of the components of the agreement was
undertaken principally between Bank staff and the
permanent secretaries of the involved ministries. During this
period there were two critical sets of meetings which accelerated
negotiation.
In Nlovember 1985, an agricultural sector operation forum was
held between senior Government and Bank staff. The forum was
opened by the Chief Secretary who delivered a keynote address.
This high level participation served to emphasise the importance
attached by the Government to the operation and to crystolise and
formalise the stance of the Government on each of the components.
In addition to allowina a broad-based discussion of the
prospective components, the forum led to an increased understandinc
by senior government officers of the concept and purpose of the
operation. It also served to involve at an early stage the many
Government officials whose commitment to the success of the
operation would be vital during implementation.
The second set of meetings which proved to be important to
the success of the operation were those held in Paris in 1986
during which the final form of the aareement was negotiated.
The meetings were held concurrently with the consultative group
meetings with the result that senior management of both the
Bank and the Government were on hand to facilitate negotiation.



- 24 -
Committment to the success of the operation by both parties
coupled with the increased flexibility in negotiation
afforded by the presence of senior management proved a
major factor allowing rapid negotiation of an agreement
acceptable to both parties. Major concessions were made by
both the Government and the IDA during the Paris negotiations.
This would not have been possible in the absence of senior
management.
The Agricultural Sector Adjustment Operation incorporatina
the components negotiated in Paris was proved by the Board
of the Bank in June, 1986, with effectiveness from March
1987. The agreement included some 75 adjustments to be
undertaken by the Government.
3. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Given, the innovative nature of the operation, overall
implementation was remarkably successful. The majority
of the agreed adjustments were undertaken by the Government
and over 98 per cent of the IDA and African Facility
Credits were disbursed. However, on some components the
Government experienced difficulty in meeting the deadlines
for completing the full set of adjustments and there was
a delay of some four months in disbursement of the credits.
Two factors prevented the full set of adjustments being
completed by the agreed deadlines. First, was a series
of changes in the structure of Government Ministries. The
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock was split into a
Ministry of Agriculture and Ministry of Livestock Development;
a new Ministry .of M4arketing and Supplies was created as the
parent ministry of the National Cereals and Produce Board
and the National Irrigation Board was transferred from the
Ministry of Agriculture to the Ministry of Regional Development.
These changes hampered coordination of the operation, by
removing from the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
Development its natural role as the lead ministry.
Moreover, the changes led to a largely bew.,et-o-
Government officers becoming responsible for much of the
implementation and these officers naturally had less
experience initially of the nature of the operation and
were less aware of its importance.
The second factor which complicated and slowed the operation
was the very large number of separate adjustment to be
undertaken. This led to both the Government and the Bank
focussing on those adjustments which were easiest to
implement rapidly and/or were considered likely to be of
greatest benefit to Kenya. This, in turn, led to a
slowing of implementation as the operation advanced,
because the set of outstanding adjustments tended progressively
to comprise those most difficult to implement and/or those
considered by the Government of least importance.
Although the Operation was initially developed with the IDA
as the sole donor, it was eventually supported by six other



- 25 -
donors, two of which (Japan and the EEC) each provided funds for
similar magnitude to those committed by the IDA. The total funds
eventually committed under the operation were some US$226 million.
This was equivalent to over-one tenth of the total annual value
of national imports during the period and had a significant impact
on Kenya's foreign exchange position. All the additional funds
supplied by donors were in the form of balance of payments support.
The bank played an important role in mobilising support for the
operation by other donors and this assistance is greatly
appreciated by the Government.
4. EVALUATION OF THE OPERATION
(a) The Basic Nature of the Operation
One of the initial aims for the operation was that, unlike
the prior SALS, IDA funds would be used to support processes
and to establish and modify institutions rather than being
disbursed against the attainment of targets by the borrrower.
As the Operation was finally structured, donor funds supplied
under the operation although not used directly in support of
the individual adjustment activities, the linkage between the
balance of payments support and these activities were the
conditionality for tranche release. Thus, from the viewpoint
of the Borrower, the Operation can be evaluated as two
separate programmes - a programme of balance of payments
support and a programme of adjustment activities in the
agricultural subsector.
- balance of payments support
A total of US$ million 225.9 (approx.KE200 million) of
import financing was provided by donors in 1987-89 under the
operation. This was equivalent to roughly one half of the
average annual value of agricultural input imports during those
years. There was a significant increase in agricultural inputs
in 1987 and 1988 over 1986. While the increase in agricultural
input in 1986 was 5%, in 1987 it grew by 10.3% and in 1988 by
20.2% (Table 8.1 Economic Survey).  The import content was
significant. Although fertilizer dropped because of the timing
of different aid programmes, the import of tractors and machinery
grew by 36% in 1987 and a further 10% in 1988. Thus as a balance
of payments support programme targetting on required imports, it
can be seen as successful.
the adjustment activities
The first point to note is that agricultural output significantly
increased during the years of operation and the following year.
There was a growth in real terms of 4.5% p.a at a time when
export commodity prices were not particularly attractive. Thus,
the programme can be seen as supporting growth.
Evaluation of the adjustment activities themselves faces two
problems. First, in the context of the Operation, the only
activities which should be considered for this report which



- 26 -
are of relevance are those which resulted from the operation
i,e those which would not have taken place had there been
no Operation. Since the activities were not directly
funded through the Operation, determining the activities
which-resulted from the Operation means isolating those
either the Government would not have wanted to undertake
for some reason or which the Government would have been
prevented from undertaking through a resource constraint
which was broken as a result of the Operation. The extent
to which the Government compromised during the process of
negotiation by agreeing to undertake activities aqainst
its better judgement is very difficult to isolate, although
it must be said that by and large all the activities agreed
were on the agenda of Government policies as stated in
various documents.
Unquestionably the Operation will have had some impact on
Kenya's ability to undertake adjustment, both through the
direct influence of the balance of payments support and
through the related activities of the IDA and other donors.
However, the extent of this cannot be easily determined.
In addition to this, the need to divert public resources
to support the adjustment activities under the Operation
may have prevented the Government from undertaking other
potentially beneficial activities or to have led to it
carrying out ongoing activities less thoroughly. Given the
analysis and management-intensive nature of the Operation,
this effect is likely to have been of importance but,
again, is very difficult to isolate. However what is
clear is that the operation did provide a forum for
discussing issues which were identified by Government as
important, through the Steering Committee. While such a
forum does not need an operation to discuss such issues,
with the overall importance of the financing it did
encourage Government to form such a forum and follow up
more vigorously. The Operation did become management
intensive and as such was of benefit in pushing through
changes and adjustments.
The second problem encountered in the evaluation of the
adjustment programme is the need to isolate the impact
of the adjustments which did take place. Since most of
the adjustments were institutional in nature, their impact
cannot be easily separated from other influences and is
likely to be felt only over the long term. Therefore, it
is considered that an effective valuation must result from
careful monitoring over a number of years. A system for the
monitoring of adjustment is currently being established by
the Government.  Again the fact the Operation took place
encouraaed the setting up of the important monitoring system.



- 27 -
Unlike in many Sub-Saharan countries, market prices
in Kenya are relatively undistorted by taxes and subsidies
and the prices in the agricultural economy which are
administered by the Government mostly approximate projected
long-term market prices. For this reason, and unlike most
adjustment operations in Sub-Saharan Africa, the Operation
comprised mainly institutional changes, such as the
restructuring of marketing systems and the modification of
of public management. Undertaking such adjustments tends
to be a much longer and more complex process than changing
prices. This, coupled with the very large number of actions
of adjustments programmed to be undertaken in a relatively
short period of time, placed a heavy burden on the enalytical
and organisational capacity of the Government and resulted
in partial and incomplete adjustment in some areas. This
experience suggests that, for future operations, the under-
taking of a more limited number of actions in greater depth
over a longer period of time would be likely to lead to
policy and institutional reforms which are more effective
and susstainable. A first step in preparation should be
isoaltion of a relatively small number of adjustments, the
implementation of which is likely to lead to the greatest
possible increase in the rate of growth of the value of
agricultural production.
Multi-donor participation
The participation of the additional donors more than
trebled the total inflow of funds. This situation
envisaged during preparation, with the result that the
structure of the operation was negotiated between IDA
and the Borrower only. This had the important advantage
of simplifying prepparation and suggests that, on the
donor side, future operation should be spearheaded by a
single lead institution, or through a concerted, co-
ordinated approach. The returns to the manaaement
intensive operation are greatly increased by this
approach. It also has encouraged other donors to take
advantage of a programmised approach to sector adjustment
lending.
It is important that future operations are not seen as
discrete activities, but rather as part of a process of
continuous adjustment. ASAO I demonstrated that the
preparation process is likely to span several years. For
future Operations, the process will be ven more comp&ex
due to the greater number of Ministries which are now
involved in the agricultural sector because, as the more
obvious adjustments are undertakeh, future operations
will become more complex and their components more
contentious. To allow continuity of the adjustment process,
it will be important to begin preparation of each subsequent
operation well in advance of the completion of the prior
operations. There shall therefore be a need for a
continuing dialogue between Government and IDA as it will be
important both for availability of resources and progress
on adjustments that this programming loan is not just seen
a discrete programme.



- 28 -
. 4
The Goverment would then have the assunace of continued
availability of funds for the continuous approach to
important adjustments.



- 29 -
PART III
STATISTCAL IhPbATION



- 31 -
Table 1
(COUNTRY  KENYA     ) ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
LOAN/CREDIT DATA
Amounts (SDRm)
As of (Date):
4/05/89
Original    Disbursed   Cancelled  Repaid  Outstanding
Loan/Credit No.    __       52. 8              ,7.A6- 1.O6O-__
Cr. 1717-KE    17.6      Original Loan/Credit Dste(s)   Actual or Re-estimated
Cr. A021-KE    35.2
Initiating Memorandum                      _
Letter of Development
Policy                    May 27. 1986                   May 27. 1986
Negotiations                April/Mav 1986                 April/Mav 1986
Board Approval              June 23, 1986                  June 23. 1986
Loan/Credit Agreement   .1Ebrigary 10, 1487                February 10. 1987
Effectiveness               Deceber 6. 986                March 31, 1987
Loan/Credit Closing         June 30. 1988                  June 30. 1988
Actual Completion                                          December 31. 1988
CUMULATIVE LCAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENT
(SDR M)
FYjZ   FYfl   FYA2   FY_
(i)    Planned                                       26.g   52-52
(ii)   Actual                                         O _   38.0   52-8 1/_
(iii)  (ii) as % of (i)                               -     72.0  100.0
1/ Less SDR 1.76
MISSION DATA
No. of   No. of      Staff     Date of
Month, Year     Weeks    Persons    Weeks       Report
Preparation       (Beg.)   6/84          -          6       122.0a/   11/85
Appraisal/NEG             1/86            4         8         62.0         L.86
Supervision I            11/86           3          7    )   26.3        11/86
Supervision II & III  5/87 & 11187       3          7     ) )   42.8   5/87i-- 11/87
Completion                2/89           3          2    )    6.0         5/89
FOLLOW-ON ADJUSTMENT OPERATIONS
The proposed ASAO 'I is currently under preparation.
a/ Includes inputs (about 50SWs during FY 84 and FY 85) for activities
indirectly related to the ASAO but which were recorded under ASAO because of
the absence of another operational activity fo- time recording (i.e. drought
recovery work, agricultural sector report, agriculture donor coordination).



- 32 -
Annex I
Table 2
ASAO I - PCR
FERTILIZER AVAILABILITY AND CONSUMPTION
(1980/81 - 1987/88)
YEAR        AVAILABILITY g/ CONSUMPTION         CLOSING                X GHANGE
STOCKS           (OVER PREVIOUS YEAR)
(Metric Tons)  (Metric Tons)    (Metric Tons)   AVAILABILITY    CONSUMPTIOtI
1980/81         169,842        129,141            40,701
1981/82         247,368        136,432           110,936           + 46            +  5.4
1982/83        240,493         142,785            97,708           -  2.8          +  4.4
1983/84        219,708         198,460            21,248           -  8.0          + 39.4
1984/85        203,622         175,328            28,294           -  7.3          -  7.8
1985/86         373,455        239,114            135,321           + 83.7         + 36.0
1986/87         331,920        229,865            102,055           - 11.3         -  3.8
1987/88         327,278         237,873            89,405           -  3.3         +  3.5
Source: DPD (MOA)
a/ Refers to imports and open stocks.



- 33 -
Table 3
ASAO I - P(R
ROI   ON AND OFFICIAL RODUEU  ERICES ER MAKR
AGICLLIURAL C)MMODITIES
(1984/85 - 1988/89)
1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89 hJ 1989/90 i/
MAIr a/.
Production (million bags)      16.5    26.8    28.7       24.0     30.0      -
KOh/90 kg beg                 L56.0   175.0   188.0    188.0   201.0         221.0
Z chane in producer prices              12.2      7.4      0.0      6.9      10.0
WI{FA b/
1uction (million bags)          1.2      2.8      2.8      2.6      2.7      -
K.¶i90 kg bag                 220.1    242.1    264.1   264.1    284.1      400.0
Z chae in producer prices                9.9      9.0      0.0      7.6      40.8
SIUARCAE c/ (Into factory)
Production ('000 tons)      3,611.2  3,250.0  3,551.6  3,698.0  4,091.0      -
Ksh per ton of cane           250.0    270.0    300.0    341.0    368.0      -
% change in prdcer prices                8o      11.1    13.7       7.9      -
SUGAR (ex factory) c/
Production ('000 tons)        372.1    345.6   365.8    413.4    411.6       -
Ksh per ton of cane         4,773.0  4,986.0  5,253.0  5,830.0  6,080.0      -
% chbW  in producer prices               4.5      5.4     11.0      4.3      -
PAWDY d/ (BasmtRi and Siiano)
Fod. (Bsiti & Sindan'000 tons)    36.4    39.5    21.3    30.1        35.8       -
XSh per ton - Basamti       3,400.0  3,750.0  4,000.0  4,000.0  5,000.0     500.0
% charge in producer prices             10.3      6.7      5.0     25.0      17.6
RSh per ton - Sindar        2,800.0  2,900.0  3,000.0  3,000.0  3,050.0      310.0
% char  in producp prices                3.6      3.4      0.0      1.6       1.6
mfmN e/ (AR & BR)
Production ('000 tons)         39.3    27.5    25.4    17.2    NWA           -
Mih per ton - A.-Grade      4,800.0  5,000.0  5,000.0  5,000.0  6,000.0      -
% chaa in producer prices                4.2      0.0      0.0    20.0       -
KSh per ton - BP-Gade       2,300.0  2,450.0  2,450.0  2,450.0  3,000.0      -
% chae in producer prices                6.5      0.0      0.0    22.4       -
MIIK f/tBASIC)
I&duction (bitlion litres)      1.40     1.60     1.70     2.00     2.10     -
Kih/litre                       2.73     3.07     2.95     3.25     3.60     3.75
% chan0e in producer prices             12.5    (3.9)    10.2      10.8      4.2
(IRY SEASON Z.M)
KSi/litre                       0.30     0.50     0.50     0.50     0.50     W/A
cha    in producer prices              66.7      0.0      0.0      0.0      -
I A 11
Production ('000 tons)        116.6   147.1    143.3    155.8    164.0       -
Ksh/kg of G/Tea (dmstic market)    4.16     4.64    5.07     5.82     6.18      -
% charge in prodcer prices              11.8      9.1     14.0      6.1      -
al Crop year (aldy-.Je).                     f/ (Meidar years; soarce MNID.
b/ Cletar years; source Econwiic Suryeys;    1   aleiar years; sorce M1A & T9K;
prices refer to naked wheat.                 reflects duiestic market prices.
cl ralenda years; soi=e MDA/DPD.             h/ Estimated production.
d  Crop year; source  OA/DII.                i  Shws prices only, since thse were
e/ Crop year.                                    aizazned in March 1989.



- 34 -
hAex 1
Uble 4
ASA I - Pt
PAR.fY ERC  Ei'.      ) auTA  0HMITE  a/
1MY/ERICE                                1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89 1989/90 c/
RMA
Producer price (per 90 kg bag)          M56.00   175.00   188.00   18&00   201.00   221.00
Farqpte import producer parity priae    272.3)   253.50   192.50   227.90   239.30   239.3)
Producer prie as X of parity             57.3    69.0    97.7      82.5    84.0    92.0
Panite export producer parity price     13.90   109.00    48.20    95.00    N/A    NWA
Prodfcer price as % of parity            183    160.6    390.0    197.9     NA       WA
Proder pricer (per 90kg bag)            220.10   242.10   264.10   264.10   284.10   400.00
Import pra&icer parity price            NWA      N/A    285.00   30.00   3B0 16   380.16
Producer price as % of parity                             92.7    86.9    74.7    105.2
SULNE b/
Froduce price (per tO)                  2000   270.00   300.00   341.00   368.00    -
import producer parity price             NA      N/A       N/A    NWA       N/A      -
Producer price as % of parity
PAIIY (Baamti)
Producer price (per ton)              3,400O.  3,750.00 4,000.00 4,20D.00 4,250.00 5,000.00
import producer parity prioe            NWA      N/A    NWA        N/A   9,666.00 9,666.00
Pboducer price as % of parity                                               44.0      5L.7
Sindam
Producer price (per ton)              2,800.00 2,900.00 3,000.00 3,000.00 3,050.00 3,100.00
Import produeer parity price             N/A      N/A   4,995.28    N/A   4,495.00    -
Producer price as % of parity                              60.1              68.0    69.0
QlN   (AR)
Producer price (per ton)              4,800.00 5,00CL00 5,000.00 5,000.00 6,000.00    -
Import producer parity price (seed cotton) 2,320.00 1,859.00 3,143.00 2,332.00 2,482.00    -
Producer price as % of parity           206.9    269.0    159.1    214.4   241.7     -
FanDite export prouer parity price       N/A    NWA        N/A   6,070.00 6,190.O0    -
MIlK
Faeer price (per litre)                   2.73     3.07     2.95     3.25    3.60    3.75
E&port pro2cer parity price (D1M)        N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A
rtoducer price as % of parity
IFA
Prucer price (per kg of B/tea)           1870    20.90    22.80    26.20    27.80   30.60
Eqport producer parity price                               42.30    46.40    28.20   28.23
Producer prie as % of parity                               53.90    56.47    98.58  109.0
a/   Years refer to crop years.
a Producer prices ire not adjseed (pending detailed study for tbe case of ampr).
c/   Parity pricesed ar those of 1988/89; with d=Ws of varios canpamts used in the
calatix durin4 1989/90, the producer price as a % of parity will chang acodlingly.



Annex I
Table 5
ASAO I - PCR
GROSS MARGINS IN THE PRODUCTION OF COMMERCIAL MAIZE *
________________________________--___   ____________   ---___________________
VARIABLE COSTS I/                          1985/86    1986/87    1987/88
Seeds (25 kg/ha)                            194.50     217.50      260.00
(7.80)     (8.70)     (10.40)
Fertilizer 2I
For planting (65 kg/ha)                  352.30     248.80      387.00
(5.40)     (3.83)     (5.95)
For spraying (210 kg/ha)                 737.10     718.25     780.00
(3.50)     (4.90)     (3.70)
Fertilizer transport 3/                      55.00      60.50       66.55
Gunnies (23 new gunnies) e KSh 21.90        503.70     503.70      503.70
Transport of maize to buying centre 4/      506.00     552.00      598.00
TOTAL VARIABLE COST                       2,348.60   2,033.25   2,595.25
Average yields (90 kg bags)                  23.00       23.00      23.00
Price per bag (KSh)                         188.00     188.00      201.00
Gross revenue (KSh)                       4,324.00   4,324.00   4,623.00
GROSS MARGIN (KSh/Ha)                     1,955.40   2,033.25   2,027.75
=3====3================               ================ ===== =====3
Source:   DPD (Price Review Papers) Farm Management Branch.
*     It is assumed that smallholders use family labor and do not use
machinery and chemicals.
1/   The figures in parenthesis are prices per kg.
2/    Different varieties of fertilizer are used, depending on
availability (varies year to year).
3/    Based on KSh 1 per bag per km in 1985/86 for an average distant
of 10 Km with 10% increase each year thereafter.
4/    Based on KSh 1.10 per 90 kg bag per km (assumed distance 20 km)
for 1985/86, KSh 1.20 in 1986/87 and KSh 1.20 in 1987/88.



- 36 -
Amex 1
ASAO I - PR,
GRS  MARGD6 IN SU;RCANE EPR9WIN *
1987/88               1988/89 Ea.
PlANT    FJS       SEU)M)    PLA      FIRST
CANE    RAMON    RA1WON      CNE    RA;WON
VARIABIE WS7S                         (KSH/)  (Ksh/l)  (KSh/Ha)
Surey, plaiJghiJ     & harrwin& 1     3,680.0      -        -       3,900.0    -
Rwrrwrg & drinage installation        1,560.0      -        -       1,580.0    -
See                                   2,569.0      -        -       2,590.0    -
See care transport                      799.0      -        -         750.0    -
Seei m  for Sapping & transport         448.0      -        -        480.0     -
plant-ir                                396.0     -         -        396.0     -
Fertilizer cost                       2,329.0   2,783.0   2,783.0   2,400.0  2,870.0
transport & application                94.0      94.0      94.0     105.0   105.0
Hand weeding                          2,102.0   2,102.0   2,102.0   2,165.0  2,165.0
Harbicides                            1,891.0   1,891.0   1,891.0   2,080.0  2,080.0
Inter-cultivatimn & hiIi ng             720.0    720.0    720.0    756.0   756.0
Trash linnirit & sib-soiUrlg             -        636.0    636.0      -       655.0
sat & stripS roapii                      80.0      80.0     80.0      88.0    88.0
TOLAL ERE-HAWVT C0T                  16,657.0   8,306.0   8,306.0  17,280.0  8,719.0
(hpital Cost (14% p.a.) 2/            4,458.0   1,938.0   1,938.0   4,976.6  2,511.1
Total Cost                           21,115.0  10,244.0  10,244.0  22,256.6 11,230.1
%btal Cost (3 Cqops) KShiha 3/                 41,603.0                     44,716.8
GMSS REVE
Average yields per ha for 3 cycles (tons)          189.0                      191.0
Pte-harvest cost per ton                          229.1                       234.1
Hrvest labor per to                                22.5                        22.5
Cane transport                                     82.0                        90.0
Total cost per toa                                 324.7                      346.5
PEduce price KSh/ton                              346.0                       366.0
GROSS MARGIN
Gross margin per tomne                             16.3                        21.4
Ore ca-  cycle = 53 msnts  4.4 years            3,080.8                      4,087.4
Gross argin/  year (3184.83.4)                    700.2                       929.0
Soure: MD
Notes: * Based on Hiahori zoe
1/ Hrdng consists of 1st, 2xd and 3rd rcunds
2/ Cst of capital for 1988/89 is estimated at L.% p.a.
'S Sumatioa of costs of plant c-, 1st and W ratoons



- 37 -
Annex l
Table 7
ASAO I - PCR
AGRICULTURE MINISTRIES:
Gross BudAetarv Expenditure by Economic
Classification - Current Prices
(KE Millions)
Actual   Printed   Revised      Forward Budget
FY 86    FY 87     FY 88      FY 89   FY 90   FY 91
Personnel Expenses               40.5    47.1       53.8       57.9    60.9    64.5
Other Goods and
Services                         25.8    34.5       36.3      45.7    44.5    41.5
Gross Fixed
Capital Formation                10.6    28.3       37.6      38.2    32.0    26.2
Financial Investment             33.2    15.1       17.7       13.2    15.9    13.3
Grants to State
Organization &
Others                           22.8    40.5       36.5     296.8    35.6    32.4
TOTAL                   132.9   165.5      181.9     451.8   188.9   177.9
Clarifications:
a)    Breakdown by economic classification for FY 1987 on basis of Actuals
unavailable from Treasury. Figures shown here are based on the original
Printed Estimates for the year.
b)    Figures for FY 1988 differ slightly from those in other Tables in that they
are derived from the Revised as opposed to Approved Estimates. This
explains the small discrepancy in totals.
c)    Expenditure for Min of Regional development is restricted to that relating
to Irrigation.
d)    Expenditure for Min of Research Science & Technology is restricted to that
relating to Kenya Agriculture Research Institute.



- 38 -
hAX 1
13ble 8
ASMA I - ECR
AVERAGE RML4u. o)k6I4ER RUM  BASE) ON NAIBOI MICES:
1980-1988
AU price are In K9h per Kg except Mk & Cbtton
aMmiDfTY            1980   1981    1982   1983   1984    1985    1986   1987    1988    1989
1. MAIZE (Sifted)   1.65    1.65    1.90    2.30    2.80    4.10    %.65    4.80    5.35    5.60
Z Qiavge in price        0.00   15.2   21.1   21.7   46.4   13.4    3.2   11.5    4.7
2. RICE a/
Hnq mti          4.70    5.50    6.50    6.75    7.55    8.50    9.35    9.85   14.60   14.90
X C1hisx in price       17.0   18.2    3.8   11.9    12.6   10.0    5.3   48.0    2.1
Sindano          3.05    4.60    5.60    6.35    6.55    7.20    7.70    7.90   10.53   10.65
% hane in price         50.8   21.7   13.4    3.1    9.9    6.9    2.6   33.0    1.2
3. SUGAR            4.50    4.85    5.75    6.30    6.90    7.20    7.40    8.15    .40    8.40
h QuriW In price         7.8   18.6    9.6    9.5    4.3    2.8   10.1    3.1    0.0
4. TEA (domstic) bl 14.90   16.90   24.30   27.95   28.50   28.50   30.50   33.50   35.00   3950
%I Qane in price        13.4   43.8   15.0    2.0    0.0    7.0    9.8    4.5   10.0
5. IWAT (FELcr)     3.15    3.45    4.20    4.50    5.15    5.90    6.50    7.00    7.45    8.70
% Cane in price          9.5   21.7    7.1   14.4   14.6   10.2    7.7    2.9   16.8
(read-White)     3.60    4.15    4.60    5.15    5.80    6.60    7.30    8.20    9.20    9.50
% Cbaw in price         15.3   10.8   12.0   12.6   13.8   10.6   12.3          &5      3.3
6. MtIK (per litre) c/ 2.75    3.25    3.90    4.25    4.90    5.50    5.95    6.00    6.90    7.20
% 4Qwe in price         18.2   20.0    9.0   15.3   12.2    8.2    0.8    15.0    4.4
7. COFFEE-Kmn     242.25  244.80  3116.00  335.85  395.10  395.40  399.40  422.00  576.00  576.0
% Qiai4e in price        1.1   29.1    6.3   17.6    0.1    1.0    5.7   36.5    0.0
8. OMN (per mtre) 24.00   24.00   29.15   39.50   39.60   40.50   45.00   45.00   45.00   45.0
0.0   21.5   35.5    0.3    2.3    1.1    0.0    0.0    0.0
Source: CBS (Statistical Abstracts)
Rice prices are frm  the IRICE REVIW RMUM of the MDA.
a/ Rice price 1988 ware aanwued in AgList, 1988.
/ Tor daiestica1y cmaed tea ( Simba Qa), i&tch is about EX of total ratioal productix.
c/Fresh pactei KCC Milk.



-9-
Annex 1
Table 9
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION a/
COMMODITY         UNITS                               1984       1985        1986        1987        1988             X CHANCE _/
(est)
1986 Vs 1987   1987 Vs 1988
Maize             (Million bags)           23.7        15.8       27.0        32.2        24.0        30.0       (25.5)           25.0
Wheat             (000 tonnes)            251.3       144.4      201.1       254.4       207.0       234.0       (18.6)           13.0
Sugar             (000 tonnes)            325.2       372.1      345.9       365.8       413.2       411.6        13              (0.4)
Coffee            (000 tonnes)             95.3       118.5       96.6       114.9       104.9       124.0        (8.7)           18.2
Tea               (000 tonnes)             96.0       116.6      147.1       143.3       155.8       164.0         8.7             5.3
Seed Cotton       (000 tonnes)             25.8        22.8       38.0        25.4        23.8        17.0        (6.3)          (28.6)
Horticulture £/  (000 tonnes)           1,822.2    1,991.1    1,548.4    1,768.2    1,761.4    1,945.0            (0.4)           10.4
Milk              (Mill. litres)        1,455.0    1,263.0    1,400.0    1,500.0    1,600.0    1,740.0             6.6             8.7
Beef d/           (000 carcass)           384.0      614.0       524.0       427.0       470.0       524.0        10.0            11.5
Rice e/           (000 tonnes)             25.7       25.9        33.0        24.1        30.7        31.2       27.4              1.6
Pyrethrum f/      (000 tonnes)             87.0        34.0       50.0        74.0        93.0       N/A         25.7              N/A
Source:   Economic Survey 1988, Central Bureau of Statistics & MOA
_/        Years refer to calender years, as indicated by the Economic Survey.  Hovever, underlying data
refer to crop year, which in some cases differs from data in calendar year basis.
_/        Figures in parenthesis denote percentage fall.
c/        Fruits and Vegetables (Avocados, Bananas, Citrus, Potatoes, Beans, Tomatoes, Cabbages and Onions).
_/        Licensed Abattors Only.
e/       Refers to milled rice; conversion ratio paddy rice is 1:0:63.
_/        Extract equivalent.



- 40 -
Annex 1
Table 10
ASAW I - PCR
IMPORTED AGRICULTURAL INPUTS
(VALUE IN KEIOOO)
.E1984   11                            * 1988
Fertilizers                    13,893   52,011      50,014    38,959    46,819
Pesticides and
Chemicals                      17,036   18,520      24,789    36,712    42,911
Agricultural Machinery
Spares & Equipment             79,226   81,812    130,655   151,634   163,965
Transport Equipment
(Agric. Only)                  67,204   62,897    122,074   105,945    96,944
Other (Seeds, Veterinary
Supplies etc.)*                10,r'30   19,700     20,300    22,900    24,600
TOTAL                         18- 359  234,940    347,832   356,150   375,239
Source: Statistical abstract.
* Estimated.



- 41 -
Annex 1
Tabl11
ASAO I - WR
DISBUJSXNS: 9
CIXIGDAL              ktwl D1sbirseii
DISBaSEMEN CAISB3XY           AAIED(CN         1987         1988         TOMAL
Fertliz.ex                   15,660,000.00   8,691,019.02  6,175,980.45  14,866,999.47
resticides                   13W3A0,000.00   3,264,173.60  2,793,784.31   6,057,957.91
igric. maecbinery & spare parts    8,970,000.00   2,463,833.31 19,909,3)2.69  22,373,136.00
frasportation equipment       2,640,000.00   1,227,0l9.37  1,421,77888   2,648,79825
Veterlmry a1lies              4,580,000.00         0.00    404,830.61    404,830.61
Seeds                         2,02D,000.00         0.00    702,664.81    702,664.81
Petroleum                     5,280,000.00   3,044,399.87  2,229,503.00   5,273,902.87
Uanliocated                     270,000.00         0.0           0.00          0.00
S-pecal accomts 1/                   0.00          0.00    471,708.32    471,78.32
SIUqAL                       52,800,000.00  18,690,445.17 34,109,553.07  52,799,998.24
11    Ihis wmont represents the difference in the value of the SCR and US Dollar teteen
the dates the Initial deposits were made and the dates actual recovery of the initial
deposits took place.



- 42 -                              Anne2; I
Table 12
SASQ I - XCR
SIMmary Features of Donor Financini
to Support the ASAO
Donor       Date             Amount    Amount (UStm) and        Eligible Expenditure
Astreed         (USt Eq.)  DPsbursement Period    Items
with GOIK                   198         1988    198
IDA                         SDR 52.8m                           Same list as shown
6/86        (US$ 71.2m)  33.8   37.4       -     in Table 7.
Saudi     Committed, but      R 15.Om                           Petroleum and Agric
Fund      awaiting formal  (US$ 4.0m)   -         -      4.0    equipment.
signing.
Netherlands                 DF1 30.Om                           First allocation of
Government      11/86      (US$ 15.8m)    6.8    9.0    -       DF1 l0.Om is same
as IDA list, remainder
allocation of DF1 20.0m
is for a reduced list.
W. Germany                   DM 25.0m                           Same as IDA, but ex-
Government      11/86      (US$ 15.0m)   -        0.8    14.2   cludes petroleum and
tr. equip; limit on
equip. and spare parts
(up to USt 2.9m).
Japan                    Y 9.5 billion                          Untied aid to agric.
Government       2/87    (US$ 73.0m)            72.001  0.009  and other imports.
Denmark                 DCr 20 per year                          (Tied commodity aid).
Government       2/87     (US$ 1.5m)       -      1.5
(DANIDA)
EEC                       ECUs 65.Om £/                         Agricultural imports,
5/87     (US$ 72.8m)      -    11.2    35.2   crop purchase and NCPB
institutional development
TOTAL (US$ equivalent)  40.6    131.9    53.4
===9:M==   ======  ===  ==
IDA/AF:            71.2
Others:           154.7
Total             225.9
a/     While the EEC is using the ASAO as the overall framework for supporting GOK's
agricultural reform program, the EEC funds, including the counterpart KSh
generated, are being used to support the implementation of the NCPB reform
program.



- 43 -
An lex 1
Attachment 1
ASAO I PCR
Summary Assessment of Progress
in Implementing Tranche Release Conditions*
1.     CONDITION OF BOARD PRESENTATION
1.     Agreed Action: Government will sign an agreed Letter of Development
Policy;
Performance: Complied(dated May 27, 1986).
II.    CONDITIONS QF EFFECTIVENESS FOR RELEASE OF FIRST TRANCHE
Target Date: About November 1986;
Actual Date: March 1987. While the substantive conditions were fulfilled
on time, the four month delay was caused by GOK's lag in approving the
legal documents to enable the signing of the Credits.
1.     INPUTS: FERTILIZER
GOK will implement measures to improve fertilizer marketing, including:
(a)   Agreed action: an increase in the fertilizer imports;
Performance: Complied. Fertilizer imports in 1985 and 1986 were
about 70 % higher than the average imports in 1980-84. The import
target for 1986/87 was increased by about 18X. Actual imports
increased by about 6 % in 1986. This shortfall in the targetted
imports was due to a combination of reasons (i.e. high carry over
stocks, importers' uncertainty in prices).
(b)   Aareed action: Expansion in the number of distributors and selected
end-users;
Performance: Complied. Modest increase in 1986/87.
(c)   Agreed action: Ensure allocation for established distributors;
Performance: Complied. No established distributor was refused
fertilizer allocations.
(d)   Agreed actioj: Improve coordination of aid fertilizer;
Performance: Complied. Various modest improvements were introduced,
such as preparation of a Fertilizer Imports Plan, which provides an
improved framework for negotiating fertilizer aid with donors.
2.     Budget Rationalization
Aareed action: GOK to make satisfactory progress in completing the first
phase of budget rationalization program and to incorporate the first
steps in budget rationalization in the 1986 forward budget;
Performance: Complied. Overall, the progress was satisfactory as
reflected in the 1986/87 budget and the 1986 forward budget, including
the following main improvements implemented by the Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock Development (which was split in separate
Ministries in late 1986):
*      Conditions are presented according to component as presented in the ASAO
Presidents Report. Agreed action refers to condition or dated
covenant, as indicated in the Development Credit Agreement(DCA).



- 44 -
o     preparation of a policy statement in support of the forward budget;
o     establishment of the Budget Gommittee and Budget Secretariat to
review investments and their allocations;
o     Agriculture and Veterinary Departments prepared a list of priority
projects, and reduced the number of projects by --% in 1986/87;
o     MOALD established improved procedures and guidelines for preparing
and implementing the project management system (MIS);
o     MOALD established a steering group to monitor expenditures of state
corporations;
o     Technical Departments started monitoring and analysis of capacity
utilization of agricultural services (i.e. establishment of
vehicular reporting system).
3.     Parastatal Reform:
Aareed action: Begin financial restructuring and rehabilitation of SONY,
NIB and NCPB;
Performance: Partially Complied. Overall, the progress was slower than
expected, with better performance in the organizational restructuring
than financial. The financial restructuring plans were at various stages
of preparation.
(a)   SONY: By November 1986, GOK, with the assistance of consultants,
prepared an action plan for the organizational and financial
restructuring, and had started implementation of the organizational
restructuring;
(b)   NIB: In 1986 NIB initiated some initial steps to overhaul NIB's
organizational, financial structure and management systems, based
on a management study. Specific improvements included
streamlining NIB's organizational structure to operate more
efficiently, creation of a position of financial controller and
appointment of an experienced financial manager; specific steps
were taken to identify improvements in accounting and reporting
systems, although the implementation was lagging behind. Also, in
November 1986 a financial restructuring plan had been worked out in
draft form to be submitted to Cabinet for approval;
(c)   NCPB: In 1986 Cabinet approved policy to liberalize grain
marketing, based on recommendations of the Grain Marketing Study
launched in mid-1983. In late 1986, implementation started, which
included relaxing inter-district movement controls by increasing
the limit from 2 to 10 bags of maize. Also, in late 1986, GOK
initiated the NCPB Reorganization Study, which was to work out the
detailed implementation plan for the Cabinet decision on grain
liberalization, together with the preparation of a comprehensive
plan for the financial and organizational restructuring of NCPB.
4.     Aaricultural Credit:
Aareed action: GOK to begin implementation of program to rehabilitate AFC;
Performance: Complied. AFC initiated following reforms:



- 45 -
O     AFC's 1986/87 annual plan defined its priority target group as
farmers with holdings less than 50 hectares, restricted lending to
farmers with over 100 hectares to 20% of new loans; introduced a
cap of outstanding per bo.rower at KSh 2 mllion;
o     started implementation of institution building measures,
including: the appointment of an effective General Manager;
overhaul of personnel management; delegation of management
decisions and more effective supervision; implementation of
training programs; improved field level operations; partial
start-up of new management information system;
o     financial restructuring draft Cabinet paper was prepared and
discussed by AFC mr.nagement.
III.   CONDITIONS FOR 2ND TRANCHE RELEASE*
Target Date: November, 1987;
Actual Date: March 1988. This four month delay was due to Government's
delay in the implementation of nine decisions/actions which were
identified during the IDA review mission in early Nov. 1987 as being
essential for recommending the release of the second tranche. By
February 1988 IDA concluded that Government's additional actions after
November had fulfilled the second tranche conditions.
1.     Overall Proaress
Aareed action: GOK will make satisfactory progress in implementing sector
adjustment program;
Performance: Complied, but with a delay of about 4 months (see above and
text for review of key actions).
Agricultural InDuts (Fertilizer)
2.     Fertilizer:
GOK will fully implement measures to improve fertilizer marketing,
including:
(a)   Aareed action: Increases in availability;
Performance: In process. The 1987/88 import plan was increased
over the previous year. There was no increase in availability in
1986/87 over 1986/87, partly because availability in this latter
year increased by about 85% over the level in 1984/85. As a
result, there were large carryover stocks, and little need to
increase imports. Other factors for the negligible change in
availability in 1987/88 over the previous year were due to:
inadequate retail price increase, inspite of increase of about
20%; late announcement of increased prices; and to insufficient
effective farmer demand (due partly to late crop payments, shortage
of credit, and increased fertilizer prices).
(b)   Aareed action: Increase the number of distributors and end-users;
Performarce: In process. In 1987/88 distributors were increased
from 20 to 65. However, many of these are reported not to be
legitimite distributors. Allocations were also expanded over the
previous year, noted particularly for major end-users; but imports
were affected by reported queuing for licenses.
*      Assessment includes progress to end-March 1989, based on available
information.



- 46 -
(c)   Agreed action: Assure allocations for established distributors;
Performance: In process. No major distributor or end-user was
refused an allocation. The draft Fertilizer Policy Paper (January
1988) states the intention to assure allocations to established
distributors, although no specific improved measures have been
implemented.
(d)   Agreed action: Announce allocations in July of each year;
Performance: Complied in 1986 through 1988.
(e)   Agreed actlon: Prepare annual import plan;
Per_.2mance: Complied in 1986 through 1988.
(f)   Agreed action: Improve coordination of fertilizer donor aid;
Performance: In process. Improv.;d donor guidelines were included
in the draft Fertilizer Policy Paper and are currently guiding GOK
discussions with donors; however, the guidelines have not been
formally approved and issued to donors, and there is little
evidence of concrete impr-.vements.
3.     Fertilizer Pricing:
Agreed action: GOK to adopt new fertilizer pricing fcrmula based on world
prices;
Performance: Complied. The improved formula, which was included in the
draft Fertilizer Policy Paper, established clearly the linkage to
international prices and included explicit provision for distribution
margins to cover transport and handling. This improved formula was
applied in mid-1988 and provided the basis for the price increase
announced in September 1988. However, the intended effect was partly
nullified by the low exchange rate assumed in the formula and the late
announcement of the fertilizer prices.
4.     User Charges for Livestock Services:
Agreed action: GOK to increase user charges for livestock services;
Performance: Complied (by January 1, 1988, with sustained increase in
early 1989). In late 1986 Cabinet approved the policy to increase user
charges for livestock services. Within this policy framework, the
Ministry of Livestock Development (MOLD) took the following actions to
increase the user charges: artificial insemination (AI) from KSh 1.00 to
KSh 5.00 (or a quintuple increase) as of December 1, 1987; dipping charge
from KSh 0.30 to KSh 0.50 as of January 1, 1988 (or increase of about
67%); clinical veterinary services, formerly free, cost between KSh 10
and KSh 30 per case; prices for veterinary drugs were set at full retail
levels as of January 1, 1988. Following the second tranche, on April 13,
1989, as part of phased increases, the MOLD increased AI from KSh 5.00 to
KSh 10.00 and dipping charges from KSh 0.50 to KSh 1.00 (or an increase
of 100%). There is a need for the MOLD to: continue with increased user
charges to reach full recovery and with the administrative arrangements
to collect the additional user charges; and to step up the improvements
in the provision of animal health services.
5.     Grain Marketina Reform:
Government to improve grain marketing through:



- 47-
(a) sAireed action: Organizational and financial restructuring of NCPB;
Performance: Satisfactory up to second tranche, but the full
implementation has lagged behind the agreed implementation plan,
also being supported by the EEC. In December 1987 Cabinet approved
a paper outlining a sound phased program for the organizational and
financial restructuring of NCPB, based on the recommendations from
the EEC-financed NCPB reorganization study initiated in November
1987. Some of the organizational improvements emerging from the
study were implemented during 1987. In January 1988, IDA reviewed
the draft detailed Implementation Plan for carrying out these
reforms, which included: (a) organizational restructuring of of
NCPB's management structure to streamline decision-making and
ensure accountability; (b) closing down of some 600 buying centers
(or 67% of the total operating in 1987); (c) dismissal of two
groups of personnel: those who were redundant and those who were
involved in "irregularities" until formal legal actions were taken;
(d) completion of a detailed financial re-structuring plan to
clean-up NCPB's balance sheet as of July 1, 1988, including debt
write-off of about KSh 5.0 billion; separation of accounts for
commercial accounts and for food security needs; recruitment of
qualified senior managers to head each of NCPB's eight major
Departments (of which six were posted during February and March
1989).
(b)   Agreed action: Determination of the role of various participants in
the grain marketing system, including the role of cooperative
organizations;
Performance: Satisfactory up to second tranche in terms of major
policy decision, but full implementation has lagged behind. The
December 1987 Cabinet decision effectively eliminated the monopoly
of NCPB on grain marketing through approving the phased increased
role of licensed private traders and cooperatives to trade in
maize, buying directly from farmers and selling directly to millers
(i.e. with at least 20% of the surplus maize sold to millers in
1988/89, increasing up to at least 40% by 1990/91). In 1988/89,
these traders, primarily designated cooperative societies and the
Kenya Grain Growers Association (KGGCU, a private farmer's union),
have been allowed to participate in the marketing of grains.
However, their purchases probably are below the target of 20 %,
based on available information(although 1988 was a record harvest).
To date, the full implementation of expanding the role of these
private traders in the recently completed buying season of 1988/89
has been hampered by a number of factors, some outside the direct
control of NCPB. The most important factor has been the high
moisture content of the maize, which has delayed the buying of
surplus maize from farmers and the selling to millers. Private
traders did not have the drying facilities needed to handle this
moisture content, and were unwilling to make the needed investments
in this initial year of the policy change. Other factors have
included: the delay in the recruitment of senior staff in NCPB due
partly, to the inadequate terms and conditions of pay scales;
replacement of NCPB's Managiag Director in mid-1988; delay in
issuing licenses to licensed buying agents for the 1988/89 buying
sea-on, particularly considering the closing down of most of NCPB's
buying centers; delay in formulating and instituting the
operational monitoring mechanisms for regulating the liberalization
of grain marketing in a manner that ensures an orderly transition



- 48 -
toward increased competition; delay in instituting mechanisms to
recover outstanding loans at the time of crop purchases; absence of
a clear operational statement during the current buying season on
the new policy announced by the Finance Minister in his mld-1988
budget speech regarding the new policy to phase-in formal grain
market liberalization.
The lack of clear policy statement appears to be related to
Government's caution in moving too quickly toward market
liberalization, given the problems encountered in the aborted
attempt to liberalize grain marketing in late 1986. This situation
appears to be causing some uncertainty on the part of the traders
in their investment and trading decisions. The most important
constraints to further progress in liberalizing grain market is for
GOK to relax the inter-district movement control on maize. In
spite of a repeated bumper harvest in 1988, during the current
buying season there appear to be excessive restrictions in movement
controls of maize.
(c)  A£reed action: Completion of the review to determine necessary
improvements in the food security plan and the introduction of such
improvements;
Performance: In process, but the steps initiated in 1987 and early
1988 have lagged behind expectations to this date. By mid-1987
NCPB had operationalized a computerized system for monitoring
stocks and shortages in each district to enable improved grain
distribution, with the support of the IDA-financed ASMP project.
While this monitoring system was interrupted in 1988, it is now
back on track. As part of the NCPB Reorganization Study,
Government determined the target stocks of maize required to meet
food security requirements and by early 1988 had initiated steps to
reduce NCPB's excessive stocks (given the record harvest in 1986
and 1988). Also in early 1988, the MOA launched a comprehensive
food security study covering other products. The draft was
completed in mid-1988, but to this date the draft report has not
yet been discussed by Government at the Inter-Ministerial level.
Budmet Rationalization
6.     Areed action: Government to complete the first-year action program for
budget rationalization in MALD and the FY88 annual budget will reflect
this budget rationalization;
Perfgrmance: Fair progress up to the second tranche release, particularly
considering that since the first tranche release, there was the creation
of three additional Ministries handling the agricultural portfolio
(Ministries of Livestock Development, Marketing and Supplies, Research
and Technology). However, since the second tranche release, improvements
have not been sustained and deepened, partly due to the institutional
fragmentation. Also, overall bugetary deterioration has resulted in
inadequate and delayed releases from Treasury to Ministries.
The MOA and MOLD 1987/88 annual budget and the draft forward budget
(1988/89-1990/91) prepared in end-1987 generally reflect continued improvements
in the implementation of budget rationalization program, comprising primarily of
process improvements in preparing and reviewing the budgets, increased
allocations in priority programs. For example, in the 1987/88 budget there were
the following increases in real terms over the previous year: in research 90%),
extension (10%), animal health services (3%), while reducing by almost 20% the



- 49 -
allocations to non-essential parastatals. In 1988/89, allocations for each of
these three programs continued to increase in real terms (about 9X, in
aggregate). However, these increases have been offset by delayed budgetary
releases of funds by the MOF to the concerned Ministries. In the case of
research, the budgetary problems were worsened by the delay in implementing the
institutional reforms in the research program(supported through a multi-donor
project).
The imbalance of personnel and other operating expenses is a national issue
affecting all sectoral Ministries, which is currently under review. The Bank's
recently completed Public Expenditure Review Report was discussed with
Government in February 1989; GOK has recently agreed to take in 1989 various
steps to contain personnel costs, beginning in several Ministries (including MOA
and MOLD).
Parastatal Reform
7.     Agreed action: Government will make satisfactory progress in the
financial restructuring and rehabilitation of NCPB, SONY and RIB;
Performance: Overall, by early 1988 the progress was marginally
satisfactory, with NCPB, the dominant agricultural parastatal, showing
the most significant progress, particularly in terms of policy
decisions. The organizational restructuring has been underway for all
three parastatals since 1986. By the end of 1988, the financial
restructuring plans for NCPB and SONY were formally approved and under
implementation. The financial restructuring plan for NIB was under
effective implementation through the change in the level and structure of
rice price. Cabinet approval of a relatively small write-off (about Ksh
30 million) is awaiting Cabinet approval.
(a)    UI,: In summary, to this date the implementation and effects of the
restructuring of NIB have been partial. Since the first tranche release,
NIB has continued the implementation of the organizational restructuring
and some improvements in the financial management. However, the
financial restructuring has proceeded slower than expected. A sound
financial restructuring plan involving the write-off of about K Sh 30 M
was agreed between the MOF and the Ministry of Energy and Regional
Development (MERD) by end-1987, but the formal approval is still pending
decision by Cabinet. Nevertheless, two significant elements of the
financial restructuring plan were implemented by about mid-1988-NIB
received the financial allocations (about KSh 28.0 million) from Treasury
in the 1988/89 budget to enable continued implementation of the
organizational restructuring; and in August Government increased prices
of rice basmati by about 45X, and streamlinea the marketing
arrangements. While these steps were expected to reduce NIB's operating
losses in 1988/89 by about KSh 15.0 million and to achieve financial
viability by 1991/92, unforeseen imports and resulting temporary surplus
of rice have delayed the achievement of these financial targets. In
order to realize the full benefits of the NIB restructuring, there is a
need to reassess progress, update the implementation plan, secure the
necessary formal Cabinet approval, and step up progress in implementation.
(b)    SONY: In summary, the implementation of the organizational and financial
restructuring of SONY is proceeding satisfactorily, although with some
delay relative to the timetable envisioned at the time of the second
tranche. The organizational restructuring has been a major factor in
generating tangible benefits in terms of reversing the declining



- 50 -
performance in production and mill processing (i.e. by end-1988,
relative to 1985, cane harvested and sugar production have
increased significantly) The financial restructuring plan
prepared in 1987 was formally approved by Cabinet in November
1988, and involved three elementst conversion of loans in SONY's
balance sheet to equity (amounting to nearly Ksh. 1.0 billion)
already reflected in GOK's 1988/89 budget; revaluation of its
assets, with the surplus being used to create a capital reserve;
and writing cff the accumulated losses against the capital
reserve and the equity. The implementation of this financial
restructuring is now underway, together with arrangements to
line-up financing from commercial sources to enable the full
rehabilitation of SONY's operations on financial viability
without further budgetary injections from Government.
(c) NCPBs The organizational and financial restructuring of NCPB is
inseparable with its marketing reforms outlined under III (items
5-6). and therefore, the points involving grain liberalization
are not repeated in this section. The significant achievement
up to the second tranche was Cabinet's approval in late 1987 of
the restructuring plan and the preparation of a detailed
implementation plan phased over a three year period. Since
early 1988, the implementation of the reform program has
proceeded as envisioned, although with some delay. This has
been primarily due to problems in recruiting the senior staff
needed to implement the reforms and to the inherent complexities
in implementing grain marketing reforms.  In summary, the
progress achieved since the second tranche release and some of
the main pending actions are outlined below.
(i) Management reorganization: (a) adoption of a new and
streamlined management structure, which has provided the basis
for recruiting the key personnel; (b) recruitment of key
personnel is at an advanced stage, with 5 in post, and the other
3 expected to be posted by May 1989; (c) improved scheme of
service now in effect for NCPB to attract and retain qualified
staff, particularly at the senior level; (d) updating and
utilization of improved procedure manuals, which will contribute
to significant improvements in the efficiency of the NCPB; (e)
steps to consolidate NCPB's training program.
(il) Marketing network changes: (a) some 600 buying centers (or
about 672 of the total) were closed at the end of 1986187, and
some 200 centers were used in 1987188. During the current
buying season, this number has been increased to about 300,
partly due to the bumper harvest experienced in 1988 and to the
need to ensure market outlet for smallholders in isolated areas.
These closures reflect NCPB's reduced role in the primary
market, and have resulted in substantial savings in personnel
costs for engaging casual staff; (b) the terms of reference for
a comprehensive transport and storage study, including the
rationalization of stores and conversion of appropriate



- 51 -
conventional stores to bulk storage have been finalized, and the
study is due to start by about May 1989.
(iii) Financial restructurings (a) In mid-1988 Cabinet approved
the specific write-off of NCPB's debts (amounting to about Ksh
5.0 billion) and provision has been made in the 1988/89 budget
for this purpose. The implementation is currently underway; (b)
the cleaning-up of NCPB's balance sheet has been worked out and
approved by Cabinet, and are to be included in the 1987/88 final
accounts; (c) a revolving fund for crop purchase has been
established and is operating for the current buying season; (d)
NCPB's assets have been revalued.
(iv) Market Development/Grain Liberalization: Actions to open
up the grain market at the primary and secondary levels during
1988/89 and some of the implementation problems experienced thus
far are outlined in item III (5-b). The crop purchase
arrangements including the phased expanded role of other buyers.
have contributed to significant improvements in more timely
payments to farmers for the marketed maize (farmers are now
receiving payments from NCPB within 1 week of delivery, rather
than a pzevious delay of about 4-9 months). The additional
actions underway as part of implementing the restructuring
include the following items: (a) the TOR for the study on the
specific involvement of cooperatives and local buying agents in
grain marketing have been finalized and steps are underway to
carry it out during 1989. In the interim, KGGCU is allowed to
market all local wheat, and to buy maize and sell directly to
millers; (b) the study on maize pricing started in April, 1989.
The study findings are expected to provide the basis for GOK
policy decisions on an improved and more flexible pricing system
which is consistent with Government's decision to open-up the
grain market at both the producer and miller levels.
(v) Institutional Supports The following two arrangements have
been established and are operating in order to help ensure
effective and timely implementation of the NCPB reform program:
(a) setting up of a high level Inter-Ministerial Group to steer
the reforms and reorganization and the establishment of a
Technical Committee to assist the high level committee. These
two committee are operational and have played an important role
in ensuring the reform program remains on track, although
performance of the program is lagging behind for reasons already
cited; (b) establishment of appropriate technical support for
the implementation, monitoring and evaluation tasks of the
reform program through contracted experts; and (c) strengthening
the analytical capability of the Ministry of Supplies and
Marketing, the parent Ministry of NCPB. The fulfillment of this
latter action could contribute to improved performance in
implementing the reform program.



- 52 -
8.   Agricultural Credit:
Agreed actions GOK will define AFC's target population and loan
ceilings;
Performance: Partially complied. In December 1988 AFC Board approved
new medium term lending policies, re-orienting AFC's lending to
smallholders. AFC's target population has been defined to be farmers
with holdings less than 50 acres and restricts lending to farmers
with over 100 hectares to 202 of new loans, and limit of Ksh 2.0
million per individual borrower. Previously there were no limits,
and therefore, lending was channelled primarily to farmers with large
holdings and poor recovery performance. The proposal to limit loans
up to Ksh 2.0 million per borrower has not been implemented.
9.   Import Forecast Program:
Agreed action: The Government and the Association will agree on an
Import Forecast Program for the second tranche;
Performance: Complied. The program prepared by Treasury eventually
was modified during the course of the disbursement period, primarily
because of Treasury's urgent requirements to secure the foreign
exchange and the availability of documentation for certain
expenditure categories. IDA approved GOK's request for a
reallocation of the proceeds from the Credits toward categories
(particularly agricultural machinery) where documentation was readily
available. In the future, and assuming continued non-project donor
funding, there is a need for the Central Bank and Treasury to devise
more effective methods to expedite the availability of necessary
documentation shortly after the imports are delivered.



- 53 -
Amgz
Attachment 2
ASAO I   CB
Summarv Imolementation Progress of Dated Covenants
and Other Kep Measures *
AGRICUlln  IN.LPUT SUpPLY
1.     Fertilier
(a)    Aeed action: Strengthen fertilizer planning;
Eaformnc: Partially complied.  Inputs Unit, which focuses On
fertilizer planning, was established by the MOA in November 1986.
However, staffing constraints (including high turnover) have limited the
Unit's role and effectiveness.
(b)    £are  actimo: MOA shall, by June of each year, draft a fertilizer import
plan;
PerfoEMAn: Complied on ttse in each of the last three years (1986,
1987, 1988). Progress toward achieving the import plan, particularly by
comercial importers, was belov execetations. The veightod averaso price
adjustments for the various fertilizers in 1986 (-402), 1987 (+202) and
1988 (+20X) were made to take into account changes in internatiowal
prices, but the adjustments vere insufficient and the timing of the
announcements was late. These price-related factors, in part,
contributed to the shortfall in meeting the target of increased imports
and availability.
(c)    ArseiA  a.ctLg: GOK, from July 1987, vill announce fertilizer allocations,
by July each year, for the long and short rains of the following year,
and specify quotas for each season (DCA);
Performance: Complied in both 1987 and 1988.
(d)    Asreed action: GOK to simplify licensing and allocation procedures;
Performancg: in process. While possible measures have been identified
and included in the draft Fertilizer Policy paper, thus far, negligible
improvements t-ve been formally approved or implemented. Commercial
importers cont,nue to express frustration with the current procedures.
*      About 75 different actions, including the tranche conditions outlined in
Attacbment 1, were included in Government's Letter of Development
Policies (LDP) and in the resulting policy matrices for the ASAO (ref.
President's Report dated May 23, 1986, p.74-82). During implementation,
supervision efforts focused on a fewer number of actions which were
considered priority to the sector's future growth. The progress to this
date In implementing these measures are outlined below, including the
dated covenants in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) and an
indication of the main pending sctions needed to achieve the anticipate!
full benefits.



- 54 -
(e)    Agreed action: GOK to announce prices by January each year;
Performance: Partially complied. In 1987, prices were announced in
August. In 1988, prices were announced in September. These
announcements are late in order to enable the importers the time needed
to import fertilizer in time for the crop season (July should be the
latest in order to receive the fertilizer in time for the long rain(and
major)planting season in about February). An updated review is needed
in December of each year in order to adjust the prices by January, if
necessary, for the short rain season. Also, in late 1987 there was a
significant increase in world fertilizer prices, and the absence of a
price update in January hampered importers' willingness to import
fertilizer for 1988. Recently(May, 1989), Government has agreed in
principle to review and adjust fertilizer prices twice per year.
2.     Seed Pricina:
(a)    Agreed action: GOK to increase user charges for seed certification by
December, 1986 (DCA);
Performance: Complied (February, 1987, with an increase of __).
(b)    Agreed action: Government would increase seed retail margins (by
October 1987, DCA);
Pe.rformance: Not complied. The producer price reviews for 1987/88 and
for 1988/89 have recommended that the retail price be adjusted.
Therefore, this action is still a pending decision in 1989,
particularly considering the producer price increases for maize in
three of the last four years.
3.     Tractor Hire Services (THS):
A.reed action: Increase THS and plant hire service charges to market
rates by October, 1987 (DCA);
Performance: Not complied. Since 1983 there have not been any increase
in THS charges, which are still substantially below the market rates..
However, up to the second tranche release, the budgetary allocations
for these services decreased as part of the MOA's stated strategy to
phase out these services, given the apparent expanding private market.
Current budgetary allocations concentrate in areas where the private
sector is not providing THSs. However, since late 1988, there appears
to be a policy reversal given that MOA intends to increase the
budgetary allocations for these services as part of a strategy to
expand potential area under cultivation; MOA states that it plans to
give priority to areas where private THS is not available.
AGRICULTURAL PRICE AND MARKETING
4.     Price Levels and Announcement
(a)    Agreed action: Producer price announcements to reflect improvements in
the empirical basis, reference to parity principles, while providing
adequate incentives to farmers (by February 1987, DCA);
Performance: Complied, generally reflecting the above principles.
While the 1987 prices were announced cn time (February), the 1988
prices were announced late, mid-crop season (May). The price
recommendations for the 1989/90 crop year were completed on time, and
the price announcements were made end-March 1989. There is a need to
sustain and deepen the improvements through better and updated field
estimates and quantitative analysis which considers systematically the
policy tradeoffs (i.e. production, incomes, budgetary effects) and
relative prices of various commodities (i.e. food vs. milk; maize vs.
wheat).



- 55 -
(b)    Axreed action: Administered Prices to become floor prices with
flexibilit-, in upward direction (by February 1987);
performance: In process, primarily because the price flexibility
envisioned is closely related to the progress in the de-regulation of
various commodity markets, which are still in the early phases (maize,
cotton) of implementation. For other commodities with administered
prices (milk, wheat and sugarcane), no specific actions were included
under the ASAO to lead toward administered floor prices.
(c)    Agreed action: GOK to review the structure of cotton prices in relation
to differences in cotton varieties (by December 1986, DCA);
Performance: In process.  In March 1987 GOK's draft Cotton Pricing
Paper worked out a proposal for an auction system of cotton, which
would lead automatically to differeutial prices according to quality.
The proposal is included in a draft Cabinet paper which is due to be
submitted soon for review and subsequent implementation (prior to
1990).
5.     Timely Payments to Farmers
(a)    Cotton:
AMreed actio: GOK to undertake the restructuring of the CLSMB to
ensure rapid payment to cotton farmers (by March 1987, DCA);
Perfgrmance: In process. The policy actions were being addressed as
part of the IDA-financed Cotton project. The Cotton Bill, which
provides the legal framework for eliminating the monopoly of the CLSMB
and its divestiture, was prepared in draft by mid-1986. It was
reviewed, revised and finally approved by Parliament in June 1988. The
cotton pricing policy paper was prepared in draft in March 1987. The
final paper was finalized by early 1988 and is expected to be submitted
to Cabinet for approval by mid 1989. Due to the delays in formulating
and formally approving the above policy instruments, the implementation
of the CLSMB's restructuring is still pending. Farmers are continuing
to experience substantial delays in cotton payments, which was a major
cause for the substantial production drop in 1988 (about -30% over the
previous year).
(b)    Coffee:
Aireed action: Government will not allow coffee cooperatives to deduct
costs unrelated to the processing and marketing of coffee from coffee
payments (by December 1986, DCA);
Performance: Complied. In late 1986 the Ministry of Cooperative
Development issued a directive to all cooperative societies that they
were not allowed to deduct unrelated costs and that the limit in
deduction for processing and marketing of coffee was no more than 20%
of the coffee payment to the society.
Agreed action: Government to complete the study of the coffee industry
and, by October 1987, to take necessary steps to improve the coffee
marketing and payment system (DCA);
Performance: In process. The Government's initial attempt to introduce
an improved payments system was made in December, 1986, prior to the
start-up of the coffee sector study. A proposed system was announced
in late 1986, prior to the start-up of the coffee sector study, but was
abandoned immediately due to the strong resistence from the farmers.
The coffee subsector study was not completed until October 1987, which



- 56 -
Included a recommended improved payment system. By January 1988, the
proposal was agreed by the concerned Ministries, and Government was
taking steps to test the improved system on a pilot basis in 1988
through the detailed preparation of the pilot in two cooperative
societies. In late 1988, the continued problems in coffee payments led
to the establishment of a high level committee, chaired by Kenya's
Vice-President, charged with working out an improved payments system at
the national level. The pilot proposal has now been superceded by the
proposal worked out by the above Committee. To this date, final GOK
decision is being awaited on thia recent proposal, which reportedly
incorporates elements of the pilot approach and the coffee subsector
study recommendation. The implementation of the improved system,
assuming its final form is satisfactory to IDA, will be supported by
the recently appraised Coffee II project.
(c)    Maize:
Agreed action: Farmers to be paid within one month of delivery of the
grain to the NCPB (requiring restructuring of the NCPB);
Performance: In process (complied in 1988/89 season), as part of the
implementation of the restructuring of the NCPB discussed under
Attachment 1, Section III, item (5-b). While the major policy
decisions were taken in December 1987, the implementation of the
liberalized marketing system was initiated in 1988. During the 1988/89
buying season, most farmers received payment from NCPB and other
licensed traders within one week of delivery of the crop. Previously,
NCPB had a legal monopoly, and had delayed in paying farmers, exceeding
about 4 months for most farmers. Sustained improvements on the success
of implementing NCPB's restructuring program.
6.      Food Subsidies
(a)    Agred action: Government to phase out food subsidies (LDP);
Perfomance: In 1986 there was a 25% in tea consumer prices, which
resulted in a substantial reduction in consumer subsidy. In February
1987, beef prices were de-controlled, therefore eliminating the
implicit subsidies. In August 1988 and March 1989 Government increased
the retail prices of various food commodities in order to adjust to
producer price increases and to phase out implicit consumer subsidies.
These commodities, and percentage increases for these two recent
periods, Included: maize meal (12%, 4.7 %); milk (15%, 4.4%); basmatic
rice (48%, 2%); tea (+4.5%, +10.0%); coffee (+36.5%). For further
details, see Annex 1 Table 8.
7.     Dereaulation of Agricultural Markets
(a)    Bef: While no specific conditions were included under the ASAO for
de-regulating beef prices, in February 1987 GOK de-controlled beef
prices. Retail prices have increased substantially (about 40%), and
then stabilized at a lower level. The share of the increase accruing
to producers and the supply response has not been monitored yet by
Government. Available information suggests positive output response. It
appears that prices are being partly influenced by the butchers union.
The MOLD is in the process of assessing the possible issues and actions
needed to promote a more competitive market for beef.



- 57 -
(b)    Cott
Agreed actin: CLSMB to divest all of its cotton and ginning activities
to the private and cooperative sectors (by March 1987, LDP);
Perfomance: In process, but with significant delays for reasons stated
*                 under item (5-c).  Once the pricing policy is formally approved by
Cabinet (expected by mid 1989), the implementation of the divestiture
is expected to be phased over about 4 years, given Government's
v                 mandated role for cooperatives and their weaknesses to take over
effectively the operations.
(c)    Maize: In process (refer to item 5-c).
BUDGET RATIONALIZATIQN (the major actions are already covered in Annex 1,
Attachment 1, items 2 and 6):
8.     Agreed action: Maintain within MOA and MLD the Budget and Project
Committees and Budget Secretariat (DCA);
Performance: Partially complied, with positive contributions to process
improvements in the formulation and review of the draft forward and
annual budgets. However, these Committees have not met regularly in at
least one year. The work of these should be revived in order to ensure
the effectiveness of these review mechanisms in realizing sustained
Improvements in the composition of the budget.
9.     Agreed action: MOA and MOLD to establish priorities and reduce the
number of projects;
Performance: Partially complied. In the 1986/87 MOLD introduced a
prioritized list of projects (high, medium and low) and decreased the
number of projects, partly through consolidation. While these
principles have been continued, there is a need to formulate and apply
more objective criteria for establish priorities in order to ensure
full consistency between the strategy statements and the content of the
investment program in MOA and MOLD. The splitting of sectoral
activities over several new Ministries poses the risk of increasing
again the number of projects and enforcing adherence to objective
criteria.
10.    Personnel Costs:
(a)    Atreed action: Implement rersonnel Establishment and Complement
Registry (by July 1986, DCA);
Prforzmanne: Complied by November 1987; continued efforts are needed to
utilize effectively the information now available from the registry of
personnel as an improved management tool to help contain personnel
costs.
(b)    Aeed action: MOA and MOLD to commence analysis of manpower
requirements (by September 1986, DCA);
Performance: Complied, but with a delay of one year. The analysis was
not initiated until mid-1987, as part of a directive issued to all
sectoral Ministries by the 'irectorate of Personnel Management (DPM).
The review was commenced by the MOA and MOLD in late 1987; the results
and recommendations were available by early 1989. While the results
did not appear to influence the preparation of the 1988/89 budget,
recent measures taken by MOA and MOLD suggest that some steps are being
taken to contain personnel costs. For example, the MOLD issued a
directive in December 1987 to freeze the employment of additional
personnel. By early 1989, MOA had followed with a similar directive.



- 58 -
In February, 198;, the Bank discussed the personnel cost issue as part
of the dls:ussicns on the Public Ex;enditure Review Report. Following
these discussions, GOK agreed to take in 1989 various specific steps to
contain personnel costs, beginning in several Ministries(including MOA
and MOLD). The detailed action plal is pending finalization and
vigorous implemeatior..
11.    Sector Mar.taemen:
Agreed action: Government (particularly the Development Planning
Divisions of MOA and MOLD) to develog a permanent capability to carry
out policy analysis (with the support of the ATAP and ASMP);
Performance: In process. Three unforeseen events have sloved the pace
of developing and sustaining this capacity. First, in June 1986
Government issued a policy to reduce immediately the presence of
technical assistance, particularly in the MOALD. The number of
advisors, who were emphasizing on-the-job training for Kenya analysts,
was reduced from about 10 to 2 persons. Second,-there has been
considerable turnover of personnel in the DPD, which has constrained
the continuity and depth of the analysis. Third, in November 1987 the
MOALD was split in two Ministries - MOA and MOLD. This fragmentation
has increased the difficulty of strengthening the permanent capability
for carrying out and Integrating the policy anal,yzi involving the
various comuodities and subsectors. The funds provided under the ASHP
are attempting to address these issues.
PARASTATAL REFORM
12.    Parastatal Strategy:
Agreed action: HOA will complete the strategy for handling its
parastatal portfolio, including a work plan and a schedule for dealing
with specific enterprises and for mcnitoring their expenditures
(September 1986, DCA);
Performance: Partially complied. By October 1986 MOALD prepared a
satisfactory draft strategy paper for handling its parastatal
portfolio. However, the finalization of the paper was not completed,
largely because a number of subsectors containing key parastatals
included under this Ministry were transferred to newly created or other
Ministries during the period November 1986 and May 1987 (i.e. NCPB to
Ministry of Supplies, Ministry of Livestock Development; and Ministry
of Energy and Regional Development). The relevance and feasibility of
finalizing the parastatal strategy paper become questionable, given the
large number of Ministries involved. Therefore, efforts focused on the
restructuring of the specific target parastatals (i.e. NCPB, SONY and
NIB). Also, steps to strengthen the sector's capacity to nonitor and
supervise parastatal performance have not progressed very far, partly
due to: the absence of a clear GOK policy on parastatal reform (except
the State Corporations Act, approved in mid-1986, waich provides
limited guidance); a lack of clarity within Government on the
institutiot designated with this martate; and to a delay by the
agencies ccncerned in using the funds available from the ASMP for this
purpose (i.e. MOAlParastatal Divisic-; Inspectorate of Sta:e
Corporatiors/ISC; and Ministry of Finance/Government Investment
Division/G:,).



- 59 -
13.    Iioroved Parastatal Ornanization and Manaaement:
Agreed actLn: Carry out out various actions to improve parastatal
supervision through enhanced accounting and auditing, financial
training of parastatal staff, improved staff development policies in
parastatal organizations;
Performanct: In process, although significantly slower than expected,
since the actions have resulted from the on-going work programs of
M3A/SCD, ISC, and GID. The funds available from ASMP to expedite these
ilprovements have not been utilized by the concereed agencies citel
above. The main reason for this non-utilization appears to be related
to a lack of effective coordination and to Inadequate budgetary
allocations.  This lack of progress, together with the institutional
issues cited under Item 12, have hampered the effectiveness of
monitoring and managing parastatal reform for the sector as a whole.
Hovever, better progress Is belng made in the monitoring of the three
target parastatals included under the ASAO.
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
14.    Agegp action: Government (AFC) is to carry out a review of h?C's
financial structure, its future role and institutional status, and the
administration of Its Seasonal Credit Scheme (by October 1987, DCA);
Perfomance: Complied by September 1987. In December 1987 AIC's Board
of Directors approved the proposals and submitted them to the MOA/MOF
for review with a view to secure Cabinet's approval In early 1988.
Cabinet approved the fitancial restructuring proposal in January 1989,
and an inter-Ministerial Committee is currently vorking the operational
action plaA to implement the Cabinet decisions in 1989.
15.    Agtreed gtaion: The Cooperative Bank of Kenya (CBK) to operate as a
principal under its new Seasonal Credit Scheme (from 1987 season
onwards, DCA);
Perrtmmancr: Not complied. Proposed scheme was worked out, but not
implemented due to shortage of funds.
16.    Agr.ed action: Government to review the results of the Cooperative
Agricultural Credit Study (by December 1986, DCA);
Perfonrance: Complied (early 1987). Harmonization of lending
conditions to be applied to new schemes.



I
MAP SECTION



S         U D A N       7     ¾
,.   \  \            ,  9                ~~~~~~E T H I O  P I A
<\   ~~    'L                                          ETHIOP'IA
Vo JX V A i.< Z E Y   >                     p\N
M.
\S AACAIX                                        Vrffr r_A                 S
I A  I 
TANZ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~
R IV
miz. -4oiuSsl-xhrse rgdti      Crwithall "\  ==rftr
K=Xg ,        L0o    Citimgdb w/s
0 I Ri,,/Pr;rAOFYroO%I                  rOa i-e                                            I
PLANNO NOSOM ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    SMAI
O Is          GOlo -Y4ha P-t'                                                                      ,-oN -tA i0'{l 
o, wO  M0aoe  T A N Z A N I A /3g;.t 
L E



