DOCUM ENTS
717 KE
Development Credit Agreement
(Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                            , 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1717 KE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                          /0 , 1987, between
REPUBLIC OF KENYA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (The Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received a letter, dated
May 27, 1986, from the Borrower describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment
of the agricultural sector of the Borrower's economy (hereinafter
called the Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the
execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the
Association in the financing of imports required for the
agricultural sector during such execution; and
(B) the Borrower has also requested the Association, in its
capacity as Administrator of the Special facility for Sub-Saharan
Africa (the African Facility), established by its Executive
Directors by Resolution No. IDA 85-1 of May 21, 1985 (the
Resolution), to assist in the financing of the Program by
granting a special credit (hereinafter called the African
Facility  Credit) to   the Borrower equivalent    to  thirty-five
million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR
35,200,000); and the Association as such Administrator is willing
to grant the African Facility Credit pursuant to the African
Facility Credit Agreement of even date herewith between the
Borrower and the Association as such Administrator;
(C) on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Asso-
ciation has decided, in support of the Program, to provide such
assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit in two tranches
as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the International Development Associa-
tion, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereof set
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part
of this Agreement:


﻿-2-
(a) Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
"'Project' means the imports and other activities that
may be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit pursuant
to the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement.";
(b) Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing Date
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare
and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request,
on the execution of the Program referred to in the Preamble
to the Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplish-
ment of the purposes of the Credit."; and
(c) the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(b) "MOA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
(c)   "MLD" means the Borrower's Ministry of Livestock
Development;
(d) "AFC" means the Agricultural Finance Corporation,
established by the Agricultural Finance Corporation Act, 1969,
(No. 1) of the Borrower;
(e) "CLSMB" means the Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Board,
established by the Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Act (Cap. 335
of the Laws of Kenya);


﻿-3-
(f) "KGGCU" means the Kenya Grain Growers Cooperative
Union, registered under the Cooperative Societies Act (Cap. 490
of the Laws of Kenya);
(g) "NCPB" means the National Cereals and Produce Board,
established by the National Cereals and Produce Board Act, 1985,
(No. 7) of the Borrower.
(h) "NIB"    means   the  Borrower's   National   Irrigation
Board, a body corporate, established by Order No. 13 of 1966,
under the Borrower's Irrigation Act (Cap. 347 of the Laws of
Kenya);
(i) "SONY" means the South Nyanza Sugar Company, a company
limited by shares, established and existing under the laws of the
Borrower; and
(j) "K Sh" means Kenya Shilling, the currency of the
Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
seventeen million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 17,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Program,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in a commercial
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1988,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.


﻿-4-
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each January
15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 1996, and ending January 15,
2036. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on January 15, 2006, shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall
be one and one-half percent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. In order to achieve the objective of increas-
ing fertilizer use by increasing its availability, the Borrower
shall implement the following measures: (i) increase the avail-
ability of fertilizer; (ii) expand the number of distributors,


﻿-5-
including commercial distributors and cooperatives, as well as
other end-users; (iii) improve allocations to proven importers;
and (iv) improve the coordination of aid and commercial ferti-
lizer.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall implement a program for
phased increases in user charges for livestock services, accept-
able to the Association.
Section 3.03. In order to achieve the objective of improving
the efficiency of public investment and public expenditure in the
agricultural sector, the Borrower shall:
(a) continue its budget rationalization program in MOA and
MLD which includes, inter alia, measures to: (i) improve resource
use by shifting the emphasis and structure of the budget toward
productive, high priority investments and expenditures; and
(ii) strengthen the resource allocation and planning processes;
and
(b) increase real resources to the agricultural sector.
Section 3.04. In order to carry out the objectives of
divesting itself of parastatals, which are essentially commercial
in nature, and to maintain and strengthen those which are essen-
tial to public welfare, the Borrower shall:
(a) classify its agricultural sector parasta*als into those
to be strengthened, rehabilitated or divested; and
(b)   furnish to the Association plans of action for the
financial restructuring and reorganization of SONY, NCPB and NIB.
Section 3.05. In order to carry out the objective included
in the Program of improving credit supply and distribution, the
Borrower shall implement a program for the rehabilitation of AFC.
Section 3.06. Without limitation or restriction to Sections
3.01 through 3.05 of this Agreement and, in order to further
achieve the objectives of the Program, the Borrower shall carry
out the actions set forth in Schedule 3 to the Agreement, as such
Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between
the Borrower and the Association.


﻿-6-
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall,
until completion of the Project, exchange views every four months
on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and, in
particular, the implementation of the actions specified in
Schedule 3 to this Agreemen .
(b) Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association for its review and comment a
report on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
Section 3.08. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect, in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting prac-
tices, the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section, including the
Special Account for each fiscal year, audited in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts and the audit thereof as
the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) an extraordinary situation has arisen which shall make
it improbable that the Program or a significant part thereof,
will be carried out;
(b) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the African Facility Credit made
to the Borrower for the financing of the
Program shall have been suspended, cancelled
or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
to the terms of the agreement providing
therefor; or
(B) any such Credit shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Borrower to perform any of its obliga-
tions under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Program are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obliga-
tions of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified namely
that the event specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section 4.01
of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of subpara-
graph (ii) of that paragraph.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General
Conditions:
(a) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
African Facility Credit Agreement, other than the effectiveness
of this Agreement, have been fulfilled;
(b) the Borrower has commenced the implementation of the
measures referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement;
(c) the Borrower has completed the first phase of the
budget rationalization program referred to in Section 3.03 of
this Agreement;
(d) the Borrower has commenced the financial restructuring
and reorganization of SONY, NCPB and NIB in accordance with the
plans of action referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
and
(e)  the Borrower has commenced the implementation of AFC's
rehabilitation program referred to in Section 3.05 of this
Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The minister of the Borrower for the time
being responsible for finance is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.


﻿-9
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. BOX 30007
Nairobi
Kenya
Cable address:                  Telex:
FINANCE                       22003
Nairobi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                  Telex:
INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHERWI,OF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly author4zed represetntatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in Their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
ByA2 0/
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern and Southern Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                 SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Fertilizer                    6,160,000   )
(2) Pesticides and                5,280,000   )
chemicals                                 )
(3) Agricultural                  3,520,000   )
machinery,                                )
equipment and                             )  100% of foreign
spare parts                              ) expenditures
(4) Veterinary                    1,760,000   )
supplies                                 )
(5) Seeds                           880,000   )
TOTAL          17,600,000
2.   For  the  purposes  of  this  Schedule  the  term  "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than that of the Borrower for goods supplied from the
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 12 -
4.   No withdrawal shall be made, and no commitment shall be
entered into, to pay amounts to the Borrower in respect of
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
after the aggregate proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the
Credit Account and the total amount of such commitments shall
have  reached   the  equivalent   of  $10,000,000,  unless   the
Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views
described in Section 3.07 of this Agreement, with the progress
achieved by the Borrower:
(a) in the carrying out of the Program; and
(b) in taking the actions set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
1.    Contracts for the procurement of goods by the Borrower or
its parastatal agencies shall be awarded through international
competitive bidding in accordance with procedures consistent with
those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the following
modifications:
(a) Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done
by advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a
bidder's invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or
to bid; such advertisements should be placed in at least one
newspaper of general circulation in the Borrower's country
and, in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
(i) a notice in the United Nations' publication,
Development Forum, Business Edition; or
(ii) an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical journal of wide international circula-
tion; or
(iii) a notice to local representatives of countries and
territories referred to in the Guidelines, that
are potential suppliers of the goods required."
(b) The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
"As  a  further  alternative, bidding    documents may
require the bidder to state the bid price in a single
currency widely used in international trade and specified in
the bidding documents."
(c) Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56        of  thle Guidelines are
deleted.


﻿- 14 -
2.   Contracts for the procurement of goods by the Borrower or
its parastatal agencies, estimated to cost less than the equiva-
lent of $2,000,000 each, shall be awarded on the basis of the
Borrower's normal procurement guidelines.
3.   Contracts  for  the  procurement of   goods   by  commercial
importers shall be awarded on the basis of the normal procurement
procedures of the purchaser of such goods.
4.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule estimated to cost the equivalent of $2,000,000 or
more, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective bids and recommendations for award, a
description of the advertising and tendering procedures followed
and such other information as the Association shall reasonably
request.
5.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 2
and 3 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Asso-
ciation, prior to the submission to the Association of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in
respect thereof, such documentation and information as the Asso-
ciation may reasonably request to support withdrawal applications
in respect of such contract.
6.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 4 and 5 of this
Schedule, where payments under a contract are to be made out of
the proceeds of the Special Account, the copies of such contract
or the documentation and the information to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 3 or para-
graph 4 of this Schedule, as the case may be, shall be furnished
to the Association as part of the evidence required under para-
graph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Actions referred to in Section 3.06
of this Agreement
A.   Agricultural Inputs Supply
1.   In order to improve fertilizer planning and ensure timely
allocations:
(a) MOA shall, by June of each year, draft a fertilizer
import plan; and
(b) The Borrower shall, from July 1987, announce fertilizer
allocations, by July in each year, for the long and short rains
of the following year, and specify quotas for each season.
2.   In  order to ensure seed quality and availability, the
Borrower shall:
(a) by December 1986, increase user charges for seed
certification; and
(b) by October 1987, increase seed retail margins.
3.    The Borrower shall, by October 1987, increase the Tractor
Hire Service and Plant Hire Service fees to market levels.
4.   The Borrower shall, by December 1987, design a national
livestock development program.
B.   Incentives
5.   The Borrower shall:
(a) continue to: (i) employ export and import parity
principles   in  establishing  floor   prices  for   agricultural
commodities; and (ii) provide adequate price incentives to
farmers; and
(b) by December 1986, review the structure of cotton prices
in relation to differences in cotton varieties.
6.   The Borrower shall:
(a) by March 1987, undertake the restructuring of CLSMB to
ensure rapid payment to cotton farmers;


﻿- 16 -
(b) by December 1986, take all necessary steps to ensure
that coffee cooperatives do not deduct costs unrelated to the
processing and marketing of coffee from payments to coffee
farmers; and
(c) complete the study of the coffee industry and, by
October 1987, take necessary steps to improve the coffee
marketing and payment system.
C.   Budget Rationalization and Sector Management
7.   The Borrower shall:
(a) maintain   within  MOA   and  MLD  Budget   and  Project
Committees and Budget Secretariats; and
(b) annually, by June of each year, furnish to the
Association for discussion an action plan for the implementation
of the budget rationalization program.
8.   The Borrower shall, by September 1986, commence the analysis
of manpower requirements in MOA.
D.   Parastatals
9.   The Borrower shall, by October 1986, complete the strategy
for handling MOA's parastatal portfolio, including a work plan
and a schedule for dealing with specific enterprises and for
monitoring their expenditures.
E.   Agricultural Credit
10. The Borrower shall, by October 1987, carry out a review of
AFC's financial structure, its future role and institutional
status, and the administration of the Borrower's New Seasonal
Credit Scheme.
11. The Borrower shall, from the 1987 season, cause the Coopera-
tive Bank of Kenya to operate as a principal under its New
Seasonal Credit Scheme.
12. The Borrower shall:
(a) by December 1986, review the results of the Cooperative
Agricultural Credit Study; and


﻿- 17 -
(b) thereafter cause the Cooperative Bank of Kenya to make
improvements in the management of donor-aided cooperative credit
schemes.
F.   Management and Coordination
13. For the purposes of providing overall guidance in the
implementation of the Program as well as its management and
coordination,  the   Borrower  shall  establish  and  maintain  a
Management Committee, to be chaired by the Permanent Secretary
of MOA, whose members shall include senior officials from MOA,
MLD and other participating ministries and parastatals.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 4
Actions referred to in paragraph 4 (b)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.   Agricultural Input Supply:
(a) Full implementation of the measures referred to in
Section 3.01 of this Agreement.
(b) Adoption of a new fertilizer pricing formula based on
world prices, including adequate retail margins and prices for
both regular and small bags.
(c) Increases of user charges for livestock services in
accordance with the program referred to in Section 3.02 of this
Agreement.
2.   Ir-entives
Improvement of grain marketing through:
(a) organizational and financial restructuring of NCPB;
(b) determination of the role of various participants in
the grain marketing system, including the role of cooperative
organizations, based on the review of the grain marketing study;
and
(c) completion of the review to determine necessary
improvements in the food security plan and the introduction of
such improvements.
3.   Budget Rationalization
Implementation of the budget rationalization in MOA and MLD
in   accordance  with  the   Borrower's  Budget   Rationalization
Guidelines.
4.   Parastatals
Satisfactory progress in the implementation of the financial
restructuring and reorganization of SONY, NCPB and NIB.
5.   Agricultural Credit
Determination of AFC's optimum target population and lending
levels to individual borrowers.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods required during the
execution of the Program and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule.
2,   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made pxclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for Eligible
Expenditures. Each such deposit shall be withdrawn by the
Association from the Credit Account in the respective equivalent
amounts as shall have been justified by the evidence supporting
the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
this Schedule.


﻿- 20 -
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for Eligible
Expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall
be equal to the equivalent of twice the amount of
the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as
of the date of such notice have been or will be utilized in
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into
the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.


﻿- 21 -
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


