Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9005-KE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KENYA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NOVEMBER 19, 1990
Operations
ica Department
.on
s a restricted distribution and may be used by recipents only In the perfonnane of
's. Its contents may not otherwise be disdosed without World Bank auth_zaton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit              .   Kenya Shilling (KSh)
KSh 20                     -   Kenya Pound (KE) 1
US$ 1.00                   -   KSh 22.50 (March 1990)
KSh 1.00                   *   US$ 0.0444
US$ 1.00                   .   SDR 0.695 (October 31, 1990)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ha - hectares
km - kilometers
1 - litres
m - million
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DFEO    - Assistant District Forest Extension Officer
FDB    - African Development Bank
[DAB    - Australian International Development Assistance Bureau
PM     - Assistant Project Manager
;AL    - Arid and Semi-Arid Lands
,AO    - Agricultural Sector Adjustment Operation
iP  - Annual Work Program
EDA    -  Canadian International Development Agency
WIDA   -  Danish International Development Agency
-  District Conm.'ssioner
DC  - District Development Committee
)F     - Deputy Director of Forestry
)h     - Diameter at breast height
EVFEO   - Divisional Forestry Extension Officer
EC  - European Economic Community
.k0    -  Food and Agriculture Organization
&'SD   -  Forestry Extension Services Division
- Forest Department
ENNIDA  -  Finnish International Development Agency
4p     -  Forestry Master Plan
K  -  Government of Kenya
rz     - Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit GmbH
(Federal Republic of Germany)
FD     -  Industrial Forestry Division
ECA    -  Japanese International Cooperation Agency
UIU    - Kenya African National Union
kRI    - Kenya Agricultural Researc3 Institute
.FRI    - Kenya Forestry Research Institute
FC     -  Kenya Forestry College
;.I  - Mean Annual Increment
ED     - Ministry of Education



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MENR     - Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources
MOA      - Ministry of Agriculture
MOE      - Ministry of Energy
MOF      - Ministry of Finance
MPND     - Ministry of Planning and National Development
MRD      - Ministry of Regional Development
MRDASAW  - Ministry of Reclamation and Development of Arid, Semi-Arid and
Wastelands
MRST     - Ministry of Research, Science and Technology
MWT      - Ministry of Wildlife and Tourism
NFMD     - Natural Forest Management Division
NGO      - Non-Governmental Organization
NORAD    - Norwegian Agency for International Development
NZDA     - New Zealand Development Agency
ODA      - Overseas Development Administration (UK)
OP       - Office of the President
PIT      -  Project Implementation Team
PM       - Project Manager
PPF      - Project Preparation Facility
PPM      - Panafrican Paper Mills
PSC      - Project Steering Committee
PSU      - Project Service Unit
RAES     - Rural Afforestation Extension Service
RTDS     - Rural Tree Development Support Project
SCF      -  Standard Conversion Factor
SDC      -  Swiss Development Corporation
SIDA     -  Swedish International Development Agency
SOE      -  Statement of Expenditure
TA       - Technical Assistant
TO       - Technical Officer
USAID    - United States Agency for International Development
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July 01 to June 30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance|
|of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.|



KENYA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMHARY.. . . . . . . . iv
I.   BACKGROUND   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                     1
A.   Project Background              . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . .                        1
II.   THE FORESTRY SUBSECTOR  ....                 .      .  .   .  .  .   .  .  .   .  .  .   .     . . . . .     .  5
A.   Main  Features    ....  .               .  .  .  .     . .5.....  .        .  .   .  .  .  .  .     .  S
B.   Main  Subsector  Issues   ...  .                .   .   .  .   .  .   .   .  .   .   .  .   .   .     ..  8
C. Linkages with Key Socio-Economic Areas .                                 . . . . . . . . . . .   9
D.   Government  Subsector Development  Objectives  and  Strategy                           . . .    11
E.   Past  Bank  Group Experience with  Forestry  Projects    .  . . . . . .    11
F.   Rationale  for Bank  Involvement                 ...  .         .  .     ...  .   .  .   .  .  .     .    13
III.   THE PROJECT  ....  .                 .  .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .  .   .  .   .  .   .     .    13
A.   Project Objectives              . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    13
B.   Summary  Project  Description   ...  .                   .  .  .  .  .     .....  .      .  .     .    14
C.   Detailed  Project  Features    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    15
(a)   Farm  Forestry  Extension   ...  .                 .     . .1.5...  .      .  .  .  .     .    lS
(b)   Indigenous  Forest Management  and Conservation   . . . . . .    17
(c)   Industrial  Plantations  Development                   . . . . . . . . . . .    20
(d)   Strengthening  of FD's  Central  Functions                      . . . . . . . .    22
(e)   Forestry  Education  - Kenya  Forestry College  Londiani                         .        24
(f)   Forest Research  - Kenya  Forestry  Research  Institute
(KEFRI) ........................ . 24
D.   Project  Costs    ....  .               .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .. .....  .         .  .  .     .  26
E.   Financing   ....           .      .   .   .  .   .  .   .   .  .   .     ......   .  .   .   .  .     .  27
F.   Procurement    ....           .      .   .   .   .  .   .   .   .  .     ......  .   .   .   .  .     .  28
G.   Disbursements    ....   .               .   .  .  .  .   .   .  .     .. ....  .    .   .   .   .     .  31
H.   Accounts and Audit              ....      .     .  .  .  .   .  .  .     . ....  .      .  .  .     .    32
IV.   PROJECT IPLEMENTATION  ....                  .      .  .   .  .  .   .  .  .   .  .  .   .  .  .   .  .  .     .    32
A.   General   ....          .      .   .   .  .   .   .     . .....   .  .   .   .  .   .   .  .   .   .     .    32
B.   Organization  and Management   ...  .                    .   .     . ....  .      .  .  .  .  .     .    33
C.   Annual Work  Program  (AWP),  Reporting,  Monitoring,  and
Evaluation   ....  .              .  .  .  .  .     . .....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  35
D.   Reviews   ....          .      .   .   .  .   .   .     . .....   .  .   .   .  .   .   .   .  .   .     .    35
E.   Status  of  Project  Preparation   ...  .                   .     . .....   .       .   .   .  .     .    36
This report is based on the findings of an appraisel mission which visited Ktnyw in March-April 1990, compriainp Mr. C. Keil. Ms.
V. Li, and Mr. E. Asibey (IDA); and Messrs. Z. ul Hasan (IDA consultant), H. Spechly (SCD consultant) A Tilling and R.L.
Stirral (ODA consultants). M. Katila (Finnida consultant). and D. Danbury and R. VWdderburn (ES consultantn). Secretarial
asistnce was provided by B. Mudd.



KENYA
FORESTRY DEVELOVI.ENT PROJECT
Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
V.  PRODUCTION AND FINANCIAL ASPECTS  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .... .   37
A.    Production  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  37
B. Markets..   .   38
C. Prices                 ....40
D. Cost Recovery and Sustainability   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  41
E. Farm Level Financial Impact..                   .     .              42
F. Fiscal Impact.. .... 43
VI. JUSTIFICATION, BENEFITS, AND RISKS ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  43
A. Justification  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   43
B. Benefits .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I .  43
C. Impact on Women  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   44
D. Environmental Impact   ....  .  .  .     .     . .         .  .    .  45
E.  Economic Analysis and Sensitivity Test      .       . .     . . .  45
F.  Uncertainties and Risks  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   47
VII.  AGREEMENTS, ASSURANCES, AND RECOMMENDATION  . . . . . . . . . . . .  48
ANNEXES
Annex 1     Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Annex 2     Project Costs:
Table 1 - Summary Accounts by
Project Components
Table 2 - Summary Accounts by Year
Table 3 - Project Components by Year
Table 4 - List of Detailed Cost Tables
in Appraisal Mission Working Paper No. IX
Table 5 - Detailed Costs of PPF Activities
Annex 3     Financing Plan:
Table 1 - Financing Plan by Project
Components
Table 2 - Financing Plan by Summary
Accounts
Annex 4     Financial Analysis and Cost Recovery:
Table 1 - Forest Department Budget
Table 2 - Calculation of Royalty
Table 3 - Cash Flow Projection for
Project
Table 4 - Agroforestry Farm Models



RENYA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents (Continued)
Annex S   Economic Analysis; Incremental Benefits
and Costs - Industrial Plantations
Annex 6   Main Subsector Issues and Prospects
Annex 7   Implementation:
Chart 1 - Project Implementation
Schedule
Chart 2 - Implementation Schedule of Forestry Master Plan
Table 1 - Key Performance
Indicators
Table 2 - Summary of Vehicles and Plant Acquisition and
Rehabilitation Programme
Table 3 - Forest Roads Development Programme
Table 4 - Implementation Targets:
Farm Forestry Extension
Table 5 - Implementation Targets:
Indigenous Forest Management
and Conservation
Table 6 - Implementation Targets:
Industrial Plantations
Development
Table 7 - Implementation Targets:
Forestry Education -
KFC Londiani
Table 8 - Implementation Targets:
Forest Research - KEFRI
Table 9 - Supervision Plan
Annex 8   Technical Services:
Appendix 1 - Summary of Technical Services
Appendix 2 - Terms of Reference of Major Technical
Services Positions
Annex 9   Training and Technical Assistance:
Appendix 1 - Summary of In-Service Education
and Training Provisions
Appendix 2 - Breakdown of In-Service
Training Proposals
Appendix 3 - Summary of Technical Assistance
Provisions
Appendix 4 - Terms of Reference of Major Technical
Positions
Annex 10 Summary Contents of Annual Work Plan
Annex 11 Forest Department Organization Chart
Annex 12 Selected Documents in Project File



- iv -
KENYA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        Republic of Kenya
Beneficiaries:   Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources (MENR), Forest
Department (FD), Kenya Forestry College (KFC); Ministry of
Research, Science and Technology (MRST), Kenya Forestry
Research Institute (KEFRI)
Amount:          SDR 13.9 million (m) (US$ 19.9 m equivalent)
Terms:           Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity
Cofinancint:     SDC - US$ 5.6 m equivalent; ODA - US$ 13.7 m equivalent;
FINNIDA - US$ 6.0 m equivalent; and EEC - US$ 15.8 m equivalent
Proiect          Objectives:  The proposed project has four main objectives: (a)
Description:     to enhance conservation and protection of indigenous forest
resources as well as of soil and water on forest, farm and
range land; (b) to alleviate the accelerating fuelwood
deficiency; (c) to improve the efficiency of timber production,
including expansion of the revenue base from industrial forest
plantations; and (d) to establish a framework for the
subsector's long-term development.   It woi1ld constitute the
first phase of a re-directed, broad-based subsector development
program and provide donors with a long-term plan for their
assistance.
Ccmponents:      The project would include investments over a 6-year period to:
(a) promote, on a pilot basis mainly, tree farming through
intensified extension services to smallholders and rural
communities and support to NGOs; (b) improve indigenous forest
conservation, protection and management in the gazetted and
ungazetted forest areas; (c) improve the physical and financial
management of the existing 165,000 ha of industrial
plantations; (d) strengthen the institutional capacity of FD
through physical investments, training, management support and
technical assistance; (e) upgrade forest research and technical
forestry education; and (f) prepare a comprehensive, long-term
Forestry Master Plan, including prerequisite studies and
surveys.   The components to improve indigenous forest and
industrial plantations (b and c above) include a program to
rehabilitate 2,340 km. of existing forest roads and their
maintenance.



Benefits:        The main quantifiable bene!its would bes (a) promotion of
sustainable  private  tree  farming,   including  increased
production of fuelwood and poles in the pilot areas; (b)
improved management of industrial forest plantations and
increased production of commercial timber of about 13 million
ma at stand maturity; (c) higher GOK revenues from intensified
royalty collection.  The principal non-quantifiable benefits
would include: (a) a halt in the degradation of the indigenous
forests and watershed areas and the initiation of their
rehabilitation; (b) a strengthened PD, operating with a clearer
mandate within an appropriate Forest Policy framework; and (c)
improved forest research and technical forestry education
facilities.
Risks:           (a) delay in project implementation due to inability to build
adequate implementation capacity within FD to carry out the
project; though not eliminated, this :isk would be contained by
actions to strengthen FD's planning and implementation capacity
and to reduce its operational burden by enhancing the
participation of NGOs and community groups in farm forestry and
forest protection; (b) failure of GOK tc allocate sufficient
project funds; this risk would be reduced by conditionalities
regarding budgetary allocations to the project and related
services and by improving cost recovery from industrial
plantations; (c) organizational and coordination risks would be
minimized by the self-standing nature of project components and
the  establishment  of  an  inter-agency  Project  Steering
Committee, as well as the practice of joint donor supervision.
Estimated Project Costs v                Local       Foreign    Total
--------US $ million---------
1. Farm Forestry                          2.5        2.8         5.3
2. Indigenous Forest Management          10.2       13.7        23.9
3. Industrial Plantations                11.5        6.4        17.9
4. Institution Building of FD
Central Functions                    3.3        5.1         8.4
5. Forest Education                       0.9        0.8         1.7
6. Forestry Research                      3.8        4.8         8.6
7. Forestry Master Plan                   0.5        4.7         5.2
Total Base Cost                     32.7       38.3        71.0
Physical Contingencies                 2.8        2.6         5.4
Price Contingencies                    3.7        3.7         7.4
Total Project Costs                 39.2       44.6        83.8
a/   Includes  direct  taxes and duties of about US$10.3 million  and PPF
expenditures of US$1.5 million



- vi -
Financing Plan                              Local       Foreign       Total
-US $ million----
IDA                                            7.2      12.7         19.9
EEC                                            4.1      11.7         15.8
ODA                                            4.3       9.4         13.7
SDC                                            2.3       3.3          5.6
FINNIDA                                        0.7       5.3          6.0
Government of Kenya                           20.6       2.2         22.8
Total Financing                            39.2       44.6        83.8
Estimated Disbursements from IDA Credit (US$ 19.9 million)
IDA FY              9'.    92      93     94      95     96       97
Annual              0.6    2.2    4.8    3.1    2.4    3.6    3.2
Cumulative          0.6    2.8    7.6   10.7   13.1   16.7   19.9
Rate of Return:   No rate of return has been calculated for the project as a
whole, since it mainly supports institutional strengthening
and the benefits are difficult to quantify.  The component for
industrial plantations has an ERR of 17.2 percent.
Staff Appraisal Report No. 9005 - KE
IBRD Map No. 22752



KENYA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Project Background
1.01      Following a Forestry Subsector Review, it was agreed between the
Governirert and the Bank that a subsectorwide development project be prepared.
Aceordingly, project preparation was initiated in the course of the September
1988 supervision mission of the Bank group-supported Third Forestry Project.
An initial project proposal rrepared by the Government was submitted to the
Bank in November, 1988. This was followed by two preparation missions, in
February and May, 1989 by the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme with
participation of interested donors. A joint preparation document, which was
communicated to Governme:.. in August, 1989, formed the basis for the
pre-appraisal mission in November-December, 1989. The p:oject was appraised
in March-April, 1990 by an IDA-led mission with participation of the
cofinanciers - British Overseas Development Administration (ODA), Swiss
Development Corporation (SDC), Finnish International Development Agency
(FINNIDA), and European Economic Community (EEC).
1.02      The basic project strategy has evolved from a prolonged interaction
between the Bank and the Government, including discussions on a subsector
studyl/ and experiences from three preceding forestry projects. The
strategy is to design a nationwide and subsectorwide program to tackle the
problems of forestry in Kenya, instead of the fragmented and narrow approach
adopted in previous projects. The project, for which an IDA Credit of SDR
13.9 m (US$ 19.9 m equivalent) is proposed, would be the first phase of this
comprehensive program.
B. Macroeconomic Setting
1.03      During the mid 1980s, Kenya faced a deteriorating financial and
economic situation. In late 1986, the Government reeponded by adopting a
major stabilization and structural adjustment program, with the backing of the
IMF, IDA and other donors. Kenya's medium-term policy framework is described
in the current three-year Policy Framework Paper (PFP) covering the period
1990-92. Under the program, Government is seeking to reduce the budget
deficit, limit public borrowing from the banking system, rationalize public
expenditures, remove price controls, strengthen monetary policy and contain
inflation, manage the exchange rate flexibly and promote exports, limit
nonconcessional external borrowing, and improve the performance of state
corporations.
1.04      Performance under the 1989 program was encouraging in terms of
economic growth, the budget deficit and its financing, the external sector and
the adoption of structural adjustment measures. Performance with respect to
monetary expansion and inflation was disappointing, however. Real GDP growth
1/     World Bank, Kenya - Forestry Subsector Review, Report No. 6651-
KE, February 26, 1988.



in 1089 slowed somewhat to 5 percent. The budget deficit reached 4.7 percent
of GDP (including grants) in FY89, and preliminary estimates suggest that it
was contained to 4.2 percent in FY90, lower than the budgeted 4.6 percent.
The deficit is targeted to drop to 3.8 percent of GDP in FY91 and 3.4 percent
of GDP in FY92. The 1989 current account deficit decreased to 4.5 percent of
GDP (including official transfers) from 5.3 percent in 1988, despite
substantially lower coffee prices and higher oil prices. On the structural
adjustment front, the Government made substantial progress in implementing its
industrial and financial sector adjustment program. In industry, quantitative
restrictions on additional imports were replaced by tariffs, the import
licensing system was streamlined, price controls on three additional items
were removed, and a high-level Cabinet Sub-Committee was established to speed
up foreign investment approvals. In the financial sector, interest rates were
raised, a new Banking Act was adopted, a restructuring program for 10 troubled
fiLiancial institutions was *.nitiated, and a Capital Markets Authority was
established.
C. Agricultural Sector Background
1.05      Importance of Agriculture.  Despite progress in the industrial and
services sectors, the agricultural sector remains vitally important for the
continued growth of the Kenyan economy. Agriculture, which provides the main
livelihood for about 85 percent of the total population and employs 70 percent
of the labor force, in 1987 contributed about 30 percent of GDP. The sector
produces nearly all of the nation's food and serves as the main source of
export earnings (60 percent in 1988) and raw materials for the predomi.Lantlv
resource-based industrial sector. Small farms (less than 20 ha in size)
account for about 60 percent of total farm area. The proportion of land owned
and operated by smallholders is increasing with the continuing subdivision of
larger group-owned farms. Smallholdings account for approximately 75 percent
of agricultural production and 85 percent of agricultural employment. The
average size of Kenya's two million farms is about 2.0 ha (1987) with over
three quarters of these under 2 ha.
1.06      Farming Systems.  The diverse ecological conditions in Kenya permit
the cultivation of widely different crops, varying from food crops and cash
crops to extensive pastoralism with limited subsistence cropping. Intensive
farming, mostly on smallholdings, is practiced over large parts of the CentLal
Highlands and in the Humid West, where three fourths of the nation's
population are concentrated. It is in these rural areas of high population
density where the greatest proportions of farm land are devoted to tree
cultivation. Extensive farming on medium to large holdings is undertaken in
the upland areas of the Humid West and limited parts of the Central Highlands.
Small-scale, low-intensity c'opping patterns are common in coastal areas. In
the semi-arid zones, extensive pastoralism is practiced with limited
subsistence cropping at a high risk of crop failure, while very extensive
pastoralism is predominant in the arid lowlands; there is considerable
pressure on the arid and semi-arid lands (ASAL) for their increasing use for
farmer settlement and more intensive agricultural production.
".07      Recent Performance and Constraints to Growth.  The slow rate of
agricultural growth during the first half of the 1980s was a particular cause



of concern. The high growth rates in the first decade of Independence
decelerated to an average of 3.2 percent per annum between 1972-83. At a
population growth of nearly 4 percent this development signalled a decline in
per-capita agricultural production. Agricultural growth has rebounded since
1984, when production declined due to severe drought, and has averaged 4.5
percent annually during 1986-89. Kenya has been able to maintain its
self-sufficiency in agricultural products and to moderately increase the value
of its agricultural exports during recent years.
1.08      The major constraint now facing agricultural development is the
shuirtage of additional arable land to sustain a fast growing population. Only
about 20 percent of Kenya's 575,000 Km2 surface area is high potential land
and another 9 percent can produce crops at considerable risk, being subject to
periodic drought. Irrigation potential is limited. A related problem is the
continuous agricultural expansion into forests and woodlands, threatening the
preservation of vital soil and water resources. Kenya is in the process of
developing a coherent land use policy and an institutional framework for
addressing land resource issues under its sector adjustment programs (para.
1.11).  Other factors contributing to the slow growth have included: (a)
limited availability and use of key agricultural inputs, notably fertilizer;
(b) insufficient farmer knowledge and financing due to problems in the
deliv: ry of essential agricultural services (extension, research, credit); and
(c) declining investment in agriculture caused by inadequate producer
incentives and marketing and pricing distortions, partly linked to inefficient
performance of largely mononolistic parastatal and cooperative enterprises in
the marketing, distribution and processing of smallholder agricultural
products.
1.09      Government's Development Objectives and Strategy.  To reverse the
deteriorating economic situation and generate employment, Government
formulated and issued in 1986 its policy and strategy paper for long-term
economic growth.2/ This paper presented a bold strategy for growth over a
15-year period and provided the framework for the Government's economic
stabilization and adjustment program. The paper stressed the importance of
agricultural growth, setting an overall sectoral growth target of 5 percent
p.a., an employment generation target of 3 percent p.a., and an increase in
agricultural export earnings of 6 percent p.a. The strategy for attaining
these objectives is threefold: firstly, intensified production of key food
commodities mainly through improved services to smallholders, notably inputs
supply, adequate incentives and improved marketing mechanisms, and extension;
secondly, a major research effort toward higher yielding varieties; and
thirdly, a limited expansion in area and intensification of higher-value crops
for both export and local consumption.
1.10      Government, in its current National Development Plan 1989-93, is
paying increased attention to improved management of the agricultural
production base. It intends to adopt two approaches: first, resource surveys
and environmental assessments would be carried out for all Districts as a data
base and environmental framework for continuous environmental monitoring, and
2/     Sessional Paper No. 1, 1986:  Economic Management for Renewed
Growth."



- 4 -
second, future development programs and projects would be prioritized on the
basis of socioeconomic and ecological analyses. Government has plans to
formally prepare and codify its new natural resources management strategy
during the Plan period (para. 2.21). Such guidance would be particularly
needed for the second generation ASAL agricultural program, which is now under
formulation with Bank assistance.
1.11      Agricultural Sector Adjustment.  Overall, the First Agricultural
Sector Adjustment Operation (ASAO I) has been a useful instrument for
promoting policy and institutional improvements in agriculture which would
lead to faster growth and improved efficiency in the allocation and use of
sectoral resources. Good progress was made particularly in improving producer
incentives (by deregulating pricing and marketing of certain agricultu.al
products), cost recovery in some sectoral services, and the efficiency of a
few parastatals. On the other hand, some parts of ASAO were implemented at a
slower pace than intended because of the wavering commitment of the Government
to certain actions, and from a proliferation of the ministries responsible for
agriculture (from one to five) and their weak implementation capacity.
Disappointing progress has, for example, occurred in removing constraints on
the supply of fertilizer, reform of most parastatals, and rationalization of
the composition of sectoral public investments and expenditures. The follow-
up ASAO II, which has been appraised by IDA, would continue the reform
process, taking into account lessons learned from the first one. The focus
would be on accelerating agricultural growth through smallholder production
and improving public sector resource use and institutional capacity in
agriculture.
1.12      The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy.  The Bank's assistance
strategy emphasizes three areas: (a) improving public sector management to
contain expansionary fiscal policies, rationalize recurrent expenditures,
strengthen the public investment program, increase efficiency of public
enterprises, and build institutional capacity; (b) expanding and diversifying
the export base to increase the incomes of smallholders, and to reduce
unemployment and the reliance on external assistance, by encouraging private
investment in export activities, and improving export incentives, and
relieving constraints to export production and marketing; and (c) laying the
foundations for sustainable development by strengthening Kenya's human
resource base, addressing equity and gender issues, and improving
environmental management. This strategy calls for a lending program that
consists of two components: sector adjustment lending in areas judged central
to the structural adjustment process (para. 1.04) and investment lending in
the productive and social sectors as well as for essential infrastructure.
Such a program seeks to give balance of payments support and at the same time
facilitate the supply side responses required for sustainable growth.
1.13      Sectoral Lending.  In the past ten years, the Bank Group has
committed US$259 million to support projects in the agricultural sector, of
which US$47 million has been on Bank terms, and US$212 million on IDA terms.
Since FY83, all commitments have been IDA Credits. A subsectoral shift took
place during the early to mid-1980s away from area development projects, and
toward improved agricultural services, promotion of exports, and sector
adjustment operations, in support of the Government objectives and strategy
outlined above.



1.14      The Bank's sector assistance program is designed to support
Government's main agriculture sector objectives - rapid growth, export
earnings, and employment creation. To do this, the sequence followed so far
has been: policies, vital services, and export investments. Investment
projects of the past five years in key agricultural services (Research,
Extension, and Animal Health) and exports (Coffee II) were grouped around ASAO
I, which supported the first phase of Government's policy reform program.
1.15      In the past two years, the Bank has been preparing for the next
phase, which, will group projects around ASAO II. The latter will deepen
policy reforms started under the first operation, and begin new initiatives,
especially in stimulating smallholders' production, poverty reduction and
environmental actions.   Complementing this operation would be a series of
projects to address environment, finance, infrastructure and poverty concerns.
These will endeavor to remove remaining constraints to agricultural growth,
and deepen the equity and sustainability of the sector's development.
Environmental concerns would be addressed through this proposed Forestry
Development Project, an ASAL Development Project and a Wildlife Project.
Finance constraints are to be addressed through IDA financial sector
operations. Infrastructure constraints are to be addressed through
Agricultural Marketing, and Agro-Industries Development Projects and poverty
concerns through nutrition initiatives and rural public works, especially
roads. The Bank will continue its commitment to improve the effectiveness of
vital agricultural services through the ongoing National Agricultural Research
Project, the forthcoming Second National Extension Project, and the proposed
Dairy Project.
II. THE FORESTRY SUBSECTOR
A. Main Features
2.01      Forest Resources.  Kenya's closed forests are concentrated in the
moist Central Highlands where the human population and agricultural production
are also concentrated. In the extensive semi-arid and arid regions, forests
are mainly found on isolated mountains and in discontinuous narrow bands along
river beds. Open woodlands and scrublands occupy large parts of the semi-arid
and arid regions.
2.02      Kenya's gazetted forests comprise some 1.7 million ha of land
corresponding to about 3 percent of the nation's land area. Thay include some
170,000 ha of plantation forest of which about 90 percent are industrial
coniferous plantations. In the absence of a forest inventory since the 19608,
the true extent of the forests is unknown. Probably some 25 percent of the
gazetted area does not consist of forest but of open grassland and scrub. On
the other hand, outside the gazetted area, there are more than half a million
ha. of forest tracts in Trust Lands under County Councils, in the National
Parks and National Reserves, and on other Government land. In addition, there
is a relatively high area coverage of trees on smallholder farms mainly in the
Central Highlands. The exact area is not known but it is estimated that in
some densely populated parts, as much as 20 percent of the farm land is under
woody biomass. The aggregated total area of smallholder tree planting



probably exceeds 100,000 ha. Finally, woodlands, defined as areas of
scattered tree cover and scrub growth, cover a large proportion of the 47
million ha of the semi-arid and arid zones.
2.03      Importance of Forestry.  The forests and woodlands are the source
of important economic, social and environmental benefits to the country. They
play vital, multiple roles: regulating and optimizing the distribution and
flow of water; conserving and protecting the soil mantle; and providing
habitat and dry season refuge for wildlife, the foundation of Kenya's
important tourist industry. They are the source of virtually all the nation's
supply of about 30 million m3 per annum of roundwood for building and other
poles, fuelwood, charcoal, sawntimber, wooden panels, pulp and paper, and
provide numerous other commodities, e.g. fodder and fruit that are of
particular importance to rural people. The value added of the measurable
products from Kenya's forests was estimated at KSh 1.3 billion in 1986,
equivalent to 1.5 percent of GDP or 5 percent of the agriculture sector's GDP,
and that of the wood-based industry at over KSh 3.3 billion. Forestry and
wood processing provide direct full-time employment to about 35,000 people,
excluding those in informal trade and industry.
2.04      Forestry Institutions.  The main institution in the forestry
subsector is the Forest Department (FD) in the Ministry of Environment and
Natural Resources (MENR). FD's chief functions are the management and
protection of Kenya's gazetted forests; the establishment and management of
industrial and fuelwood plantations in these forests; promotion of on-farm
afforestation; and the development and execution of the country's forest
policy. FD operates some 160 forest stations reporting to 40 District Forest
Offices which in turn report to eight Provincial Forest Offices. Out of a
total work force of about 17-18,000 personnel, about 900 are professional and
technical staff, 2,800 supporting staff and some 14,000 permanently employed
labor.   FD's programs have in the past concentrated on industrial forestry to
which more than 80 percent of its budget has been devoted. This is now
changing toward greater emphasis on FD's involvement in the rural
afforestation efforts on private land, notably smallholder farm land, and
conservation of natural forests.
2.05      Other Government agencies which have a major influence on the
planning and implementation of forestry activities, resource allocation and
forest policy formulation, are the Ministries of Finance (MOF), Planning and
National Development (MPND), Energy (MOE), Agriculture (MOA), Regional
Development (MRD), Wildlife and Tourism (MWT), Reclamation and Development of
Arid, Semi-Arid and Waste Lands (MRDASAW), Research, Science and Technology
(MRST), and Education (MED), and the Office of the President (OP). Many of
these agencies have been supported by foreign donors in their central or
selected district operations with agro-forestry and soil conservation
activities. In the forestry subsector, MOE concentrates on energy
conservation, agro-forestry demonstration and renewable energy; MOA provides
considerable agro-forestry extension services through its agricultural
extension network of over 3750 front line-staff; OP and its District
organization have been entrusted with increased development responsibility as
a consequence of GOK's 'district focus' policy, particularly in environmental
and energy matters. Political support to rural afforestation has manifested
itself at the local level in the form of Chief's nurseries and innumerable



- 7 -
other institutional nurseries. The Kenyan Forestry Research Institute (KEFRI)
has recently been placed under the newly formed MRST. University level
training in forestry is offered at Moi Univers'ty in Eldoret under the MED and
technical level training at the Kenya Forestry College (KFC) at Londiani under
FD. There are at present no permanent provisions for formal vocational
forestry training.
2.06      Private Sector Involvement is mainly in the wood-based industry
that produces sawn timber, pazvl boards, and pulp and paper. There are now
over 350 licensed sawmills a,  a considerable number of unlicensed mills.
Most of the mills are small. There are also four moderate-size plywood mills,
some of these integrated with particle board or fiberboard production. Total
log-size roundwood demand is about 700,000 m3 p.a. Pulp and paper are
produced by one large integrated mill consuming almost 500,000 m3 of pulpwood
p.a., and a few smaller mills which are not based on wood. Total industrial
roundwood demand at present is 1.3 - 1.4 million m3 p.a., i.e. less than 5
percent of all harvested roundwood, and is expected to grow annually at 4-5
percent.
2.07      With the exception of two industries (private .ea and tobacco
processing enterprises), which have undertaker their own industrial fuelwood
plantation programs, all the other industries depend on the Forest Department
(FD) for their wood supply; however, there is a growing supply of industrial
roundwood from private, mainly smallholder tree plantings. Practically all
marketed industrial roundwood is plantation-grown, as commercial fellings in
the natural forests have been banned. Involvement of the private sector in
forest plantation operations was recently precipitated by the FD's inability
to clear its backlog of replanting and maintenance. The pulp and paper
company, for instance, has since 1987 carried out at its own cost a
considerable part of the annual reforestation and early tending of FD's
pulpwood plantations, as well as forest road construction and maintenance.
Upon FD's request, many of the large sawmillers have since 1989 joined ranks
on a "harambee" (cost sharing) basis to eliminate backlogs of pruning and
thinning as well as replanting in FD's sawlog plantations (Annex 6, para. 8).
There is also a marked interest in the private sector to establish plantations
directly held by the companies themselves; however, constraints of
availability of land or suitable finance have been an obstacle to this
potential development.
2.08      NGO's.  Outside the public and industrial private sectors, a
growing number of non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and other private
initiatives play an increasing role in Kenya's rural afforestation program and
related areas (e.g. improvement of stoves, soil conservation, etc.).    The
aggregate area planted through NGO efforts is not known but this could
represent a significant percentage of Kenya's fuelwood plantations on farms as
NGOs have spontaneously filled a leadership void left by FD's weak track
record in forest extension. Despite considerable progress made, these
non-governmental activities need better focus, coordination and continuity and
effective guidance from the FD, the key line agency for national
tree-planting, so that the great potential of the NGOs can be harnessed in a
more efficient and sustained manner. The proposed project would provide
training on farm forestry to leaders of NGOs, support NGO nurseries, and



- 8 -
monitor and coordinate NGO farm forestry activities (paras. 3.08 and 3.10-
3.11).
2.09      Subsector Fundint.  Table 1 in Annex 4 shows the Forest Department
budget for the last five years. This budget does not represent the total
expenditures on forestry; some forestry education expenditures fall under the
MED while forestry research is separated under MRST. FD's budget has shown a
declining trend in real terms and its composition has been inadequate for
keeping the Department fully operational. Operating expenditures (GOK
accounting excludes labor costs) as a percentage of total expenditures have
been roughly 10 percent during 1985/86 and 1987/88, dropping to 8 percent in
1988/89, and are expected to drop further. The share of development
expenditures (which includes labor costs) for industrial plantations in
1988/89 was 62 percent while that for local and rural afforestation was 22
percent. The share of personnel emoluments has risen to over 80 percent of
FD's total budget, leaving little for operations and investments. De-linked
from its budget (para. 3.29), FD's revenue collection, which is essentially
from royalties on timber sold, has been low. In 1987/88 and 1988/89 it
represented only about 30 percent of the total size of the budget, when it
could be much higher (para. 5.21 and Annex 6, para. 9).
2.10      External Assistance.  About 20 multilateral and bilateral donors as
well as a number of external NGOs are assisting Kenya's forestry subsector.
In roughly one half of the projects, the recipient has been MENR/FD, while
other ministries and national organizations have benefitted from the other
half. In the first half of the 1980s, the majority of the donor-assisted
projects have been directed toward agro-forestry and soil con3ervation.
Overall coordination among the many initiatives has been weak or absent (para.
2.17). Hence, an umbrella plan and structure for aid coordination in the
subsector is urgently needed.
B. Main Subsector Issues
2.11      This section gives a summary description of the major issues in the
forestry subsector. Details are presented in Annex 6.
2.12      Deforestation.  The ongoing deforestation of Kenya's indigenous
forests and resulting environmental degradation is the principal issue.   The
main cause for this has teen population pressure, resulting in encroachment of
agricultural land into forests and increased demand for timber products and
woodfuel. The extent of the denudation is insufficiently known due to the
lack of a forest inventory. To halt further environmental damage it is
necessary to: (i) carry out a forest resource inventory; (ii) prepare land use
plans for the indigenous forest areas and mark their boundaries; (iii) involve
local people in sustained forest resource management; and (iv) exercise
control over illegal intrusion.
2.13      Woodfuel.   A closely related issue is the increasing woodfuel
deficiency. Growing stocks are being depleted at an estimated rate of 15
million m3 p.a. with serious ecological effects. A large fuelwood development
program needs to be implemented, but this is being held back by three main
constraints, viz: (i) suitable public land, although existing, has not been



- 9 -
made available for this purpose; (ii) fuelwood plantations have had a low
commercial profitability due to various disincentives; and (iii) supporting
technical inputs have been insufficient. The challenge facing the forestry
sector is to remove these constraints and to create viable conditions for
promoting the growing of fuelwood.
2.14      Industrial Plantations.  The country's 170,000 ha of industrial
plantations under FD are being underutilized and inadequately managed.
Silvicultural treatments have been delayed, timber harvesting operations are
not well planned, only a small portion of the plantations have valid
management plans and there has been significant noncollection of timber
royalties, constituting a huge loss to GOK. Measures are needed to achieve
improved operational and financial management of the plantations.
2.15      Forest Department.  The problems in Kenya's forests have been
aggravated by FD being a weak line agency receiving limited political support.
A static budget which goes mainly to salaries and wages has left little
resources for operations and (re)investments. Forest infrastructure, notably
the forest road network, and assets are in a state of disrepair. Planning,
management and supervision systems are not functioning at normal levels and
financial accountability is inadequate.  S_nce mid-1989 FD has been operating
without a head office building. FD requires strengthening of practically all
its functions to enable it to fulfill its mandate satisfactorily.
2.16      Forestry Research and Education.  KEFRI has a program of well-
defined research priorities and a strong leadership. However, it lacks
appropriate research facilities and adequately trained staff. Similarly, the
country's two forestry education institutions, KFC at the technical and Noi
University at the professional level, lack adequate teaching facilities and
their staff needs to be strengthened in numbers and quality.
2.17      Inter-agency Coordination and Forest Policy.  The multiplicity of
agencies involved in forestry activities has resulted in overlapping mandates,
poor coordination, and suboptimal allocation of scarce resources. Forest
Policy and principal forestry legislation date back over 20 years and are
obsolete. A new subsector policy is urgently needed to redefine the mandates
of the various agencies active in the subsector, and to respond to the changed
priorities. The large number of poorly coordinated activities by many
external donors also aggravates the fragmentation. A subsectorwide,
collective planning effort is needed as part of the policy formulation
process.
C. Linkages with Key Socio-Economic Areas
2.18      Land Utilization.  As pointed out in para. 1.08, one of the major
constraints to agricultural development is the shortage of arable land and its
inefficient utilization. Forestry competes with crop production and livestock
for utilization of high and medium potential land. The Government has
recognized that there is a need to review land use patterns in order to
promote measures which will lead to effective land use. The Sixth Plan re-
issued a call to establish an independent Land Commission to address such
issues. In the meantime, a joint study by GOK, the Bank and Danida



- 10 -
investigated reasons for inefficiencies of land use and recommended remedies
through: intensification of farming and livestock production systems, speeding
up of the land registration snd adjudication process and improving extension
services. These improvements would ease the pressure on forestry land. In
addition, the Forestry Master Plan (para. 3.44) would carry out land use plans
for the main foz-est areas.
2.19      Population.  Population pressure is the main cause of deforestation
in Kenya, which has one of the world's highest population growth rates. In
recent years, however, there are encouraging signs of progress in the
effectiveness of the Government's population program. Data from the 1989
Kenya Demographic and Health Survey suggest that there has recently been a
significant decline in the desired family size and an increase in the
proportion of married women who wish to have fewer children. Moreover, the
total fertility rate has fallen from 7.7 in 1984 to 6.7. IDA has supported
the Government's population program in three completed operations and has
launched the fourth population project in conjunction with other donors. One
fo the benefits of the project would be the easing of population pressures on
the environment.
2.20      Household Energy.  Woodfuel resources supplied 76 percent of total
energy used in 1984. Over 90 percent of all households use woodfuel and other
biomass fuels for their domestic needs. Of total wood and other biomass fuel
consumption, roughly one third is in the form of charcoal, used mainly in
urban households. Without intervention, the deficit between sustainable
supply and demand for fuelwood is projected to increase from its 1985 level of
about 11 million cubic meters to 32 million cubic meters in the year 20003/.
The imbalance is estimated to lead to a loss of some 2.7 million ha of
savannah woodland or 450,000 ha of closed high forest by 2000. To cope with
this problem, the government is considering a combination of supply and demand
side measures including: (i) improved forestry management, (ii) removal of
price controls on charcoal, (iii) introduction of incentives to encourage
private sector investment in forestry, and (iv) increasing use of modern fuels
and more efficient woodstoves and charccal kilns. Issues relating to the
pricing aspects of household fuels will be addressed in the pricing study to
be undertaken under the IDA-financed Geothermal Development and Energy
Preinvestment Project. Under the proposed Forestry Development Project GOK
would take further measures to eliminate fuelwood pricing and related
disincentives to private tree farming.
2.21      Environment.  Kenya's environmental problems stem largely from
population pressures on its limited land resources. These environmental
pressures are imposing severe constraints on production in the country's
agricultural and livestock sectors and contributing to the destruction of
wildlife and natural habitats. Environmental problems affecting agriculture
include degradation of arable land through reduced fertility and water-holding
capacity, coupled with a reduction of dry season water resources. Soil
erosion is the main cause of arable land degradation. Increased upstream
3/     World Bank Staff Appraisal Report, Republic of Kenya -
Geothermal Development and Energy Preinvestment Project,
December 2, 1988



- 11 -
offtake of water and reduced replenishment of ground water are the direct
consequence of changes in forest cover. The Government is fully committed to
policies and strategies of sound environmental management and human
settlements. There is now a need to translate broad environmental concern
into specific action plans which can better define concrete policy measures
and investment priorities to support the rehabilitation and preservation of
Kenya's fragile environment. To this end, the Government intends to prepare a
National Environment Program to be completed over the next two years. While
this work is underway, there are three environmental priority areas where
policy and investment needs are particularly urgent: forestry, arid and semi-
arid lands and the wildlife sector.
D. Government Subsector Development Obiectives and Strategy
2.22      The Sixth Five-Year Plan states that forestry will play a vital
role in striking a balance between the nation's development needs and
protection of the environment. It states that the Government's goals in
forestry are: continued promotion of farm forestry and re-afforestation,
effective management of exploitable forests, and conservation of ecologically
and genetically important forest areas. Particular emphasis is given to
initiating protection of vegetative cover and afforestation in the ASAL areas.
The strategies to attain these objectives include: (a) completion of forest
inventories and forest cover monitoring; (b) intensification of rural
afforestation by decentralizing and expanding the Chief's Nurseries Program to
cover all locations; and (c) increasing manpower training in forestry.
Pending the completion of the comprehensive plans mentioned in para. 2.21, the
Government has, in consultation with external donors, set three priority areas
for intervention at this stage: first, the rehabilitation and strengthening
of the institutional base for forest conservation and management; second, the
implementation of a realistic physical program covering the whole forestry
subsector; and thirdly, preparation of a program to address broader land
resource conservation and management issues.
S. Past Bank Group Experience with Forestry Proiect'
2.23      Projects and Reports.  The Bank has supported forestry development
in Kenya over the past 20 years (1969-89) through three consecutive forestry
projects. The aggregate of the approved loans and credits is US$60.1 million,
of which only US$47.2 million were actually used. Forestry I (Ln. 641) was
purely an operation of industrial plantation forestry in a geographically
limited area. The follow-on Forestry II Project (Cr. 565/Ln. 1132) was
likewise oriented toward industrial plantations but over a wide area; it was
also aimed at improving forestry infrastructure, institution building, and
vital studies needed for subsectoral planning. Forestry III(Cr.1213/Ln.2098),
cofinanced with the Swiss and Italian Governments, was conceived as a
countrywide project with continuing emphasis on industrial plantations but
also a new focus on FD's Rural Afforestation Extension Service (RAES), forest
infrastructure, and institutional support to FD. Also, since 1969, the IFC
has approved a total of US$86 million for loans and equity commitments for
pulp and paper production.



- 12 -
2.24      Project Completion Reports and Project Performance Audit Reports
are available for Forestry I and II. A Special Impact Evaluation Report on
these two projects was finalized in 1983. During September 1986-February
1988, the Bank jointly with various donor agencies prepared   detailed
forestry subsector review for Kenya. A PCR on Forestry III is being prepared.
2.25      Overall Experience.  The First Forestry Project was quite
successful in terms of physical achievements but failed to address the basic
issue of cost recovery. The Second Project suffered from poor management,
inadequate record-keeping, and substantial cost overruns coupled with
declining labor productivity which reduced profitability. It also failed to
carry out vital studies, such as the land use survey. The Third Project has
been relatively successful in plantation establishment, although the level of
accomplishment appears to have declined in its later years. The project has
been able to increase stumpage rates to nominal cost recovery levels but a
large proportion of royalty revenues remain forgone because of lax timber
assessment and collection and a high degree of evasion. Labor productivity
has not improved; performance of the other project components has been
disappointing: plantation maintenance has continuously remained below
targets; access to the plantations was poor because roads were not
rehabilitated and maintained; RAES failed to undertake a planned pilot
extension project; the needed surveys and studies were not carried out; and
investments and non-personnel operating costs were severely curtailed due to
Government's budget constraints. Disbursements lagged due to these fiscal
limitations, the weak performance of FD and the appreciation of the US$
against the KSh. Forestry III closed at end-;989, and US$12.9 million were
canceled from the loan. An additional US$10 million of bilateral cofinancing
was also canceled.
2.26      In summary, both the Second and Third Forestry Projects failed in
their aims to improve FD's management performance, achieve more efficient
plantations operations including higher labor productivity, and increase cost
recovery. The essential precondition of sustained Government support was
missing. Corrective action, several times agreed between the Government and
the Bank, was not taken. On the positive side, the three forestry projects'
most significant impact lies in their physical accomplishment of establishing
90-100,000 ha of industrial plantations. The IFC-supported pulp and paper
mill project was successfully completed. It has maintained a high production,
has gone through several expansions and is paying dividends.
2.27      Lessons Learned.  The following are the salient lessons gained from
the Bank's involvement in the subsector: (a) To succeed, the proposed project
requires strong commitment which needs to be measured periodically against
project performance criteria; (b) a new project would have to be of moderate
size; FD's capabilities need to be built up in respect of operations planning
and management; (c) an action program needs to be agreed upon with the
Government, as part of the new project, to improve the low productivity of
FD's labor; (d) future forestry projects need to increase involvement of
private sector, NGOs and other community groups; (e) complementarity of FD and
MOA staff in forest extension is required; (f) arrangements for a suitable FD
headquarter are required for a new project to go ahead; (g) to be successful,
forestry projects require a budget structure in which a large proportion of
the total budget is allocated to investments, maintenance and nonpersonnel



- 13 -
operational expenditures; (h) to improve cost recovery in industrial
plantations, there should be incentives for FD to collect along with improved
systems of collection and royalty assessment; and (i) up-to-date forest
legislation and policy are needed to guide subsector development (para. 2.17).
F. Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.28      The Bank's experience from the implementation of three consecutive
forestry projects and the Forestry Subsector Review provide a good basis for
continuing Bank Group lending in this important subsector. By virtue of its
long presence as a partner in the development of all sectors in Kenya's
economy and its current involvement in ASAO II and Government's ASAL
Environmental Action Plan, the Bank is in a strong position to assist
Government in addressing subsectorwide issues. The primary thrust of the
proposed project would be to help Government: (a) translate into action its
commitment to natural resource management, tackling subsector issues related
to conservation and environmental protection; (b) streamline the process of
forest policy planning and legislation; and (c) achieve a better use of
available resources, including coordination of donor assistance. The project
would aim at supporting many of the strategies of the ASAO process and at
bringing about desirable structural changes in the forestry subsector. The
project would be the first of a subsectorwide investment program in forestry.
IDA's involvement is important to sustain the efforts needed to support this
long-term process.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Obiectives
3.01      The objectives of the proposed project are to:
Ca)       enhance conservation and protection of indigenous forest
resources as well as of soil and water on forest, farm and
range land;
(b)       alleviate the accelerating fuelwood deficiency;
(c)       improve the efficiency and financial viability of timber
production; and
(d)       establish a framework for the subsector's long-term
development.
3.02      To attain its objectives the project would employ the following
strategies: (i) clarification of the role of the institutions concerned in
forestry development and improved cooperation among them; (ii) strengthening
of the planning and implementation capacity of the public sector institutions
in forestry; (iii) preparation of land use plans for rational use of forest
land; (iv) improvement of forestry infrastructure, forestry research, and
forestry extension services; (v) greater farmer, NGO and private sector



- 14 -
participation aimed at more fuelwood and timber production, as well as at
improved conservation practices, in the forestry subsector; (vi) improvement
of the forestry data base; and (vii) updating of the Forestry Policy and
preparation of a forestry development master plan.
3.03      The project would provide support for the first phase of a forestry
development program in Kenya, firstly, through financing some urgent
investments, and secondly, by formulating a framework for the future
development of the subsector and provide donors with a long-term plan for
their assistance.
B. Summary Proiect Description
3.04      The project would finance training, institutional support, civil
works, vehicles, equipment and their operating costs over a six-year period.
Project compon-nts are detailed in paras 3.05 to 3.45 and summarized below:
(a) Farm forestry extension: strengthening the Forestry Extension
Services Division (FESD) and re-orienting its activities from
seedling production to provision of technical advice; coordination
and monitoring of existing pilot operations; and providing
intensified farm forestry extension packages in three pilot
districts;
(b)  Indigenous forest management and conservation:  strengthening
indigenous forest management and conservation; inventory and
management plans for all areas of closed indigenous forest; pilot
projects to provide models for participatory management of
threatened indigenous forest areas of high ecological importance;
and rehabilitating and maintaining forest roads.
(c)  Industrial llantations development: improving the management and
profitability of industrial plantations; replanting of 19,800 ha
and new planting of 3,500 ha with commercial species; preparing a
framework to promote private sector involvement in commercial
forestry; and rehabilitation of forest roads and their maintenance;
(d) Strengthening of FD's central functions: improving FD's technical
and management capacity; arrangements for FD vehicle fleet
management; and studies and measures to improve FD labor
productivity;
(e)  Forestry education - RFC Londiani: improving teacher quality and
facilities; and developing curricula and reorienting KFC programs
towards extension/farm forestry and forest management;
(f) Forest research - KEFRI: improving research facilities and
upgrading staff proficiency; and
(g)  Forestry Master Plan: determination of subsector development
targets and a long-term action plan, including studies and zurveys;



- 15 -
support to Forest Policy formulation, and preparation of investment
projects for implementation of the plan.
C. Detailed Proiect Features 4/
(a)  Farm Forestry Extension  (US$5.3m)
3.05      Objectives.  The component would aim at strengthening the FESD and
re-orienting its activities from direct seedling production to provision of
technical advice on establishment, management and conservation of trees on
farms to smallholder farmers and various target groups, including NGOs,
schools and women's groups, emphasizing FESD's extension role as complementary
to front-line extension by MOA. It would also aim to evaluate and consolidate
the experience from about ten forestry extension pilot operations currently
under implementation with support from several donors, as well as to
coordinate with NGOs involved in farm forestry. The component would use this
experience to provide intensified farm forestry exten ion packages in three
new pilot districts, in order to increase farm tree planting and production of
tree products in these districts and also to develop farm forestry approaches
which could be adopted in other areas. The component, which would be a
continuation and expansion of the ongoing (until mid-1992), SDC-funded Rural
Tree Development Support Project (RTDS), would comprise the following four
main activities:
3.06      Strengtheninrg of FESD Headquarters.  The project would increase
FESD HQ's present staff of 10 to 14 full-time positions, including a Deputy
Chief and five graduate Branch Heads. One new branch, the Extension
Monitoring Branch, would be established. All staff would be given training in
the specialist fields to be covered by their respective branches (84
man-mont.Ls of in-country training and 18 man-months for specialist courses
abroad).
3.07      The project would also provide 12 man-years of internationally
recruited technical assistance (three advisory positions) in farm forestry
extension and agroforestry, monitoring and evaluation, and training. Detailed
terms of reference are given in Annex 9, Appendix 4. The recruitment would be
coordinated with the provision of Advisors under the ongoing SDC-funded RTDS
project. The project would also finance three vehicles and special equipment
for the preparation and present3tion of extension messages.
3.08      Coordination and Monitoring of Existing Pilot Operations.  The
strengthened FESD HQ would intensify coordination and monitoring of about ten
donor-supported pilot schemes in farm forestry extension whicb are ongoing or
about to be implemented in various parts of the country. The component would:
(i) train field extension staff where this is not adequately covered in the
pilot schemes; (ii) develop a standard monitoring system to be applied to the
pilot schemes, and intensify supervision from FESD HQ; and (iii) develop a
mechanism for regular information exchange between the pilot schemes including
4/     All financial amounts in this section are expressed as base
costs.



- 16 -
the new pilot districts (para. 3.10), and FESD HQ. The project would also aim
at tying significant NGO farm forestry activities into this monitoring system.
3.09      Intensified Forest Extension in Three New Pilot Districts.  Support
would be provided to FESD field activities in initially two new pilot
districts, Kakamega and Laikipia, followed by a third district, Samburu, in
the third project year. The 15 new divisions to be covered vary in
agro-climatic and ethnographic zones ranging from high potential, densely
populated areas in the Humid Highlands to low potential, sparsely populated
arid zones, thereby allowing staff to develop different forms of farm forestry
interventions. The impact of interventions would be closely monitored.
3.10      The following training would be provided:  (a) intensive short-term
courses in extension forestry would be given for all FESD field staff from the
pilot areas at district and division levels at two occasions, and for
extension officers from the other areas at one occasion, totalling 235
man-months of training, together with 84 man-months for local consultants to
assist in teaching; (b) starting in the third year, 20 candidates would be
sent annually to undergo the new one-year extension forestry diploma course at
KFC Londiani (para. 3.38), with priority initially given to officers from the
pilot areas; (c) about 2,150 subordinal.e level FESD field staff would be
trained to assist in establishing and running chiefs' and various group
nurseries. This would be a key measure for implementing the strategy of
reducing the FESD divisional nurseries and decentralizing them (para. 3.11).
Staff from the pilot districts would be given priority in the early years; (d)
bi-weekly two-day seminars on farm forestry in each pilot division would, over
the project's lifetime, give over 3,000 man-months of training to 30,000
leaders from NGOs and other groups; (e) to orient MOA extension workers at
all levels regarding the role of trees in farming systems and the role of FESD
in supporting MOA extension, about 250 man-months of short training courses
would be arranged for 525 MOA front-line extension staff, i.e., Technical
Assistants (TAs) and Officers (TOs), in the three pilot districts, 150
man-months for TAs and TOs from nonpilot districts (para. 3.12), and 58
man-months of training for higher level MOA staff mainly from the pilot
districts; and (f) for farm forestry to receive full institutional support
from other government agencies, a total of 34 man-months of workshops would be
arranged for local officials in the pilot areas.
3.11      Seedling production in the existing pilot district divisional
nurseries of FESD would be cut back while increased support would be given at
location and sublocation levels to chiefs' nurseries and the establishment of
NGO, group and private individual nurseries, with concurrent reassignment of
permanent FESD nursery labor from the divisional nurseries to the locational
level. The project would provide materials for the establishment or
improvement and the operation of 15 divisional nurseries, about 430 chiefs',
NGO and other group nurseries, and for the operation of some 1500 individual
farmer nurseries. Prices for seedlings from the latter would be increased
considerably to reduce the present heavy subsidy on FEsD seedlings and
.- ourage the establishment of non-FESD nurseries (para. 5.20). The project
vu.ald also finance 15 office buildings and 15 houses, as well as six vehicles
and 12 motorcycles for the 15 divisions. All FESD and nongovernment
investment and extension activities, and achievements, would be tightly
monitored according to an M&E system to be designed and operated by the FESD



- 17 -
HQ Extension Monitoring branch by the second project year following a set of
baseline surveys in the pilot divisions.
3.12      SuRport to Nationwide Forestry Extension.  Outside the pilot areas,
the project would provide a limited program of in-service training in forestry
extension for FESD field staff, and to MOA extension staff. About 200 FESD
nurseries outside the pilot districts would continue to receive material
support for seedling production as in the past. As these nurseries become
scaled down and decentralized, an increasing share of the material support
would be distributed to group and farmer nurseries. Seedling prices in FESD
nurseries should follow the pricing principles applied in the pilot districts.
(b) Indigenous Forest Management and Conservation (US$23.9 m)
3.13      Objectives.  The component would aim at strengthening FD's Natural
Forest Management Division (NFMD). It would also aim at generating an
up-to-date information base on indigenous forests to form the basis for
planning and policy making. Pilot schemes would be carried out to find ways
of providing for human needs, while maintaining indigenous forest habitat and
cover. The component would comprise the four principal activities:
3.14      Strengthening of Indigenous Forest Management and Conservation.
The major thrust would be manpower development and the improvement of NPMD's
field facilities. Six Assistant Chief Foresters (Conservation) would be
employed in years 3 and 4 of the project and deployed to those districts with
large indigenous forests. The project would also provide in-service training
in indigenous forest management and conservation for NFMD field staff as
follows: (a) 16 man-months of management coursework overseas for four
professional officers; (b) 2-month refresher courses on their basic duties at
KFC Londiani for 60 professional and technical field staff; (c) similar
short-term training for 120 neadmen; and (d) training for 750
Conservation/Forest Guards, in their new responsibilities.  These fornerly
forest guards would have broadened functions including facilitation and
support roles in respect of interacting with local people, liaising with FESD
staff, and data collection. The project would recruit a technical officer to
conduct for the conservation guards a series of training courses during the
first three years. His terms of reference are given in Annex 9, Appendix 4.
Two local Conservation Tutors, who would be provided training abroad for this
task, would take over from him after three years.
3.15      The project would finance 31 new vehicles and ten trailers, as well
as the rehabilitation of 44 vehicles (landrovers and tractors), and their
operation and maintenance to meet NFMD's transportation requirements in the
field. Other investment items would include the renovation of forest station
buildings, and tools, equipment and materials needed at the stations.
3.16      Operations in Indigenous Forests.  This component supports
operations to initiate the process of rerenerating or enriching degraded
indigenous forests. 330 km of forest roads in priority areas wo4ld be
rehabilitated by contract and 130 km by force account; no construction of new
roads is foreseen. (Roads rehabilitation for industrial plantations is
described in para. 3.25. Annex 7 Table 3 shows a summary of the entire roads
program.) Road maintenance works would comprise a total of 960 km, one third



- 18 -
by contract and two thirds by force account by FD's restructured road units.
The project would finance the repairs of eight graders and their cost of
operation. It would provide equipment for the .pographical survey and
permanent demarcation of all forest boundaries in Gazetted and Ungazetted
F3rest Reserves, and boundary planting near villages where encroachment is
likely. 250 new conservation posts (office and housing for forest guards)
would be constructed. Funding would be made available for tools and equipment
needed for the rehabilitation or construction of firebreaks and game moats,
the latter in indigenous forest adjacent to commercial plantations. The
project would undertake a limited amount of regeneration in denuded or heavily
exploited natural forests by providing funds for replanting 2,700 ha and
enrichment planting over 2,700 ha mainly with indigenous species with
commercial value. KEFRI would be consulted on the selection of species.
Eight additional assistant forest officers would be recruited to implement
these forest operations.
3.17      Inventory and Management Plans for Indigenous Forests.  The
national inventory component would undertake ecological, hydrological, timber,
nontimber and socioeconomic studies in all the closed indigenous forest areas.
Scattered information already exists on some ecological, hydrological and
social questions. This would be synthesized to identify gaps in knowledge
and, together with the reconnaissance surveys and mapping from satellite
imagery, would be used to determine initial conservation priorities and plan
the national inventory program. The timber inventory program would not
proceed until the reconnaissance phase has been completed. Forests identified
at the reconnaissance survey to be of high conservation priority would not be
subject to timber inventory. In the event that detailed ecological inventory
suggests that the priority accorded at the reconnaissance stage was mistaken,
timber inventory of such forests may be included at the end of the program.
The project would provide aerial photo and satellite coverage over the
inventory area, estimated to be about 1.5 million ha. (The area of actual
timber volume inventory would encompass only 0.4-0.5 million ha of this.) A
proportion of the sample plots would be established as permanent plots.
Provision would be made for 44 man-years of expatriate and local consultants
with expertise in forest inventory, ecology, sociology and nonwood forest
products, as well as land use planning. A land use planner/economist/human
ecologist would be the team leader. The terms of reference for the inventory
experts are set out in Annex 8, appendix 2. Provision would also be made for
60 incremental local staff, to be temporarily attached to FD's Inventory
Section during this operation, and for 27 man-months to special technical
training mostly abroad. The project would finance the purchase of 21
vehicles, office and field equipment, and all necessary operational costs for
the inventory.
3.18      In addition to the inventories, the main outputs would be
conservation priorities, including the identification of bio-diversity
reserves, and forest management recommendations for incorporation into the
Forestry Master Plan (para 3.44). Close coordination with the Master Plan
component would be necessary throughout. GOK would ensure the agreed
recommendations from the inventories are fully incorporated in the Master
Plan. The project would also support the installation of a computerized
national forest monitoring system. It is proposed to locate this in the
Department of resource Surveys and Remote Sensing (DRSRS) in Nairobi. The



- 19 -
inventory of the indigenous forests would be coordinated with the ongoing,
NZDA/FAO-UNDP assisted inventory of industrial plantations.
3.19      Pilot Schemes.  The pilot project component would be implemented in
three threatened areas of ecological importance: Arabuko-Sokoke, Kakamega,
and Mau.  The project would provide immediate logistical and financial support
to the FD and Kenya Wildlife Services (KWS) in order to improve operational
effectiveness. Detailed inventory work, additional management and project
design studies, and consultation activities wouli be completed in the first
six months of the project, with the main output being an agreed project
proposal for ODA/GOK appraisal in month 9. Specific activities to be
undertaken during the design phase, for which funding for about 70 man-months
of expatriate and local consultancies has already been agreed with ODA, would
include:
(i)  consultation with local people, NGOs, District governments, Forest
Department, Kenya Wildlife Services, Ministry of Agriculture, and
Ministry of Lands and Settlement;
(ii) detailed ecological, timber, and nontimber inventories;
(iii) socioeconomic studies to identify the current importance of the
forest for local people, the nature of local pressures and
conflicts, and ways of minimizing the social costs of conservation;
(iv) applied research into sustainable extraction and forest
regeneration;
(v)  design studies covering extension forestry, forest zoning and
management, plantations, education, training, and institutional
development;
(vi) in the Mau only, design studies covering Okiek resettlement,
settler assistance requirements, and the future of hunting and
gathering within the reserves.
The second phase of the pilot projects is expected to start in year 2; ODA
would provide additional funds on the basis of the design agreed with GOK
during year 1. This project would follow a process approach, and would aim to
develop a cost-effective and replicable model for indigenous forest
conservation in Kenya. An important prerequisite for success will be a
greater emphasis on meeting the needs of local people--thus reducing the
demands on the forest-- and on finding a balance between participatory and
protectionist approaches to conservation.



- 20 -
(c) Industrial Plantations Development (US$17.9m)
3.20      Objectives.  The component would aim at maintaining a sufficient
supply of industrial timber for the country's future needs and at reducing the
pressure on the indigenous forests. Emphasis would be on the improvement of
management and protection of the existing plantations, as well as on timely
and successful replanting after clear felling, rather than on expansion. The
component would consist of the four following main activities:
3.21      Strengthening of FD's Plantation Establishment and Maintenance
Capacity.   The focus would be on IFD manpower development and rehabilitation
of field facilities. The project would provide in-service training in
plantation management, planning and operations of IFD field staff, as follows:
an equivalent of 12.5 man-years of intensive refresher courses in general
management and forest management at KFC Londiani for about 200 professional
and technical officers; 30 man-months of training in fire protection for 60
staff (para 3.23); 9.5 man-years of short-term technical training in
micro-computer skills and FD documentation, reporting and procedures for
150-200 trainees; 16.5 man-years for short-term training of 400 forest guards;
and 4.5 man-years for short-term courses for headmen.   The project would also
provide 3.5 man-years of technical assistance as part of an overall management
package (para. 3.33).
3.22      The project would finance the acquisition of 53 new vehicles, 15
standard trailers and ten tanker trailers, as well as the rehabilitation of 42
vehicles and their operation and maintenance to meet IFD's transportation
needs in the field. Provisions would also be made to renovate some forest
station buildings and construct 50 new forest guard posts to accommodate 100
guards. Other investment items would include basic survey and mensuration
equipment for forest stations needed for planning and supervision work.
3.23      The project would rehabilitate and upgrade the fire protection
system by financing the construction of 50 fire towers, three fully equipped
fire tenders with tanks, three pick-ups, fire fighting equipment and two
man-months of technical assistance from a forest fire expert and training for
60 staff in fire fighting techniques. Provision would also be made to repair
25 existing radio sets and replace 55 old sets to set up an efficient radio
communication network in fire prone areas; this network would cover the bulk
of the plantation areas and would also serve the communication needs of
general management and supervision. A short-term consultant would be provided
for two months to help install the new communication equipment and oversee the
repair of existing equipment. These provisions would also cover fire
protection in indigenous forests.
3.24      Operations in Plantation Forest.  Funding would be provided for
tools, equipment and supplies, including nursery materials, for (i) the
replar.ting of 3,300 ha annually of clear felled areas (1000 ha of pine and
cypress for saw logs, 1300 ha of pine and cypress for pulpwood, and 1000 ha of
eucalyptus for poles); (ii) new planting of 700 ha annually during project
years 2-6 (500 ha of pine and cypress, and 200 ha of eucalyptus), and (iii)
silvicultural maintenance operations (pruning, coppice reduction, early
thinnings, fire break clearing, game moat maintenance, etc.) over the entire
plantation estate of about 170,000 ha. The area of replanting and new



- 21 -
planting under the project would total 23,300 ha and all of this would be
established with commercial species. Provision would also be made by the
project for the use of casuals mostly in the sawlog and eucalyptus pole
working circles, especially during the peak planting and tending periods.
Part of the establishment and early maintenance work (about one third) would
be expected to be carried out by the private sector through the Harambee-type
contributions (para. 3.27).
3.25      The project would also rehabilitate about 1,680 km of forest roads
in priority areas in the plantations, 1,050 km by contract and 630 km by force
account. An additional 200 km would be rehabilitated by Pan-African Paper
Mills (PPM) in the pulpwood working circle. Road maintenance would be carried
out over a total of 3,200 km, one fourth by contract and three fourths by two
FD road units. No construction of new roads is foreseen. The project would
finance 7 new vehicles and 4 tipping trailers, as well as the rehabilitation
of 18 vehicles, and their operations and maintenance costs. These vehicles
would be placed under the two FD road units to be restructured at Londiani and
Nyeri (para. 4.08). Provision would also be made for tools, equipment,
materials and supplies needed by the road units for the force account portion
of these works. In addition, the project would fund vocational training,
totalling 27 man-months, for all machinery operators and 10 man-months of
technical and management training to higher level road unit staff.
3.26      Funds would be included for the acquisition of some special
equipment and improved tools to be used in work method trials in connection
with a work study investigation. The investigation, which would be part of
the FMP component, would aim at improving the presently low productivity of
FD's permanently employed labor.
3.27      Commercial Sector Involvement.  There is a need to involve the
commercial sector to participate in the establishment and management of
industrial plantations on a long-term basis. Recently, the FD has cooperated
successfully with private sawmillers in maintenance of industrial plantations.
At negotiations, the Government agreed to prepare a framework to encourage
private sector involvement in industrial forestry by the mid-term review (para
4.13). This issue would also be explored under the Forestry Master Plan
(para. 3.44).
3.28      Efforts toward Increasing Revenues from Industrial Plantations.
The project would strengthen the system of royalty collection. While stumpage
rates have been raised to levels roughly in line with replacement costs,
actual collection of royalties has decreased to a present low level of about
or below 40 percent of the value of commercial timber removed. The project
would strengthen the Forest Inventory Section to assess compartments earmarked
for felling and to extend the practice of standing volume assessment to all
districts with industrial plantations. The number of assessment teams would
be increased from six to eleven and the position of a Supervisor of Royalty
Assessment added to intensify the supervision of the teams; for this purpose
13 incremental positions would be established and filled by retrained FD staff
by mid-1991. Funds would also be included for the purchase of 13 vehicles



- 22 -
S/ plus their operation and maintenance, and computing and field equipment
to render the teams fully functional and improve the Section's data processing
speed. With these measures it is expected that royalty collection would
improve rapidly (para. 5.17 (b)).
3.29      FD would introduce separate accounting for IFD's operations from
those of the rest of the Department by June 30, 1991; assurances to this
effect were obtained from GOK at negotiations. The PPF includes 6 man-months
for the services of an accountant to initiate this process (para. 3.54).   In
addition, FD would complete a review of the method of royalty assessment and
introduce improved methods for the determination of stumpage rates by
September 30, 1991 (para. 5.16).
3.30      The ongoing inventory of the industrial plantations (para. 3.19) is
crucial for providing the data base required for the improved management of
the plantations and as inputs in the FMP component. To accelerate the
inventory, the project would provide under the PPF the acquisition of a
stereoplotter system and of a vehicle to be used for monitoring the work of
field inventory teams.
(d) Strengthening of FD's Central Functions (US$8.4 m 6/)
3.31      Objectives.  This component is designed to help FD to put in place
staff and management structures to administer its field organization and serve
the forestry subsector more efficiently within a reoriented spectrum of
activities. In particular, the institutional strengthening activities would
improve FD's technical and management skills, capacity in planning, policy
formulation, as well as of implementation, supervision and monitoring. The
component would also assist FD senior staff in redefining the Department's
role and responsibilities in relation to the private sector.
3.32      Strengthening of PD Headquarter Functions.  Considerable support
would be given to in-service training of HQ professional staff. This would
comprise both management and technical specialist training and range from
short-term workshops to postgraduate studies. Provision would also be made to
cover the costs of regular management meetings of the Project Implementation
Team (PIT). Altogether some 50 man-months of domestic training and 7
man-years of overseas training would be financed. Management training would
center on enhancing the skills of FD key officials at HQ and provincial levels
in the preparation and use of up-to-date steering methods, such as Annual Work
Plan, reporting and M&E systems (paras. 4.11 and 4.12).
3.33      A team of six long-term specialists would assist PIT with important
management and operational tasks (para. 4.04). The team would consist of a
specialist in project management planning/M&E (team leader), forest
engineering (para. 3.35), procurement, financial control, industrial
plantations management and training (Annex 9 Appendices 1 and 2). Terms of
5/   One vehicle tu be procured under the PPF.
6/   Costs in relation to institutional strengthening not included in the
other project components.



- 23 -
reference are given in Annex 9, Appendix 4. The majority of these specialists
would be recruited from an overseas organization that is successfully
operating similar large-scale production forests as in Kenya and is also
experienced in conservation forestry. Working with their counterparts, the
specialists would stay with the project until after the mid-term review, i.e.,
about 3 1/2 years. In addition, 26 man-months would be provided for
short-term consultancies, including a consultancy for a Labor Profile Study
(para. 3.36).
3.34      The project would finance the acquisition of ten new vehicles for
HQ needs, and their operation and maintenance. As HQ offices and staff are at
present dispersed among several separate office blocks in Nairobi, MENR/FD
needs to acquire a central HQ office without which the project as well as
other FD operations could not be run efficiently. The FD has received
budgetary allocations from the Ministry of Finance to finance the construction
of an office building which is expected to be completed in three years. In
the meantime, the project would finance under a PPF temporary prefabricated
offices so that the FD could become fully operational and start implementing
the project. As a condition of effectiveness, GOK would submit evidence
satisfactory to IDA showing that adequate offices for FD have been
constructed. The project would also finance office equipment, furniture and
supplies, nine man-months of specialist expertise in modern office design and
procurement, and the installation of a new radio-communications network
linking FD's HQ with 19 selected field offices/stations.
3.35      Strengthening of FD Road Development and Transport Functions.  An
Engineering Unit would be established at HQ to plan and supervise matters
related to FD roads and transport and to take responsibility for the
maintenance of FD's fleet of plant and vehicles, including the arrangements
and supervision of contracted work (para. 4.08). The project would fund the
emoluments of a senior mechanical engineer as a new position in the unit. The
project would also finance the services of a forest engineering specialist as
part of the management support package to HQ (para. 4.04). Provision would be
made for the training of all staff of the Engineering Unit at HQ and at the
unit's three repair workshops, as well as the operators/drivers of FD's entire
fleet of vehicles, totalling 19 man-months of professional and technical level
training and 34.5 man-years of vocational training. 7/ The project would
provide five new vehicles for the Engineering Unit, and improvement of
workshop facilities and the acquisition of repair and service tools and
equipment for the three workshops.
3.36      Heasures to Improve Labor Productivity.  Throughout the project, FD
would endeavor to improve the productivity of its permanently employed labor
which has been an unresolved, serious issue in previous projects (Annex 6,
para. 7, and para. 2.22). Significantly improved FD labor productivity is a
key objective and is implied in this component's economic rate of return
(para. 6.11). At negotiations, GOK agreed that a monitorable action plan to
improve labor productivity would be submitted to IDA by June 30, 1991 and that
implementation would commence by September 30, 1991.   To provide the basic
7/   This excludes training of the staff in the two road units which is
included in industrial plantations operations (para. 3.29).



- 24 -
data for such a plan, a study of the productivity and profile of the labor
force would be completed as a condition of effectiveness.
(e) Forestry Education - Kenya Forestry College Londiani (KFC) (US$1.7 m)
3.37      Objectives.  Pending the results of the forestry subsector manpower
demand study which would be one of the input studies of the FMP (Annex 7,
Chart 2), this component would, as an interim measure, redress some of the
more obvious deficiencies in pre-service forestry education at the technical
level. It would assist in reorienting KFC programs in various new directions,
such as extension/farm forestry and modern management of plantation and
indigenous forests, to meet the needs of a changing forestry subsector. It
would also aim at improving teacher proficiency and reducing teacher turnover.
It would be complementary to current GTZ support.
3.38      Development Support.  In-service training of KFC teachers would be
provided in the form of ten M.Sc. fellowships and two B.Sc. fellowships,
pedagogic short-term training for eight staff, and special subject short-term
courses for ten staff, totalling 30.5 man-years, of which 12.5 man-years would
be overseas. The project would also finance six months of technical
assistance by a senior forestry educationist to assist with curricula
development early in the project; terms of reference are given in Annex 8,
Appendix 2. There would be provision for seven new staff houses to improve
teachers' living conditions. The project would fund three new vehicles and
the reconditioning of five existing vehicles for student and staff
transportation, as well as the costs of their operation and maintenance. It
would also provide additional field teaching equipment to be purchased.
3.39      The project would finance the refurbishment of the existing
dormitories, which at a later time could be available for vocational training
of FD subordinate staff. Funds would also be included for the construction of
a senior staff hostel as accommodation for professional and technical staff
mainly from FD, attending in-service training courses under the project (para.
4.09).
(f) Forest Research - Kenya Forestry Research Institute (KEFRI)
(US$8.6m)
3.40      Obiectives.  This component would assist KEFRI in the successful
implementation of its long-term Strategic Plan 2000 which aims at servicing a
number of clients in addition to FD, including wood-based industries, NGOs and
farmers undertaking tree planting. The component, which would focus on
improving research facilities and upgrading staff proficiency, would be the
first phase of a longer process of developing KEFRI's capacity for research
and dissemination. The project would assist the institute to branch out into
new priority research areas, such as the conservation and management of
natural forest ecosystems, the protective function of trees in soil and water
conservation, energy production from wood, and farm forestry utilization,
including related social and economic issues.
3.41      Improvement of Research Facilities.  The project vauld improve and
expand office, laboratory, greenhouse, and other facilities and staff housing
at KEFRI HQ at Muguga, the Forest Products Research Section at Karura, two



- 25 -
National Forest Research Stations at Gede and Turbo, and two Field Research
Centers at Kibwezi in the ASAL and Londiani. About 1600 m2 of additional
workspace in new buildings would be created, and four new resthouses and about
100 new staff dwellings built, as well as 24 houses renovated. Provision
would be made for furniture in the new office space and resthouses, for field,
laberatory and office equipment, including computers, an equipment repair
workshop, as well as additions to the library and publication facilities.
Staff mobility would be ensured by financing the purchase of 38 new vehicles
and 12 motorcycles, the reconditioning of 15 existing vehicles, their
operation and maintenance cost, and the construction of garage space and two
vehicle repair workshops.
3.42      Uptrading of Staff Proficiency.  The project would assist KEPRI in
the training of its expanding staff both in the form of formal degree training
and shorter in-service courses. Overseas fellowships for Ph.D and M.Sc. (73
man-years) and Diploma training abroad (60 man-months) and in Kenya (13
man-months) would be provided, benefitting 40 suitable staff. Provision would
further be made for short courses (23 man-years of which over 90 percent would
be local) for most professional and technical staff. These courses would
range from general subjects, such as research methods, statistics and computer
technology, to selected specialty subjects and dovetail with technical
assistance (4.5 man-years) which would be in the form of seven advisory
consultancies in priority fields of research and research support disciplines;
terms of reference for the only long-term consultancy are given in Annex 9,
Appendix 4.
(g) Forestry Subsector Haster Plan (FMP) (US$5.3 m)
3.43      Background and Obiectives.  The recent Forestry Subsector Review
has identified the critical subsector issues and indicated the nature of its
required re-direction. The next step would be to formulate a development
framework with quantified targets and clearly defined investment projects.
The definition of long-term development parameters for the subsector would be
the primary goal of the FMP. In particular, the FMP component would help: (a)
formulate a long-term development strategy and establish targets, (b) prepare
an action plan with development and institutional support programs, and (c)
prepare investment projects for the implementation ef the plan. The forestry
master planning process would aim at providing inputs for the resolution of
difficult sector issues and the formulation of an up-to-date national Forestry
Policy (para. 3.45).
3.44      Contents of FHP.  The FMP would be essentially an in-country
exercise of three years' duration involving all agencies, both public and
private sector including NGOs, active in forestry and the agriculture/rural
sector, as well as interested external donors. In addition to inter-agency
coordination, there would be heavy emphasis on: (i) improvement of the
subsector's data base including a number of studies as a basis for decision
making; (ii) development and installation of planning systems, and training
in their use; (iii) training in various subject matters through workshops,
seminars, course work and scholarships; and (iv) District-level forestry
development. Approximately 25 man-years of international and local
consultants would be required during the preparation of the plan. The
component would also provide for the transport and office accommodation and



- 26 -
equipment. The FMP process would commence in November 1990 and is scheduled
to be finalized in the first half of 1993. By late 1993, detailed preparation
would be completed for a series of projects. An implementation schedule for
the FMP component is given in Annex 7, Chart 2.
3.45                Forest Policy.   The Project Steering Committee (para. 4.02),
assisted by its secretariat, would prepare an up-to-daLe Forest Policy
Framework, in consultation with IDA, by July 31, 1991. After the FMP is
completed, the committee would then develop the Policy Framework into a full
Forest Policy Statement and adopt it as the country's Forest Policy by
mid-1993; assurances to this effect were obtained from Government at
negotiations.
D. Prolect Costs
3.46                 Total project costs during the six-year investment period,
inclusive of taxes and duties, are estimated at KSh 1,939 million (US$ 83.8
million) with a foreign exchange component of 50 percent. Taxes and duties
are estimated at KSh 237 million (US$ 10.3 million). Thus project cost net of
taxes is estimated at KSh 1,702 million (US$ 73.5 million). Detailed cost
estimates are presented in Annex 2 and summarized in Table 1 below.
Table 1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(SHILLII4S '040                               0SS 000)
2 Total                                I Total
I Forom 0l,.                           Z Foreoig  DM
Local   ForNian    Total   rchw,  Costs  Local  Forei,n  Tot l  Ech          Costs
A. FM PlST1T
1. FESt 1mS  FIEU V   WUATImNS - *ILOt 1S8183118           8W241.?   5.101.S   13,343.6      38      1    366.3  226.7  593.1        38      1
2. s1P91 TO etft  FAlST 11U1T988                            497.6   1,9.4    2,484.0        g0      0    22.1   38.5  110.6         80      e
3. FEW ST4f ST16E1111                                     4604.3  57103.9  103-50.2          55      6  2,062.4 2.518.0 4,600.4      55      6
Stb-Totl F1 FMSRl                                            55.143.7  64,196.1  119,339.8      54      7  2,450.8 2,853.2 5,304.0      54      7
1. IDM M  FOICST MMw
1. I iSTEII    8 II FAmUST  08 840 I MS t Tl N  DIVIS1O   435g2.1  g9,221.3  332,804.0       67      8  1937.0 3,65.4 5,902.4        67      0
2. FAUSTUT WAUTITS                                         42,752.2  18,20.4  81,72.6        31      4  1M900.1   836.5 2-736.6      31      4
3. FOAST IN    ENT                                        39P995.?9.2 8.  49. O      .0      20      3  1.m.6   444.4 2,2,l          20      3
4. FAUST INJET  I A09I1  Of N-    FORM                     52,993.4  12,6W4.7  182,682.0     71    It  2,355.3 5S763.9 8119.2        71    11
5. PIlOT E0ES                                              49,06.9  61,47.1  110.484.0       56      7  2,18.8  279.7 4,910.4        56      7
SrTotal D18838193 FOW       9                               228,390.4  309,146.2  537.526.6     53    34 10-150.7 13,739.8 23.890.5     5S    34
C. nu913  LMIATIU
I. 9. 0          MSIIITWU 89ca818 TIT    T                19,746.0  61,846.8  141,554.8      44      9  3-544.3 2.747.1 6,M.3        44      9
2. IETAUINT OF m8TIOf MMn                                  2,492.3   4,879.7    7.372.0      66      0    110.8  216.9  327.6        66      0
3. m18T1111 ff EXISTIS  .mAWITAUSS nSl  PlDTEtT101        10,179.1   11,406.5   22,215.5     51      1    483.5  507.0  990.5        51      1
4. FlFT Mu3  IEIIT                                        151,574.2   55.3J7.9  206,M.1      27    13  6,736.6 2.462.1  9,198.8      27    13
5. 9184  TO f889LT _EIT WE        L A ECTI84               14.432.6   9,494.3  239M.0        40      1    641.4   422.0 1.063.4      40      1
SrTOt  UI3IETRI. PUTAT1I                                    259.124.1  142,987.2  402,111.4     36    25 11.516.6 6t3.0 17.871.6        36    25
L ET1I)T1lTN1 419UJ2
1. 8119ST1118 Of FAUST 11,T401                            59,112.5  95.407.0  154,599.5      62    10  2.06.2 4.243.9 6,t71.1        62    10
2. t9OaUES fa .1 fWI  T 10WANT ICM                         15.250.1   18,241.0  33,491.0     54      2    677.8  810.7 1,418.5       54      2
Sub-Tot4l IJSTIIMJTI  UWlltI                                 74,362.6  113,727.9  101.090.5     64    12  3.305.0 5.054.6 8,359.6       60    12
E. FORUSM  UENI                                               5U621.1  108358.2  19139.3        5      II  3,905.4 4,015.9 0-621.3      5t    12
F.  NES111.11 18n4                                           212,87.4   17,349.2   3-436.5      45      2    937.2  771.1 1.7t8.3      45      2
6. FIOUES111 9PLO.                                           t2.m.3   04,8n.3  117,652.5        n       7    567.7 4,661.3 5,229.0      89      7
TOal hLEU  1161                                               736,502.5  860,644,1 1,57.146.6    54   100 32,733.4 38250.8 70.984.3      54    100
POilcl Ctti6ga6s                                            62,874.0   59.036.5  122.510.5     49      8  2,794.4 2.650.5 5,444.9      49      8
Prei  Cmtins                                               109,243.9  110,504.7  219,748.6     50    14  3,7M2.1 3699.1 7,401.2        50    10
Total 1aCT  M5                                                908,620.4 1,030,705.2 I,3,405.7    53   121 39,229.9 44.400.5 83,030.4     53    11
T.v 2. 190M 16:37



- 27 -
3.47      Cost estimates are based on projected October 1990 prices and
reflect recent quotations and appraisal estimates. Physical contingencies of
10 percent have been applied to the base cost of capital items and operating
costs and 5 percent to that of salaries. Price contingencies, amounting to
US$7.4 million or 10 percent of total base costs, have been estimated using
the following rates of inflation per calendar year consistent with latest Bank
projections: 7.5 percent in 1991 and 5.5 percent from 1992 onward for local
currency, and 4.9 percent from 1991 onward for foreign currency.
E.  Financing
3.48      External financing of project costs would amount to US$61.0
million, or 83 percent of total project costs and would be shared as follows:
Table 2: PROPOSED PROJECT FINANCING (US$ m)
Source   Local    Taxes  Foreign  Total   X of Total       Z of Total
of     Currency  and   Exchange          Project Net    Project
Finance  Costs    Duties Costs    Costs   Taxes&Duties    Costs
IDA        7.2       -    12.7    19.9        27            24
EEC        4.1       -    11.7    15.8        21             19
ODA        4.3       -      9.4    13.7       19            16
SDC        2.3       -      3.3     5.6        8             7
FINNIDA    0.7       -      5.3     6.0        8              7
Sub-total
Foreign  18.6        -    42.4    61.0        83            73
Donors
GOK       10.3     10.3    2.2    22.8        17             27
TOTAL     28.9     10.3   44.6    83.8
3.49     The funds of all external donors would be contributed as parallel
financing. Financing of the co-financiers would be on grant terms. Project
financing by component is shown in Table 3.
3.50     GOK contribution, net of taxes and duties, is estimated at KSh 289
million (US$12.5 million equivalent), representing 17 percent of total net
project costs. In total, it would finance about 50 percent of the civil works
and 55 percent of the recurrent costs. GOK has included the project in the
Forward Budget and has made adequate budgetary allocations in its FY 1990/91
budget for the project.



- 28 -
3.51     Project start-up activities would be financed by IDA under a Project
Preparation Facility (PPF). PPF cost, which has been estimated at US$ 1.5
million and is included in the total project cost, is given in Annex 2,
Table 5.
Table 3: PROJECT FINANCING BY COMPONENT
Component                             Category          Financiers
Farm Forestry                             Investment Costs  SDC (95Z),  GOK
Operating Costs   SDC (412),  GOK
Indigenous Forest
Management:
Strengthening Forest Protection   Investment Costs  EEC (82Z),  GOK
and Conservation Div.               Operating Costs   EEC (39Z),  GOK
Forestry Operations                 Investment Costs  EEC (56Z),  GOK
Operating Costs   EEC (39%),  GOK
Forest Road Developmient            Investment Costs  EEC (502),  GOK
Operating Costs   EEC (392),  GOK
Forest Inventory & Assessment       Investment Costs  ODA
of Non-wood Products                Operating Costs   ODA (712),  GOK
Pilot Schemes                       Investment Costs  ODA
Operating Costs   ODA
Industrial Plantations                    Investment Costs  IDA (612),  GOK
Operating Costs   IDA (382),  GOK
Institution Building                      Investment Costs  IDA (892),  GOK
Operating Costs   IDA (392),  GOK
Forestry Education                        Investment Costs  EEC (802),  GOK
Operating Costs   EEC (392),  GOK
Forestry Research                         Investment Costs  EEC (772),  GOK
Operating Costs   EEC (392),  GOK
Forestry Master Plan                      Investment Costs  FINNIDA
Operating Costs   FINNIDA
F. Procurement
3.52      A Country Procurement Assessment Review was carried out for Kenya
in February, 1987. Where International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures
are used, qualified domestic manufacturers would be allowed a margin of
preference of 7.5 percent for civil works and 15 percent for goods or the
existing rate of import duties, whichever is lower, over the CIF price of
competing foreign suppliers. For Local Competitive Bidding (LCB), GOK
procedures were found to be on the whole acceptable, except for the
procurement of vehicles and hiring of, consultants where preference is given to
local firms.
3.53      Procurement arrangements for items financed by IDA are summarized
in Table 4. It is expected that 50 percent of goods and works financed by IDA
would be procured through ICB and 47 percent through LCB. Procurement by
other methods, including training and consultancies, would constitute 28
percent of total IDA financing. The proportion of ICB is low because the
project involves a large amount of rehabilitation on roads that are small and



- 29 -
scattered in remote areas and hence not attractive to international
contractors (see para. below). Procedures for ICB would follow Bank
guidelines. Procedures for LCB shall be reviewed by IDA and include public
bid opening, clear evaluation criteria, local advertising and award shall be
made to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder.   Procurement for those
project elements financed by the cofinanciers would follow their respective
procurement procedures. Pricing indexing mechanisms would not be necessary
since the civil works contracts would not exceed one year. Similarly, with
respect to goods, deliveries are usually over a short period of time.
Table 4: PROCUREMENT METHOD AND DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ million)
Procurement Method              Total
Project Element                      ICB       LCB    Other   N.A./a       Cost
1. CIVIL WORKS
Roads Rehabilitation                     7.20      2.60               9.80
(3.60)                       (3.60)
Roads Maintenance                        1.20                         1.20
(0.40)                       (0.40)
Buildings                                1.30      3.80               5.10
(1.10)                      (1.10)
2. GOODS
Vehicles                        3.60     0.10    10.20               13.90
(3.60)   (0.10)/b                     (3.70)
Equipment & Materials           2.20     0.30      5.70               8.20
(2.20)   (0.30)   (0.30)/c            (2.80)
3. TRAINING                                            9.20                9.20
(1.10)             (1.10)
4. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Management Support                                 3.80               3.80
(3.80)             (3.80)
Farm & Extension Forestry                                    2.10     2.10
Forestry Research                                            0.80     0.80
Curriculum Design                                            0.10     0.10
5. TECHNICAL SERVICES
Forest Inventory                                             4.40     4.40
Indigenous Forest Pilot                                      0.60     0.60
Design/Studies                                     0.60               0.60
(0.40)             (0.40)
Forestry Master Plan                                         4.60     4.60
6.  SALARIES AND ALLOWANCES                                      2.10      2.10
(0.40)   (0.40)
7.  OPERATING COSTS                                             13.30    13.30
(2.60)   (2.60)
8.  PILOT PROJECT FUND                                           4.00      4.00
TOTAL                     5.80    10.10    35.90    32.00    83.80
(5.80)   (5.50)   (5.60)   (3.00)  (19.90)
la  Mainly items rinancea Dy otner aonors ana tnererore follow tneir respective
procurement procedures.
lb Procured under the PPF
/c  Comparative shopping, of which about 50Z is for materials for works
to be carried out by force account



- 30 -
3.54      Civil Works.  The Civ!l Works category consists mainly of the
rehabilitation and maintenance of forest roads (US$4 million IDA financing),
the construction and rehabilitation of office buildings and staff houses and
various forest structures such as fire towers, etc. (US$1.10 million). It is
estimated that there would be 50 small contract packages (in about 150 forest
stations) for roads to be rehabilitated over the six-year period. Contracts
over US$1 million equivalent would be procured through ICB. However, civil
works contracts under the project are not expected to exceed this amount.
These works would be procured through LCB, under procedures satisfactory to
IDA, and where foreign firms are eligible to bid. The initial LCB document
would be reviewed by IDA. To the extent practicable, contracts would be
grouped in suitably sized packages of about US$200,000 each to improve the
response from contractors and provide more competition.
3.55      IDA financing would also include materials for a small amount of
rehabilitation of roads (US$.09 million) and buildings ($ 06 million) to be
carried out by force account. These materials would be in small packages and
procured through comparative shopping. (The labor is not included in project
costs as it is already employed by FD's existing road units and is not
incremental to the project.) Force account would be used to rehabilitate
forest roads and buildings in remote locations with no local contractors,
where mobilization costs for outside contracts would be too high. A second
purpose is to train FD's maintenance crews, which would also be strengthened
through inservice training and technical assistance under the project (Annex
7, Table 3). At the mid-term review, the costs and efficiency of road
maintenance through local contracting and force account would be compared and
a decision would be made on arrangements for future road maintenance.
3.56      Vehicles and Equipment.  Vehicles (US$3.6 million) and equipment
(US$2.2 million) would be procured under ICB in accordance with World Bank
Guidelines. Items would be grouped in packages, to the extent possible, in
order to attract major dealers and suppliers.   Contracts for less than
$100,000 up to an accumulated total of US$300,000, may be procured through LCB
in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA. Comparative shopping, based
on at least three quotations, or purchasing off the shelf, would be allowed
for goods under US$20,000 up to a cumulative total of US$150,000.
3.57      Technical Assistance and Services.  IDA financed consultants would
be selected through short listing and competitive procedures in accordance
with the Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and the
World Bank as Executing Agency (August 1981). The consultants' qualifications
and experience and conditions of employment would also be satisfactory to IDA.
IDA financing would be used for the management support team (US$3.8 million),
and technical services for FD headquarters (US$.4 million).
3.58      Review of Procurement.  Bidding packages estimated to cost over
US$200,000 for civil works and US$100,000 for goods and equipment procured
under ICB would be subject to prior IDA mandatory review of documentation.
Contracts below these limits would be subject to selective post-award review.
Thus about 80 percent of the total contract value of IDA procurement would be
subiect to review.
3.59      Procurement Capacity.  The FD has little experience in IDA
procurement procedures since little has been procured under previous projects.
Technically, the FD has authority for independent action on procurement



- !I -
processing, subject to GOK Tender Board procedures for final approval of
contract awards. However, the FD lacks capacity and managerial skills
necessary for expeditious procurement. To remedy this, the project would
provide a management support team to assist the PIT in procurement and other
matters. A procurement specialist to be financed under the PPF would help
finalize procurement packages and preparation of tender documents.
G. Disbursements
3.60      The proceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed over six and a
half years against the following categories, net of duties and taxes:
Cat I(i)       Vehicles                        1002 of foreign expenditure
1002 of ex-factory local costs
Cat I(ii)      Furniture and Equipment         1002 of foreign expenditure
1002 of ex-factory local costs
Cat II         Civil Works                     502 of total expenditure
Cat III        Incremental Operating Costs   1002 of annual aggregates 8/
Cat IV         Training and Study              1002 of total expenditure
Cat V          Technical Assistance            1002 of total expenditure
and Technical Services
Cat VI         Refunding of PPF                1002 of total expenditure
3.61      Disbursement categories have been designed so that each category
corresponds to a group of accounts in the Government ledger. However, in order
that statements of expenditure (SOEs) may be linked to relevant ledger
accounts as well as supporting documentation, the Forestry Development Project
items would be clearly indicated and separated from other sources of funding.
Disbursements for incremental operating costs, local costs and local training
costs will be made against statements of expenditure, which will be prepared
monthly. The Deputy Director/Project Manager of PIT will certify that these
statements are in agreement with the relevant ledger accounts. The ledger
accounts and supporting documentation will, however, be retained for
inspection by IDA and for audit purposes. Disbursements against all other
items would be fully documented except for contracts costing less than US$
20,000 equivalent where certified SOEs will be used. SOEs will be certified
by the Deputy Director PIT and supporting documentation retained by the PIT
and made available for review by IDA during the course of project supervision
missions. It is anticipated that the credit would be fully disbursed in a six
and a half-year period (see Annex 1). This schedule is based on the standard
disbursement profile for agricultural operations in Kenya.
8/   A declining proportion of incremental operating costs, amounting to
disbursements of up to SDR 0.3 million in FY1991, 0.9 million in FY1992,
1.5 million in FY1993, 1.8 million in 1994, 1.925 million in FY1995 and
2.025 million in FY1996.



- 32 -
3.62      A foreign exchange special account would be established with a
commercial bank through the Central Bank of Kenya on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA. Upon project effectiveness and on request of MOF, IDA
would deposit an initial amount of US$1 million equivalent in the special
account, representing about three month's expenditure. Replenishment of this
special account will be requested in line with IDA guidelines. Replenishment
claims to IDA would be aggregated in amounts not less than USS 50,000.
H. Accounts and Audit
3.63      Technical assistance would be provided to assist in structuring
FD's finances and maintaining accounts (paras. 3.30 and 3.34). KEFRI would
also receive assistance in maintaining project accounts. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that (a) separate accounts would be maintained in
accordance with sound and generally accepted accounting principles and
practices acceptable to IDA; (b) records would be kept permitting
identification of all receipts and payments under the project; (c) financial
statements, including a sources and uses of funds statement, would be prepared
at the close of each fiscal year; and (d) a certified copy of the accounts,
together with auditors' report, would be submitted to IDA within nine months
of the close of each fiscal year, including a separate opinion on the Special
Account and on the records and accounts used to support disbursements against
SOEs. In addition, as a condition of effectiveness, GOK would submit to IDA
outstanding audit reports (for the period July 1988-December 1989) prepared by
independent auditors for the Third Forestry Project. The responsibility for
auditing FD's accounts, as in the case of all Government entities, lies with
the Auditor General. At the end of each fiscal year the Auditor General would
determine his office's ability to carry out the audit in time and decide
whether to appoint private auditors, acceptable to IDA, to audit the project
accounts, the special account at the commercial bank and the statements of
expenditure.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. General
4.01      The project would be implemented over a six-year period, preceded
by a mobilization period of about six months supported by a PPF (para. 3.51).
Two ministries would have direct implementing responsibility: (i) MENR,
through FD, for six of the project's seven components, and (ii) MRST, through
KEFRI, for one component, i.e., the forest research component. The
implementing agencies, i.e., FD and KEFRI, would implement their respective
components essentially under their existing organizational structures, with
only few re-arrangements required at this time (paras. 4.05 to 4.10). A
project implementation schedule is included in Annex 7, Chart 1. Incremental
project staff would be recruited mainly from within FD and retrained for their
new positions.



- 33 -
B. Organization and Management
4.02      Project Steering Committee (PSC).  Because of the wide forestry
subsector perspective to be adopted by this project, implementation would be
coordinated through a Project Steering Committee (PSC), wnich has been
established. This would comprise a high-level, multi-disciplinary group
representing the principal interests in the subsector, including Government
ministries (KENR/FD, MRST/KEFRI, MED/DFMU; MOA, MOE, MRDASAW; MOF, MPND, OP),
the wood-using industry, and NGOs. Additional agencies would be co-opted as
appropriate. The PSC would be chaired by the P.S. of MENR and have members of
at least Department Director or equivalent level. It would meet at least
twice a year, but more often if necessary, and have the Project Manager (a
DDF) as its Secretary. Its main functions would be to discuss and make
recommendations upon matters concerning: (i) project progress; (ii)
high-level inter-agency coordination; and (iii) policy issues. The PSC
Secretary would select from FD HQ a small number of managers and technical
specialists, both staff and consultants, involved in the implementation of the
investment components and the FMP component to form the secretariat for the
PSC. He would also attend to the logistics of donor coordination, e.g. by
periodically calling aid-coordination meetings and by hosting co-supervision
missions of the project's external donors.
4.03      Project Implementation Team (PIT).  The project would be executed
by a PIT headed by one of FD's Deputy Directors as its full-time Project
Manager (PM), and including the five HQ Division Chiefs and the Principal of
KFC plus representation in a coordinating role from KEFRI. Although the PIT
would manage the FD part of the project as an integrated and balanced
operation, each component would retain a Lonsiderable degree of autonomy to
ensure its own sustainability.
4.04      Within the PIT, members  9/ would each be responsible for the
planning, execution, supervision and monitoring of project activities within
their special fields, working through the existing Provincial and District
field organization. There would thus be no need to establish a specific
project management unit. The PM, assisted by a full-time Assistant Project
Manager (APM), would establish project implementation routines, guide overall
execution, and maintain linkages with other public and private organizations
in the subsector. A Project Service Unit (PSU) would be installed in the FD
to service the PIT with capacities in MIS and monitoring, document production,
accounting, and procurement. Management support to the PIT would be provided
by advisory TA inputs on a consultancy basis (para 3.33). Finalization of
contract negotiations for a management strengthening arrangement at FD HQ
9/   These would be the Division Chiefs of: (i) the Forestry Extension
Services Division for the farm forestry extension component; (ii) the
Forest Protection & Conservation Division for the indigenous forest
management and conservation component; (iii) the Industrial Forestry
Division for the industrial plantations development component; (iv) the
Manpower Development Division for FD in-service training; (v) KFC's
Principal for the forestry education component of KFC; (vi) the Projects
Development & Monitoring Division for the Forestry Master Plan component
(see para 4.10; and (vii) the Director of KEFRI for the forest research
component).



- 34 -
through a management support package from a suitable organization would be a
condition of effectiveness.
4.05      Farm Forestry Extension.  A new Extension Monitoring Branch has
recently been set up in FESD because of this division's particular needs for
continuous assessment of achievements. FESD HQ is still understaffed and four
professional staff would be appointed in addition to the existing ten to make
it fully operational (para. 3.06). FESD would in the three pilot districts
formally cooperate in extension activities with MOA's Extension Service (para.
3.11). FESD and MOA have agreed on a Memorandum of Understanding defiuing the
modalities and extent of cooperation between their extension services.
4.06      Indigenous Forest Management and Conservation.  A major change
would be the re-education of 750 forest guards for their new function in
conservation and their purposeful redeployment (paras. 3.14 and 3.16).
Provision would also be made for the employment of six additional qualified
professionals as conservation foresters (para. 3.14), and for 60 incremental
staff to carry out the forest inventory (para. 3.17).
4.07      Industrial Plantations Development.  Thirteen additional staff
would be transferred to strengthen the royalty assessment and collection
capacity of IFD (para. 3.28). Separate accounts of IFD from the rest of FD
would be established by 30 June 1991 (para. 3.29). The successful
implementation of this component would be mainly affected by: (i) the adoption
of efficient planning, management and supervision systems (para. 3.21), (ii)
the improvement of FD's labor productivity (para. 3.36), and (iii) the
systematic involvement of the private sector in plantation operations (para.
3.27).
4.08      Forest Roads Development and Fleet Management (Annex 7 Tables 2 and
3). A Forestry Engineering Unit would be set up at FD HQ project start-up
with initially two sections: (i) a Roads Section responsible for the
management of FD's field road units as well as administration of contract
works, and (ii) a Fleet Management Section responsible for the rehabilitation,
expansion and operation of FD's fleet of plant and vehicles and three
workshops as well as administration of contracted maintenance, overhaul and
repair works (para. 3.35). Incremental staff required would be only one
senior mechanical engineer. The Engineering Unit could later be developed
into a full Forest Engineering Division. The four existing, almost defunct
field road units would be pooled and restructured into two units based at
Londiani and Nyeri for the limited portion of forest road works which would be
carried out by force account. Revision of the roads development program would
become necessary as new forest management and timber harvesting plans are
forthcoming based on the forest inventories.
4.09      In-service Training.  A major initial task of FD's Manpower
Development Division, assisted by the training coordinator (para. 3.50), would
be the preparation of a detailed in-service training plan, taking into
consideration the results, as these become available, from studies concerning
forest labor (para. 3.36) and forest manpower development (Annex 7, Chart 2).
Being of urgency, in-service training facilities at KFC Londiani would be
added in year 1 of the project (para. 3.39). The training coordinator would
also advise KEFRI on their in-service training under the project.
4.10      Forestry Master Plan Team.  This component would be located either
in the Projects Development and Monitoring Division, or it could be a Division



- 35 -
(albeit temporary) on its own. 10/ It would be headed by a full-time FMP
Director with the rank of a Division Chief. He would have a core team of
about five full-time sp.sialists.  Many key FD officers would also be involved
in the FMP work. Additional selected specialists in related agencies would be
co-opted as local consultants to the core team. Contractual services would be
obtained from local specialist institutions as well as from private
consultants for special studies, surveys, systems development, teaching
assignments, etc. District-level planning teams in about 10 high-priority
districts would be headed by District Forest Officers. These field planning
teams would work from the bottom up, soliciting advice and information from
the people most affected. FD and FINNIDA are ensuring full NGO involvement.
C.  Annual Work Program (AWP), Reporting. Monitoring, and Evaluation
4.11      Annual Work Programs and Budgets.  Both implementing agencies would
prepare detailed AWPs, including annual budgets, and in the case of FD also
information on revenue estimates. FD's current programming and budgeting
systems are out-dated and the PM, assisted by the PIT and the management
support team, would during project year 1 develop an up-to-date, computerized
AWP system of a format satisfactory to IDA, which would tie in with: (i) the
accounting system (para. 3.61), (ii) procurement system (para. 3.53), and
(iii) reporting and monitoring system (para. 4.12). Annex 10 explains the
typical contents for an AWP. Preparation of draft AWPs and budgets would be
timed to fit the cycle of budget submission to MOF and allow prior comments by
IDA . Assurances were obtained from GOK that (i) an AWP would be submitted by
FD and KEFRI to IDA for its review no later than by December 1 of the
preceding year and (ii) the annual budget would then be reviewed on the basis
of the AWP jointly by the recipient ministries, MOF and IDA. AWP arrangements
at project start-up are dealt with in para. 4.14.
4.12      Monitoring and Reporting.   The PM, assisted by the PIT and the
advisors of the management support team, would develop a new, computer-based
monitoring and evaluation system to generate continuous information for the
project's own needs and for semi-annual progress reports on physical and
financial progress in a form acceptable to IDA and compatible with the AWP
system (para. 4.11). The M&E system would cover performance targets helpful
to management, including the performance indicators and implementation targets
given in Annex 7, Tables 1-8. The format of the progress reports would be
discussed in detail during the first Bank supervision mission. Copies of the
.eports, which would be finalized by March 31 and September 30 each year,
would be reviewed by the PSC in draft and finally by IDA; an assurance to this
effect was obtained at negotiations. The forestry extension component and the
pilot schemes in the indigenous forest would install monitoring systems of
their own, commensurate with the project's overall M&E system, because of
their specific requirements for rapid feed-back from field activities.
D. Reviews
4.13      Government and the donors would meet annually to review project
progress and to discuss problems. The FD and KEFRI would, by September 30 of
each year, prepare for review by PSC and IDA, an analysis of its past and
10/ To be agreed between FD and FINNIDA.



- 36 -
expected performance against the established and agreed key indicators set
forth in Annex 7 Table 1. The pilot operations (extension forestry;
participatory management of indigenous forests) and action plans (increase of
labor productivity; elimination of woodfuel energy disincentives), as well as
the forest inventories and various studies to be financed by the project would
furnish important new information on the forestry subsector. The FMP process
would use this information to define the subsector's long-term development
parameters and needs for institutional changes. A new Forest Policy Framework
would be prepared by July 31, 1991 and a finalized Forest Policy by mid-1993.
In addition, the Government's environmental and natural resources management
strategies and ASAL program would be better defined (with Bank support) by
that time. The new information and changed circumstances are envisaged to
necessitate design adjustments in some of the project components during its
second half. Accordingly, to provide a better basis for implementing the
project in its last three years, a comprehensive mid-term review would be
carried out jointly by the Government and the donors no later than June 30,
1994 after the completion of the FMP to assess the project's mid-term impact.
The mid-term review would evaluate each project component against the above-
mentioned key performance indicators and would also cover items such as policy
actions on pricing of forest products, the status of studies and the Forestry
Master Plan and the framework for encourage private sector participation in
industrial forestry.   Assurances on the above measures were obtained at
negotiations. Periodic reviews of project progress by IDA and cofinanciers
would be coordinated through joint supervision and cooperation between Nairobi
based staff of the donors.
E. Status of Project Preparation
4.14      Project activities, physical implementation targets and
requirements for equipment, goods, and services have been defined for the
project period (Annex 7 and Working Document No. 9). Most technologies are
known and have been widely practiced in Kenya; new approaches and
technologies would be developed by pilot operations using intensive
monitoring. FD and KEFRI have prepared a work program for the first
incomplete project year up to end-June 1991. Finalization of an AWP for the
first full year (July 1991-June 1992), acceptable to IDA, would be a condition
of effectiveness. This AWP would include finalized detailed designs and
tender documents for forest road rehabilitation and other civil works during
the first full year. Design standards for the rehabilitation of forest roads
have already been prepared and have recently been updated; the bulk of the
other civil work contracts would follow standard, existing design. Key PIT
staff are in place and further recruitment would follow specifically agreed
time-tables or annual implementation schedules. Procurement of critical items
for early project activities would be done under PPF with the assistance of an
architect/planner and an engineer.



- 37 -
V. PRODUCTION AND FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A. Production
5.01      Industrial Plantations.  Assuming that proper silvicultural
practices are employed an   hat the planting program under the project (Annex
7, Table 6) is carried out, the project would produce about 13 million m8 of
sawlogs, pulpwood, poles and fuelwood as a result of both replanting and new
planting. This project related production is detailed by timber assortments
and species in Table 5 below. The relative shares of pulpwood and sawlog
production are based on the assumption that working circles are managed and
felled according to the plan. Incremental net benefits resulting from the
project's production over the 35-year period are shown in Annex 5.
Table 5: TOTAL PRODUCTION IROH REPLANTING AND NEW PLANTING ('000 MP)
Sawlogs         Pulpwood      Fuelwood         Total
Species     Thinningl/  Clearfell
Pine            726        1,344        4,140 2/     285
Cypress         643        1,407                     147
Sub-Total     1,369        2,752       4,140         432            8,693
Poles        Fuelwood
Eucalyptus (combined rotations)
Light l2cmx5m                       1,483
Light 17cmx7m                         425
Medium 22cmx9m                      1,274
1,058
Sub-total                              3,182         1,058          4,240
Total                 4,121             7,322        1,490         12,933
I/    First thinning included in fuelwood
i-i   Includes both pine and cypress pulpwood
5.02      These total production figures are based on the mean annual
increments (HAI):
Sawlog Circle                     Pulpwood Circle
Pine                24.1 me/ha                        24.4 m3/ha
Cypress             23.0 m9/ha                        20.0 m3/ha
Eucalyptus      First and second rotations            20.0 m3/ha
Third rotation                       19.0 m3/ha
These yield figures are based on FD experience on obtainable yields under good
forest management.
5.03      The timely implementation of the plantation maintenance programme
according to sound silvicultural practices would be expected to increase
timber yields from plantations of age eight or less by 20 percent; the
resulting increase in sawlogs to be clearfelled are shown in Table 6.



- 38 -
Table 6:  INCREMENTAL BENEFITS FROM PROPER MU  TM.AdNCE OF EXISTING PLANTATIONS
Total Area'l  Benefit/ha      Total
ha             m3          '000 m3
Pine                     3000             89.6          268.8
Cypress                  3200             93.8          300.2
Total                    6200                           569
1/  backlog areas not treated by recent harambee operations
5.04      Extension Forestry.  Under the forestry extension component,
overall seedling production in the pilot districts would increase from 0.4
million seedlings in year 1 to 2.6 million seedlings in year 6 with
progressive emphasis on the smaller decentralized and non-FD nurseries. Over
the project period an estimated total of 10.8 million seedlings would be
produced in the 15 divisions (Annex 7, Table 4). It should be emphasized that
these are indicative figures used as a basis for estimating the project's
impact on production.
5.05      Assuming that a seedling in farmlots can over 30 years produce 0.27
m3 of fuelwood, corresponding to a MAI of 18.2 mJ/ha (this is half the MAI on
a well-managed fuelwood plantation), the fuelwood production from the
project's seedling output in the three pilot areas would be about 2.9 million
m3 over 30 years, or about 0.1 million m3 a year. This increase represents a
small fraction of current estimated national woodfuel consumption of 37
million m3 a year.
B. Markets
5.06      Forest Industries (paras. 2.05).  Kenya's sawmilling industry has
expanded relatively fast during the last decade. Between 1978 and 1988, the
production of sawnwood increased from about 120,000 m3 a year to about 210,000
m3.   The supply of sawlogs, however, still exceeds demand and the surplus is
expected to continue during the next two decades (para. 5.11). The number of
licensed sawmills has increased from about 180 in the mid-70s to above 350 in
1990. There are a few larger multi-line mills with log intakes varying
between 5,000 m3 - 40,000 m3. Most of the sawmills are small, tend to come
and go from the market depending on the economic conditions, and are quite
inefficient utilizers of roundwood resources due to unsuitable technology,
poor sawdoctoring facilities, and inadequate technical and managerial
knowledge. The main product of the country's wood-based panel industry is
plywood (about 35,000 m3 a year), some of which is exported to neighboring
countries. In general, the wood-based panel industries are relatively well
run operations. Total average demand for log-size roundwood is about 700,000
m3 per annum, a quantity which could easily be supplied on a sustained basis
from FD's sawnwood working circle if the planning and scheduling of timber
harvesting operations and plantations management were at a level of normal
efficiency.
5.07      PPM, which produces all of Kenya's pulp, has integrated mechanical
pulping, chemical pulping and papermaking. PPM is the largest individual
consumer of wood in Kenya buying from FD in 1989 some 234,000 m3 of pine,



- 39 -
142,000 m3 of cypress and 15,000 m3 of eucalyptus pulpwood. PPM is expanding
its capacity utilizing sugarcane bagasse as raw material, because of
insufficient supply of pulpwood. The latter is mainly caused by suboptimal
planning of resources management and roundwood allocations by FD; properly
managed, roundwood from FD's pulpwood working circle, combined with
small-diameter roundwood from its sawnwood working circle at economic distance
from PPM, should suffice to sustain the expansion.
5.08      Other Wood Consumers.  The main consumers of transmission poles are
Kenya Power and Lighting Co. and the Kenya Post and Telegraph Co. with an
annual demand of 30-35,000 m3. National demand for construction poles is
estimated at about one million m3 a year. More than 50 percent of this is
already being supplied from private woodlots, including those on smallholders'
farms.
5.09      Fuelwood consumed in rural areas comes mainly from trees and shrubs
or other vegetation on public land, farm trees and trees along roads or on
idle land. With minor exceptions, it does not enter the cash economy but is
gathered by the consumer. In urban areas, although fuelwood accounts for only
a small proportion of energy consumption, demand is expected to double by the
year 2000. Fuelwood is used mainly by the urban poor who cannot afford
charcoal. FD allows collection of deadwood from reserved forests and
plantations equivalent to a headload pec individual per day for a monthly fee
of KSh. 4 per person. Most of the fuelwood consumed in the urban sector is by
industries and institutions, and much of this comes from FD sales of stacked
fuelwood. These are generally through contractors or middlemen and are
heavily subsidized. Total fuelwood demand (excluding wood for producing
charcoal) is currently estimated at 23 million m3 p.a.; only 10-15 percent of
this is traded.
5.10      Charcoal provides more than 90 percent of urban woodfuel demand.
The production and marketing of charcoal is of considerable importance to the
economy. The wood raw material equivalent needed to satisfy the present
demand for charcoal is estimated at 14 million m3 p.a. Most of the wood for
charcoal has traditionally come, free or at very little value, from clearance
operations of forest or savannah woodland for agriculture or from uncontrolled
felling on these lands. As wood supplies become scarcer and the distance to
transport charcoal to the main centers increases, plantation grown wood is
slowly entering the market for charcoal.
5.11      Export.  Kenya is now self-sufficient in forest products, and
exports small amounts of plywood to neighboring countries. However, in order
to protect its forest resources, GOK has restrictions on most timber exports.
The projected wood supply and demand balance up to the year 2020 indicates
that current plantation areas should theoretically suffice to meet Kenya's
growing demand for forest products during the next 20 years or so. However,
the balance for pulpwood from FD's pulpwood working circle is expected to be
negative in the near future, and the total surplus is expected to turn into a
deficit after the year 2010. 11/   The present information on the
potential supply from industrial plantations is not reliable because of the
11/ Detailed information on supply and demand projections can be found in
the World Bank's Forest Sector Review, Annex 4.



-- 40 -
lack of data on the age/species distribution and average standing volume.
After the completion of inventory activities, such information would be
available and better projections of supply can be made. The Forestry Master
Plan would include studies on markets for industrial forest products and
examine the possibilities for their export. The impact of the timber export
ban will be reviewed at the mid-term review.
C. Prices
5.12      The stumpage prices as well as prices of most forest products are
not market prices but are determined by FD. Most of the wood is sold on
standing volume basis. In some districts ground scaling is still used and
prices vary accordingly. Stumpage royalties for pine and cypress sawlogs vary
according to the size and whether the produce is from clearfellings or from
thinnings. At the mean dbh of 20 cm, the royalty rates in 1989 for
clearfelled pine and cypress sawlogs were 115 Sh/m3 and 168 Sh/m3 (on standing
volume basis), respectively. The corresponding prices at dbh 60 were 255
Sh/m3 and 410 Sh/m3. Royalty for cypress and pine pulpwood was 175 Sh/m3.
Royalties for fuelwood are currently set at 13 Sh/m3, and for light and
transmission poles at 130 Sh/m3 and 195 Sh/m3, respectively. Market prices for
fuelwood and poles differ considerably from the subsidized prices set by FD.
The average market prices for light poles and transmission poles in 1989 were
estimated to be 440 Sh/m3 and 800 Sh/m3 in 1989.
5.13      During the last 8-9 years, royalty rates have been increased from a
very low level to a level that is about equal to the replacement value.
Royalties were not increased in 1989 but revisions are expected at the
beginning of FY90/91. The royalty levels are based on the principle of
recovering costs of production (replacement cost principle), except for
fuelwood and poles which are subsidized.
5.14      The principle of FD trying to recover production costs contains the
following flaws: (a) because FD is the sole supplier of industrial timber, it
does not have incentives to reduce unit production costs which are now high.
When replacement cost pricing method is used costs can always be transferred
to sales prices; (b) during a period of oversupply of timber not all the
production costs can be recovered unless timber or processed products are
exported to utilize the surplus; (c) the present pricing method ignores the
demand side, i.e., the market for industrial forest products, because it is
only concerned with recovering sunk costs.
5.15      Local forest industries are also protected from import competition,
and there is only one producer of pulp which means that they can always
attempt to transfer increased raw material costs to product prices. In the
end, it is the consumer who has to pay for the possible inefficiencies in wood
production and wood processing.
5.16      The above mentioned reasons suggest that alternative ways of
determining stumpage prices based on marginal cost pricing need to be
considered. How this principle could be applied in Kenyan conditions should
be studied by a consultant experienced with various pricing methods. At
negotiations, assurances were obtained from GOK that the FD would complete a



- 41 -
review of the method of royalty assessment and introduce improved methods for
the calculation of stumpage rates by September 30, 1991.
D. Cost Recovery and Sustainability
5.17      Royalty Collection.  Although substantial progress has been made in
increasing the stumpage rates, the decline in the rate of royalty collection
has offset this improvement, with the result that income therefrom has been
declining in recent years. It is estimated that in 1988 and 1989, the actual
revenue collected was less than 50 percent of estimated revenue. The
shortfall arose from a variety of reasons, including laxity in enforcing
collection rules, exemptions given to the tea parastatal to clear a belt
around the plantations for the tea zone, under-reporting of volumes, past
practices of royalty assessment, poor inventory and lack of supervision and
monitoring.   To demonstrate its commitment to improving royalty collection,
FD has recently stepped up efforts to collect overdue royalties, resulting in
a considerable increase in revenue in the latter half of 1990. Under the
project, the system of royalty collection would be improved as follows:
(a)  Royalty assessment would throughout be based on standing volume
instead of cut volume. After a licensee receives his allotment
which is determined by the FD inventory section, the forest officer
would estimate the royalties based on the standing volume. The
licensee would pay this amount before harvesting. This practice
has been established in nine districts and should be expanded to
all districts;
(b)  Strengthening of FD's Inventory Section would reduce the
opportunity for under-reporting of volume cut. In addition, the
project Financial Controller would vet the allotment given by the
Inventory Section against the invoice issued by the forest officer
and check for discrepancies; and
5.18      The above modifications should result in full cost recovery for the
industrial plantations. The FD would undertake to collect at least 75 percent
of the stumpage royalties for a particular year within that year and up to 90
percent of the royalties of that year during the following year. Fulfillment
of this collection target would be reviewed at the annual and the mid-term
reviews (para. 4.13).
5.19      Fuelwood and Poles.  FD royalties for fuelwood sales are well below
the replacement cost. In the Nairobi area, the FD price is approximately
equivalent to KSh 13/m3 solid compared to a recovery cost of KSh 90/m3. Most
of this wood is sold to large, private and parastatal industrial users;
therefore, increasing royalties would not disadvantage the urban poor whose
fuelwood supplies, if derived from FD plantations, come mainly from monthly
fuel licenses (headload sales of dead wood). Increases in stumpage prices
would stimulate production of commercial fuelwood on farms. GOK has reviewed
royalties concerning both stacked fuelwood sales (to contractors) and monthly
fuelwood licenses, and in July 1990, it adjusted prices to reflect the
replacement cost. At negotiations, assurances were obtained from GOK that a



- 42 -
time-bound, monitorable action plan would be prepared and agreed upon by June
30, 1991 (i) to increase fuelwood and pole prices to market value levels by
the mid-term review, and (ii) to eliminate other disincentives to smallholder
tree farming and private fuelvood growing at large.
5.20      Seedlings.  The action plan mentioned above would include measures
to recover the full cost of seedling production in Government nurseries.
These seedlings are currently sold at a highly subsidized standard price of
KSh 0.075 a piece. FD has started to adjust seedling prices and in mid-1990,
it adopted a new schedule of prices that takes into account cost differences
between species and the need for different subsidy levels based on difficulty
of private seedling production in scarce rainfall zones (para. 3.11).
5.21      Sustainability.   As new inventory data and up-to-date management
plans become available and the industrial plantations are being put to full
use, their feasible revenue earning potential at current stumpage rates should
exceed KSh 300 million a year. If this were realized, the increased revenue
from industrial plantations would be more than the annual recurrent costs
generated by the entire project, estimated at KSh 66 million.   At the same
time, the anticipated improvement in labor productivity should reduce costs
and ensure that forestry operations would continue efficiently after the
project ends. Pilot projects in farm forestry extension and indigenous forest
protection would introduce new approaches in promoting social forestry.
Institutional strengthening, through improving FD's management and technical
capacity and strengthening research and extension would have effects that
would outlive the project and lay the foundation for future development.
E. Farm Level Financial Impact
5.22      Farm Level Financial Impact.  Annex 4, Table 4 shows indicative
farm models which might approximate impact on incremental wood production as a
result of intensified forestry extension in Kakamega and Laikipia, two of the
pilot districts. The purpose of the models, which have limitations due to
insufficient data, is to indicate possible returns, measured as increased cash
flow, at the farm level. Model A attempts to approximate practices in
Kirinyaga District in the Central Highlands where Grevillea is widely planted
along field boundaries and in fields. Similar approaches are suited to the
Western Highlands but have not been adopted, possibly because this species is
not as widely known and seed is not available there. Extension should be able
to increase planting of this species. The model is attractive, showing an
internal rate of return of 68 percent and a return to farm labor of KSh 124 a
day, about 6 times the opportunity cost of labor. 12/
5.23      Model B for eucalyptus woodlots, a common feature in Kakamega
District, also shows a high rate of return of 60 percent and a return to labor
more than twice the opportunity cost of labor. Model C represents the
12/ The rate for casual labor in rural areas is around KSh 30 per day.
Since all labor for farm forestry would be provided by the farm family
and much of the work would be carried out during off-peak periods, a
reduced rate of KSh 20 per day has been used. This also reflects the
participation of children.



- 43 -
planting of hedges and field trees in semi-arid uplands. She model shows a
robust rate of return but marginal financial returns to the farmer's labor,
about equal to the opportunity cost of labor. A factor is that a high
proportion of the output is fuelwood for home consumption and hence not valued
as a cash income. Other non-wood benefits from tree planting are mentioned in
para. 6.03.
F. Fiscal Impact
5.24      Government Cash Flow.  The Government cash flow is set out in Annex
4, Table 3. This shows that the main inflow of local funds would be from
incremental royalties from the industrial plantations. Under the improved
system of royalty collection established under the project, royalties should
begin to increase during the first year of the project until ful collection
is achieved in year 10.   This would have a very favorable impact on the cash
flow. During the 20-year period, Government inflows are estimated to exceed
outflows by KSh 2,286 million, or KSh 114 million a year.
VI. JUSTIFICATION, BENEFITS, AND RISKS
A. Justification
6.01      Most benefits from the project cannot be quantified.  The main
benefit would be the strengthening of the institutional base, including the
information base and policy, for managing Kenya's forest resources in an
ecologically sound way, while at the same time ensuring sufficient production
of wood products to meet the country's needs. The project would assist
Government to address broader natural resource and management issues, and it
would promote the involverint of non-public sector parties, such as farmers
and NGOs in production and conservation forestry, thus reducing the
administrative and financial burden of Governmont's mandate. These measures
should help slow the rate of environmental degradation in Kenya. It is this
management benefit, rather than the direct production benefit, that would be
the main objective of the project.
B. Benefits
6.02      The project would generate quantifiable direct production benefits
from two sources. The first, major benefit would be the incremental
production of plantation-grown timber (para. 5.01) coupled with increased
royalty collection and improved labor productivity, for which ar economic
analysis was carried out. The second, for the time being minor source of
quantifiable benefits would be from more intensive farm forestry extension
services in three pilot districts; these benefits have been quantified
indicatively through farm forestry models (paras. 5.22 to 5.24) and on the
basis of projected seedling production (paras. 5.04 and 5.05). All other
benefits would be of indirect, non-quantifiable nature.
6.03      Farm Forestry Extension.  The benefits would include a more
effective coordination of farm forestry and an improvement in approaches,



- 44 -
resulting in increased farm tree planting, improved management of farm tree
systems and improved woodland management in the ASAL areas. Farmers and
community groups, the final clients of the extension services, would be the
main beneficiaries. The activities would increase supplies of tree products
in rural areas, in particular fuelwood and building materials, as well as a
range of non-wood benefits including: (i) livestock fodder from planted trees
and sustained livestock browse from improved management of woodland systems;
(ii) soil enrichwent or soil fertility maintenance; (iii) so'l erosion
control; (iv) windbreak effects; (v) live hedging for livestock control and
boundary marking; and (vi) supply of traditional items, such as medicine,
dyes, fibers and gums. The increased production of fuelwood would also reduce
the volume of agricultural residues used as domestic fuel in wood deficit
areas. Nursery operation would generate for women's groups and NGOs
additional cash income through sales of excess seedlings. These benefits
would initially accrue to a higher extent in the pilot districts than
nationwide.
6.04      Indigenous Forest Management.  The conservation of Kenya's
indigenous forests is essential to Kenya's economic, social and environmental
well-being. Direct, although for the time being non-quantifiable benefits
would include the sustainable yield of wood and non-wood products, the
preservation of gene pools and the protection of wildlife. Indirect benefits
include those derived from the conservation of forests in water catchments,
with the reduction in soil erosion, sedimentation and water run-off benefiting
downstream users and ecosystems, and scenic values. Benefits would also have
international significance, such as the identification of bio-diversity
reserves, and improvement of the quality of water that drains into Lake
Victoria, affecting nations that border it. Other components of the project,
such as industrial plantation development and farm forestry, would ultimately
lead to the conservation of indigenous forests by taking the pressure off them
and through the provision of alternative sources of forest products,
employment and income.
6.05      Industrial Plantations.  The main tangible benefits would be
increased production of sawlogs, pulpwood, poles and fuelwcod amounting to
about 13 million cubic meters. Improved royalty collection would increase FD
revenues while improved labor productivity would reduce costs. Better fire
protection also provides benefits in the form of output losses avoided.
Strengthening of plantation management would benefit other afforestation and
forest maintenance programs. Employment and income would also be created
indirectly in harvesting, transporting and further processing of timber.
C. Impact on Women
6.06      Particularly the farm forestry extension component would have a
pos4tive impact on women in household economies, initially in the pilot
districts and gradually also elsewhere. Gathering fuelwood and fodder is a
major task of women in rural areas in Kenya and they frequently have to walk
considerable distances to collect these basic goods. By promoting the
integration of multipurpose agroforestry species in farming systems and
propagating on-farm seedling availability, the project would help to increase
the production of fuelwood and fodder close to home. This would reduce the
time women need to gather fuelvood, or cash outlays for fuelwood, particularly



- 45 -
in wood deficit areas. Women's groups would be a principal target group for
FESD's and MOA's forestry extension work (para. 3.05). Activities would
involve nursery establishment and on-farm tree planting. Excess production
could be sold to generate additional cash income. The project would also
generate employment for women as they make up a significant proportion of the
labor force involved in nursery operations both of the extension and
industrial plantation components, and in transferring, sorting and packaging
materials and products in the mills processing timber.
D. Environmental Impact
6.07      A key project objective is to contribute to environmental
conservation and arrest further ecological degradation through sound resource
management. Virtually all project components are designed with environmental
concerns as an important goal. The project as a whole would therefore have a
significant, beneficial environmental impact and no negative ecological
effects would be expected to result from the activities of the project.
6.08      Expanded planting of trees or. marginal, degraded or fallow sites on
farms, as well as boundary planting and the general integration of forestry
into agriculture and livestock farming systems would serve efforts to prevent
soil erosion and maintain soil fertility and increase the country's tree
cover. The resulting, additional supply of wood on village lands would reduce
the need to cut timber in natural forest. The inventory would provide the
information base for long-term indigenous forest and eco-system management.
Indigenous forests would not be converted to plantation forest; rather,
management practices such as demarcating and planting boundaries, enriching
impoverished and former encroached forest areas and forest management based on
integrated land use, popular participation and forestry extension programs in
villages adjacent to forest areas, would reduce encroachment. The repair and
maintenance of a system of moats would allow the management of indigenous
forests to include their use by wildlife even in the proximity of industrial
plantations.
6.09      Timely riplanting of clear-felled industrial plantation stands
would minimize environmental hazards such as erosion or fire, as well as
rodent, insect and pest problems. Timely tending and thinning would have
similar beneficial effects. No new forest roads would be constructed and old
roads, which frequently constitute a serious environmental problem due to
massive soil erosion, would be rehabilitated using erosion-preventing designs;
where road diversions are necessary because of excessive erosion of the
existing roads, mitigatory vegetative measures would be applied for site
restoration. The project would also prepare FD for more intensive action in
natural resource management and conservation by training FD staff for this
responsibility and by helping to formulate a national forest land use plan, a
countrywide forestry subsector development master plan and forest policy
reforms.
E. Economic Analysis and Sensitivity Test
6.10      Economic analysis was carried out only for the industrial
plantation component, where benefits would come mainly from the planting



- 46 -
program. Benefits and costs from the maintenance of existing plantations were
not included in the analysis because of the difficulty in allocating costs
separately to the maintenance, and in estimating reliably these costs and the
associated benefits. An estimate of the value of timber saved has been used
to value benefits from fire protection. No attempt was made to quantify
indirect benefits. Based on the above the economic rate of return is
estimated to be 17 percent (Annex 5).
6.11      Assumptions.  In the economic analysis the following assumptions
and parameters were used: (i) standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.92; (ii)
shadow wage rate of 0.7 for unskilled labor; (iii) institution building costs
were allocated to industrial plantations according to the relative share of
plantation investment out of total investment, excluding headquarter
furnishing and equipment; (iv) costs for the maintenance of the entire
plant4tion estate (assumed to be 20 percent of the costs of replanting and
maintenance) were deducted; (v) all the road and vehicle costs relevant to
industrial plantation development were directly included in this component;
(vi) recurrent costs to cover the whole period covered by the analysts, 35
years, were included; (vii) replacement of vehicles was assumed to take place
every seventh year, and of plantation tools and office equipment every seventh
and tenth year, respectivelv; (viii) labor costs included were based on
expected improvements in labor productivity; and (ix) support to the inventory
section is excluded.
6.12      Valuation of the main output, i.e., sawlogs and pulpwood, is made
difficult because prices of both the roundwood and final products are
administered, and trade in these products is negligible. However, sawlogs and
pulpwood are internationally traded commodities. To value project output,
economic prices at border-price equivalents were derived from international
market prices. Thinnings were valued at 50 percent of the log size timber
value at clearfelling. Because of the large divergence between export and
import parity prices of sawlogs and pulpwood, reliable demand and supply
projections of wood would be essential. However, supply is difficult to
forecast reliably at present because of the lack of inventory data. New,
comprehensive demand projections are also needed. This information is not
available at present but would be produced by the FMP component.
6.13      The economic price for fuelwood was estimated at KSh 2071m3
equivalent to the value of kerosene, which is the likely substitute for part
of the population. Pricing of other likely substitutes, as burning crop
residues and dung, was not attempted. Valuation of poles was based on
financial market prices, which were converted to economic prices using the
standard conversion factor 0.92.
6.14      The opportunity cost of land was not included because the
plantations are in gazetted forest areas which by law cannot be used for other
purposes. As the plantations are in the high potential areas, the opportunity
cost of land would be high and would reduce the rate of return significantly
if included in the analysis. As part of the preparation of the Forestry
Masfer Plan, the FMP team, assisted by consultants, would review land related
polices and legislation to examine their adequacy in balancing the land
requirements for forests, agriculture, wildlife and livestock.



- 47 -
6.15      To value benefits from fire protection, a crude estimate of 100 ha
of industrial plantations _IV with an average yield equalling 50 percent of
the respective yields at clearfeiling was assumed to be saved annually
starting from year 2.
6.16      Results.  The results of some of the sensitivity tests show that
the ERR is robust as shown below:
Table 7: ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN AND SENSITIvITY TESTS
-     Base Rate                                17.22
-     Cost up 202                              15.7Z
-     Benefits down 201                        15.3Z
-     Costs up 201 and
benefits down 202                       13.8Z
The analysis also shows that for the net present value of the project
component discounted at 10 percent to be zero, costs would have to be
increased by 112 percent or benefits decreased by 53 percent.
F. Uncertainties and Risks
6.17      Delay in project implementation due to weak absorptive and
implementation capacity of the FD would be the main risk. FD staff have
become demoralized due to insufficient resources with which to work,
deteriorating management systems, and lax supervision. Making use of the
lessons learnt from the Third Forestry Project, the proposed project would
minimize this risk through various elements of institutional strengthening
included in all project components and through providing FD staff with
equipment, vehicles and operating costs for its normal activities. Measures
of institutional strengthening would comprise a large in-service individual
and group training program for most of FD's staff, considerable inputs of
technical assistance, including a management support team, and the development
of up-to-date management and reporting systems. Initiatives by the project to
regularly involve NGOs and community groups in farm forestry and forest
protection should also reduce the operational burden on FD in the future
(para. 3.27). A flexible approach with continuous monitoring of FD's
performance and a mid-term impact review would facilitate corrective action
during implementation (para. 4.13). A related risk could be that the sizeable
training program and the 3-year FMP process might disproportionately draw on
the human resources of the FD headquarters, putting other project components
under additional strain. This danger would be controlled through the AWP
process which would include detailed manpower planning in order to avoid
unrealistic manpower demands at any one time (para. 4.11).
6.18      The second major risk could be that the Government would not
allocate sufficient funds to the project. This risk has been contained by
13/ Of assumed composition one-third of pulpwood, one-third of cypress
sawlogs and one-third of pine sawlogs.



- 48 -
Government's commitment to make sufficient budgetary allocations for the
project and related services in the FY 1990/91 budget and Forward Budget
(para. 3.50), and to review the annual budgets jointly with IDA on the basis
of AWPs (para. 4.11), as well as through improving the cost recovery mechanism
of the industrial plantations and actions toward re-directing their management
along commercial lines (para. 3.30). Also the composition of the financial
package, which maximizes funding on a grant basis, would reduce this funding
risk.
6.19      There could be a significant risk of implementation delays,
particularly in respect of policy reforms needed, arising from the involvement
of several ministries in the project. This risk would be minimized through
the establishment of the Project Steering Committee to ensure high-level
inter-ministerial coordination, as well as a Project Implementation Team to
ensure such coordination at the working level (paras. 4.02 and 4.03). Most
investment components concerning different ministries are designed as
substantially self-standing operations, thus reducing the need for complex
coordinatiun during implementation.
6.20      Also the participation of five external donors in the funding of
the project could signify a risk of implementation delays. This risk would be
contained by formulating functionally well separable financing packages for
each donor, parallel financing arrangements, and suitable donor coordination
mechanisms (para. 4.02).
VII.  AGREEMENTS, ASSURANCES, AND RECOMENDATION
7.01      The following are conditions of credit effectiveness:
.i)       GOK would submit evidence satisfactory to IDA showing
that adequate offices for FD have been constructed (para.
3.34);
(ii)      FD would complete a labor-productivity study of the
workforce permanently employed in the FD (para. 3.36);
(iii)     GOK would submit to IDA oustanding audit reports prepared
by independent auditors for the Third Forestry Project
(para 3.63);
(iv)      GOK would finalize a management strengthening arrangement
for FD HQ with a suitable organization (para. 4.04); and
(v)       the AWP, satisfactory to IDA, for the first full project
fiscal year (1991/92) would be finalized (para. 4.14).
7.02      During negotiations, agreement on the following was obtained:
(i)       FD would introduce separate accounting for IFD's
operations from those of the rest of the department by
June 30, 1991 (para. 3.29);



- 49 -
(ii)      GOK would prepare a monitorable action plan satisfactory
to IDA on measures to improve the productivity of its
permanently employed labor force of FD by June 30, 1991
and commence implementation by September 30, 1991 (para.
3.36);
(iii)     GOK would, in consultation with IDA, prepare a Forest
Policy Framework by July 31, 1991 and adopt a new Forest
Policy by June 30, 1993 (para. 3.45);
(iv)      Audited annual accounts, financial statements and report,
including a separate auditors' opinion on special account
and SOEs, would be made available to IDA within nine
months of the close of each GOK fiscal year (para. 3.63);
(v)       A draft AWP, including budgetary allocations and targets
for revenue collection would be submitted by PD and KEFRI
to IDA for its comments no later than December 1 each
year for the following year's program and the annual
budget would be reviewed jointly by GOK and IDA (para.
4.11);
(vi)      Semi-annual progress reports, acceptable to IDA, would be
prepared by FD and KEFRI and submitted to IDA by March 31
and September 30 each year (para. 4.12); further the FD
and KEFRI shall, by September 30 of each year, prepare
for review by PSC and IDA, an analysis of its past and
expected performance against established and agreed key
performance indicators (para. 4.13);
(vii)     A comprehensive mid-term review of the project would be
carried out jointly by GOK and the donors not later than
June 30, 1994, and each project component would be
evaluated against established and agreed performance
indicators. The review would also covert policy actions
on pricing of forest products, status of studies and the
FMP, and the framework for encouraging the private
commercial sector involvement in industrial forestry
(para. 4.13);
(viii)    FD would complete a review of the method of royalty
assessment and introduce improved methods for the
calculation of stumpage rates by September 30, 1991
(paras. 3.29 and 5.16);
(iX)      GOK would prepare a monittrable action plan satisfactory
to IDA by June 30, 1991, on measures to eliminate
disincentives to smallholder tree farming and commercial
fuelwood growing at large, including measures to increase
PD fuelwood and pole sales prices to market price levels
by the mid-term review (para. 5.19), as well as FD
seedlings sales prices (para. 5.20).



- 50 -
7.03      With the above assurances, agreements and conditions, the proposed
project would be suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 13.9 million (US$19.9
million equivalent) to the Government of Kenya, on standard IDA terms with 40
years maturity.



- 51 -
KENYA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA                                               Cumulative          Country Profile
Fiscal Year                    Disbursements      Disbursements       for Agriculture
------------US$ million)-------       (Z of Total)
1991
2nd Semester                     0.6                 0.6                3.0
1992
1st Semester                     1.0                 1.6                8.0
2nd Semester                     1.2                 2.8               14.0
1993
1st Semester                     2.4                 5.2               26.0
2nd Semester                     2.4                 7.6               38.0
1994
1st Semester                     1.6                 9.2               46.0
2nd Semester                     1.5               10.7                54.0
1995
1st Semester                     1.6               12.3                62.0
2nd Semester                     0.8               13.1                66.0
1996
1st Semester                     2.4               15.5                78.0
2nd Semester                     1.2               16.7                84.0
1997
1st Semester                     2.0               18.7                94.0
2nd Semester                     1.2                19.9              100.0
Project Completion Date: March 31, 1997
Project Closing Date:      September 30, 1997



KENYA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT
Swimary Account by Project Component
(SHILLINGS '000)
fARM fORESTRY
------------------------------------                INDIGENOUS FOREST MANAGEMENT
FOREST                                     ------------------------------------------------------------------                ----------------
EXTENSION                                    STRENGTHENING Of                                    FORESI
FIELD       SUPPORT TO                          FOREST                                       INVENTORY A                     REPLANTING AND
OPERATIONS -   NATIONAL                        PROTECTION AND                                  ASSESSMENT OF                    MAINTENANCE Of
PItOr         FOREST       fESD STAFF        CONSERVATION       FORESIRY   fOREST ROAD    NON-MOOO                               EXISTING
DISTRICTS    EXIENSION   STRENGTHENING           DIVISION        OPERATIONS  DEVLLOPMENT        PRODUCTS      PILOT SCHEMES   PLANIAIIONS
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL MORSS                                                4,518. 0             -                -            3.000.0    27. 000.0       41,244.0                  -               -          8.400.0
B. VEHICLES                                                   3,514.0              -         3, 028.0           98.620 0       8.023 0              -         14.850 0          t.687.5         49.364.4
C. EQUIPMENT AND MAIERIALS
OFFICE EQUIPMENT                                                  -            -            617 0                    -     2.000.0               -         3.645.0                 -                 -
FIELD EOUIPMENI AND TOOLS                                         -            -                -             1.110.0      8,569.2                        29,205.0                 -         12.379.0
CAMP EQUIPMENT                                                    -            -                -                    -            -              -         2. 475.0           225.0                  -
FURNiSHING                                                 1. 200.0                                                                                               -                -                 -
NURSERY EQUIPMENT                                            503.9                              -                                                                                              .000.0
Sub-Total EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS                             1,703.9              -           617.0             1,110.0    10, 569.2               -        35. 325.0           225.0          13.379.0
D. TRAINING                                                          -             -        41, 172.0           25,375.0              -             -        11.880. 0                -          7.721.0
E. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                              -             -        39,600.0                    -             -             -                -                -             675.0
F. TECHNICAL SERVICES                                                -             -         6,720 0                    -            -                       87.642 0         13.320.0              675.0
G. PILOI PROJECT FUND                                                              -                -                   -             -             -                -        90,000.0                  -
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                           9.735.9              -        91, 137.0          128. 105.0    45.592.2        41,244.0        149,697.0        105,232.5          80.214.4                1
II. RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                                                                                                                                        N)
A. SALARIES AND ALLOWANCES                                          -             -         7,747.0             3.649.0      8.451.0               -        16, 605 0           526 5           8,105.4 I
B. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
VEHICLES                                                  2,045.4             -         2,323.8                     -     6.017.4               -        14,850.0          2,025.0          52. 185.0
flUILDINGS                                                1, 221. 0           -                -             1,050 0             -       8. 750. 0               -                -          1. OSO. 0
TOOLS / EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS                                 -                       2,300.4                    -      1.512.0               -         1.530.0          2,700.0                  -
Sub-lotal OPERATION AND MAINIENANCE                          3,266.4              -         4,624.2             1.050.0       7.529.4       8,750.0         16, 380 0         4,725.0          53.235.0
C. AGRICULTURAL INPUTS FOR SEEDLING PRODUCTION                 341.3       2,488.0                 -                   -             -             -                -                -
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                            3.607. 7      2.488.0         12. 371. 2           4, 699 0    15.980.4         8.750.0         32. 985. 0        5.251 5          61, 340.4
Total BASELINE COSTS                                              13,343 6      2.488.0        103,508.2            132,804.0    61.572.6        49,994.0        182,682.0        110.484.0         141,554.8
Physical Contingencies                                          1.334.4        248 8          5,588.9            11,829.2       5,734 7        4,999.4         12,461.9          1.356. 1         13,296.7
Price Contingencies                                            2.128.7         548.3         20.904.8            21.555.3       9.831.0        9. 776.8        16. 930 8         2.379.5          20. 537. 6
Total PROJECT COSTS                                               16. 806. 7    3. 285. 1      130,001.9            166. (88. 5    77. 138.3     64, 770.2       212,074.7        114,219.6         175,389.0
Taxes                                                          3. 321. 5            -         4.635. 1           37,955.8    14.928.0          7,772.4                -                -         43,602.3
foreign Exchange                                               6, 429. 7     2,628. 1        70. 375. 8         111,296.3    23, 171.4       12.954.0        149. 943. 1       64. 513. 0         75. 086. 6
Noveeber 6. 1990 17: 19
I& 
W n



INDUSTRIAL PLANTATIONS
.. ........... ............-.-.----------------------                 INSTITUTION   BUIlDING
SUPPORT TO  ------------------------
MAINTENANCE OF                     ROYALTY                          VEHICLES AND                                                             Physical
ESTABLISHMENT Of       EXISTING                       ASSESSMENT  STRENGTHENING Of  PLANT FLEET                                                               Contingencmes
ADDITIONAL        PLANTATIONS:      FORESl ROAD       AND             FOREST          MANAGEMENT   FORESTRY    fORESTRY        FORESTRY                    ..............
PLANTATIONS       FIRE PROTECTION  DEVEIOPIENT  COLLECTION           DEPARTMENT         SERVICES    RESEARCH   EDUCATION  MASTER PLAN    Total               1    Mount
:   =: = ::: ::::  : :  :  ::   -==:z:                         :  --   ::    =z -----                                             =        ==Z==    :Z=zz  === -   : -
-           1, 015. 5   132, 736.0             -            20. 475.0              -   46,946.0    7. 650.0                -    292. 984.5  10.0  29. 298.5
3.552.0            7, 497.0      16,647.6    10, 842.0              4. 596.0        4.476.0   26. 781.0    3.025.0         2.700.0    259.203.5  10.0  25.920.4
-                  -       1.472.5      1,660.5                     -               -   10,887.0             -      8,100.0       28,382.0  10.0   2,838.2
8,280.0               -                         5,963.5         6,072.0    2,400.0        3.000.0              -      76,978.7  10.0   7,697.9
-                  -              -            -                    -               -           -            -             -       2,700.0  10.0       270.0
-                  -      -                    -            40.500.0                     1. 370.0     1.800 0              -      44,870.0  10.0   4,487.0
1,209.0                                                                   -                            -           -                      2,712.9  10.0       271.3
. .... .. ... .. .....  ........ ... .....  ...... .....  ...... ......  -- - - -- - - -  ... .. ... .. ..  -- -- --  ..... .....  ----   ......   -----------. ....    ... .......
1,209.0            8.280.0        1,472.5      1,660.5            46.463.5         6,072.0    14,657.0    4.800.0          8, 100.0    155.643 6  10.0  15,564.4
-   -     782.0             -            7,232.0         6.340 0   50.880.0    13,680.0          7.312.5      172.374.5   5.0   8.618.7
-   -         -             -           60.750.0         12.926.0   15,900.0       1,800.0              -    131,651.0   5.0   6,582.6
-   -         -             -            5,820.0               -       160.0            -      90,225 0    204.562.0   5 0  10,228. 1
*                                 -       -                   -            -      -             90,000.0   0.0          0.0
... . . .. . . .  -- - - - - - -  .  - -  - - -     - -  - - -   - - - -  - - - -    .......   . .   - - -  - -  -  - - -  -  - - -  - - -   ...  .  .......  - -   - - - -
4. 761.0          16, 792 5     151. 638. 1    12,502.5           145. 336. 5      29, 814. 0  155.324.0   30. 955. 0    108. 337.5  1. 306. 419. 1   7.4  96. 212. 5                                        1
Ln
316.0              120.0        1. 936. 0    5,482.2                816.0           320.0    1,422.0                                   55. 496. 1   5.0   2.774 8                                         I
2. 295.0           5. 373.0      33, 398. 0    5. 942. 3            3. 447.0        3. 357. 0   23. 624.0    5. 254. 0      1. 350. 0   163. 486.9  10. 0  16. 348. 7
-                  -     20 000.0              -                    -               -   13,429.3    2. 227.5               -      47, 727.8  10. 0   4 772. 8
-                  -              -            -5,000.0                             -       180.0            -      7,965.0       21.187.4  10.0   2.118.7
..... ....... . ...  -- - - - - - -  ... .... ....  -- - -- -    .... .... .......   ........ ....   - - - - -    - - - - -   - - - - - -    ...........    ....    .. ......
2,295.0            5,373.0      53,398.0       5,942.3              8.447.0         3.357.0   37.233.3       7,481.5       9,315.0    232,402. 1  10.0  23.240.2
-                  -              -            --                                   -   ,       .--                        -       2.829.3  10.0        282.9
2,611.0            5,493.0      55,334.0      11,424.5              9.263.0         3.677.0   38.655.3       7,481.5       9,315.0    290,727.4   9.0  26.297.9
7,372.0           22.285.5    206.972. 1    23,927.0              154. 599.5      33,491.0  193.979.3   38.436 5    117,652 5  1.597. 146.6   7.7 122,510.5
721.4            2,222.6      20,561.3       2, 118.6            11,729. 1       2.369.8    15,979.8    3.069.7          6,888.4      122,510.5   0.0          0.0
995.0            2,282.0      41 590. 0      3. 771 1            14 918. 0        3. 413. 7   28,637.0    5 931. I      13, 618. 0    219. 748.6   7. 4  16 258. 7
9,088.4           26. 790. 1    269. 123.4    29,816.6            181,246.5        39.274.5  238. 596. 1   47.437.3    138, 158.8  1.939.405.7   7.2 138. 769.2
1. 152. 7         8,688.9       41. 758. 7     7,467.2            20. 125.9        S. 610. 3   33. 707. 4    6. 674. 7                 237.400.9   9.0  21. 381.9
S,896. 1         13,537.4       70.704.3    11. 608. 2           112,857.3        21. 353.5  133,953.0   21.414. 1    123,063.3  1.030.785.2   6. 5  66, 963. 4
n>-



KENYA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT
Stummary Accounts by Year
Totals Including Contingencies                                          Totals Including Contungoncies
(SHILLINGS  D0Dl1                                                          1US$ '000)
1991      1992       1993       1994       1995       1996       Total         2991      1992      1993    1994    1995    1996    Total
I. INVESTMENr cosrs
A. CIVIL WORKS                                        105.287. 4  74. 259.8  63. 855. 1  60,571.6  48.1240.6  16.953. 0   369.06? 6   4.620. 8  3.211 2  2.745 6 2.589 6 2.046 4   726 6 15. 930 2
B. VEHICLES                                           208. 937. 7  21,863.2  29.055. 0  18. 535. 9  15. 639. 1  16. 499.2   310.330.1   9 . 169.89   936 8  1.249 3   792 5   664 8   697.4 13. 510 5
C. EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS
OFFICE EQUIPMENT                                    20.727.4  10. 167.3   1.109 4       628.1      485.8      275 5    33,391.5       909 7    439.7      47 7    26 8    20 7    IT 6  1,456 1
.FIELD EQUIPHENI AND TOOLS                          47.018 1 22,895.6  11.482.0   3,527.6   3,941.3   3.926.3    92,789.9   2.063 5    990.1    493.6   150 8   167.5   166 0  4.031 5
CARP EQUIPMENT                                       2. 824.6     273.4                                -                3.098 0       124 0      Ii 8                 -        -        -    135 8
FURNISHING                                          50. 294.9     583 2      205.1      216.4                          51. 299.5   2.20? 3      35 2       8.8      9 3                    2.250,6
NURSERY EQUIPMENT                                      790.7      532.4      547.5      517.4      556.0      575 7      3.519 7       34 7      23 0     23.5    22 1    23.6    24.3    151.4
SubTotal EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS                      121.655.?  34.451 9  13,343.0   4.887.5   4.983.1   4,777 5   284.098.8   5,339.2  1.489 8    573 7   209 0   222.8   201 9  8.025 4
D. TRAINING                                            30,479.1  40. 721.0  48. 676.5  35,975 4  32,898.8  25. 123 5   223. 864.2   1.337.7  1.760.5  2,092 9 1.538 0 1,398.5 1,061.9  9.189,5
TIECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                40,847.2  40,879.2  39,273.3  20, 282 0   7.558 4   7.974 1   156.813 I   1.792. 7  1.767.?  I1 688 6   867 1   321.3   337.0  6,774.5
FIECHICNTAL SERVICES                                   80. 523. 2  78,369.4  74. 716,7   1,342.5      653.7      689 7   236. 305 I   3,534.4  3,388.9  3.212 6    5? 4    27 8    29.1I 10,250.2
G  PILOT PROJECT FUND                                          -  45,625.2  45.757 5                                 -    91,382 7               2rC.73 0  1.967 4        -            -      3,940.4
lotal INVESTMENT COSTS                                   587. 740.2 335,959.6 314. 677.1 1241.594 0 109. 873 7  72,016.9 1.561. 862 5  25,794.5 14. 527 9 23,530 1 6,053.5 4,670.6 3.044 0 67,620.6
1I. RECURRENT COSTS
A. SALARIES AND ALLOWANCES                            23,024.5  13.964 4  24, 262. 0   8, 566. 5   9. 037, 6   9.442 8    68,296.8      572 6    603. 9    613.2   366 2   384 2   399 2 2.938 2
8. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
VEHICLES                                           32. 573. 2  35, 937. 3  39. 748.6  34.329,4  36. 161.3  36.1894 8   214,634.6   2.385. 7  1,554.0  1.709 I 1.467 2 1,537.2 1,559.5  9,212.6              4'
BUILDINGS                                           4,782.2   8,640.4  11,048.6  11 838.1 122,629.8  15,356.4    64,293.5            209.9    373.6    475 I   506 0   536.9   649 1 2,750.6
TOOLS / EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS                     8.5096,6  5,203.2   5,561.2   2, 357.7   2,401.8   2,533.8    26,567.2           373.5    225.0    239.1   100.8   102. 1   107.1  1.1247.6 
Sub-Total OPERAIION AND MAINTENANCE                   44. 865.0  49. 780.8  56,358.4  48.513,2  51. 192.9  54, 785 1   305,495.4   1,969 0  2.152 7  2,423,2 2.074.1I 2, 276.2 2,325 6 13. 110 8
C. AGRICULTURAL INPUTS FOR SEEDLING PRODUCTION           490.3      551.4      607.2      657.2      699 5      746.3      3,752 0       21 5      23.8      26.1    28 1    29 7    31.5    260 9
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                     58,379.8  64, 296 7  72.226. 6  57, 736 9  60,930.0  64,974.2   377,544.2   2,562 1 2,780 4  3,062 5 2,468 4 2,590.1I 2.746. 3 16,209.8
Total PROJECT COSIS                                       646,120.0 400,256.2 385,903.7 199, 330.9 270,803.7 136,991.2  2.939.405.7  28,356.6 17,308.2 26,592 7 8,522.9 7,260.7 5,790.3 83.830 4
Novembter 6. 2990  17: 19



KENYA
FORESIRY DEVELOPMENI
Project Components by Year
TotalIs Including Conin ngenci'es                                          Totals Including Contingencies
(SHILLINGS '0001                                                              iuSS '0001
1991       1992       1993        1994       1995       1996        Total         1991      1992      1993     1994     1995      1996    Total
A. FARM FORESTRY
I. FOREST EXlENSION FIELD OPERATIONS   PILOI DISIRICTS                        4,384 7   4.041 4   28973 I   3.089 6   1,17? 8   1.240 I    18.8$06.?             2 92.4    174 8      123 5    132.1    50 I    52 4       725.3
2. SUPPORT TO MAT (DUAL FOREST EXIENSION                                        473.2      503.8       531 5      560.8       591 6      624 I      3.285. 1      20.8      21 8       22.9    24 0    25 1    26.4    140.9
3. FESC STAFF SIRENGTHENING                                                  19.095 I  21.059.4  25.966 7  20.900 3  23.209 0   19. 771 4   130.001 9            838.0    910 7  1, 116.5   893.5   986 6   835 7  5, 581. 0
Sub-Total FARM FORESTRY                                                         23. 953 0  25.604 7  29.371 3  24.550 7  24.978 4  21. 635. 6   150.093 7  1.051 2  1. 107 2  1, 262. 91.049 6 1. 061 8   914 5  6.44?.2
B. INDIGENOUS FOREST NMAAGEMENT
1. STRENGIIFENING OF FOREST PROTECTION AND CONSERVAIION DIVISION            56.566.9  27. 275. 6  22.661 3  18.801 4  19.906 9  20.976.4    166.188 5  2. 482. 61. 179 5    974 4   803 8   846 2   886. 6  7. 173. I
2. FORESTRY OPERATIONS                                                       22. 327 2  10. 381. 5  19. 271 0  15. 437 6   4,730 4   4.990. 5    77.138,3        979.9    448.9    828.6   660.0   201 1   210 9  3.329. 4
3. FOREST ROAD DEVELOPMENT                                                   12. 831. I   9. 441. 9  1O. 133 0  14. 925B 812. 385 4   5.052 9    64, 770.2       563. 1    408. 3    435.?   638. 1   526.5   213.6  2.785. 3
4. FOREST INVENTORT IT ASSESSMENT Of NON MO00D PRODUCIS                      95.573 5  64.638.3  51.862 9                                         212.074.?  4. 194 5  2.795 I  2.229 9            -                     9.219 6
5. PILOT SCHEMIES                                                            20.765 4  46,633.2  46,821.0                          .114.219.6                    911 3  2. 018.6  2. 013. 2        -                     4. 941. 1
SubTlotal INDIGENOUJS FOREST MIANAGEIILNI                                      208.064 1 15.370 5 150,749. 1  49.1650  37,022.6  31.019 6   634.391 2  9. 131 4  6.848 4  6.481 7 2.101 9 1.573 8 1. 311. 1 27,448.4
C INDUSTRIAL PLANTAT IONS
1. REPLANTING AND MAINTLNANCE 01 EXISTING PLANTAIIONS                        74.954.0  24.562.5  21.079 I  18.444 4  17.761 3  18, 587. 6    175, 389. 0  3.289 5S  1.0b2 2    90b 3   79885   755 0   785 7  7.58? 3
2  ESTABLISHMENT OF AODITIONAL PIANTATIONIS                                   4.743 0       761 6      832 3      847 7       926 4      977 4      9088.4    208.2         32 9       35 8    36 2    39 4    41 3    393.8
3. MAINTENANCE OF EXISTING PLANTATIONS,  fIRE PROIECTION                     14.694 6   655S3.6    1.623 6   1,236.8   1,304.9    1,376.6    26.790 1    644.9    283 4                69.8    52 9      55 5     58.2  1,164.6
4  FOREST ROAD DEVELOPMENT                                                   44. 191.0  46. 885. 1  49. 927 9  48,210.5  50. 650 2  29. 258. 7   269. 123.4  1.939 4  2.02? 4  2. 146 7 2.061 I 2. 153 I 1.236 7 11. 564 5
5. SUPPORT TO ROYALTY ASSESSMENT AND COLLECTION                              11,628.9    1,959.6   4.478 8   6,006.8   3.405 3   2.33? 2    29.816.6    510.4               84.7      192 6   256 8   144.8    98.8  1.288.0
Sub-lotal INDUSTRIAL PLANTATIONS                                               150,211.5  80. 722.4  77.941.?  74. 746.2  74.048 I 52,537.6   510,207. 5  6,592.4  3,490.7  3,351.3 3,195.6 3. 147 7 2.220.6 21.998. 3
0. INSTITUTION BUILDING
..................... ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~U
1. STNENG1HEIIING Of FOREST DEPARTMENI                                      108,241.1  22. 161. 8  24.995 9  17,625.0   3.497 9   4.724 8   181. 246.S5  4, 750. 4    958 3  1.074 7   753.5   148 7   199 7  7.885 4
2  VEHICLES AND PLANT FLEET MANAGEMENT SERVICES                              20,332.1   6,954.3   7,239.1   3.015 7           891 I      842.2    39,274.5    892 3        300 7    311.3   128.9    37.9    356  1.706.?
Sit-Total INSTITUTION BUILDING                                                '128,573 3  39, 116. 1  32. 235 0  20,640.6   4.389 I   S.,567. 0   220.521 0  S.642.8  1.259 1  1 386 0   882.4    186. 6   235 3  9,592.1
EFORESTRY RESEARCH                                                            86,678.8  44,345.6  36.784 8  23.620 7  25. 301 2  2T.855. 1   238,5S96. 1  3,8604.1 1,.917. 6  1, 581. 6. 1009.8 a1.075 5   924.2 10,312.9
F. FORESTRY EDUCATION                                                           16, 141. 4   8, 154. 2   7.103.?   6,607.6   5,064.4   4, 366. 0    47.437.3    706.4    352 6    305.4   282.5   215 3   184.5  2.048 8
G. FORESITR  MASTER PLAN                                                        32,498.0  53.942.?  SI. 718. I                                        1    38, 158.68  1,426.3  2,332.6  2.223 7      -                  -  S.,982. 6
Total PROJECT Costs                                                              646. 120.0 400,256.2 385,903.7 199. 330.9 170.803.7 136,991 1 1.939.405.7 28,356.6 17, 308.2 16.592 7 8.521 9 7. 260.?7 5,790.3 83,830.,4
Nooeter 6. 1990 17: 19



Annex 2
- 56 -                       Table 4
KENYA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
List of Detailed Cost Tables in
Appraisal Mission Working Paper No. 9
1.    Table 1 -   Farm Forestry Extension/Field Operations -
Pilot Districts
2.    Table 2 -   Farm Forestry - Support to National Extension
3.    Table 3 -   Farm Forestry - FESD Staff Strengthening
4.    Table 4 -   Indigenous Forest Management - Strengthening of Natural
Forestry Management Division
5.    Table 5 -   Indigenous Forest Management - Forestry iRoad Development
6.    Table 6 -   Indigenous Forest Management and Conservation - Forestry
Operations
7.    Table 7 -   Indigenous Forest Management - Forestry Inventory and
Assessment of Non-Wood Products
8.    Table 8 -   Indigenous forest Management Pilot Projects
9.    Table 9 -   Industrial Plantations Replanting and Maintenance of
Existing Plantations.
10.   Table 10 -  Industrial Plantations - Establishment of Additional
Plantations
11.   Table 11 -  Industrial Plantations - Maintenance of Existing Plantations
Fire Protection
12.   Table 12 -  Industrial Plantations - Forest Road Development
13.   Table 13 -  Industrial Plantations - Support to Royalty Assessment and
Collection
14.   Table 14 -  Institution Building - Strengthening of Forest Department
15.   Table 15 -  Institution Building - Vehicle and Plant Fleet Management
Services
16.   Table 16 -  Forestry Education - KFC ',ndiani
17.   Table 17 -  Forestry Research - KEFR.
18.   Table 18 -  Forestry Master Plan



Annex i
Table 5
- 57 -
KENYA
FORESTRY DEVEFRENT PROJECT
Dotalled Costs of PPF Activitlos
Component                              Itom                    Unit         Total         Coot Not      Cost In
Quantity    Cost           of Taxes      US3 O0N
.. '0 KSHS                  Not of
Taxes
1. Industrial Plantation               (a) Sterlo
Support to Inventory                    Plotter System        Sot 1          1,260          1,260          66
(b) Vehicle               No. 1            396            s60          22
2. Equipment Fleet
Managemnt System                    (a) Technical
Assistance            mm  4          1,126           1,125         56
(b) Vehiclo               No. I             96            560          22
8.  tr-ngthening of                    (a) Office
Forest Department                       Furnishing &
Equipment                           84,850         24,826       1,688
(6) Architect/
Planner               m   6            480            480          21
(') Labour
Profile
Study                                1,360           1,358        6e
(d) Soparate
Accounting            mm  6          1,800           1,800         80
(e) Scouting/
Contracting
for Management
Support             Trip  8            676             876         30
(f) Vehicle for
Key Project
Staff                 No. 8          2,085           1,600        e6
(g) Transport
Operation
Expenses for
Vehicles In
(f) above                              225            226          10
TOTAL                                                                      46,240         88,740       1,600



KENYA
fORESTRY DEVELOPMENT
financing Plan by Project Corniponents
CUSS '0001
FINNISH
INTERNATIONAL       OVERSEAS       INTERNATIONAL                             Swiss
DEVELOPMENT    DEVELOPMENT         DEVELOPMENT   EUROPEAN ECONOMIC  DEVELOPTTENI   GOVERNMENT OF
ASSOCIATION   ADMINISTRATION         AGENCY            COMMUNITY        CORPORAIION          KENYA            Total
Amount   %       Mount    1    Amount    1            Amount       2    Mount   I        Amount   I        Amount    I    for. CxcII.
A. FARM foRESTRY
I. fOREST EXTENSION .IEED OPERATIONS - PILOT DISTRICTS                              -    -           -      -         -      --                   -     396 554.1        328 945 3        725 3   0.9         277 5
2. SUPPORT TO NATIONAL fOREST EXTENSION-                                                             -      -         -      --                    -     64.1 45 5        76 A 54.5        140.9   0.2         112.7
3. FESD STAFF STRENGTHENING-                                                              --                          --                          -  5.1:2.5 91 6        468 6  A 4   5.SBT.0   6.7          3.028.1
Sub-Total FARM FORESTRY-                                                                     ---                                --   -                   5.573 D 86 4        874. 2 T3 6   6. 447. 2   7. 7     3. 418. 3
8. INDIGENOUS FOREST MANAGEMENT
I. STRENGTHENING OF FOREST PROTECTION AND CONSERVATION DiVISION-                                     -     -          -      -     4.236.1   59 1                     2.937 0 40 9   7.173. 1   8.6         4.803 4
2. FORESTRY OPERATIONS-                                                                   --                -         -      -      1,706.0   51.2-               -   1.623 4 48.8   3,329.4   4 0           1.003.9
3. FOREST ROAD DEVELOPMENT                                                          -                                                . 339. 5   48. 1        -    - 1. 445. 8 51 9   2.785. 3   3 3            557.1
4. FORESI INVENTORY A ASSESSMENT OF NON-WOOD PRODUCTS-                                    -   8,711.4  94.5                         - -            -         -           582  5.5   9,219.6  11.0           6,517.8
5. PILOT SCHEMES                                                                    -         4,941.1 100.0--                                                -     -       0 0  0 0   4,941 I   5 9          2,795.2
Sib-Total INDIGENOUS FORESI MIANAGEMENT-    -  13. 652. 4  49 7-                                                                       7. 261. 6   26.5               -   6.514 4 23.7  27,448.4  32.7         15,677.4
C. INDUSTRIAL PLANTATIONS
I. REPLANTING AND NAINTENANCE Of EXISTING PLANTATIONS                        4,360.8 57.5                             .      -- 3.226 5 4.'. 5   7.567 3   9. 1                                             3.261 0
2. ESTABLISHMENT OF ADDITIONAL PLANTATIONS                                     295.2 75.0            -      -                                                -    -       98. 6 25.0a     393.8   0. 5         256.4
3. MAINTENANCE OF EXISTING PLANTATIONS: FIRE PROIELTION                        670.8 57.6                                                 --                      -      493 8 42 4    1,164.6   1.4           589.7
4. FOREST ROAD DEVELOPMENT                                                   5. 679.0 49.1.                           .      ..                                        5,885.6 56 9  TI.S564.5  13.8         3.047. 1
S. SUPPORT TO ROYALTY ASSESSMENT AND COLLECTION                                710.9 55.2-                  --                                     --             -      577 2 44 8   T.288.0   1.5            503.7         U
Sub-lotal INDUSTRIAL PLANTATIONS                                               11, 716. 653.3           -                                                                1         0. 281.  46. 7  21, 998.3  26.2  7, 658. 0
D. INSTITUTION BUILDING
1. STRENGTHENING Of FOREST DEPARTMENT                                        6.738 7 85.5-                            -      --                              -    -   1. 246 7 14 5   7. 85. 4   9.4        4,892.6
2. VEHICLES AND PLANT FLEET MANAGEMENT  SERVICES                             1.398 2 81.9                                                  -       --             -      308 6 18 I   1,706.7   2.0            927.4
Sut-Total INSTITUTION BUILDING                                                  8. 136.9 84.8--  -                                                         -               1,455.3 IS 2   9.592. 1  11.4        5,820.0
E. FORESTRY RESEARCH-                                                                        --                -  -                    7. :12.6   69.0-               -   3.200 3 31.0  10. 312.9  12.3         5,775.9
F. FORESRIR  EDUCATION-                                                                                 -      -         -             1.458.1I  71 2-                -      590 8 28.8   2,048.3   2.4           923.8
G. FORESRT RYASTER PLAN                                                                                            5, -S982.6 TOO 0           -       ---                        -    -   5,982.6   7.1I    5.327.1
Total Disbursement                                                                19. 853. 523. 7  13, 652. 4  16. 3  5.982. 6   7. 1    IS, 852.3   18. 9  5,573.0  6. 6  22.916 5 27 3  83,830.4 100.0    44,600.,5
Novembe 8, 1990 17.20
'-   (



KENYA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT
Financing Plan by Sizaiaiy Accounts
lUss * 0001
F INNISH
INTERNATIONAL       OVERSEAS        INIERNAN TONAL                             SNISS
DEVELOPMENT      DEVELOPMENT        DEVELOPMENT    EUROPEAN ECONOMIC  OEVELOPMIENT   GOVERNMENT OF
ASSOCIATION   ADMINISTRATION          AGENCY             COMMUNITY         CORPORAtION          KENYA            Total
....   ...  --   - ----- --    . .   .. ..... .... ---- ----- ----  ... .... .     .  - ---- ---- .   ... ...ca.l.lEoca   l    Dx l tDu ees  
Amount   2       Amount    11       bmunt   I           Amount       I    Amount   I        Amount   I        Amount     2     for  Exchi        TOROS)        lazeS
I. INVESTMENT COSIS
A. CIVIL MORKS                                             4.682    30 6            -                  -3.352 9   21 0                   119 3  07   7.575 4 47 6  15.930 2  19 0              3.186 0        10.832 5    1. 911 6
B  VEHICLES                                                3.707 2 27.4        828 3   6. 1       135.2   I 0       4.080 2   30 2    218 2  16   4.541 5 33 6  13.510 5   16 I                8.565.?         1,537.8   3.407.0
C. EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS
OFFICE EOUIPNENT                                           97 2  67         186.3  12 8        416 6285            396 2   27 2        IA 2  13        342 623 5    1.456 1   I 7            727 2            38664       342 6
FIELD EQUIPMENT AND TOOLS                               1.020 4 25 3   1.511.6  37 6                              491 5    12 2                 -   1.008.) 25 0   4.031 5   4 8           2,217.3            806 2   1.008 0
CAMP EQUIPMENT                                                 -             35 8 100 0                                                                  0 00 0          135 8   0 2           40 7            95 I
FURNISHING                                              1.521.4 676                                -1)9 1    53                       47 52 i          562 725 0    2.250 6   27             562 7          1,125.3       562.7
NURSERY EQUIPMENT                                          123.2 81 4                               .    .-28 I 18 6                                        -    -       151 4   0 2          128 7            22 7            -
Sub-Total EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS                          2.762 234 4   1.833 7  22 8            415 6  5 2        1.006 8    12 5       93 8   I 2   1.913 3 23 8    8.036 4   9 6           3.676 6         2.435 7    1.913 2
O  IRAINING                                                 1.143 5 12 4       596 0   65S        370 5  4 0        4,808?7   52 3  2.2708624 7                   -      9.189 5   ITO0        6.325 6         2.863 9 
E. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                    3.786.5 559                     --                         893.7    132  3.094 3309                            6.774 5   Al         6.435 ?            338.7
F  TECHNICAl SERVICES                                         313 4  31 I    .004 8  48 8   4.571 4 446                 276    0 1    353 0  34                          10.250 2  12 2        9.730.5           519 a 
G  PILDT PROJECT FUND                                                   -   3.940 4 100 0                                  .       -                                      3.940 4   4.7        2,000.          1.940 4 
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                        16. 595.2 24 5  12. 203.1I  18.0   5.492 8  8 1    14. 149 9   20 9  5. 149 4  7.6  14. 030.1I 20 7  67. 620 6  80 7    39. 920 1                  20. 468 8   7,231.8
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. SALARIES AND ALLOWANCES                                   388 0 132        350 2   1) 9                           33227    11 0      1840b 63    i.693 457 6   2.93F 2             52.740.)                               198.1
S. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
VEHICLES                                               2.353 1 25 5        887 3   9 6         71 0  0 8         750 2    8 1        90 2  I 0   5.060 8 54 9   9.212 6  II 0             3.224 4          3.511 9   2.476 3
BUILDINGS                                                412.6 IS 0                    -          -              589 6   21.4        25 7  0.9    1.722 762.6   2,750 6   3 3               550 I          1.870 4       330.1
TOOLS / EQUIPMENI AND MATERIALS                          104 6  9 1        211 9   la85      418 8 365            40 0      3 5      53 14 46         319 227 8    1.147 6    1 4           777.2            337 8        32.6
Sub-Tolal OPERATION AND MAINIENANCE                       2.870 3 21 9   1.099 2   8 4           489 8  3 7        1.379 7   TO 5       169 0  I 3   7.102 8 54 2  13.1It0 8  15 6           4.551 8          5.720 0   2.839 0
C. AGRICULTURAL INPUTS FOR SEEDLING PRODUCTION                         .                                                                 70 6 43 9        90 2 56 I        160 9   0 2          128 7             32 2 
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                          3.258 320 1   1.449 3   8 9           489 6  3 0        1.702 4   105        423 7  2 6    8.886 454 8   16.209 8   19 3           4.680 4          8.492 3   3.037 I
Total Disburaemat                  .19. 853 5 23 7  13.5652 4  16 3   5,982.6  7 I    I5. 852 3    18 9  5.573 0  6 6  22.916 5 27 3  83.830. 4 100 0    44,600.5                                                  28.961.1I  10.268 8
Noveaber 6. 1990 17.20



- 60 -                                           Annex 4
KEfA                               Table  1
FOH26r OEVELpEmT PmOjlr
FORMT 0WARTM  ILW
Actual      Actual      Actual       Actual     Printed      Forvard      Forward     Formard
1985/66     198YI/87    1987/6       19U6/69     1989/90      1990/91       991/92     1M92/93
-------------   In Kenyan Pound      --------
OUTFLOWS
Recurrent
672 Headquarters Forestry ODpartment             575,129 6I2.139          549,262      569.075     703.513      715.426     765,117      773,632
674 FITC Nakuru                                  472.431      609.390    564,254       643.199     60,824       694,693     769,419      846.773
675 Foraatry Train;ng Collogo, Londiani          284.873      327.668     266,825      248,947     BOS.120      320,232     555.17S      844.612
741 KEFRI                                              0      986,626
Subtotal                                    1,332.453   2,665.63S   1.349,641    1,390.221    1.650.437    1.750,551    1,o69,714    1,945,117
D,valop-ent /a
672 Hladquartara Forestry Departant               16525      S25.408       1.686      427,489    1.312,000   4,027,002   5.191,500   2,416.500
674 FITC Nakuru                                  562.921      106.S3       63,226     220.375      453,S0      272.600     240,000      268.000
676 Forestry Training Calloga, Londiani           37,733       63,260      53,193      161,401     616.500      690,025     427.625      246,000
676 Forestry and Plantation Daaelopeant        8,445,067   9.446.272   9,667.606   10,090.645   1,806.179  18,315,751   13.639,572   15.9S9,340
678 Local Afforeatation Sch_*a                   957.700   1.065,562   1.267,538    1,290,62    1,745.415   1.609,906    1,689,260   2.048,22
679 Rural Affor.-tation Scheama                2.405.348    2.761,407   2.631U.2    3,163,714   3.9S0,452   4.379,236    4.639,4U6   5.063.425
681 Road Construction Unit                       260,996      270,769      2.444      210,620      826.163      306,950     316.701      3S6.854
685 Samill Industry                                7.492        6,60        3,898       5.730        6,500        6.830       7.170        7,950
688 Machkoa Integrated Dnveloment Project         55,515       11.640      29,910      74.742      192,606      296.000     S35,569      265,3S9
738 ASAL Forestry Development Scheme             176.472      159,006     126,207     339.547    1,072,615    1.299,099    1,406,778   1,056,959
739 Rural Tree DOe.lopmant                             0       86.200      21,581      505.010     310,596      321.560     355,698      440.700
741 KEFRI                                              0       27.489
Subtotal                                   12.925,769   14,369.041   14,501.141   16,289.915  23.773,348   26.594.659  26,647,409   26,130,975
Total Outflows                             14,258.2    16,94.,674   1.6850.982  17.6d0,U16   25,423.S05  28.325,210  30.517,123  30,096,092
IFFLOWS
Appropriat;ons-in-Aid to Forastry Dapartewnt
Ravenuas
Sale of Sead- and Cuttingo                   4,259       2,419       55,242      41,605       19.200      19,200       19.200
310       6.671
2.174      10.000
Sale of Timber and House                   409,140     441.521      841,178     405.1568     529.37      600,000      688,086
Salas and Fees for Servicas Randarad                                 51.966      11,834       3,000        3.000        3,000
Subtotal                                   415,883     480.oll      626,368     4568,97      551,875     622.200      710,286
Grant Funds
Finnida                                      495,000
Italian                                       26,619       57,391
Swiss                                          11,980
FAD                                                                                    475
120 ASAL Taits Taevts                                                                              176.000     299,000
120 Afforestation Program                                                                           92.000     890,000      420,000      210,000
120 Kitui ASAL                                                                                      37.500       14.000      14,000
170 Turkana Forestry Davalopant ASAL                                                               114,750      184,600     150,000
170 Bungoms Rural Developmant Program                                                                           105,000     105,000
180 ASAL Kajiado                                                                                     5,000       5,000
180 ASAL West Pokot forest Davelopment                                                              10.000       10,000                   10.000
200 Rural Tree D0valopaant Fund                                                                    263.720      260.000     260.000      400,000
210 Foraatry Dovelopaan+ Project II                                                                144I.250     30.920      328,440
230 Forestry Project                                                                               519.000      490.025     27.626
250 MachaLo  Integrated Davelopment Program III                                                    170.000      S65,000     200.000      200.000
260 FITC Nakuru                                                                                     42,000      242,000
26Ul Tram Oroming for Soil Protection                                                              500.000   1.520,000    1,320,000      o60,000
260 Master Plan and Pol lomup Project                                                                         1.760.000   3,300.000    1.650,000
800 B8ring. Forastry                                                                               145,000      100.000 
S30 Plantation Forestry Invantory                                                                  175.000      160,500     150,000      126,500
850 Hsu Narok Multipurpoe  Project                                                                 200.000      300,000     300,000      300,000
530 Mangrowa Reaources Wnagemnt                                                                     70,000       70,000      70,000       70,000
580 Woody 8iomas n  and.                                                                            70.000       70,000      70,000       70,000
530 Woody Bionmass H  n.                                                                            70,000       70,000      70.000
340 Forestry Projact                                                                                26,400      614.728
Subtotal                                     6,749         57,391           0          475   2.802,620   7.143.673   7.055,065    3,696,500
Total Inftlom                                 949,632     518.002     6268.31      459,072   3.354.195    7,765,687    7,765.351   3.696.500
:FfLOW    - OUrFLOWS                      (13.3080.90) (16,426.672) (15.,22294) (17.221.064) (22,069.610) (20.559,337) (22.751,772) (26.399,592)



0 ~ ~ ~ 0-                                                              9
t~~~ t                                        a         
at              '.         ! : 
I                   ,    .9 ,           3(
a                          -- e-u                                     -   
25 *             ;. ' 1.2' o                    :  . 
e *              S    i          i
Iti
3*              !t'             3
V    3                         - .$  
C~~~ ia
0~ ~                     ~      S
a                O'        



- 62-                                        Annex 4
KlfA                                                                    Table  2
P5TRY ODEVUa4 PROJM0T
TDI    ROYALTY - FYIOW
Area Clearcut
Total    Pine Cyprec  Eucalyptus
Poles                             16O       O0        OS       100S
Pulpwood                        1,000       uST      S6S        10S
Seatimb-r                       2,S50       s0o      WSO        0O
Nectar" Clearcut:
Poles                             160        0        0        160
Pulpwood                        1.000      6S0     880         100
Sn-timber                       2.350    1,178    1.176          0
Average Yields
Clearcut Thinninge Merchantable
Rotation     MAI  Ml/Ha   66/90(1)  35/70(2)           Yield
Pulpwood                           18       20     E60         324          0          324
Sewtlaber                          80       20      600        886       lg           495
Eucalyptus                          0       20      16O        180          0          1EO
Averass Royalty
Pinc Cypress Eucalyptus
Clearfel I i n
Polc 024-S2dbh                      0        0      195
Pulpwood 8 S5dbh                  192      192      198
Sawtiaber 8idbh                   204      290       0
Thinning:
Poles c24-O2dbh                     0        0       0
Pulpwood 8 35dbh                    0        0       0
Sewtimber SSdbh                   122      246       0
Col I ctab le Revenue
Clearcut Clearcut   Thinning  Thinning         Total
Ha   MS/Ha RoylIty        MS/He   Royalty       Revenue
Pole - Eucalyptus                 160      180      195          0          0   8.616.000
Pulpwood - Pine                   850      324      192          0          0  34,214,400
- Cypee                   50      824      192          0          0  21.772.800
- Eucalyptus             100      18O      190          0          0   8.,10,000
Sawtiaber (8) - Pine              900      8s6      204        139        100  77.909.040
- Cypre-                900      886      290         189       150 111.731,400
Sautieber (4) - Pine              275      120      204        189        122  11.382.0S0
- cypress               276      120      290         189       246   18.948.290
TOTAL                                                                          285.081.960
Actual Collection                                                              141.981,0b0
(1) The first number refers to the percentage of the total bio.... that
is recoverable at the tile of clearcutting Pine and Cyprem ewtiaber.
The second numbcr refer. to the actual bioee. that i merchantable,
decreasing *- fewer thinning  are don.
(2) The first number rerementa the percentage of the total bio_a-
that as recoverabl, from thinning.  The second number rpreeent
the mrchantable volum, given that the first thinning  a
non-commrciel.
(3) baed on asseesment by stnding volum. Of this. about 1,200 ha of tiaber acre
cleared by the toe peraatal and the royaltieo cannot be recovered.
(4) Dameg  area eher re alt4ie mre eeemed by ground-al ing.



KENYA
FORM    DFJELIIIEIT PRIIJECT
Gowonmt Cash Flo
in 196. mllion
19t     192    1993    1994    1995    1M         1997    Im       199    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    2006    2007    2008    2009    2010   Total
Saoce of fehs
lWroeetal oyaltin la
Fr esistig plutcttis            97.0   102.0   117.0   126.0   126.0   126.0   126.0   126.0   126.0   162.0   162.0   162.0   157.5   152.8   152.9   152.8   152.8    45.9             2.9     7.5
Freo replutin id u 11pluting
Pupuu                                                                                                                                                                         101.0   141.0   141.0
lalp                                                                                                                                 4.5      9.2     9.2      9.2     9.2    I5.1    19.2    13.5
Peolu/fluld                                                       9.9     9.9      9.8    10.5    10.5    42.1    32.3    32.3    32.9    33.1    39.5    11.3    11.3    12.1    12.9    40.1
lSd  of  e ling                  0.0      0.1     0.1     0.2      0.2     0.2      0.2     0.2      0.2     0.2     0.2      0.3 *   0.3      0.3     0.3     0.3      0.3     0.3      0.4     0.4
'Itwlu
1N                            19.0    76.5    72.0    45.0    27.0        9.0 
EC                             130.5    67.5    63.0    42.9    31.5    19.0
a                              49.5    36.0    36.0       4.5     2.3     2.3
SIC                             13.0    22.5    27.0    18.0    20.3    15.9
FtUIN                          40.5    31.5    31.5
Tueltin  ea PreJKt Costs    65.5    35.1    34.4    1.5    12.2           6.9
Sutotal                          5I.0   371.2   33i.1   253.0   229.1   197.7   136.0   136.7   136.7   204.3   1S4.5   194.6   195.2   195.4   201.9   173.6   173.4   174.4   175.2   202.5 4,505.5
Us of Fuad
For. lo. Project Cost           535.0  *304.0   307.0   201.0   175.0   141.0    60:2    21.6    14.5    14.3    14.3    14.2    60.2    21.6    14.5    14.3    14.3    14.2    60.2    21.6
hbt Services
Forntry   elopeht Credit         1.5     2.1     2.6      2.9     3.1      3.2     3.2     3.2      3.2     3.2    11.8    11.8    11.       12.9    11.9    11.9    11.9    11.91    11.8    11.8
Sbtotal                           596.5   30.1   309.6   203.9   271.1   144.2    63.4    24.8    17.7    17.5    26.1    26.0    72.0    33.4    26.3    26.1    26.1    26.0    72.0    33.4 2,219.3
Balance                             2.5    65.1    71.5    4.0    51.0    43.5    72.6   111.9   II.0   186.8   169.4   161.6   123.2   162.0   175.5   147.5   147.5   149.4   103.2   169.1 2,236.3
Cash if la per year                                                                                                                                                                                        114.3
/a Assamq 3,300 ha. are cat vry yw    d sing existing royalty rate.
W *.



mHA FORESTRY SECTOR PMWECT
Fill FORESTRY E IISII C INT
- _ .                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s:fln..3.:nss==e3  sessstssscsecc
Discount Rate           tO.02
I PW                   7,562 KSh
Isic ksuaptims                                                                                              IRR                     67.71
seedling Ce t                    0.5 KSh ea                                                                Discounted gross ha   5,696 Kh         I
Ldar Cost                         20 lShlid                                                                Discounted Labor        46.01
hrginslLabor          123.82 KSh/day  1
Palo Value  (5c x 31               2 KSh/pole       KEl 339.53 1I3                                          ,:scssss;3s:1SRgmt3g,;..t
(12cx S*e              5 IShipole      Oh 141.47 1I3
Firmnd Yalu                      250 KShIU3
SWails    Sr.villea riusta
Patters:       ldury bidns:                67  trem/100 a
Field tree,                    45  tre/ba
Total:                        310 trm/ba faruelet
han_aetl Pollrdid at 1.5 e starting at ae 5                                                                                                                                                                                 P
Inputs:     Seelie:ss                     411 sedlingslhe faelet
Lder:   Idig Collecti         0.5  ed/100 digs   *         1.9 ad
Site Prep.            2  ed/IO  digs   a         7.6 ed
Planting            0.5  ed/100 sdigs   *        1.9 ad
Haintannce 1        1.5  d/100 sdls   a         5.7 ad
hinteaRce 2         1.5  edlOO sdigs   a        5.7 ed
HainteRace 3        0.5  Wd/UiO  dips            1.9 ad
Harvestieg          0.5  ud/m3
Productions Foeelods
Trieeing         1.1780  d3/yr starting    3 years t 2.01 incr/annas
Harvestig I    05300  d3 at                5 years
Harveting 2      2.1200  .3 at              9 years
arvustieg 3      2.1200  d3 at             14 years
Ibrvestig 4     2.1200  *3 at            20 years
Large Poles (12 co x S al D:
Harvesting 1        281  pole  at           5 years
Harvesting 2        563  poes at           9 years
Harvesting 3        506  poles at          14 years
Harvesting 4        422 pales at           20 years
Smll PoleS  5 cO K 3 *1
Harvesting I          0  poles at           5 years
Harvesting 2        563 poles at            9 years
Haresting 3         619  poles at          14 years
Harvesting 4        703  poes at           20 years



KON mwa. am 
FMi FIQSI C1UN Tmm
FMl am1 'Al
VW                                       1       2        3       4        5                                        I 7  3  9  0  It  12     13       14      15       16      17       13      19       20
bets
Utwialu          11imp              29.4
Ldws             1.6il  CII.       41."
fite Fr0           152.1
pIutl               3.Le
Uai2tsuc           114.tt  1224.    33.00
Uwniq                .O      0o.o    11.73   12.32   174.92    2.50   12.75   ILO   33.53   13.53   13.30   24.4O    1.4    35.35   14.4    15.24  1a.54    15.0 2s.17  32LI2
lw cAuts                            a4-.    114.1    49.73   IL02  174.92   12.5    2I75   IL.01  33.53   13.53   13.1?0  124.             24.3   35.5    14.94   15.24   12.54    15.US    l.27  321.2
Princtim
*                              Trihiep               .1     0.oo     1.L1    1.20    1.23    1.2.    1.23    1.30       1.33    1.35    1.36    1.41    2.44    1.46    1.49    1.52    1.55    1.59    1.62    2.65
Kwmstlq I            0       0.oo    0.1?    0.00    0.5s     61A      0.1?             0.1?    0.00    0.eo    0.30     0.oe    6.1      0.oo 0   e0 0.   0.1?    0.1o     0.1?    0.1
Eautimg 2           0.1?    0.       0.1? 0    .00    0 .1?    LO Lt     N     0.1?    2.12    0.00    0.0e    0.1?    0.1o    0.1        0.46    0.eo    0.00    o.1?    0.1o       0.1?
flwvatl 3           0.t1    0.1?   0*.1       0.00    0.0     0.1      6.      01       0.1     0.1      0.1?    0.1?    0.00    2.12    0.oo    0.46    0.oo    0.1?    0.1?         .1
unstlq 4            0.1?   0*.4    0*.        0.0     0.1?    0.1      L.1?    0.1O    0.1?    0.00    0.oo    o.1       0.00  o.tO    0.1         0.1     0.0      0.00    0.1?    L12
0.1     0.1?    2.13    1.20    1.74    1.25    1.23    1.30    3.45    2.35    1.33    2.41    1.44    3.3           1.49    1.52    2.55    1.59      1.U2    3.
Lap PIn 1.1
*                              Uwmtlmg                 0       0       0        0      231       0       0        0       0        0       0        0       0       0        0       0        0       0        0       0
3wntll 2               0        0       0       0        0       0        0       0      543       0       0        0       0        0       0        0       0        e       0        0
Iwnwut  3              00                                0 o              0       0        0       0        0       0       0                                          e 0  0 0
ent"ti                 0        0       0       0                0 0  0                    0       0        0       0       0        0       0        0       0        0       *      42
*       0        0       0      211       0     0          0     543        0       0       0        0     SU         0       *        I       0        0     422
batullsln (1
Kwwntill                                0       0        0       0        0       0e0              0 o              a       I        0       0        0       0        *       0        0
Nwsntm  2              0                a       * 0      0       0        0       0        3       0        0               0        0       *        0       0        0       0        0
Nu'vti% 3              0       0        0       0        0       0        0       0        0       0       0                0      42        0        0       0        0       0        0
llwwstlmg 4            0        0       0        0       0       0        0       0        0       0       0                                 0        0       0        0       6      7M
0       0        0       0       0        0       0        0     53 a               0        0       0      42        0       0        0       0        0     7M3
F.lu. 0.O                    *.0.  294.50   0.n39  433.9   312.53  312.73  325.25  01.65   3.29  345.05   352."   3M."   1.17   373.    30.97  33059  39.34  40.29  942.37
Lap PsIN            0.1 O     0.     0.00     0.01  2,24.00    0.01    0.00    0.O1 4,54.00     0.10     0.00    0.01    0.10 4,0.t        0       0.?0   0.00    0.1O    O.t 3,374.4t
hl 11      0eln     *.46      00 .1? *.    00         0.00        0.?0   0.00    0.001,426.00    0.00    0.00    0.0    0.it 1,233.1?    0.1O      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.3 1,460.46       1
Totl  _un                             0.40     0.00  29.50  300.39 2,61.90   312.53  321.73  325.15 4,491.5   331.29  345.05  351.95  3W0.9 9,12.?   373.53  330.97  SJ.59   39.    464.29 5,724.37
n.s Irpins                          554101 (21411.30   244.7   203.372,511.9   300.02  306.03  312.IS6,100.13  324.76  331.25  33         344.635,3S5.U   3.5    35.3   373.04  30.3   333.215,440.23
Firacial btire                      1209.00    .0     0.00    0.00 2,243.00    0.00    0.00    0.10 5,630.1?    0.10    *.00    0.0        0.00 5,23.0      0.00    0.1?    0.0      0.tO    0.tt 4,712.1?
Nhmays                                17.29    5.70    2.49    0.60    9.75    0.3    0.64    0.65   29.23    0..         0.69    0.70    0.72   27.82    0.75    0.76    0.73    0.79    0.1    15.31



Annex 4
Table 4. Page Three
~~~~~~~~~V
n~~~~~~~~~~ u
*    1    .-- 
3~~~~~~~~~~~-                                      V  
"  O  s   -  -     I
5.3~            -   S 7 15       
E~~~~~~ :, ** - m                                   - 
1S va   , ;                  _  _ _ _ _ _      -    -
ffi !  w  0  f hy. fiI                                        0          0 :=  
o I  --                                                                     C;   -  ~        .  a :
4
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
s'. A       a:  z            g.   z  .                 j           
~IJ * r                     j =                       



KEN IA FORESTRY SECTOR MRJECT
FARN FORESTR EITENSION CORPOIST
FARRI IWIL V
YEAR                                          2        2         3        4         5         6        7         a   9             1 0       II        12       13        14       15        16        17        to       29        20
Costs
fNatmrialsu        Soomlials                900
Tool,                    so         0         0        0        20        0         0         0        0        20         0        0         0         0       20         0         0        0         0        20
Labws              hedIzto  CoIl           160
Site Pr"p               240
Plating                  160
Kauntmua e              440       440       300      300       300       300      300       300       300      300       300      300       300       300      300       300       300      300       300       300
Harvesting                0         0        36        0       616       208        0         0         0      647       208        0         0         0      647       209         0        0         0       647
Tctol Costs                               1,950      460       3ju       300      936       509      300       S00       300      967       509       300      300       300      967       509       300       300      300       967
Prodactioo
Larp. Poles tool
NarmtalmI                 0         0         0        0  1,200            0        0         0        0         0         0         0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0
liarvnstial 2             0         0         0        0         0         0        0         0        0  1,155            0        0         0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0
lIureting 3               0         0         0        0         0         0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0         021,255            0         0        0         0         0
Narvmtiaq 4               0         0         0        0         0         0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0        0         0    2,155
0        0         0         0    1,100         0        0         0         0    1,255         0         0        ';        0    2,255         0         0         0        0    2,255
Small Pole, lao)
ltavnkiaglI               0         0       600        0         0         0        0         0         0        0         6         0        *)        0        *         0         0        0         0         0
Harvttnhi2                0         0         0        0         0  3,415           0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0
llvartiql3                0         0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0        0    3,465          0        0         0        0         0         0         0        0         0
Harvetiqg4                 0        0         0         0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0        0         0         0        0  3,415            0        0         0         0
0        0       600         0        0  3,465           0         0         0        0  3,465            0        0         0        0  3,415            0        0         0         0
kvmnu
Large Polus               0         0         0        09,9000             0        0         0         0  9,240           0        0         0         0  9,240           0         0        0         0  9,240
Small Palm                0         0  1,200           0         0  6,930           0         0        0         0  6,930           0         0         0        0    6,930          0        0         0         0
Total hveoue                                  0        0    1,700O         0    89,00    6,930          0        0         0    9,240    6,930          0        0         0    9,240    6,930          0         0        0    9,240
6ross Rargies                            21,9502    44601      864      (3001   7,e64    6,422       2300)    (3(02     2300)   9,273    6,422       (300)    2300)    (3002   9,273    b,422        i300)    (3002    2300)    ,273
Financial Return                          (9002        0    1,200          0    9,900    6,930          0        0         0    9,240     6,930         0        0         0    9,240    6,930          0         0         0    9,240
I2ways                                       50       23        17        15       46        25        IS       15        15        47       25        15        15       15        47       25        15        25        15       47
------------ ------------------------------- ---                                                                    -------            -------------------- I.--          --------------------------------------------------- -  -



KEllA FOKSMT  SMCT0R fOJECT
FARR FEESTRY EITENlItN CWUIT
FAR  NOtEL 'C                                 ' ,                                                   -a t.=.fl:.:.s.. n... ..:,= .
.........                                                                   :Dhuscot Rate                      lO.I
9nic kwoptti                                                                                       'I                                2,v21   KSh    :
. ........                                                                                     ERR                             32.71
W liag Cost                      0.5 tSh a
Lar Cnt                            20 (ShIed                                                        Illistnted Bross Marqin         "7.21
:Oiscounted Lbwr                47.5S
Palo VeRa  15cn * Jl                2  Ish/pole                                                     itncomehaday                     20.911 KSItda
112w * So              | ISII                                                           :,-gh                 ,..,
FtrUeu     Value                  250 KSh1l3
Species:    kHiracta lodica
testis sims
ocalyptes casaldtleesif
Bresillee rosta
Pattnt       rdAy badles                    67  trslDo1   a       C. Smai
Hented tre                     20 trees per belot  E.c. + ki.O
Field trefte                    0  tre/ba             Lr..
tot&l:                        502 trees24& f relot
Naagesemt: Hedis crop"ed fw  Iulo lsull poles
Hometead tret itr large poln
Field tre  tried for fwlooolpollardod fI  poles
epats:      Sedlings:                     552 eedinnp/ba farelot
Lbor:   Sdig Collectn         0.5  ntl/00 sdls  s  2.76 ad
Site Prop.          2.5  ad/100 $dis   |  13.8
Plating             1.5  iId00 isdsp        8.29
KAistentce l       1.5  IdIOP  Ip  s    9.28
kaintetnce 2        1.5  ed/IO  %dgs   '  8.28
Hanteonncoe 3         1 eIM104 stIp t    5.52
Karvntieg           0.5  .:Vts
Prodlctiont Feloodst Canis beddge       2.5000    3 anually fro.  S years
Homestea  tte   0.0300    3 anually Irn   I
Fiell trm        0.1200    d  anmally rma   5
Larg   oe, (12 c    t 5 at C
Cnssa  adgen        101 poles at   10  20   30 yeaWs
Hosb tea  tree       lO poles at    I   l    24
Field teem           20 poles At  tO  20   50
Sall Plesn I  c I I nl
Caissa hod%es       201 poln at    5   10  15  20 years
Ihonstea  tre        10 poln at    B   12   16  20
Fheld tre            40 poen at   10  15  '20   25
................ ....................... *... .. ........ ............ .... .... ... ....... ...... . ...



KEA FETY SECTOR PROECT
FIII FORESTRY EITENSIM COi
FM   DEL 'C'
YE.                                    1       2       3       4       5       6        7       B       9       10     11       12      13      14      15      16       17      13      19       20
Coats
hatarialat      hu4biie          271.00
Lubors          S631   Call       55.20
Situ Prop         251.00
Plti.           150.60
hintustu          150.60  150.60  1OO.0
Narvtilg            0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   39.26   26.20   26.20   32.70   26.50  109.44   26.50   27.10   26.50   26.50   40.96   32.70   26.50   26.50   26.50   96.38
Tatd Csts                         *L84    150.60  100.0    0.00   33.26   26.20   26.20   32.70   26.50  106.44   26.50   27.10   26.50   26.50   40.96   32.70   26.50   26.50   26.50   S6.31
Fueli     (t31
Cassd hwe           0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.50    2.50    2.50    2.50    2.50    2.50    2.50    2.50    2.50    2.50    2.50    2.50    2.50    2.50    2.50    2.50
aaunte  tr         0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.03    0.03    0.03    0.03    0.03    0.03    0.03    0.03    0.03    0.03    0.03    0.03    0.03           a'
Field trtts         0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.12    0.12    0.12    0.12    0.12    0.12    0.12    0.12    0.12    0.12    0.12    0.12    0.12    0.12    0.12    0.12          tD
0.00    0.00    0.0     0.00    2.62    2.62    2.62    2.65    2.65    2.65    2.65    2.65    2.65    2.65    2.65    2.65    2.65    2.65    2.65    2.65
Larp Prln lea)
Cussia hundp          0        0       0       0       0       0        0       0       0     101       0       0        0       0       0       0       0        0       0      101
astaa tr n            0        0       0       0       0       0        0      10       0       0       0       0        0       0       0      1o       0        o       0       0
Field trm             0        0       0       0       0       0        0       0       0      20       0        0       0       0       0       0       0        0       0      20
0       0       0       0       0        0       0      10       0      121       0       0       0       0       0      10       0        0       0      121
Sull Poin tso)
Cassia tde            0        0       0       0     201       0        0       0       0     201       0        0       0       0     201       0       0        0       0       0
Nmte  trem            0        0       0       0       0       0        0      10       0       0       0       10       0       0       0      10       0        0       0       0
Field tre             0        0       0       0       0       0        0       0       0      40       0       0        0       0      40       0       0        0       0      40
0       0       0       0      201       0       0      10       0     241       0       10       0       0     241      10       0        0       0      40
Fhlood              0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00  655.00  655.00  655.00  662.50  662.50  662.50  662.50  662.50  662.50  662.50  662.50  662.50  662.50  662.50  662.50  662.50
Sall Poln           0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00  402.00    0.00    0.00   20.00    0.00  432.00    0.00   20.00    0.00    0.00  462.00   20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   9o.00
Lrge Paln           0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00  964.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   90.00    0.00    0.00    0.00  964.00
Total Ibu                           0.00    0.00    0.0      0.00 1,057.00  655.00  655.00  762.50  662.50 2,108.50  662.50  662.50  662.50  662.50 1,144.50  762.50  662.50  662.50  662.50 1,706.50
6ra  Nargins                     IR83.40) 1150.601 (100.401   0.00 1,019.74  629.90  628.80  72M.3   636.00 2,000.06  636.00  65.40  636.00  636.00 1,103.54  729.90  636.00  636.00  636.00 1,610.12   i
Fiamial Rturn                       0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00  402.00    0.00    0.00  100.00    0.00 1,446.00    0.00   20.00    0.00    0.00  492.00  1OO.00    0.00    0.00    0.00 1,044.00
fhmm                               30.37    7.53    5.02    0.00    1.91    1.31    1.31    1.64    1.33    5.42    1.33    1.36    1.33    1.33    2.05    1.64    1.33    1.33    1.33    4.82
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _-                                                    - -_______-__-__-____-_ -____- -- _____  ___



VEIIYA
FORESTRY DEYELOPIENT PROJECT
IlCEEIIThL OEIEFTTS ANG COSTS
(KSn. million)
1       2        3        4        5        6        7        a        9       10       it       12       13       14       15       16       17       18
Incrental Eenefits
Now and Replanting                                               10.8    10.9    10.8       11.5     15.0    89.5    78.7    78.7    89.2   101.9   109.3    34.7    34.7   195.6
Fire Lasses Avoided                    9.6     9.6       9.6      9.6     9.6      9.6      9.6      8.6      9.6      9.6      9.6      8.6      9.6      8.6      8.6      8.6      9.6
Residual Vaue
Total                          0.0      9.6      9.6      8.6     19.4    19.4    19.4    20.1    23.6   9*.1    07.3    87.3    97.8   110.5   117.9    43.3    43.3   194.2
lnueental Costs
Investuent Costs:
Roads                        29.6    27.3    26.6    23.5    23.4          7.7
Industrial Plantations      37.5      6.6       4.2     2.2       1.1      1.0
Additional Plantations        4.3      0.7      0.7      0.7      0.7      0.7
Fire Protection               8.9      3.0      0.3
Institutioep Building        12.0     2.6      2.9      2.0      0.2      0.3
Subtotal                      91.2    40.2    34.7    29.4    25.4          9.7
Recurrent Costs                                                                                                                                                                                                          _
Roads                         5.4      6.7      7.8      7.9      7.9      9.9      9.9      9.9      9.9      8.9     8.9       9.S      8.9      9.9     8.9      8.9      9.9      8.9
Industrial Plantations       5.3      6.3       6.3      6.4     6.4       6.5      6.5     6.5      6.5       6.5     6.5      6.5      6.5      6.5      6.5      6.5      6.5      6.5
Additional Plantations       0.4       0.5     0.5       0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5     0.5      0.5       0.5     0.5       0.5     0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5
Fire Protection              0.7       0.7      0.7      0.7      0.7      0.7      0.7      0.7      0.7      0.7      0.7     0.7      0.7      0.7      0.7      0.7      0.7      0.7
Institution Building         0.1      0.3      0.3      0.3      0.3      0.3      0.3      0.3      0.3      0.3      0.3      0.3      0.3      0.3      0.3      0.3      0.3      0.3
Labor                        11.1     12.7    14.3    14.6    14.8    15.9          6.6      5.2      3.4      3.0      2.1      1.6      1.7      1.3     1.2      1.6      1.6      1.4
Replaceunt Costs                                                                  48.6       9.2      0.7     0.6      0.5      0.4    48.6       9.2      0.7      0.6      0.5      0.4
Subtotal                      23.0    27.2    29.9    30.3        30.5    32.8      72.1    30.3      21.0    20.5      19.5    18.9    67.2    26.4    19.8    19.1    19.0    19.7
Total                        114.2    67.5    64.7    58.7    55.9    42.5    72.1    30.3    21.0    20.5    19.5    18.9    67.2    26.4    19.8    19.1                   19.0    19.7
Nt Benefits                  (114.21   (58.9)   (56.1)   (50.1I   (36.51   (23.11   (52.71  (10.21      2.6    77.6    67.9    69.4    30.6    84.1    99.1    24.2    24.3   175.5
ERR          17.21
* iD
on I



19      20       21       22       23      24       25       26       27       29       29      30       31       32       33       34      35
Increetal 8nuf its
lkn  nd Replanting         250.3   311.5  1,181.3  1,191.3  1,219.3   175.7   122.8    49.2    48.2    t9.2    IO.3   926.6   916.3   916.3   916.3   916.3   916.3
Fire Losos Avoided           9.6      9.6    33.5    33.5    33.5    33.5    33.5    33.5    33.5    33.5    33.5    33.5    33.5    33.5    33.5    33.5    33.5
Iesidual Vaue                                                                                                                                                            13.5
Total                       259.9   320.1  1,214.0  1,214.1  1,252.9   209.2   156.3    81.7    91.7    81.7    43.9   960.1   949.9   949.9    949.    949.8   963.3
Incremental Costs
lnestent Costs?
boads
lndustrial Platatims
Additional Plantations
F'ru ProtKetion                                                                                                                                                                                                     -
Institution Building
Subtotal
Rkeurrent Costs
ods                          9.9      B.9     9.9       9.9     B.9      9.9      8.9      9.9     8.S      9.9      9.9      8.9      9.9     9.9      8.9      8.9      8.9
Industrial Platations        6.5      6.5     6.5      6.5      6.5      6.5      6.5      6.5     6.5      6.5      6.5      6.5      6.5     6.5      6.5      6.5      6.5
Additional Platations        0.5      0.5     0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5     0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5     0.5      0.5      0.5
Fire Protectiom              0.7      0.7      0.7     0.7      0.7      0.7      0.7      0.7      0.7     0.7      0.7      0.7      0.7     0.7      0.7      0.7      0.7
Institutim Buildirg          0.3      0.3     0.3      0.3      0.3      0.3      0.3      0.3     0.3      0.3      0.3      0.3      0.3     0.3      0.3      0.3      0.3
Labr                         1.3      1.3      1.1      1.1     0.9      0.9      2.2      1.6      1.6     1.3      1.2      1.2      0.7      0.3
Replacbmnt Costs            49.6      9.2     0.7      0.6      0.5      0.4    49.6       8.2      0.7     0.6      0.5      0.4   4N.6        9.2     0.7      0.6      0.5
Subtotal                     66.8    26.4    19.7    19.6    19.3    19.1    66.7    26.7    19.2            3.B    19.6    19.5    66.2    75.4    17.6    17.5    17.4
Total                        66.      26.4    18.7    18.6    19.3    19.1    66.7    26.7    19.2    19.9    18.6    19.5    66.2    25.4    17.6    17.5    17.4
lit Belefits                 192.1   293.7  1,296.1  1,196.2  1,234.5    191.1    99.6    55.0    62.5    62.9    25.2   941.6    03.6   924.4   932.2   932.3   945.9
'Ut



Annex 6
Page 1 of 6
KENYA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Main Subsector Issues and Prospects
Deforestation of Indigenous Forests and Environmental D3gradation
1.   Kenya's natural forests and woodlands have been reduced in area
and protective tree cover at a large scale over the past decades and
this trend continues, perhaps at an accelerating rate. The overriding
cause for this has been population pressures, resulting in increasing
demand for conversion of forests to agricultural land, for timber
products and for woodfuel. The denudation has had a negative
environmental impact. Critical watersheds are in danger of being
damaged irreparably, resulting in loss of top soil, downstream flooding,
disruption of dry season water supply, and loss of indigenous flora and
fauna. It has been estimated in the Subsector Review that, if this
process is not halted, resulting damages to the tourist industry and to
agricultural production alone could total over US$ 50 million p.a.
There has been no inventory of the natural forests to provide a basis
for sustained yield management since the 1960s, and their protection has
been inadequate, as has been control of cutting. However, since
1988/89, Government has moved the illegal squatters out of large parts
of the gazetted forests, and this process continues.
2.   T.; prevent further environmental damage and economic losses, it is
necessary to institute effective control by FD against all forms of
illegal int:usion over all surviving key forest areas and to improve
forest management. As a prerequisite, a rapid timber and ecosystems
inventory of the indigenous forests and a broad bio-mass survey of the
woodlands are needed for the preparation of a nationwide forest land use
plan and forest management plans. Special remedial measures include the
deployment of forest guards, including a broadening of their roles to
provide forestry extension services to people living adjacent to the
forest areas, (re-)definition of forest boundaries, gazettment of
additional forests or of changes in boundaries, and regeneration of
denuded natural forest land. Furthermore, present pricing policies,
which make the indiscriminate cutting down of natural trees financially
attractive, need to be changed, and ways of involving the local people
in the sustained management of the indigenous forests need to be
developed.
Woodfuel Shortage
3.   A woodfuel deficiency is building up in Kenya because within 5-10
years most of the lands from which charcoal for urban use have been



- 73 -
Annex 6
Page 2 of 6
obtained in the past will be cleared and converted to agricultural land
uses. Clearing of trees for charcoal is already moving to ecologically
fragile woodlands with detrimental effects on soil and water resources.
Fuelwood stocks are being depleted at an estimated rate of some 15
million m3 p.a. and this is projected to more than double in the next
ten years, a trend that cannot be sustained. In the next 15 years, if
the country's fuelwood development program is not accelerated to create
sustainable sources of fuelwood to meet demand, the equivalent of three
million ha of open savannah forests, or up to half a million ha of
highland catchmpnt forest (or some combination of the two), would
probably be cleared, entailing disastrous ecological consequences.
4.   There are three main constraints holding back the implementation
of a large fuelwood development program: (a) the limited availability of
public land for this purpose; (b) the low commercial profitability of
growing trees for fuelwood; and (c) insufficient supporting technical
inputs. The bulk of the fuelwood supplies required in the future can
only be generated through private sector plantation initiatives.
Farmers in Kenya do grow trees on their farms and the nationwide
intensification of this activity could be the most efficient means to
satisfy the fuelwood demand.
5.   The profitability of growing fuelwood by the private sector could
be improved by correcting present imbalances in the pricing system
through upward adjustments by FD of stumpages on their fuelwood sales,
which are now subsidized, and more efficient stumpage collection;
deregulation of charcoal sales prices and abolition of limitations on
the transport of charcoal made of plantation wood; closure of vulnerable
and other key forests and woodlands to woodfuel production; and
introduction of a permit-and-fee system for wood legally gathered in
forests and all woodlands. Also, more work has to be done in the form
of studies and pilot schemes on economic models of agro-forestry and
pure fuelwood plantation schemes to quantify costs and benefits of
different investment approaches and justify possible incentives, like
credit and other input services or possible fiscal support.
6.   To make on-farm tree growing a massive popular activity on a
sustained basis depends critically on extension services available to
the tree farmers. While FD's Forest Extension Services Division (FESD)
has recently extended its network of extension stations, its extension
approaches remain largely undefined. Various modes of farm forestry
have been promoted in Kenya by many public and NGO agents. There is
need to consolidate extension by adopting a few dominant approaches
which can be replicated widely. In cases where a particular approach's
feasibility and replicability have not yet been well established,
selected pilot operations should be pursued. Another urgency is to
define the lead agency (agencies) for tree farming extension and the
modes of cooperation or division of labor among the agencies active in
this field. Horeover, in order to justify a given intensity of
extension, it is becoming necessary to continually gauge the extension
inputs and costs against outputs, i.e. seedling survival and wood
production, as well as against impact, i.e., the direct and indirect
physical and socio-economic effects. This would require instituting a



- 74 -                         Annex 6
Page 3 of 6
wide-spread and long-term monitoring and evaluation system. Also
research irtto, and genetic improvement of fuelwood species need to be
intensified, including species suited to semi-arid and arid zones.
Finally, the promotion of tree planting for fuelwood should be
coordinated with programs for energy conservation and improved
production methods of charcoal from plantation-grown wood in terms of
yields per m3 of wood and charcoal quality.
Inefficient Management of Industrial Plantations
7.   Kenya's 1.70,000 ha of industrial plantations under the FD
constitute an enormous asset. Currently, this asset is underutilized
and inadequately managed. For example, delays of prescribed thinnings
and final harvests at maturity, as well as omissions of prunings, all
result in huge forgone benefits due to retarded growth, late revenue,
poorer quality, and increased mortality. These losses, combined with
the use of an expensive and poorly supervised, permanently employed
plantation labor force of low productivity, and significant
non-collection or arrears in the collection of timber royalties, have
led to a situation where the management of the plantations is inevitably
being subsidized by the Government. At the same time, most wood
processing mills cannot expand in the face of difficulties in obtaining
sufficient timber. Timber shortages occur due to shortcomings in
plaianing and sequencing of operations, non-maintenance of forest roads,
and weak control of plantation management and harvesting by FD.
8.   FD's inefficiency in managing its plantations had by 1989 in the
sawnwood working circle led to accumulated backlogs in silvicultural
treatments and plantation re-establishment of such magnitude that FD
requested forest licensees (sawmillers) to take responsibility for
clearing substantial parts of the backlogs on harambee basis (voluntary
contribution). The industry, facing suspension of its timber harvesting
licenses from FD, responded swiftly and with using casual labour in
efficient operations, the total extent of which is not well documented.
In the pulpwood working circle, Panafiican Paper Mills (PPM) has been
involved at a large scale in the re-establishment and early tending of
plantations also on a contribution basis already for several years. FD
is interestec. in continuing this type of cost-sharing whenever needed.
9.   In the absence of an inventory only A small portion of the
plantatioas have valid management plans. There is an urgent need for a
plantation inventory as a basis for accurate management plans, and their
updating at regular intervals. The FD should improve the financial
viability of its plantations by tightening their management, increasing
labor producu;ivity, improving the forest roads, introducing integrated
sawlog/pulpwood harvesting where practicable, intensifying royalty
collection, and timely implementation of tending and felling operations,
and replanting. Studies have shown that the existing industrial
plantations, at current royalty rates and at a normal level of
management efficiency, could be financially self-supporting and in
addition generate sufficient funds to cover most, if not all of FD's
ather expenditures. The accumulated volumes and fuiture growth of the
existing sawlog stands should be able to sustain the industry for



- 75 -
Annex 6
Page 4 of 6
another 30 years. There appears to be no immediato need for a
substantial expansion of the total area of plantations. Instead,
efforts should be directed to improved management of the existing
stands, to the timely replanting of clear cut areas, and only a moderate
expansion of pulpwood plantations at this point of time.
Weakness of the Forest Department as the Principal Line Agency
10. Many of the problems in Kenya's forests have been aggravated by
the fact that FD is a weak line agency, with limited political support.
FD has been suffering from static budgets in real terms, compounded by
structural imbalances caused by 80-85? of the budget being spent on
salaries and wages. Consequently, the department's development has been
retrograde in the past five years to a point where its operations are
severely hampered by run-down and insufficient infrastructure and
vehicles, lack of materials, low morale among staff and particularly the
labor force, and a continuous state of crisis management. The systems
of coordinated planning of work, execution, supervision, monitoring and
reporting have almost broken down, and accountability of staff is
inadequate. The restructuring of FD's organization at HQ level in 1989,
a sound measure, has however had little impact to stem the
administrative and management negligence. Since mid-1989, FD has been
without a head office, but an unfinished building for this purpose is in
the process of being acquired. As a result of these developments, FD is
no longer adequately equipped to cope with the challenges of meeting the
development requirements of an environmentally sound and efficiently
producing forestry subsector. FD's host Ministry, MENR, is equally weak
and has not been able to ensure the strengthening of the FD. Other
Government agencies and NGOs have built up capacities to partly fill
this gap, particularly in agro-forestry extension (MOA, MOE).
11. The FD requires functional strengthening and selected
restructuring in areas of improved accounting and planning;
establishment of management info-mation and steering systems, including
monitoring and evaluation; strengthened forest extension and woodfuel
management; better forest protection and management; and road
engineering. Also a system of increased delegation and more efficient
communication between HQs and the field offices should be introduced.
Another priority area is in-service training in management and selected
subject matters for managers and supervisors throughout the department.
Career streams need to be streamlined according to specialization.
There is a need to invest in civil works, facilities, vehicles,
training, etc. to support improved operational efficiency.
Inadequacy of Forest Research and Forestr Education
12. Kenya's priorities in forest research, which have recently (1990)
been determined by a major programming effort of KEFRI, pertain to
environmental concerns, tree growing on farms, wood-based energy
production, indigenous species and management of industrial forests and
embrace biological, economic and social research. At present these
research needs are poorly met. KEFRI was only in 1986 separated from
the Kenya Agricultural Research Institute (KARI) and is now facing the



- 76 -
Annex 6
Page 5 of 6
task of growing into an independent organization. It has a meagre
budget, depends much on the frequently short-lived assistance from
external donors and has so far not well supported the areas of forestry
with the most pressing research needs. It also suffers from lack of
re._earch facilities. Its assets are a strong leadership, dedicated
staff and a clear vision of its role.
13. There is no alternative to obtaining the needed research results
but, over time, from a strengthened KEFRI. This can only be achieved by
a firm commitment to funding KEFRI to embark on a limited but manageable
research program that focuses on the above priority development
objectives. The institute will have to establish closer contact with
the main users of research results. Its network of research stations
needs to be consolidated to avoid spreading scarce resources too thin.
Many staff require additional training. It is also necessary for KEFRI
to establish linkages with other research organizations.
14. The subsector's development also hinges critically on the
availability of competently trained forestry personnel at all levels.
The educational contents and graduate crtput of the country's two
institutions providing forestry educat ,n at the professional and
technical levels, the Department of FoLtestry at Moi University (DFMU) in
Eldoret and the Kenya Forestry College at Londiani, need to be tied more
explicitly to the staffing requirements in the subsector, particularly
those in FD. Both institutions provide little specialization in their
curricula and suffer from a lack of qualified teaching staff and
adequate facilities and equipment. These limitations on projected needs
of specialized forestry personnel in Kenya will have to be redressed and
the two institutions built up so as to respond to these needs. A
complicating factor is the recent expansion of student numbers at the
university level which severely overloads FDMU facilities and staff that
maintenance of standards may not be possible. Also the issue of
vocational training in forestry, at present unavailable in the country,
will need to be addressed.
Deficient Inter-Agency and Donor Coordination
15. The sub-sector is characterized by the multiplicity of ministries,
line agencies and other governmental entities involved in forestry
activities. In some instances, despite a satisfactory division of work
between the agencies, there is weak or no coordination; in other cases,
the respective responsibilities of the agencies are poorly defined (e.g.
the presence of three ministries in on-farm extension forestry). This
situation has resulted in (partly) overlapping mandates, duplication of
efforts, confusion, even competition, and inoptimal allocation and use
of scarce development resources. Inter-agency cooperation is weakest at
the ministerial and line agency central levels but is more successfully
taking place in the Districts where the different agencies' field
officers have closer contact with each other either on a personal basis
or out of the DC offices. In any case, the present fragmentation of
forestry activities renders it difficult for the agencies concerned to
adequately address the major subsector issues and resolve them.



- 77 -
Annex 6
Page 6 of 6
16. The activities of the many external multilateral and bilateral
development agencies and NGOs have aggravated the afore-mentioned
fragmentation process. Donor funds have been used to finance operations
of limited scope and duration outside a broad subsector development
program. With few exceptions, the plethora of support operations have
overwhelmed the recipient agencies and have on balance contributed to
disjointed and geographically uneven development in the subsector.
Above all, once the external support has ceased, project operations have
frequently been unsustainable.
17. The situation is sufficiently serious to warrant attention by both
GOK and the donor community. What are required are operations based on
a strong, subsectorwide planning effort. If a strong subsectoral
development program and its efficient funding and implementation are to
be ensured, agreement is needed amongst various Government organizations
on the mandates and on mechanisms securing effective cooperation and
coordination of efforts amongst them.
Obsolete Subsector Policies and Legislation
18. It is more than 20 years since either the Forest Policy (1968) or
the Forests Act (1962) have been revised, and the Forest Policy is
definitely in need of revision. Up-to-date Government subsector
objectives have not been spelt out in a specific manner for a long time.
The Forests Act deals only with demarcated and gazetted Forest Reserves,
and does not pertain to forestry activities outside these reserves, such
as tree farming on private land and forestry operations in forests and
open woodlands on Trust Land under customary communal tenure. The old
Forest Policy does concern itself with these forms of forestry but is
not sufficiently explicit on them for practical guidance.
19. The absence of a clearly defined policy and strategies carry with
them the risk of conflicts, or of gaps in the responsibilities of public
administration. This seems to be what has been happening in Kenya;
formulation of a clear policy is, therefore, critical in view of the
increased number of implementing agencies in the subsector, on the one
hand, and the new challenges and changed priorities, on the other. In
addition to the Forests Act, it is also exigent to revise or clarify the
forestry-related parts of the Chiefs' Act, to provide the legislative
basis for applying the Forest Policy.



- 78 -
KENYA
-----                                                             Annex 7
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
............................
Project Implementation Schedule                                              Chart 1
................ ...................... .
I      I        ~~~~~1)!
efore Main   P. Yr I         P. Yr 2       P. Yr 3      P. Yr 4      P. Yr 5       P. Yr 6
lParoJect    11 it III IV 11 11 III IV 11 11 III IV It 11 III IV 11 11 III IV it 11 III IVI
Project Components and their
Main Activities
T.7Firm Forestry Extension:-
a. Strengthening of FESD HOs                  -_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-
b. Coord. and Monitoring of                  .     __           _                               __ __ ___ _ _______
Existing Pilot Operations
c. Intensified Forest Exten-                -.
sion in New Pilot Distr.
d. Support to Nationwide                    ..            _                                   _
Forest Extension
Z. Indigenous Forest Manage-
ment and Conservation:
a. Strengthening of Indig.                  ..
Forest Mgt. and Cons.
b. Operations in Indigenous                 ..            _                                   _
Forest
c. Inventory and Management                -.. _-_-_-                                                .  -  - - .--
Plans
d. Pilot Schemes                            .| -_____-
3. Industrial Plantations
Development:
a. Strengthening of Plant.                                                                   --_-_-_-_-_- -_-_-_-_-_-_
Establ. and Maint. Capac.
b. Operations in Plantation
Forest
c. Commercial Sector Involve-               -.
ment/Participation
d. Intensified Revenue
ColtLection
4. Stregthening of FD's
Central Functions:
a. Strengthening of FD's HQ               _                                                                  .  . . . . . .
Functions                                                                        - - - - - -  - - - - -
b. Stregthening of Road Dev't                                                         ......_ __ _     . . . . . .  . . . . . .
and Transp. Funct.
c. Measures to Improve Labor                -_-_-_-_-_- _-_-_-_-_-_
Productivity
S. Forestry Education-KFC
Londiani: Dev't support                                                          - - - - - -  - -
6. Forestry Research-KEFRI                                                            - -- -- - --                 -- -
Dev t Support                             -_
7. Kenya Forestry Master Plan               |
Common Activities
................
Road Rehabititation & Maint. 
Civil Works Construction                                                          .I._. ._._.
Vehicte Procurement                         -.-_-_--- _                                           - - - - - -
Equipment Procurement                                                  - - _         - _ _ _ _     . . . . . .
TechnicaL Services                           _____ ____             _  __. . . . . .
In-Service Training (non-                     -                                                          -_ -l__
degr. & degree training)
Technical Assistance                                                                 . .. .. .. .. .._.._.._.._
Monitoring & Evaluation                     .                                                                   .
KEY DATES
Effectiveness
Annual Work Plans
Progress Reports
Annuat Project Progress
Review
Mid-Term Review
Revised Forest Poticy                                                                    *                                   
Adopted F      Plc
Completion and Closing                                                             l
1) assumed to begin
1 April 1991



- 79 -
KENYA                       Annex 7
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT        Chart 2
Implementation Schedule of Forestry Master Plan
~~~~~~~~~~~~... ... .. .. ............. ....................... -... .......  . ...
Activity                               a)     Year I                      Year 2           2           Year 3
1     11    III     IV    I1      11    III     IV     I   1   11    III     IV  I
PART 1. FORESTRY MASTER PLAN
1. Preparatory Phase:
Issues Paper
Detailed Work Plan
2. Base Studies/Surveys Phase:
Resource Assessment                                                     ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ......
Other input studies/surveys                        .       ...... ......
& technical information
3. Policy Review/Revisions:                      ...... .        ...... ....... ......
4. Analysis Phase:
Development strategies                      ...... ......        .         ...... ......
and prograffmes
Institutional support                              ...... ......             . ......
programmes
5. Master Plan Formulation Phase:
Preparation of nationwide                                 .  ... ...... .        .       ......
Plan
District-level plans                        ...... ......
6. Project Formulation Phase:
Project preparation                                       ...... ...... ...... ......
Imptementation plan
PART 11.
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
1. Development of Management   . ..... ..-.                      .   .   .      .    .        ...... ............ .....
and Information Systems
2. Training Courses, Seminars        *    *** **  ***     **      **       * **      *      *      *      *      *
& Workshops
PART III. TASK SUPERVISION
1. Steering Committee             *       *      *      *      *      *      *       *      *      *      *      *
2. Monitoring
3. Evaluation                           _      _      _      _      _      _ _            _      _      _      _
a) 1st quarter of year I is Oct.-Dec. 1990



KENYA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
____________________________
Key Peformance Indicators
-;-;----------------- ----Targe t------------------------   ----- Targe t------
Project Component. and Activities          Unit     By End of PYr 1       By End of PYr 2        By End of PYr 3     By End of Project
Unite      X         Units       X          Units      X         Units       X
I. Farm Forestry Extension
1.  Phasing In of pilot divisions        No.        5      33           11        73           13       87           15       100
2.  Nurseries operating/established
a.  Divislonal nurseries             No.        5      83           11        73          18        87           15       100
b.  Location nurseries               No.       10      14          40         57          60        86           70       100
c.  NGO/group/school nurs ries       No.       20       6           80        23         146        41          356       100
d.  Individual nurseries             No.       90       6          820        21         600        40        1,600       100
8.  Seedling produced
a.  Dlvisional nurseries            '000      160       S          580        16       1,100        32        3,410       100
b.  Location nurseries              '000      1SO       4         660         17       1,405        37        3,780       100
c.  NGO/group/school nurseries      '000       40       2          175        11         420        26        1,625       100
d.  Individual nurseries            '000       3S       2          190        18         S1S        35        1,S00       100
4.  Civil works
a.  Office buildings - new           No.        5      a8           11        73          13        87           15       100
b. Housing - new                     No.        5      88           11        73          13        87           15       100              c0
S. Vehicles & plant procured             No.       10      48           16        76           19       90           21       100              0
6.  Equipment A furniture procured   Xof costs             30                     45                    52                    100
7.  Technical Services                   _         16       19          34        40           69       70           84       100
S.  Training
a.  FESO HQ staff                    -         16      16           34        33           65       64          102       100
b.  FESD field staff - prof.tebch.  -          35.5     3           98         7         420.6      31        1,3365.     100
FESD field staff - subordinate  -         105       7         456         30         806        63        1,S06       100
c.  Other agoncies, Inc. MOA         _         61      12          181        27         159        33          488       100
d. NWO A group leaders               -        120       4          646        20        1,270       40        3,200       100
9.  Technical Assistance                           386      25          72        SO          102       71           144      100
II. Indigenous Forest Management and Conservation
1. Phasing In of pilot scheme            No.        a     100            3       100            8      100             3      100
2. Reforestation
a. Planting of doeuded areas         ha       300      11          700        26       1,200        44        2,700       100
b.  Enrichmnt planting               ha       800      11          700        26        1,200       44        2,700       100
8.  Boundar, demarcation                                                                                                                      o
a.  Beacons                          No.    1,900      23        3,800        47       6,300        78        8,100       100                  M i C
b.  Survey point.                    No.      200       7          400        14       1,000        36        2,800       100                m X
e   Boundary pIanting                Km       360       35         750        75          8S0       85         1,000      100                   -J
4.  Forest roZd  dedvelopmnt
a.  Rehabilitation                   Km        83      25          107        42          154       60           267      100
b.  Repairs                          Km        86       17          70        34          106       51           206      100
c.  Bridgs - repairs                 No.        6       28           8        44           11       61            18      100
d.  Maintenance                      Km        80        8         240        26          406       42           960      100



-T_r___-_--------------------------          -Target----
Project Component. and Activiti.t           Units         By End IP PYr 1       By End of PYr 2        By End of Pyr 3       By End of Project
Units      %          Units       X          Units       X
5. Civil Works
a. Conservation post. - now            No.             26     2o             76      g0            175      70           260    100
b. Staff housing - now                 No.              6    100              6     100              6     100             6    100
C. Station buildings - renovation   X of costs                17                     33                     S0                   100
6. Vehicles A plant procured/
rehabilitated
a.  Now v. A p.                        No.             67    100             67     100             67     100            67    100
b.  Rehabilitated v.   p.              No.             26    100             S0     100             s0     100            S0    100
7. Equipment A furniture procured        X of cost.               ea                     8s                     92                   loo
S. Technical services                       _             156     88            816       66           476      99           480    loo
9. Training
a.  FPCD HQ staff                       -              20     5o             40      100            40     1oo            40    100
b.  FPCO field staff (prof.& techn.)   -               12     10             24      20             48      40           120    100
c.  Conservation Assta. A headmn        _             130     17            260      34            385      51           760    100
10. Technical Assistance                    -              12    83              24      67             3S     loo            36    100
11. Forest Ecosyste  Inventory                                                                     compIte    100
III.  Industrial Plantations Development                                                                                                            o
1. Planting
a. Ropy anting                         ha           3,300     17          6,600       33         9,900      S0        19,800    100
b. Now planting                        he                      0            700      20          1,400      40         3,600    100
2. Plantation mintenance
a.  Coppleo reduction                   ha          1,650     17          a,300       33         4,950      S0         9,900    100
b.  Pruning                             ha         20,000     18         40,500       37        58,750      54       106,850    100
c.  Thinning                            ha          8,600     21         16,200      38         19,150      48        39,900    100
S. Forest roads devolopment
a. Rehabilitation                      Km              71     10            228       33           378      56           683    100
b. Repairs                             Km              90      9            276      28            486      47           996    loo
.  Bridge  - repairs                   No.              6     12             18      g3             3o      60            60    100
d   HMaintenance                       K              250      8            750       23         1,300      41         3,200    100
4. Civil Works
a.  Foret guard poste - now            No.             26     S0             S0      loo            S0     100            S0    100
b.  Fire ters - new                    No.             16      2             as      6e             so     100            50    100
c.  Station buildings - renvation  S of costa                 17                      33                    s0                   100
S. Vehicles A plant procured/                                                                                                        100
rehabilitated
.  NW v.   p.                          No.            106     96            106       95           108      97           1ll   loo
b. Rehabilitated v. A p.               No.            a3      64             56      100           X..    100             66    100
6.  Equlpmnt & furniture procured        X of cost.               46                      68                    78                   100         - %
7   Training
a. Prof. A techn. HQ A field staff    -                46     15            149.5    48            254.5    82           308.5  100
b.  Vocational staff                   m               92    83             182      66            232      82           282    100
8. Royalty collection
a.  Royalties from current year          X                    76                      76                    75
b. Royaltie  from previous year cumul. X                                              90                    90



-- -- --- - -------Target_-   ------ - -  Tr0
Project Components and Activities          Unit.         By End of PYr 1        By End of PYr 2       By End of Pyr 3       By End of Project
Units      X          Unit.       X         Units       X
IV. Strengthening of FD's Central Functions
1. Ne  Hq off ice equIpment A furn.      X of coats             100                     100                   100                  100
2. Vehicles - new                           No.           1S   100               15     100            16 loo  1S    100
3.  Other than HQ. equipment             X of costs              76                      76                   100                   1oo
4. Technical Services                       _             24     92              24      92            26     loo            26    100
S. Training
a. Professional a technical       _                   42     27              s8      37             8       5           1S5    100
b.  Vocational (fleet mgt.)             -            145     as            280       67           415     100           416    1oo
6. Technical assistance:  MST               -             76     29             148     s5            220      84           262    100
V. Forestry Educttion - KFC Londiani
1. Clvil Works
a. Staff houses - nMm                   No.            4     57               7     100             7     1oo             7    100
b. St.ff hostel - now                   No.            1    100               1     100             1     100             1    100
c. Dor-itory - renovation               No.            1   100                1     100             1     100              1    100
2. Vehicles A plant procur*o/
rehabilitated                                                                                                                             
a. Vehicle - nM                         No.            1     a3               2      67             3     100             a    100
b. Vehicles - rehabilitated             No.            5    100               5     100             5     100             5    100
S. Equipment A furniture procurc-        X of costa              48                      S8                    69                   100
4. Training
a. MSC local *   overses        *                     24     11              72     83            108      S0           216    100
b. BSC local                            -             12     12             24       2S            48      S0            96    100
c. Other training                       _             12    22               24      44            36      67            54    100
S.  Technical assisunce                     -              6    1oo               6     loo             a     100             6    100
VI. Forest Reserch
1. Civil works
a. Work space - now                     .2         1,277     73           1,757     loo         1,757     100         1,757    100
b. Staff houe  - now                    No.           77     78              99     100            99     100            99    100
c. Rest hous - nw                       m2           1S0     25            6o0      loo           60      100           600    100
d. Work space   renovation              .2           200     S0            400      100           400     100           400    100
*. Staff house  - renovation            n2         1,830     74           2,480     loo         2,480     loo         2,480    1oo
2. Vehicles A plant procured/rehabilitated
a.    A p  - ne"                        No.           39    63               89      68            62     loo            62    100
b.  v A p. - rehabilitated              No.           15    100              1S     100            15     100            1s    100
3   Equipment A furniture procured      X of costs               56                      eS                    89                   loo 1 0          X
4.  Training                                                                                                                                          :
a. PHD overs s                                        24      7              72      20           144      40           360    100         Li
b. USC local   ovrasos                  -             60     13             156      34           240      S3           456    100
a. Diploma                                                    0              12      20            24      40            8o    100
d. Other training                       mm            30     11              76      27           122      44           278    100
5. Technical assistance                     m             18    34               35      68            47      89            53    100
----------------------------------------------------------------------__-----..-------------------------------------------------------------



- 83 -
Annex 7
KENYA                        Table 2
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary Vehicle & Plant Acquisition and Rehabilitation Programme
(Quantity in Numbers)
YR1     YR2      YR3     YR4      YR5     TOTAL
1.  Farm and Extension
Forestry
New vehicles & plant          10              *6       3        2       21
2. Indigenous Forest
Management and
Conservation 11
New vehicles & plant            84                                        84
Rehabilitation of v.&p.         29      24                                53
Subtotal                        93      24                                117
3. Industrial Plantations
Development 1/
New vehicles & plant            106              2       3                111
Rehabilitation of v.& p.        35      20       2       3                166
Subtotal                        141     20       2       3                166
4. Strengthening of the FD
New vehicles & plant            15                                        15
5.  Forestry Education - KFC
New vehicles & plant            1       1        1                        3
Rehabilitation of v.&p.         5                                         5
Subtotal                        6       1        1                        8
1-5 Entire Forest Department
New vehicles & plant            216     7        6       5                234
Rehabilitation of v.&p.         69      44                                113
Subtotal                        285     51       6       5                347
6. Forestry Research - KEFRI
New vehicles & plant            39               23                       62
Rehabilitation of v.&p.         15                                        15
Subtotal                        54               23                       77
Entire Project
New vehicles & plant            255     7        29      5                296
Rehabilitation of v.&p.         84      44                                128
All vehicles & plant            339     51       29      5                424
1/  Nunbhre Includo wvh;c I *and plant nd- -d for forest road d-v-lopmnt.
Remark: Number of v-hicleo Include notocycles (12 for Farm and Extension Forestry and 10 for Indigenous
Forest Mnagement and Conservation).



Annex 7
Table 3
- 84 -                            Page 1 of 5
KENYA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FOREST ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
1.    Background.  A total of 7,200 km of access roads, feeder roads and
plantation roads and tracks exist in FD's Forest Estate. 5,300 Km (74Z) of
these are situated in the industrial plantations and 1,900 km (26Z) in the
indigenous forests. The majority of these roads, 5,600 km (78X), are in a
state of disrepair and inaccessible during most part of the year. A large
program of forest road rehabilitation and repair is needed, coupled with
subsequent routine maintenance, to render normal forest management operations,
such as protection, silvicultural treatments, harvesting and (re-)planting,
possible.
2.    Proposal and Prioritization.  The rehabilitation of all forest roads in
disrepair would be excessive as a physical task and in cost terms during the
6-year project. Following a set of selection priorities a program has been
proposed of rehabilitating/repairing 2,340 Km, i.e. 44' of the roads in need
of improvement or 33% of the total road network. About 460 km (20Z) of the
program would be carried out in the indigenous forests and 1,880 km (80Z) in
the plantations. As about 200 km of plantation roads would be improved by the
forest industry, the FD would be responsible for 2,140 km of the program. The
miain priority criteria for selecting specific roads for inclusion in the
program were.
Indigenous Forests       -      access to forest stations
-     roads which have become erosion hazards
-     protection of sensitive areas
Industrial Plantations  -       access to forest stations
-     access to areas scheduled for (re-)planting
-     roads with serious erosion problems
-     access to areas of continuing and inter.sive
silvicultural and haLvesting operations.
3.    Basei on the above criteria, it has been possible to formulate a fairly
firm investment proposal for roads development during the first three project
years, and a more general proposal for the second 3-year period. Final
identification and staking out of the bulk of the roads to be
rehabilitated/repaired will also be affected by new management and harvesting
plans which will be prepared under the project. The latter will be based on
the forest inventory, initiated in November 1989, results from which are
starting to be available in late 1990/early 1991 (para 7).
4.    All of the rehabilitated and repaired roads wcj1d be properly
maintained. There would be no construction of new forest roads.



Annex 7
- 85 -                            Table 3
Page 2 of 5
5.    Implementation.  The program, which is presented in the table part of
this annex, would be implemented through a combination of contracting and
force account. Emphasis on contracting would be in the case of heavier works
with high per-km costs, and where attractively large contract packages could
be formed. Conversely, force account would be the predominant mode for light
works, such as maintenance, and in scattered areas where contractors could not
be found or would not be interested in fragmented packages. Envisaged shares
of contracting vs force account are as follows, expressed as approximate
percentages of physical tasks:
-     rehabilitation with gravel            802 c.120Z f.a
-     rehabilitation without graveling    702 c./30Z f.a
-     repairs                               60Z c./40Z f.a
-     bridges and culverts                  702 c./30Z f.a
-     maintenance                           302 c./70X f.a
The distribution of costs would not be in the same proportions, i.e. the
share for force account works would decrease as the project would have the
discretion of directing most of the more difficult road sections to contracts.
6.    While contracting would be the preferred and major mode for road works,
FD wishes also to maintain a considerable force account capacity. FD
currently has a substantial number of staff and equipment in its overextended
and poorly performing four road units and are not agreeable to laying and
writing these off; these units would be pooled into two functionally well-
structured units and operationalized with moderate additional investment,
utilizing the existing capacities to the best advantage. Given the proper
operating conditions, funds, training and T.A. (para 9) the performance of the
reconstituted units would be judged by the mid-term review, and appropriate
action taken. The project has the flexibility to accommodate this change,
i.e. phase the road units out if found to be unsatisfactory.
7.    Status of Roads Design.  Design standards for the rehabilitation,
repairs and maintenance of forest roads exist and have recently been updated
as part of the pre-engineering study, on which the formulation of the road
development program is based. The road works program would be finalized as
management plans become available (para.3). kinalization of the first full
project year's road program (which is of modest size) including final detailed
designs and prepared tender documents for the sections in question, would be
part of the project's AWP for 1991/92 which would be a condition of project
effectiveness. The PPF includes funds for the preparation of this design and
tender documentation.
8.    Equipment Fleet Management.  Repair and maintenance of the project
fleet, including the vehicles and plant of FD's reconstituted road units,
would be mainly done by contracting. However, as facilities are only
available in major cities and large towns and the private sector cannot extend
these services to remote forest areas on a routine basis, the repair and
maintenance would be split up into first-aid repairs and routine maintenance
by force account, and major repairs and normal overhauls by private workshops.
In this way FD's equipment would be adequately serviced without delay, and



Annex 7
Table 3
- 86 -                           Page 3 of 5
first-aid repairs could be carried out for continued operations and also to
make the equipment fit to travel to the nearest private workshops, when
necessary. It is estimated that no more than ZOZ of the total operating costs
for FD's fleet of vehicles and equipment would be required for light routine
maintenance and first-aid repairs by force account. Similarly, since vehicles
and equipment of popular makes are well represented in Kenya, it would not be
necessary for FD to stock large quantities of spares. The long-term T.A.
(para 9) would assist in the introduction of a sound inventory contrcl system.
9.    Organizationi and Training.  FD's Engineering Unit, which would have a
Roads Section and a Fleet Management Section, would be built-up drawing on the
experience of an internationally recruited forest engineering specialist who
would stay with the project for 3 1/2 years. He would be part of the project
management support team whose appointment would be a condition of project
effectiveness. Only few additional key personnel need to be recruited, the
major task being (re-)training of existing staff and the development and
instituting of steering and supervision systems. All existing management and
clerical staff as well as operators of the unit would undergo through (re-
)training mainly during the early years of the project.



87 -                     Annex 7
KENYA                   TagJe 4e
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT         Page 4 of 5
Summary of Forest Roads Development Programme
(Quantity In Kilometers)
Yrl      Yr2     Yr3      Yr4     Yr5       YrB   Total
Indigenous Forest Areas
By Contract:
Rehabilitation with   20        10      10      20       10                70
gravel
Rehabliatlon without 30        20       20      20       20                110
gravelIing
Repairs               30       20       20      30       30       20      150
Sub-total         80       50       50      70       60       20      330
Bridges - Repairs (No.)5        3        3        4       3        18
Maintenance           30       60       65      65       65        65     350
By Force Account:
Rehabilitation with    7        14      11       11       11       11      65
gravel
Rehabilitation without 6                 6                                 12
gravelling
Repairs                5        15      15      20                         55
Sub-total         18       29       32       31      11        11    132
Bridges - Repairs (No.)2        2        2        1       1         1       9
Maintenance           50       100     100      110     100       150     610
Industrial Plantations
By Contract:
Rehabilitation with   30       60       60      50       50               250
gravel
Rehabilitation wIthout3O       60       60      50       50      250
gravelIln6
Repairs               50       100     100      100     100       100     550
Sub-total        110      220      220     200      200       100   1,050
Bridges - Repairs (No.)6        12      12       10      10       50
Maintenance        50       100     150      150     150       200     800
By Force Account:
Rehabilitation with    3        4        4       4        4        4       23
gravel
Rehabilitation without 8       33       26       31      31        31     160
gravelling
Repairs               40       85       90      90       90       50      445
Sub-total         51      122      120     125      125       85      628
Bridges - Reparis (No.) 1       4        4       3        3         3      18
Malntenance          200      400      400     400      500      500   2.4U0



Annex 7
-88 -                          Table 3
Page 5 of 5
Yr1     Yr2      Yr3     Yr4      Yr5      Yr6   Total
Total Road Progranmme Executed by FD
By Contract:
Rehabilltatio.u with   50      70      70       70      80               320
gravel
Rehabilitation wlthout60       80     8s        70      70               360
gravelling
Repairs               80      120      120     130      130      120     700
Sub-total        190      270     270      270     260       120   1,380
Bridges - Repairs (No.)11      15       15      14       13               68
Maintenance        80       160     215     215      215      265    1,150
By Force Account:
Rehabilitation with   10       18       15      15       15       15      88
gravel
Rehabilitation withoutl4       33      32       31       31       31        172
gravelling
Repairs               45      100      105     110      90        50     500
Sub-total        69        151     152     156      136       96     760
Bridges-Repairs (No.)  3        6        6       4        4        4      27
Maintenance          250      500     500      510     600       650   3,010
By Contract & Force
Account:
Rehabilitation with   60       88      85       85      75        15    408
gravel
Rehabilltation without74       113     112     101      101       31    532
graveliing
Repairs              125      220     225      240     220       170   1,200
Total Rehabilitation
and Repairs     259       421     422      426     396       216   2,140
Bridges - Repairs (No.)  14        21      21      18       17        4      95
Maintenance - Total 330       660      715     725      815      915   4,160
By Forest Industry -
In Industrial Plant-
ations only
Rehabiltatlon with                                                       87
gravel
Rehabilitation without                                                   114
gravelillng
Grand Total: Rehabilitation and Repairs of Forest Roads                      2,341



- 89 -
Amex 7
Table 4
KENYA
FORESTRY  DEVELOPMENT   PROJECT
Imp lementatlion   Taraets%   Farmn Forestry  Extensilon
Yr1 Yr2      Yr3    Yr4    Yr5      Yr6         Total
Phasing  In of Divisions  In
Pilot  Districts  (No.)        5      6        2       2                           15
Nurseries   OoeratIna/
Established   (No.)
Division   nurserIes           5      6        2       2                           15
Decentralized
nurseries:
Location  nurseries        10    30       20       10                          70
NGO/Group  nurseries       10    30       35       35      40       40        195
School nurseries           10    30       30       30      30       30        160
Individual   nurseries    90    230      280     300      300     300       1,500
Seedllngs   Produced  ('000)
Divisional   nurseries       160   370      570      770     770      770      3,410
Decentralized
nurseries:
Location  nurseries       150    510    745      765      795      815      3,780
NGO/Group  nurseries      25      80      145     195    240      290        975
School nurseries           15    55      100      130      160     190       650
Individual  nurseries     35    155    325        495     6       8         2Q510
Total               385   1,170   1,885   2,355   2,630   2,900      11,1325
Civil Works (No.)
Divislonal   off Ice
buildings                    5      6       2        2                          15
Housing  (DivFEOs)            5      6       2        2                          15



-90-                          Annex 7
Table 5
KENYA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Targets: Indigenous Forestry Management and Conservation
YR1     YR2      YR3    YR4    YR5    YR6       Total
Civil Works (No.)
Construction of Conservation           25        50     100       75                      250
posts
Planting (ha)
Replanting of denuded areas          300       400     500      500     500      500   2,700
Enrichment planting of under-
stocked areas                      300      400      500     500      500     500   2,700
Boundary Demarcation
Beacons (No.) 1/                   1,900    1,900   2,500       600     600      600   8,100
Survey points (No.)                  200      200      600      600     600      600   2,800
Boundary planting (km)               350       400     100       50      50       50   1,000
1,  Number of beacons correspondes to kilometers demarcated at one beacon per km.



-91 -                              Anex 7
Table 6
KENYA
FORESTRY  DEVELOPMNT  PROJECT
Imilementation   Targets:  Industrial  Plantations   Develonment
Yr1      Yr2     Yr3      Yr4     Yr5       Yr6   Total
Planting  Programme  (ha)l/
Replanting:
Sawlogs
Plne               500      500      600     500      500      500   3,000
Cypress            500      500      500     500      500      500   3,000
Pulpwod
Pine               650      650      650     650      650      650   8,900
Cypress            650      650      650     650      650      650   3,900
Enclyptus  poles    1.Q000   1Q000   .1000    LQ000   .Q000     Q000  6f000
SLbtotal         3.300    3,300   3,300   3,300   3,300    3,300   19,800
New Planting:
Pulpwood
Pine                        300      300     300      300      300    1,500
Cypress                     200      200     200      200      200    1,000
Encalyptus  poles             2QQ     2Q       2QQ      2        200    1000
Subtotal                    700      700     700      700      700   3,500
Total Planting       3,300    4,000   4,000   4,000   4,000    4,000  23,300
Plantation   Maintenance
Pro=anim  (ha) 1 /
Coppice reductIon     1,650    1,650    1,650    1,650    1,650   1,650   9,900
PrLnning            20,000   20,500   18,250   17,200   16,450    16,450 108,850
PrLmning  selection    14,100   13,300   11,650  10,000    9,150    9,150  67,350
Marching            15,300    13,050   10,450   12,300   13,200    13,200  77,500
Thiming              8,500    6,700   3,950    8,150   6,550    6,500  39,900
Game moat maintenance  250      250      500     500      500      500   2,500
Civil Works (No.)
Constr. of Forest
Guard posts           25       25                                          50
Fire towers 2/          16        17      17                                 50
1/    Includes assistance by the private sector
2/    Includes fire towers in indigenous forests



-92 -                                     AnneX 7
Table 7
KENA
FORESTRY  DEVELOPWT   PROJECT
Implementation   Targets:  Forestrv  Educatlon  - KFC Londlan
Yr1      Yr2      Yr3      Yr4      Yr5       Yr6   Total
Civil  .orks (No.)
Constructlon:
Senior  staff  houses   4        3                                             7
Senior  staff  hostel    1                                                      1
Renovatlon-  dormitory     1                                                       1



- 93 -                                  AM=  7
Table 8
KNt
FORESTRY  DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT
lnmlementation   Targets:  Forest  Research  - KEFRI
Yr i     Yr2     Yr3      Yr4     Yr5       Yr6   Total
Civil Works
Work space construction   (m2):
Office               590       370                                        960
Laboratory              340        80                                       420
Workshop                 122       30                                        152
Greenhouse  etc.        225                                                 ;
Subtotal          1,277     480                                       1,757
Resthouse  construction   150    450                                        600
(m2)
Staf f house  construction
(No.):
Senior house              17        4                                         21
Medlum  house         20         2                                         22
JLnlor  house         40        16                                         56
Subtotal            77       22                                         99
Work space renovation   200       200                                        400
(m2)
Staff houses renovation
(m2)               1,830     650                                       2,480



Annex 7
Table 9
94             ~             Page 1 of 5
KENYA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN
1. Bank Supervision Input. The staff input indicated in the Table below
(page 3 to 5 of this Annex) is in addition to regular supervision needs
out of the office for the review progress reports, procurement actions,
correspondance, donor coordination outside of supervision missions, etc.
These activities are estimated for this project as follows:
Project year 1:             5 staff-weeks
Project year 2:             4 staff-weeks
Project year 3:             4 staff-weeks
Project year 4:             5 staff-weeks
Project year 5:             3 staff-weeks
Project year 6:             3 staff-weeks
Due to the complex system of parallel co-financing with four different donor
agencies, each supervising the project component funded by itself, donor
coordination activities are expected to require considerable time throughout
project implementation. IDA supervision missions will normally be composed
of the task manager and a procurement/disbursement expert. Both are posted
at RMEA/Nairobi. Bank and consultant specialist staff will be used as needed
and indicated in the Table below.
2. Borrower's Contribution to Supervision
(a) Annual Work Plans (AWP) and Budgets are to be submitted as follows:
(i) in the form as outlined in Annex 10;
(ii) (with the exception of the first Project year) by December 1
of the preceding year for submission to !DA for its review;
(iii) by the Project Implementation Team (PIT), comprising the five
HQ Division Chiefs of FD and the Principal of KFC plus
representation from KEFRI, under the direction of the Project
Manager (PM).
(b) Progress Reports are to be submitted as follows:
(i) in a format, acceptable to IDA, to be discussed in detail during
the first supervision mission after project effectiveness;
(ii) semi-annually by March 31 and September 30 of each year;
(iii) by PIT under the direction of the PM.
(c) Project monitoring and coordination will be the responsibility of
the PM with inputs from all chiefs of the individual project
components. Review meetings will be held by the Project Steering
Committee (PSC) normally in mid-March and mid-September of each year
and chaired by the P.S. of MENR.



Annex 7
Table 9
Page 2 of 5
(d) Certified project accounts (together with auditors' report and
separate auditots' opinion on the Special Account and SOEs for each
Fiscal Year would be submitted to IDA by MENR/FD and MRST/KEFRI
not later than by end-March of the following year.
MENR/FD and MRST/KEFRI will be responsible for coordinating arrangements
for IDA supervision missions and for providing information required by
missions, Missions will also work closely with MOF. Missions will
normally be accompanied by the PM, and individual PIT members and FD
or KEFRI specialists, as needed. Mission initiation briefings, and
wrap-up meetings, will normally be chaired by the P.S. of MENR with the
participation of a representative of MOF, the representative of the two
executing agencies, including the PM and the PIT members/HQ level.
Efforts will be made to conduct supervesion missions jointly with FEC,
ODA, SDC and FINNIDA cofinancing the project.



Annex 7
- 96 -                            Table 9
Page 3 of 5
BANK SUPERVISION INPUT INTO KEY ACTIVITIES
Approximate
Dates                                             Expected Skills      Staff Input
(Month/Year)    Activity                             Requirements        (Staff-weeks)
FY91
1-2/91         Identification, contact and           Forestry                 5
arrangements with organization       Organization/
providing Management Support Team   Management
3-5/91         Project effectiveness and start-up  Forest Roads              0.5
Design/PY1
5-6/91         1st Supervision Mission               Forestry                  5
(Project Launch Workshop)            Procurement/
Disbursement
Information &
Steering Systems
FY92
7-9/91         Review of Action Plans for:
(a) Private Commercial Sector        Forestry                   3
Involvement.
(b) Improvement of Labor             Economics/Financial
Productivity                      Analysis
(c) Elimination of Disincentives
to Private Tree Growing.
Review of:
(d) Forest Policy Framework
(e) Improved Method for Stumpage
Calculation.
10-11/91       2nd Supervision Mission and 1st       Forestry                 5
Annual Project Progress              Procurement/
Review with GOK and Donors           Disbursement
(also inputs into preparation        Forestry Training
of AWP, and review of Training
Program).
4-5/92         3rd Supervision Mission (review       Forestry/Environment    5
of Information and Steering          Procurement/
Systems)                             Disbursement
Information Systems
Accounting



Annex 7
- 97 -                            Table 9
Page 4 of 5
Approximate
Dates                                             Expected Skills      Staff Input
(Month/Year)  Activity                              Requirements         (Staff-weeks)
FY93
10-11/92      4th Supervision Mission and 2nd       Forestry                  4
Annual Project Progress Review       Procurement/
with GOK and Donors (also inputs    Disbursement
into preparation of AWP)
1-3/93        Review of Draft Forestry Master       Forestry/4
Plan (FMP) (inc. list of project    Environment
proposals) and of Draft Forest       Forest Policy
Policy
4-5/93         5th Supervision Mission               Forestry                 4
Procurement/
Disbursement
FY94
10-11/93       6th Supervision Mission and 3rd      Forestry                 4.5
Annual Project Progress Review       Procurement/
(inc. review of projects prepared   Disbursement
by FMP; also inputs into             Economics
preparation of AWP)
4_5/94        7th Supervision Mission and Mid-    Forestry/                  5
term Review (inc. possible           Environment
restructuring of project acc.        Procument/
to FMP parameters,                   Disbursement
and adjustment of AWP)               Economics/Financial
Analysis
Organization/Management.
FY95
10-11/94       8th Supervision Mission and 4th      Forestry                  8
Annual Project Progress Review       Procurement/
Disbursements
4-5/95         9th Supervision Mission



Annex 7
Table 9
- 98 -                          Page 5 of 5
Approximate
Dates                                           Expected Skills      Staff Input
(Month/Year)  Activity                              Requirements        (Staff-weeks)
FY95
10-11/94      8th Supervision Mission and 4th       Forestry                8
Annual Project Progress Review       Procument/
Disbursements
4-5/95         9th Supervision Mission
FY96
10-11/95       10th Supervision Mission and 5th    Forestry                  7
Annual Project Progress Review       Disbursements
4-5/96         11th Supervision Mission
FY97
10-11/96      12th Supervision Mission and 6th    Forestry/Environment    7
Annual Project Progress Review       Economics/Financial
Analysis
Disbursements
4-5/97         13th Supervision Mission, inc.
preparation of PCR



- 99 -                         Annex 8
KENYA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Services
1.          The investment comPonents of the project include a number of
technical service contracts, ranging from short-term assignments to
long-term tasks (a maximum of 3 years) assigned to a team of
specialists. These technical services total almost 60 man-years and are
summarized in Appendix 1. Over 80 percent of this total would be needed
for the inventory of t;. indigenous forests and their ecosystems, as
well as the pilot schemes in the indigenous forest (which are basically
a project preparation process for follow-on investments). It is
expected that more than 502 of the technical services can be locally
contracted. About 952 of the technical services would be financed on
grant basis. Terms of reference for major technical services positions
are given in Appendix 2.
2.    The Forestry Master Plan project component would, in addition,
require about 25 man-years of various technical services consultancies,
of which 40-45Z could be locally obtained.



- 100 -                     Annex a
Appendix 1
KENYA
FOItESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Technical Services Provisions
(Exclusive of Forestry Master Plan Component)
Expertise                                         Man-Months
Farm and Extension Forestry
Short-term consultancies (local & expatr.)         84
34
Indiaenous Forest Inventory
Technical Coordination officer a/                   36
Tropical Forest Ecology                             36
Forest inventory                                    36
Mensuration/tropical plant ecology                  36
Socio-economics                                     36
Wildlife conservation                               12
Long-term -onsultnacies - local                   252
Short-term consultancies - expatr.                  63
Short-term consultancies - local                   24
531
Pilot Schemes
Technical Cooperation officers                      36
Short-term consultancies - expatr.                  17
Short term consultancies - local                    16
69
Industrial Plantations
Short-term consultancies                                     2
2
Strenothenino of the FD
Office design & equipment                                    9
Short-term consultancies                                    17
26
Forest Research
Short-term consultancy                                       2
2
Total                                      714
(59.5 man-years)
a/ Coordinates also Pilot Schemes



- 101 -                        Annex 8
Appendix 2
Page 1 of 6
KENYA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE OF MAJOR TECHNICAL SERfl'CES POSITIONS
A. Inventory and Management Plans for Indigenous Forests
1. TECHNICAL COORDINATOR
Location:         Nairobi
Starting Date:    November 1990.
Durations         3 years.
Duties:            (a)   Assist the FD Project Manager;
(b)   Act as national coordinator of
specialist and pilot project inputs;
*c)   Work with FD, EEC, and Pilot Project
coordinators, and draw up national
and local training program for year
2;
(d) Work and liaises with GOK personnel,
collaborating institutions, and
donors;
{e)   Advise and support the Pilot Project
coordinators in preparation of phase
2 pilot projects;
(f)   Monitor the progress of pilot
projects, inventories and surveys;
(g)   Be responsible fir coordinating the
reconnaissance and final inventory
and survey reports, and for
coordinating with the Master Plan;
and;
(h)   Exercise financial control of the
pilot projects, inventories and
surveys and be responsible for
operational support at the district
level of FD, KWS, NMK and other
personnel involved.



- 102 -                          Annex 8
Appendix 2
Page 2 of 6
Qualificationas   The Coordinator should have a broad multi-
disciplinary background with a degree in
land-use planning/resource
management/human-ecology and have had
previous work experience in tropical
forests. He/she should have had extensive
previous work experience in a developing
country, in program management, and in
coordinating the inputs of other
professionals.
2. TROPICAL FOREST ECOLOGIST
Location:         Nairobi
Starting Date:    January 1991
Duration:         3 years
Duties:            (a)   Act as team leader for the natural
resources inventory and survey team;
(b)   Provide a methodological framework
and overview for other team members;
(c)   Supervise and coordinate the inputs
of other team members;
(d)   Work with the Pilot Project
coordinators in preparing phase 2
projects for appraisal; and
(e)   Liaise and work with GOK personnel,
collaborating institutions, and
consultants as required.
Qualifications:   He/she should have a degree and post-
graduate qualification in tropical forest
ecology or related discipline, have had at
least 5 years of previous overseas work
experience in tropical forests, must have
undertaken field studies of tropical flora
or fauna, and have first-hand experience
of managing staff and coordinating the
inputs of other professionals.



-103 -                         Annex 8
Appendix 2
Page 3 of 6
3. FORESTRY INVENTORY SPECIALIST
Locations         Nairobi.
Starting Dates   January 1991.
Duration:         3 years.
Duties:           (a)  Act as team leader for the timber
inventory and assessment team;
(b)   Provide methodological framework and
overview for other team members;
(c)   Supervlse and coordinate the inputs
of other team members;
(d)  Work with the Pilot Project
coordinators in preparing phase 2
projects for appraisal; and
(e)   Liaise and work with GOK personnel,
collaborating institutions, and
consultants as required.
qualificatlons:   he/she should have a degree and post-
graduate qualification in
forestry or other related
discipline, have had at least
5 years previous overseas work
experience in tropical
forests, must have undertaken
timber inventory work, and
have first hand experience of
managing staff and
coordinating the inputs of
other professionals.
4. SOCIO-ZCONOHIST
Locations         fairobi.
Starting Date:   January 1991.
Durations         3 years
Duties:           (a)  Act as team leader for the social
science team;



-104 -                          Annex 8
Appendix 2
Page 4 of 6
(b)   Provide methodological framework and
overview for other team members.
tc)   Work as part of the national
inventory team;
(d)   Supervise and coordinate the inputs
of
other team members;
(e)   Work with the Pilot Project
coordinators in preparing phase 2
projects for appraisal; and
(f)   Liaise and work with GOK personnel,
collaborating institutions, and
consultants as required.
Qualifications:   He/she should have a degree and post-
graduate qualification in natural resource
economics and social anthropo-
loogy/sociology. Particular experience in
social forestry, land use, conservation,
and rural development issues would be an
advantage. He/she should have 5 years
overseas work experience, and experience
of managing staff and coordinating the
inputs of other professionals.
5. MENSURATION SPECIALIST
Locationt         Nairobi.
Starting Datet    January 1991.
Duration:         3 years.
Dutiess           (a)   Act as team leader for the applied
ecology studies;
(b)   Provide methodological framework and
overview for other team members;
(c)   Supervise and coordinate the inputs
of other team members;
(d)   Work with the Pilot Project
coordinators in preparing phase 2
projects for appraisal; and



- 105 -                      Annex 8
Appendix 2
Page 5 of 6
(e) Liaise and work with GOK personnel,
collaborauing institutions, and
consultants as required.
Qualifications:   He/she should have a degree and post-
graduate qualification in tropical plant
ecology, mensuration forestry, or related
discipline. Experience in tropical forest
dynamics and mensuration is essential.
He/she should have 5 vears overseas work
experience, and experience of managing
staff and coordinating the inputs of other
professionals.
B. PILOT SCHEMES
1. PILOT PROJECT COORDINATOR
Locations         Arabuko-Sokoke.
Starting Date:    January 1991.
Duration:         12 months.
Duties:           (a)   Liaise with GOK personnel and attend
meetings of District Development
Committees and other organizations
and groups;
Cb) Identify specialist input
requirements and provide support for
specialist teams as necessary;
(c)   Design and prepare a community
participation program for the
identification and implementation of
proposed projects, with the
assistance of the social science
team leader;
(d) Identify district and local training
requirements for phase 2;
le) Assist the natural resources
inventory and survey teams, and the
social science teams, with their
inputs into pilot projects for
appraisal; and



- 106 -                       Annex 8
Appendix 2
Page 6 of 6
(f)   Provide operational support for
immediately identified programs and
site activities, based on the advice
of an discussions with FD, KWS, NMK
and other personnel involved in the
pilot projects.
Qualificationst  The pilot project coordinator should have
a degree in resource management, land-use
planning, socio-economics, human-ecology
or social forestry. Le/she should have at
least 3 years work experience overseas,
preferably on a rural development or
conservation project. He/she should have
linguistic abilities, and preferably a
working knowledge of Kiswahili.
2 *   PILOT PROJECT COORDINATOR
Location:         Kericho, Mau.
Starting Date:    January 1991.
Duration:         12 months.
Duties:           as for Arabuko-Sokoke.
Coordinate the Mau re-settlement and
assistance study.
Monitor the on-going Mau Forest Projection
and Management Project.
Qualifications:   as for Arabuko-Sokoke.
3. PILOT PROJECT COORDINATOR
Location:         Kakamega.
Starting Dates    January 1991..
Duration:         12 months.
Duties:           as for Arabuko-Sokoke.
Qualifications:   as for Arabuko-Sokoke.



- 107 -                     Annex 9
Page 1 of 2
KENYA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Training and Technical Assistance
1.    Training.  A major deficiency in FD's activities over the past decade
and in KEFRI's initial years of operation has been the absence of
comprehensive in-service training programs, resulting in fundamental technical
weakness of their staff in discharging their normal duties in an increasingly
demanding environment. Wide-ranging arrangements for the development of staff
skills to ensure project implementation, therefore, form an integral part of
all components. This amounts to 187 man-years of formal degree training
(Diploma, B.Sc., M.Sc., Ph.D.) for 138 staff, and 327 man-years of non-degree
in-service training for about 4,900 staff 1/ of FD and KEFRI in various
technical disciplines of forestry education during the 6-year period. In
addition, training courses in farm forestry, equivalent to 41 man-years, would
be financed for MOA and other governme:t staff, and a total of 267 man-years,
affecting an estimated 30,000 group leaders, for NGOs and local groups active
in farm and community forestry in the three pilot districts.
2.    Training inputs related to the investment components of the project are
summarized in Appendix 1 and details of the non-degree course work and number
of FD and KEFRI staff participating in such courses are in Appendix 2. Total
training would cost US$ 7.6 million 2/, corresponding to 12Z of total project
cost. Pivotal to the success of this training program would be the early
appointment of the Training Coordinator; this specialist would also coordinate
the training under the investment components with training included in the
Forestry Master Plan component. Arrangements for training abroad could be
contracted to a suitable, internationally operating enterprise specialized in
this field.
3.    Technical Assistance.  The financing of technical assistance is designed
to fill specific skill gaps and to transfer skills. TA inputs would thus be
of temporary nature and fall mainly into the first half of the project
implementation period. A summary of TA provisions is given in Appendix 3, and
this followed by terms of reference for the most important TA positions in
Appendix 4. Technical assistance under the investment project components
totals 42 man-years; 20 man-years of this would comprise TA provided on a
grant basis. Thus IDA financed TA expenditures would cover a total of 22
1/ cumulative number, i.e. one person may attend several courses
2/ base cost



- 108 -                       Annex 9
Page 2 of 2
man-years, comprising 4.0X of project costs. Although substantial, this level
of TA, extended mainly in the form of top level management support by a team
of specialist advisers in key areas, is essential to the strengthening of FD
management until FD managers would be sufficiently experienced in effective
management methods needed in large-scale operations, such as forestry under
the mandate of FD. Training of counterpart staff would form a significant
part of the terms of reference of the experts on the management support team.



KENYA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of In-Service Education and Training Provisions
(exclusive of Forestry Master Plan Component)
Local   Overseas  Total   Total                   Dipl. BSc  MSc  PHD   Total
-----man-months-----    man-years            -------------- numbers---------
1. Degree In-Service
Education
FD Operational            960     96    1,056       88                    80          6           86
FD - KFC Londiani         216     96      312       26                    _      2   10           12
Sub-Total: FD          1,176    192   1,368       114                    80     2   16           98
KEFRI                     156    720      876       73                     5    _   25    10    40
Total: Formal          1,332    912   2,244       187                    85     2   41    10   138
Education
2.  Non-Degree in-Service Training                                                Total, Cumulative Number of
Trainees on Various Courses
FD Operational          3,522     99   3,621       302
FD - KFC Londiani           -     54       54        5
Sub-TotalsFD           3,522    153   3,657       307
KEFRI                     260     18      278       23
Sub-TotalsFD+KEFRI    3,782    171   3,953        330                                about   4,900
MOA                       458              45       38b/                              about      705
Other Govt. Agencies.      34              34        3b/                              about      120
Sub-Total:MOA+Oth.G.A  492               492         41                              about      825
NGOs, Local Leaders    3,200            3,200      267b/                              about  30,000
Sub-Total:Others       3,692     00   3,692       308                                about  30,825
than FD and KEPRI                                                                                                     X x
Total Non-Degree        7,474    171   7,645       638                                about  35,725
Training
a/ about 502 of this is training for farm forestry extension
b/  100Z   of this is training for farm forestry extension



KIENYA
FORERY DEVELfPUT PROJECT
Breakdown of n-Service Tratnine Proposals for FD and K1I
Appiox
COU=  T)?E                       Projot                                   Mbn/iNombe                             Cou..    To" I
Compoent                 1    1R2    TM       134   TR  ll    TJAL   L_egt                Tra iees
AEIL-PWSSUL TEOSRA
Umsoe.est & Spwrvleee (Sealor)            FlI/SJF                         4       2       2                    is            2      26
Uesage.mat&Sa PoVIe).s (Middle)          EovSFD                    4      4       4       4      4       4     24            2      48
Project Mmsegemest                        UX/IP/WD                s0       1      2       2      1             38            2      72
Fvrest Emmagemast Plas                    MRSflF/IP/ED                   4       45      30                   120            6      OD
Fore"  em         agemt                   IP/SP                   10      10     10                            s0            4      30
Pleaati.   leat                           I/M                                    210     20                    40            4      40
IsW.st.CP aed llolad PieFl-do             IP/IF/ESJ/B             2      23       9                            a             0      37
Ratesoles- (OVervIew)                     SMI/EXv                  7      7       7                            21            1      *4
E    el.o  -                              EXrtt )  E             106    350    30       35     uo    35    16               12    ft6
Ist tl.a Teess    ln                     EB                       22     22      22                            as            2     132
Oraduat. I_u.                             SF                      10      10    l       10     10      10     so            2     120
Viaer_opptoo skill Sl/IP/hESmEX/IF    a                                  24     28      28                    me            a     11?
Subtotal             224    500    506      446             64   2401    Avg. 6.9    1404
SPECV1IST CURES.
Forety Down              t                3 RE6                                   6                                                  as 2  35
Biometric NW Setiolce                     I/F                     1s      a       6       6      6       6     4a       2           so
Fire P otesti..                           I                               15     1s                            30       2           0o
Radlo C iletiee                           EX                       1                                            1       2            2
See mesemes                               eV,                             2                                     2       4            2
stem  _9_sMA                              nAMII                           4                                     4       4            4
Vifto Ftl-s P  &-blem                                                     1                                    1       4            1
Dee Top Pblibls                           EX                               1                                    1       2             2
Sprvwlle et o See Cetles                   t                              6                                    10       2           20
Sul                     2s     41      31       6      6       6    11     Avg. 2.1      23
VOCATIIUL CURS
meeaeliemplast oporatle..                 SO/Ip                  14      135   1i                             415       4          415   
Faresterds                                iF                      SD      s0     50o     so                   200       2          400
CaeeIvatlo Ameistet                       IF                     125    1n    1                 125    12i     70       4          750      io
Headman                                   IP/F                     a      so                                   6        1          200       x
Subtotal                55    30    310       17     125   1M1    1480    Avg. 1.0    32
TEM TOTALS                                Total                   04    681   3S0       627    490            496                 4602
rrojez W Omporens:
Etension 'EX'; Indig ans Forest Managment (IF); Industrial Plantations (IP); Strengthening of Foret Dpartment (SFD);
Rerch (ES5: and RFS Loani (ED).



- 111 -
Annex 9
Appendix 3
KENYA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Technical Assistance Provisions
(Exclusive of Forestry Master Plan Component
Expertise                                            Man-months
Farm and Extension Forestry
Extension forestry                                         72
Monitoring and evaluation                                   36
Extension training                                         36
144
Indigenous Forest Management
Conservation training                                      36
36
Industrial Plantations
Short-term consultancy                                      3
3
Strengthening of the FD
Management Support Team
Project management, monitoring & evaluation                48
Financial control                                          42
Training co-ordination                                     42
Industrial plantaions                                      42
Procurement                                                42
Forst engineering                                          46
262
Forest Research
Tree physiology                                            36
Short-term consultancies                                   17
53
Education
Curriculum design                                           6
6
Total                          504
(42 man-years)



- 112 -
Annex 9
Appendix 4
Page 1 of 14
KENYA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE OF MAJOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE POSrrMONS
A. Strenmhenin2 of the Forest Departmnent: Management Sugoort Team (MST)
1. PROJECT MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST (PMS)
Location:    Nairobi
Starting:    At project start-up
Date
Duration:    48 months
Duties:      The specialist would assist the national Project Implementation
Team (PIT) through the Project Manager (PM - a Deputy Director
of Forests) on matters concerned with overall project co-
ordination and implementation according to plan, with particular
emphasis on the project's "Institutional Strengthening of the
Forst Department" component.  Under the general direction i the
PM and in co-operation with the other specialists engaged to
provide management support, whose group leader he would be, the
PMS would:
(a) Assist the PM to prepare, plan and make adequate
arrangements for the rapid mobilization of project resources
after Credit Effectiveness;
(b) Assist the PM with the development and gradual installation
and operationalization of modern management and steering
systems, covering planning, reporting, monitoring and
evaluation, and building on relevant ministerial and
departmental Standing and Technical Orders and Notes
appropriate to project execution;
(c) Assist with the design and timely preparation of Annual Work
Plans, budgets, progress reports, and other periodic reports
connected with the project at Headquarters, Province and
District levels in a manner ensuring compatibility and
consistency among these documentation and information
systems, as well as with the management and steering systems
mentioned in item (b) above;
(d) Improve the quality and regularity of information flow
between Districts, Provinces and Headquarters, and also of
the analysis and storage of and feed-back from such
information;
(e) Strengthen links between individual project components, and
between the project and other departments, organisations and
donors involved with project-related implementation; liaise
particularly with the systems planning activities
under the Forestry Master Plan component to ensure zfficient
coordination of efforts and avoid duplications



- 113 -
Annex 9
Appendix 4
Page 2 of 14
(f) Run workshops for professional staff from Headquarters and
other levels at which (i) project issues, constraints and
solutions would be identified, and clear objectives and
target dates agreed upon for project activities; and (ii)
modern management etc. systems to be adopted would be
introducedl
(g) Ensure consultants provided under component donor funded
assistance are used effectively;
(h) Assist the PM with meeting the agreed, time-bound action
programmes and other agreed covenants or conditions under
the Credit Agreement, and assist in the preparation and
conduct of the mid-term review; and
(i) At all times remain alert to environmental considerations
and ensure that the PIT is made aware of any actions which
could have environmentally deleterious effects.
Qualifications:  The specialist would have a university degree in forestry
(covering forest economics/statistics), with at least 15
years experience of forestry in the tropics and/or countries
with fast growing conditions, including substantial
experience from developing countries. His experience should
enco:-ipass both production and conservation aspects of
forestry. His previous service would include at least 5
years of successful performance in a senior forestry
executive administrative position. The ability to relate to
and communicate orally and in writing, in English, with
governmental staff and procedures would be essential.
Previous experience of forestry projects financed by the
World Bank or other international organizations would be an
advantage. The specialist would be required to be
proficient in computer applications to management etc.
systems.
2. FINANCIAL CONTROL SPECIALIST (FCSI
Location:    Nairobi
Starting
Dates      At project start-up
Duration:    42 months
Duties:       The specialist would assist the Project Manager (PM) and FD's
Chief Accountant in matters related to financial operations of
the project through internationally financed (and others if
required) inputs, as well as to financial control. Within the
Management Support Team MST he would be answerable to the PMS.
Under the general direction of the PM and PMS and in co-
operation with the other MST specialists and their counterparts,
the FCs would:
(a) Assist FD's Chief Accountant in managing the financial
operations of the project, including the design and
implementation of budgeting and accounting systems



- 114 -
Annex 9
Appendix 4
Page 3 of 14
compatible with those operated by the Government of Kenya,
the World Bank, EEC and other interested donors;
(b) Develop and operationalize a financial planning system
compatible with the Annual Work Plan, Progress Report and
Procurement Systems;
(c) Liaising with the Training Co-ordinator, provide training
for Forest Department Headquarters accounting staff in
meeting the financial planning, reporting and auditing
requirements of relevant national authorities and funding
agencies, develop and conduct in-service training programmes
for staff in out-station accounting units;
(d) Ensure timely preparation of monthly and other periodic
accounts, and of the detailed Annual Budget;
(e) Assist the Forest Department in all financial matters
connected with the project, including management of Special
Accounts;
(f) Ensure the funding is available, and that the flow of funds
is smooth for project operation;
(g) Ensure proper recording and maintenance of all stores
inventories and fixed assets;
(h) Prepare quarterly, bi-annual and annual written reports on
progress of the financial aspects of the project;
(i) Continuously maintain an up-to-date forward budget covering
the entire project period; and
(j) During part of his time, assist KEFRI in matters related to
financial operation and financial control of the forest
research project component.
Qualifications:  The specialist must have professional qualifications in
accounting and/or an equivalent university degree, and at
least five years proven experience as a Chief Accountant or
Controller, including substantial experience from developing
countries. Previous experience of financial operations and
control from projects financed by the World Bank or other
international organisations, and from foreotry projects
would be an advantage. The specialist would be required to
be proficient in computer applications to budgeting,
accounting, financial reporting and the monitoring of flow
of funds.
3. TRAINING CO-ORDINATOR (TCI
7. ..cation:    Nairobi
S,arting:    At project start-up
Date:
Duration:    42 months



- 115 -
Ann2x 9
Appendix 4
Page 4 of 14
ess      The specialist would assist the Project Manager (PM) and the
Head of the FD Training Branch on all aspects .f in-service
training under the project for FD staff of all levels. The
project would provide, over 6 years, for non-degree training
programme involving over 4,500 FD and KEFRI trainees and
totalling some 4,000 man-months (330 man-years) of trainee
course work. Almost 60% of this programme would be carried out
in the first three years of the project. In addition, the
project would provide for degree in-service education, and for
non-degree training of staff from other agencies and NGO's.
Within MST the TC would be answerable to the PMS. Under the
general direction of the PM and the PMS and in cooperation with
the other MST specialists and their counterparts, the TC woulds
(a) Develop a comprehensive in-service training plan for the
six-year project period with, for each year in advance, a
detailed programme of courses to be mounted;
(b) In the light of results from the labout profile study
(conducted under the PPF), and the preliminary results from
the forestry manpower survey and development studies
(conducted under the Forestry Master Plan component), review
and refine the outline proposals for in-service training;
(c) Arrange for course staffing and implementation, where
necessary in collaboration with other appropriate
institutions and individuals including universities and
colleges, private training organisations, KEFRI, Social
Forestry Training Centres, FITC and KFC Londiani;
(d) Maintain close liaison with the training specialists
attached to the Extension and Indigenous Forest Management
components of the project; assist and advise these officers
in running the intensive programmes proposed for these
disciplines. Co-ordinate with training activities under the
Forestry Master Plan component;
(e) Liaise with the various short-term consultants employed by
the project for technical assistance inputs and ensure,
where appropriate, their contributions to training courses,
workshops and seminars in their particular specialisms;
(f) Give guidance to course leaders and instructors in course
design, preparation of teaching materials, and instructional
techniques, and examiration and grading principles;
(g) Assist FD Division Chiefs, the Head of the Training Branch
and other FD managers in the selection of candidates for in-
service training;
(h) Assist FD and KEFRI in arrangements for overseas training
under the Project!
(i) Co-ordinate the preparation of a comprehensive Forest
Department Training Manual detailing available courses, aims
and objectives, outline syllabus and expected learning
outcomes, target participants, length, location and probable
cost; and



- 116 -
Annex 9
Appendix 4
Page 5 of 14
(j) Devise a computer-based system for the planning, monitoring
and evaluation of the in-service training process, and give
timely inputs for the project-wide system of planning,
budgeting, monitoring and reporting.
Qualifications:   The specialist would have a university degree in forestry
with a minimum of 10 years experience in field forestry. He
would have proven competence and at least 5 years experience
in the planning and implementation of in-service training
courses within a large forestry organisation. Some
experience of East African conditions would be desirable.
The ability to speak and write English clearly is essential
as well as good communication skills. Thorough familiarity
with instructional techniques, including the use of modern
presentation and training/learning equipment, would be a
requirement.
4.  INDUSTRIAL PLANTATIONS MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST (IPS 
Location:    Nairobi, with frequent field visits
Starting:    At project start-up
Date:
Duration:    42 months
Duties:      The specialist would assist and advise the Project Manager (PM)
and the Chief of the FD Industrial Forestry Division on matters
concerned with implementation of the Industrial Plantations
Development component. Within MST he would be answerable to the
PMS. Under the general direction of tne PM and the PMS and in
co-operation with the other MST specialists and their
counterparts the IPS would:
(a) Assist with the execution of the ongoing forest plantation
inventory and the preparation of an overall management
framework for the plantations, based on the inventory
results and the principle on sustainable timber harvesting;
(b) Assist with the preparation/revision and implementation of
forest plantation management working plans, including all
operations from the nursery, through establishment and
maintenance, to intermediate and final harvesting;
(c) Revise, in relation to present day knowledge and the
required end products, techniques appropriate to seedling
production, plantation establishment, subsequent treatments
including thinning and pruning regimes, and final
harvesting;
(d) Ensure that commercial timber harvesting operations
(intermediate and final harvesting) are spatially planned
and sequenced so as to facilitate both efficient
implementation of forest road works and continuity in the
allocation of harvestable blocks to commercial operators;
(e) Assist with the installation of modern systems to record, by
timber assortments and on a continuous basis, actual



- 117 -
Annex 9
Appendlx 4
Page 6 of 14
removals (volume and value) of timber, and to project, on a
comparable basis, future timber harvests;
(f) Ensure that proper systems of plantation assessment and
reporting are introduced and continuously complied with at
all levels from the Compartment level upwards;
(g) Assist with the installation of a modern system of cost
planning and control in forest plantation management;
(h) Assist with the formulation of appropriate measures whereby
fees and royalties may be correctly assessed and duly
collected;
(i) Co-operate with the Training Coordinator and other
specialist advisers in the design and conduct of in-service
training for all levels of personnel associated with
industrial plantations in both public and private sectors;
(j) Assist with the design and implementation of measures to
rationalize the conduct of plantation operations so as to
increase the efficiency of the FD as a whole and the
productivity of its labour force in particular; and
(k) Ensure that all forest operations recommended are
environmentally sound.
Qualifications:  The specialist would have a degree in forestry and a minimum
of 12 years experience, of which at least 5 years in a
senior executive position, in coniferous (and preferably
also eucalypt) plantation management in the tropics and/or
countries with fast-growing plantation forests, including
substantial experience from developing countries. An
ability to relate to and communicate (in English) with
existing governmental staff and procedures would be
essential. The specialist would be required to be versed in
computer applications to operations and cost scheduling and
recording, as well as systems analysis. He should have a
strong commercial orientation as a forest resource manager.
5. PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST (PS)
Location:    Nairobi
Starting:    At project start-up
Date:
Duration:    42 months
Duties:      The specialist would assist and advise the Project Manager (PM)
on matters related to procurement. Within the MST he would be
answerable to the PMS. Under the general direction of the PM
and the PMS and in co-operation with the other MTS specialists
and their counterparts, the PS would:
(a) Assist MENR's/FD's Supplies Officers in all project
procurement matters including schedule of requirements and
acquisition/execution programme, recruitment of consultancy



- 118 -
Annex 9
Appendix 4
Page 7 of 14
services, preparation of specifications and TORs,
identification of potential suppliers and consultants,
preparation of bid documents and publication of invitations
to bid, preparing bid evaluation reports, preparation of
contract documents, contract administration, monitoring,
inspection and expediting of delivery of goods etc.;
(b) Coordinate procurement under parallel financing following
different procurement regulations;
(c) Set up a proper warehouse management and inventory system;
(d) Design and develop procedures and systems for controlling
and recording procurement action;
(e) Prepare monthly and quarterly statements of procurement
accounts;
(f) Prepare quarterly reports on procurement achievements;
(g) Liaising with the Training Co-ordinator, organise and
conduct in-service training sessions on procurement and
related matters; and
(h) During part of his time, assist KEFRI in matters related to
procurement for the forest research project component.
6. FOREST ENGINEERING SPECIALIST (FES)
Location:    Nairobil with frequent field visits
Starting:    At project start-up
Date:
Duration:    42 months
Duties:       The Forest Engineering Specialist would assist the Project
Manager in the establishment of an engineering unit within the
framework of the Forest Department and assist the Project
Implementation Team with all aspects of forest engineering and,
in particular, upgrading of skills of the staff so as to prepare
them for the implementation of the roads development programme
and the management of the equipment fleet and transport needs
under the project. Within the MST he would be answerable to the
PMS.
Specifically the FES would be required to:
(a) Work in close collaboration with the Chief of the Industrial
Forestry Division and the Industrial Plantation Specialist,
and advise the Project Manager and the Chief of the
engineering unit on matters of selection, procurement,
operation and maintenance of vehicles and plant;
(b) Assist MENR's/FD's Supplies Officers and the Procurement
Specialist in the preparation of bidding documents and
evaluation of tenders for vehicles and plant, including
spare parts;



- 119 -
Annex 9
Appendix 4
Page 8 of 14
(c) Formulate a sound standardisation policy for all vehicles
and plant of FD;
(d) Assist in establishing and organising FD's mechanical
workshops to prepare them for the fleet maintenance needs of
the project, and help them cater for these needs;
(e) Set up maintenance and repair records, and prepare and
operate a sound job costing system;
(f) Introduce appropriate maintenance systems and procedures for
all the project vehicles and plants including repair and
preventive maintenance schedules, recommend procedures for
the use of the private sector for major repairs and
overhauls, and supervise execution of such repair and
service contracts;
(g) Establish a spare parts and other stores procurement and
distribution system with adequate inventory control;
(h) Carry out detailed studies with regard to the use of
contractors vs force account for the rehabilitation and
maintenance of forest roads;
(i) Assist in the reorganisation of those FD roads units
selected for rehabilitation and set up strategies for the
implementation of the roads development programme of the
project;
(j) Assist in the detailed planning and implementation of the
project's road development programme, including the
contracting of road works to private contractors and the
supervision of such contracts, as well as the execution of
road works by FD's road units;
(k) Ensure that all road construction, rehabilitation and
maintenance works are environmentally sound;
(1) Establish an improved management information system for both
the roads units as well as the vehicles operation and
maintenance;
(m) Liaising with the Training Co-ordinator, organise and/or
conduct local training in roads construction and
maintenance, as well as vehicle operation and maintenance
for all project operational staff; and assist in planning
and training of professional staff of the engineering unit
in foreign countries; and
(n) During part of his time, advise KEFRI in establishing an
efficient vehicle fleet management system.
cations:  The specialist should have an appropriate formal
qualification, probably of university level in mechanical
engineering or corresponding discipline. He should have
considerable, proven experience internationally in forest
engineering (forest roads, vehicles and plant). Experience
from the tropics, preferably Africa, would be a merit. He
would be required to be ve;sed in computer applications to
task programming, record keeping, inventory keeping, cost



- 120 -
Annex 9
Appendix 4
Page 9 of 14
control system, information system for roads, vehicles and
plant, etc.
FARM AND EXTENSION FORESTRY
1. FORESTRY EXTENSION SPECIALIST (FEXS)
Location:         Nairobi, with frequent field visits
Starting Date:   Upon effectiveness of the Farm Forestry Extension project
component
Duration:         6 years (two periods of 3 years)
Responsible:      The Chief, FESD
to:
Dutiest           To advise and assist the Chief FESD in all aspects of farm
forestry and rural forestry extension. This will include
but may not be restricted to:
(a) Establishment of overall objectives for FESD, the HQ
branches of FESD and the FD extension services in the
districts;
(b) Based on these objectives, up-date activity/job descriptions
for the branches in FESD and their personnel and for
District Forest Officers-Extension and Divisional Forest
Extension Officers and assist with the planning of
activities;
(c) Outline approaches to forest extension suited to the pilot
districts and assist in drawing up work programs for the
extension field staff;
(d) Assist in arranging coordination with organizations involved
in social forestry and agroforestry research and development
within Kenya and abroad, and advise FESD on appropriate
models to be used in different situations in Kenya;
(e) Assist the Monitoring and Evaluation Expert in the
development of an M & E System including appropriate
routines for reporting activities in the districts; and
(f) Co-operate with PIT and the MST.
Qualifications:  The specialist would have a degree in agriculture or
forestry, preferably with training in extension. His
experience should comprise ten years of work in agriculture
or rural forestry extension in developing countries with at
least three years in Africa. He should be fluent in spoken
and written English. Knowledge in Kiswahili would be
desirable.



- 121 -
Annex 2
Appendix 4
Page 10 of 14
2. MONITORING & EVALUATION SPECIALIST/FARM FORESTPY EXTENSION (MEXI
Locations         Nairobi, with frequent travel to all parts of Kenya.
StartLng          Upon effectiveness of the Farm Forestry Extension project
component.
Datet
Durations         3 years
Responsible       The Chief - Forest Extension Services Division (FESD)
tot
Duties:           The specialist will introduce a monitoring and evaluation
system for this project component aimed at evaluatings (a)
the effectiveness of alternative approaches to forestry
extension in encouraging the adoption of tree
planting/management packages and (b) the overall project
impact interms of increased tree planting, tree conservation
and woody biomass production. The spcialist will also
design baseline and impact evaluation surveys to be carried
out in the pilot districts. Detailed activities includes
(a) Desia and Installation of a Farm Forestry Extension
Monitoring System
(i)    based on the overall objectives of the project
componentf identify major targets for project
implementation and appropriate indicators to measure
progress against these gargetsl
(ii)   develop routines for the collation, summarization and
analysis of information regarding implementation of
forestry extension from staff in the different
branches of FESD, in the districts and divisions and
also from other agencies involved in forestry
extension;
(iii)  develop routines for retrieval of information in
formats useful for making management decisions and
evaluating project performance;
(iv)   advise on the preparation of reports making use of
the data and analyses;
(v)    design this special M&E system such as to achieve
maximum compatibility with th eproject's overall M&E
system;
(vi)   assist in the identification of problems and
constraints encountered in project implementation,
identified through the monitoring , and in the
development of solutions to these problems; and
(vii)  liaising with the Training Coordinator, train staff
at all levels in the use of the system.
(b) Baseline Survey
Mi)    design surveys to be carried out by FESD staff in the
pilot districts to be used in establishment of



- 122 -
Annex 9
Appendix 4
Page 11 of 14
baseline conditions and in the design of approaches
to project implementation;
(ii)   train staff of the Monitoring and Evaluation Branch
of FESD in design and implementation of baseline
surveys and analysis of surveys data; and
(iii)  assist the Monitoring and Evaluation Branch in
supervising implementation of the surveys and
collation and analysis of the data.
(c) Evaluation of Proiect Impact
(i)    design surveys to be implemented in the final year of
the project to assess the impact of the project in
achieving its objectives and to evaluate the
effectiveness of alternative approaches to extension;
(ii)   train M&E staff in carrying out the survyes iand
collating and analysing the data;
(iii)  examine the stated project rationale in the light of
developments during implementation and evaluate the
ad3luacy of the project design to overcome the
identified constaints;
(iv)   compare the actual attainments with targets set and
identify reasons for shortfalls or over-achievements;
(v)    assess the effciciency of project implementation
procedures and management performance;
(vi)   determine the economic efficiency of th eproject; and
(vii)  present lessons learnt and recommendations for future
implementation arising out of them.
Timing:           Systems to be designed, installed nad operationalized within
two years from start; adequacy of the system to be tested by
field survey 6 months prior to the mid-term review (project
year 3); evaluation survey 6 months into project year 6.
Qualifications:   The HEX would have degree in one of the social sciences with
backgroun or training in agriculture, forestry or related
disciplines. H eshould have five years experience in M&E of
rural community forestry or agrculture extension projects,
with at least 3 years in Africa. He would be required to be
proficient in computer applications to M&E. He should be
fluent in written and spoken English; knowledge of Kiswahili
would be desirable
3. EXTENSION TRAINING SPECIALIST (EXTS)
Location:         Nairobi
Starting          Upon effectiveness of the Farm Forestry Fxtension Project
Date:             component.



- 123 -
Annex 9
Appendix 4
Page 12 of 14
n:         3 years
ible      Chief - Forest Extension Services Division (FESD)
To advise and assist the Head - Extension and Training
Branch in the development of courses and carrying out
training of FESD staff at all levels, staff of other
agencies and various target groups; in doing so, liaise with
th eoverall project's Training Coordinator. Tasks will
include:
(a) Determine the need for training of FESD staff at all levels
and outline a broad training strategy, taking into account
the specialist techncial and management needs at FESD HQ and
needs for strengthening extension and techncial skills
within the field organization;
(b) Identify training facilities and resources available within
the Forest Department, other government agencies (inlcuding
Ministry of Agriculture and Kenya Forest Research
Institute), NGOs and the private sector;
(c) Assist in preparation of training programs for FESD staff
including recommendations on types, locations and durations
of both domestic and overseas courses;
(d) Determine the need ofr training in farm forestry and related
subjects for staff at different levels of the Ministry of
Agriculture Extension, schools, other government agencies
and NGOs and the priage sector;
(e) Develop courses or seminars for district and local
government officials aimed at explaining the goals and
requirements of farm forestry extension and engendering the
necessary support;
(f) Assist in the detailed preparation of initial training
courses of different types;
(g) With the assistance of the Extension Monitoring Branch,
prepare routines for evaluating the impact of the different
aspects of the training program; and
(h) Devise a computer-based system for the planning, monitoring
and evluation of the above training process, including
budget inputs.
cationss  Nairobi, with frequent field visits
kg      Upon effectiveness of the Indigenous Forest Management and
Conservation project components
on:        3 years
ible      The Chief - Forest Protection and Conservation Division



- 124 -
Annex 9
Appendix 4
Page 13 of 14
Duties:           Liaising with the overall project's Training Coordinator and
the Forestry Extension Training Specialist,
(a) Develop an in-service training curriculum covering
indigenous forest management and conservation/social
forestry, suitable for sub-professional staff, on the
principles of forest conservation and rural extension
techniques and the basic methods of information gathering
and monitoring of forest processes and activities;
(b) Conduct training courses for Conservation Assistants; and
(c) Assist with on-the-job training of local personnel
Qualifications:   The specialist should have a degree in social forestry or
other r
relevant discipline and have had first hand teaching
experience among sub-professionals. H eshould have had
previous working experience in tropical forestry, including
forest conservation and manaqgement, preferably including
East Africa experience. He should be fluent in spoken and
written English. A working knowledge in Kiswahili would be
a distinct advantage.
D. Forest Research
TREE PHYSIOLOGIST (TPI
Location:         KEFRI National Research Centre, Huguga, with considerable
field work
Starting          Upon effectiveness of the Forest Research project component
Date:
Duration:         3 years
Responsible       The Director, KEFRI
to:
Duties:       (a) Develop the capacity of KEFRI to undertake fundamental and
sustainable reserach into the physiology of both indigenous
and exotic tree species;
(b) Advise and assist other sections where physiological aspects
have a bearing on the planning and execution of their
research;
(c) In association with th eEcology section, develop and
participate in a program of investigation into the
autecology of the major speciies int the indigenous forest
and woodland of the highlands and ASAL zones; and
(d) In association with other research staff, and staff from the
Indigenous Forest Management and Conservation component of
the project, develop recommendations for the regeneration of
these forests.
Qualifications:  Degree in forestry or related subject, and PhD in tree
physiology.



- 125 -
Annex 9
Appendix 4
Page 14 of 14
Minimum of five years experience in tree physiology research
related to silvicultural applications, including experienc-
with tropical forestry. Fluent in spoken and written
English.
E. Forestry Education
FORESTRY EDUCATIONIST: CURRICULUM DESIGN (FECD)
Location:         Kenya Forestry College, Londiani, with occasional
familiarization visits to forest operations.
Durations         Six months - three months upon effectiveness of the Forestry
Education project component and a further three months after
a suitable interval for staff preparatory work (with
possible extension).
Responsible       The Principal, Kenya Forestry College
to:
Dutiest           To advise and assist the Principla and staff of KFC in the
preparation of new curricula for the Diploma and Certificate
courses. In particular:
(a) Appraise the strengths and weaknesses of the existing
curricula in relation to the changing needs of the forestry
subsector and in the light of the differing admission
standards following the introductionof the 8:4:4 educational
system in Kenya;
(b) In close collaboration wit the Principla and teahing staff
(including GTZ assistance), design curricula for a new two-
year Certificate course, and new one-year Diploma courses
with options in both beneral and extension forestry;
(c) For each course a published curriculum is required, with a
fully time-budgeted syllabus including expected learning
outsocomes by individual units, teaching approaches and
methods, and assessment procedures. Detailed teaching
shcemes of work (and instructionmanuals where appropriate)
should be prepared as separate documents;
(d) the process of developing the new curricula should be
closely monitoried so that all documents are complete by the
end of the consultancy; and
(e) Advise the Principal on staff development and the selection
of appropriate training courses for 1^FC lecturers and
instructors in relation to the new curricula.
Qualifications:  Degree in forestry and a minimum of 15 years experience in
field forestry including five years experience of teaching,
preferably at technical level. A minimum of three years
experience in forestry educational mangement including
curriculum developmebnt work, and well established contacts
with forestry training colleges and universities. Knowledge
of East African conditions is also desirable. Fluent in
spoken and written English.



- 126 -
Annex 10
Summary Contents of the Annual Work Plan (AWP)
1.    Implementation of all project components would be carried out on the
basis of annual work plans and budgets prepared by component managers by
mid-October each year. These documents would be consolidated by the
Project Manager into a projectwide draft AWP and budget by mid-November for
(i) submission to the Project Steering Committee and, after possible
amendments, (ii) submission not later than by December 1 to IDA and MOF.
2.    The AWP and budget would include:
(i)      an evaluation of the previous year's performance and a
discussion on how the new program builds on that experience;
(ii)     a statement of specific objectives (quantified targets) to
be pursued during the year in question and a description, by
components, of the activities to be undertaken in order to
achieve those objectives. This should be cross-referenced
to the relevant sectors of the Development Credit Agreement
and Grant Agreements as well as the Staff Appraisal Report.
Significant deviations in the AWP from provisions in the
DCA/GAs and the SAR should be flagged with supporting
justification;
(iii)    detailed investment and recurrent (operating) budgets by
component, showing the human, financial, and physical
resources required to carry out the proposed annual program;
(iv)     training and staffing plans;
(v)      a financing plan, which indicates the source of funds for
items in the investment and operating budgets (IDA credit
categories, other donors grant categories, Government
counterpart funds etc.); and
(vi)     targets for revenue collection; and
(vii)    procurement plans for plirchases, works and services
scheduled in the AWP, including type of procurement/bidding
and timetables.
3.    The annual planning and budgeting system, to be practical, should
form part of an integrated planning, financial control/accounting and
monitoring/reporting system. This system would be established and
operationalized during the first project year and should be computer-based.



O*G*UAZATION CHART OF THE FOEST DEMRTMENIT
RECTOR O FOREST"
[ U D i      -QT*LYlIS S (COB SECTION
{ E }  PLANIS . LKCINSINC SECTION
Ij IkOIIISP9CIONk&1I & PROTECTION .AgsTh
Dtt   I  OtMIYY     m
U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L~ B t tt                                                 W                             t
13   =1 ~~~~~
L  v                         v                     2                                                 X                       |
'~~mm Lxim



Annex 12
- 128 -                         Page 1 of 2
KENYA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents in the Project File
Project Preparation Phase
1.    The Fourth Kenya Forestry Development Programme.  Facts, figures
and proposals for developing specific projects in the various
components of the forestry subsector. GOK document/MENR-FD.
November 1988.
2.    Kenya - Forestry Subsector Development Project.  Project
Preparation Report. FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme. July
1990.
3.    Forest Roads Study.  KOP Consultants.  GOK document/MENR-FD.
January 1990.
4.    Kenya - Third Forestry Project: Draft Project Completion
Report/Part 1. FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme Report.
October 1989
Project Pre-appraisal/Appraisal Phase
5.    KEFRI Strategic Plan 1989-2000.  GOK document/MSRT-KEFRI.  August
1989.
6.    Natural Forest Project Component.  World Bank!ODA pre-appraisal
working document. December 1989.
7.    Kenya Forestry Master Plan.  Detailed terms of reference.  FINNIDA
document. (April 1990).
8.    Timber Royalty System in Kenyan Industrial Forest Plantations.
Consultant report/World Bank document. May 1990.
9.    Appraisal Mission Working Papers (May 1989):
I.      Farm Forestry Extension.  World Bank - SDC document.
II.     Indigenous Forest Management and Conservation.  World Bank
- ODA document.
III.    Industrial Plantations Development.  World Bank - FINNIDA
document.



- 129-                       Annex 12
Page 2 of 2
IV.     Transport and Forest Road.  World Bank document.
V.      Institutional Strengthening of the Forest Department.
World Bank - EEC document.
VI.     Forestry Research.  World Bank - EEC document.
VII.    Forestry Education - Kenya Forestry College.  World Bank -
EEC document.
VIII.   Environmental Impact; plus Supplement (July 1990).  World
Bank documents.
IX.     Detailed final cost tables (Novermber 1990). (Annex 2,
Table 4)
Post-Appraisal Phase
10.           Indigenous Forest Conservation Project.  ODA document.
August 1990.



NAP SECTION



so                 | Q                  s        ~ ~~~ ETHIOPIA                                  ,
L  Tu   ~~N 
1UGANDATURrxAN    4T                                        J N                                                  /
%    E/ d r e t    <    *         /             sJ        14i
Conservonancycyidb   W -    bd  \               jSOMALI
< D S O 8 tA PE                  N                                   G  uasANrtb  5'ae n
; Z w     ;X)\g   tCo~~~~~~nyu            c                            Conservanc
n.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
Nakuru            ,      B     ,     \  ) 5         (                     wM 
.    Conservancy         a    d    wRa                       aS                                         7
K E N Y A                                                                     0.  t'     DFO.sm 0. I
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENTs                                                                                 Ga9ad  ,AN,+N  < < \ \ \   /  (  S FO
- Conservonr.y Bounduries 4; 4 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Malindi 2r____
*   ForeotStetions                               Kib      A                                       _________,_________
o RA.E.S. Stations                                         C5 A.
t Forest and R.A.E.S Stations                                                                       S             ETHIOPIA
= Railroads                      Tj             -               oes>/C                                      1t  uLm{
*9  National Capitaxl                                             N<           tWALE0 S               (hnr5      KEr4N}IETA!
Parks~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AR
@   Province Capitol                                                  N-        3i/g,.                             oci
Cosrovinc Boundaries 
-      D.-  International Soundaries                                   o                   M lindi
KFlotsn a    4o   e0   20   160Sta
TANZs 0   20     F0 80  100                                           C   TANZANIA 
--! e" IP  -- -a-



