Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 18805
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2198-KE)
January 21, 1999
Rural Development Operations 1
Eastern and Southern Africa
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Kenya Shillings
At the time of appraisal: US$1 = KSh 22.50
At the time of the project completion mission US$ 1.0 = KSh 61.4
FISCAL YEARS
Government of Kenya = July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AWP                  Annual Work Program
CP                   FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
DFO                  District Forest Officer
EEC                  European Economic Community (now EU)
ERR                  Economic Rate of Return
FD                   Forestry Department
FINNIDA              Finnish Development Agency
KFDP                 Kenya Forestry Development Project
GOK                  Government of Kenya
ICR                  Implementation Completion Report
MENR                 Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources
MIS                  Management Information System
MNR                  Ministry of Natural Resources
MST                  Management Support Team
ODA                  Overseas Development Agency of the UK (now DFID)
PM                   Project Manager
PMT                  Project Management Team
PPF                  Project Preparation Facility
SDC                  Swiss Development Corporation
Vice President             Mr. Callisto E. Madavo
Director                  : Mr. Harold E. Wackman
Sector Manager            : Ms. Sushma Ganguly
Team Leader               : Mr. Peter Dewees



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECr
(Credit 2198-KE)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ... ..................  
EVALUATION SUMMARY.                             ...................
INTRODUCTION  ..............................................................................................................1
PROJECT OBJECIVES .I
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS .II
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED .V
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT                                                 . ...               ...
A.        STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES ...........................................1
B.        ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES ...........................................                            5
C.       IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS THE PROJECT ...........................................             8
General ............................................                                                     8
Industrial Plantation Development ...........................................                           10
Strengthening the FD 's Central Functions ............................................1.2
Project Organization and Management ...........................................                         13
Technical Assistance and Training ...........................................                           14
Studies ............................................                                                    14..
Procurement ...........................................1..4
Project Costs and Financing                                                ........................................... 15.
D.       PROJECT SUSTAiNABILrrY ............................................  15.
E.       BANK PERFORMANCE ..................................................................................16.
F.   BoRROwERPERFORMANCE .................                                                                        1:7.
G.       ASSESSMENT  OF OUTCOME .................1.................8.............. 18.
H.  FUTURE OPERATIONS ..................18.
I.  LESSONS LEARNED ..................18.
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES.                                                                                      2
TABLE 1:        SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS .............................................                              21
TABLE 2:        RELATED BANK LoANS/CREDrrS .............................................                          23
TABLE 3:        PROJECT TiMETABLE ..............................................                                  23.
TABLE 4:        CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE EST[MATED AND ACTUAL ....................................... 24
TABLE 5:        KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .............................................           25
TABLE 6:        KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION .............................................                26
TABLE 7:        STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT .............................................                         26
TABLE 8A:    PROJECT COSTS .............................................                                          27.
TABLE 8B:    PROJECT FINANCING ..............................................                                     28.
TABLE 9:        ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS .............................................                         28
TABLE 10:    STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS .............................................                              29
TABLE 11:    COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTIS .............................................     30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



TABLE 12:   BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS                      .      ............................... 31
TABLE 13:   BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS .............................         .        31
APPENDICES                                       ............................. 32
APPENDIX A:   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT MISSION AIDE MEMOIRE ................................... 33
APPENDiX B:   COMMENTS FROM GOVERNMENT ON THE DRAFT ICR .42
APPENDix C:   ASSESSMENT OF THE INDUSTRIAL PLANTATIONS SUB-SECTOR AND KFDP PROJECT
ASSESSMENT -- A TECHNICAL PAPER PREPARED BY THE ICR MISSION .44
APPENDiX D:   SERVICE DELIVERY SURVEY OF SAWMILLING INDUSTRIES IN KENYA .64
MAP OF PROJECT AREA, IBRD 22752



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2198-KE)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Kenya Forestry
Development Project (KFDP) for which Credit 2198-KE in the amount of SDR 13.9 million
(US$19.9 million equivalent) was approved on December 20, 1990 and made effective on
October 30, 1992.
The Credit was closed on January 31, 1998, after a four month extension to the
original project closing date of September 30, 1997. The final disbursement took place on
July 10, 1998, and an undisbursed balance of SDR 1,876,106.55 was subsequently canceled.
Parallel-financing for the project, in separately implemented components, was provided by
the Governments of Finland, Great Britain, and Switzerland, and by the European Union.
This ICR was finalized by Peter Dewees (AFTE1), and reviewed by Sushma Ganguly
(AFTR1). It was based on an earlier draft prepared by the FAO/World Bank Cooperative
Program, which carried out an ICR mission to Kenya from May 27 to June 13, 1998.1 The
mission's Aide Memoire is included as Appendix A to this report. The Borrower, primarily
through the Project Management Unit (PMU) arranged field visits and meetings, commented
on the mission's Aide Memoire, and provided its own assessment of the project and its
achievements in a Terminal Review Report (for which a summary was not provided for
inclusion in this ICR). Comments on the draft ICR were solicited from Government, and are
included as Appendix B to this report. A detailed review of project implementation
performance was completed in conjunction with the ICR mission, and is included as
Appendix C to this report. A 'Service Delivery Survey of Sawmilling Industries in Kenya'
was also carried out, in conjunction with the ICR mission, to assess the project's impact on
primary stakeholders in the industrial forestry sector. A Summary of this survey is included
as Appendix D to this report.
l  The ICR mission was comprised of Pietros Kidane (Agricultuml Economist, FAO), Richard
Kaguamba (Natural Resource Management Specialist, AFMKE), and Jack Easton (Forest Industies
Specialist, Consultant).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2198-KE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
INTRODUCTION
The World Bank has been supporting forestry sector development in Kenya since
1969. The first three loans and credits, implemented between 1969 and 1989, had an
aggregate value of US$60.1 million, and focused mainly on the development of the industrial
forest plantation subsector. The fourth project - the Kenya Forestry Development Project
(KFDP) - was originally intended to broaden Bank support into other areas, and to foster
better donor coordination, in a way which would bring about more balanced development
within the forestry sector. As it was originally designed, KFDP was to provide support for
forestry extension, industrial plantation development, and indigenous forest conservation, as
well as institutional strengthening, and research and education.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Objectives. The original objectives of the project were to: enhance conseivation and
protection of indigenous forest resources as well as soil and water of forest, farm, and range
land; alleviate the accelerating fuelwood deficiency; improve the efficiency and financial
viability of timber production; and establish a framework for the forestry subsector's long-
termn development.  The project was to provide support for: farm forestry extension;
indigenous forest management and conservation; forestry education and research; forestry
master planning; industrial plantation development; and strengthening the central functions of
the Forest Department (FD). Donor co-financing had been sought for all these activities,
while the last two were to be financed by IDA.
Total project costs were estimated at US$ 83.83 million, of which IDA was to finance
SDR 13.9 million (US$ 19.9 million). The Credit Agreement was signed on February 21,
1991, but only became effective on October 31, 1992. Due to delays in meeting the project's
conditions for effectiveness, other donors either withdrew their support altogether or
proceeded independently to implement their components, without waiting for the credit to be
declared effective. Other donors' components were subsequently delinked from the project,
which instead was to focus only on the two original IDA-financed activities i.e. industrial
plantation development and strengthening the FD's central functions. The project's objectives
were, therefore, amended as follows: "to improve the efficiency and financial viability of
timber production from industrial plantations, and to establish an institutional framework for



Evaluation Summary                   ii
the forestry subsector's long-term development". This ICR reviews the implementation
experience of Bank-financed activities only.
Evaluation of Objectives. One of the problems with the project, as appraised, was
that there were only weak links between the project's objectives and the components and
activities which were put in place to achieve them. While the project's objectives focused on
bringing about general improvements in the industrial plantation forestry sub-sector, the
project's components provided support only to the FD for more specific activities geared
towards replanting, forest operations and maintenance, and strengthening the central functions
of the FD without fully addressing this broader objective. Experience had shown, through 3
previous projects, that continued investments in the FD were unlikely to result in any
significant improvements in the efficiency and financial viability of timber production. The
project, as appraised, seemed to have left the interests of the primary stakeholders in
industrial plantation development-the timber industry-almost at the periphery.
As the project was originally designed, however, the private sector was to have had a
major role in implementation, and resources were to be provided to develop a mechanism for
leasing long term rights of industrial plantation management on gazetted forest lands to the
private sector in an effort to improve the efficiency of timber production. This option was
eventually rejected by Government, Bank management conceded this point, and the project,
as appraised, left out this component. The resulting mix of components skirted around this
central issue of how to improve sectoral performance or to support private sector
development. In the end, the project as appraised was inadequately designed to address the
systemic shortcomings of the subsector, which would have required a major policy, legal, and
institutional overhaul.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
Implementation Record and Factors Affecting the Project. Broader sectoral
performance notwithstanding, and despite many systemic problems, the project's physical
objectives were partially achieved. Many physical targets which had been set were met,
particularly, with regard to replanting. Significant improvements in the FD's inventory
capacity were good achievements, and large areas have been inventoried as a result. Fire
management plans have also been prepared for all districts.
Performance in other areas has been much poorer, particularly in the roads
rehabilitation component, in reducing the backlog of areas targeted for silvicultural treatment
which had been identified at appraisal (pruning, thinning, and coppice reduction), and in
establishing newly planted areas. Despite considerable investments in improving plantation
inventory information, revenues from the sale of timber have declined considerably, a
problem fundamentally related to the collection of royalties and not to their assessment.
The policy framework for forestry was also improved as a result of the project. A
new Forest Policy was introduced in 1993 and reviewed by the Cabinet in 1995, in
compliance with one of the project's legal covenants. This was the first substantive revision



Evaluation Summary                   iii
in policy since 1968. Regardless of how good the policy might be in theory, however, the
problem of effective policy implementation remains.
With regard to the FD's project implementation capacity, after initial difficulties in
the first two years of project implementation, performance improved markedly, resulting from
intensive management training, the delegation of responsibilities for implementation to the
appropriate staff, and the introduction of new working and management methods. At the end
of the project, the FD had detailed management information readily available for making
good management decisions. The improvement of FD's management capacity, through
intensive training, is a project achievement-though the institutional framework remains
entirely unsuited for putting these skills to use.
The need for an alternative institutional structure to take on the management of the
industrial plantation estate had long been recognized. Indeed this was a key finding of earlier
evaluations of FD's performance under previous Bank-financed projects. There are no
compelling economic reasons for continued public management of this resource (though
public ownership is a different matter). Government has long-resisted any efforts to bring
about a substantive reform in the management of the plantations or in the role of the FD in
their management. Key reforms which had been proposed were dropped at appraisal, and
only after subsequent and intensive discussions with Government at a senior level was it
agreed that proposals to improve plantation management could be developed.These were
finalized in June 1997. An agreement was reached with the Ministry of Environment and
Natural Resources (MENR) about steps which would be taken to initiate a reorganization of
the FD during a 4 month project extension period. None of the actions agreed were
undertaken, the project was subsequently closed, and the balance of funds undisbursed,
around $2.5 million of the original $19.9 million credit, was canceled.
Achievement of Objectives.   Despite the project's occasionally satisfactory
performance in meeting physical targets, the project's two development objectives -- "to
improve the efficiency and financial viability of timber production, and... to establish a
framework for sustainable long-term development for industrial wood production in
Kenya"-have not been met. The efficiency of timber production has been improved in some
respects, but ultimately has been undermined by excisions of extensive areas of the industrial
plantation estate and their loss to resettlement, and by political and commercial interference in
plantation management. Revenues are only selectively collected. Using very liberal
estimates, only around 45 percent of revenues due are collected. Between 1986/87 and
1995/96, while production soared, timber royalty collection declined, in 1995 prices, from
around 30 million Kenyan pounds to around 10 million pounds. In 1986/87, timber royalties
covered around 71 percent of the costs of plantation establishment and management. By
1995/96, this proportion had declined to around 32 percent.
Sustainability. The revenue base, and hence, the financial viability of the plantation
estate, has actually contracted because of excisions of extensive areas of the plantation estate,
and while a framework for the long-term development of the sector may have been
established, arguably it is not being implemented. Significant improvements in the ability of
the FD to manage the plantation estate, in the current circumstances, will have little impact.



Evaluation Summary                    iv
Since the project's close, inadequate resources have been available for plantation operation
and maintenance. In light of this, it is unlikely that project investments will be sustainable.
BorrowerPerfonnance. Project Management did its best in the face of these external
constraints, which were very much beyond its control, and-by design-outside of the
project's mandate. The project's most significant failings were a result of a failure by
Government and the Bank to address these systemic concerns during appraisal and
negotiations, despite the fact that the need for significant institutional and legal reforms had
long been acknowledged. In spite of the efforts of Project Management, Government's wider
commitment to achieving the project's development objectives was uncertain at best, and its
performance must be assessed as Unsatisfactory as a result.
Bank Performance. The Bank's most significant failing came during appraisal and
negotiations, when Bank management conceded Government's point that investments should
be focused on providing continuing support for the FD, rather than on any involvement of the
private sector or on the introduction of significant reforms in plantation management.
Otherwise, the Bank provided intensive supervision and support from the Resident Mission to
assist the FD during implementation, and retained a strong commitment to bringing about
substantive institutional change through the project's close. Because of this, Bank
performance is, at best, judged to have been Satisfactory. Given the flaws at appraisal and
negotiations, Bank performance during these earlier stages was certainly inadequate.
Assessment of Outcome. In conjunction with preparation of this ICR, a survey of
sawmillers was undertaken to provide a basis for assessing the impact of Bank investments
on the industry. The survey provides a startling assessment of an industry in decline, in
which there has been little recent new investment in equipment, and which has little assured
or easy access to roundwood supplies from the forest estate. The survey reflected a generally
held view that plantation management had declined in the previous decade. Sawmillers
reported that
(a)   sufficient quantities of roundwood were no longer available and that shortfalls in the
future were anticipated;
(b)   there had been a decline in the quality of roundwood;
(c)   access to plantations had become generally more difficult because of the poor state of
forest roads;
(d)   plantation areas had been excised, further reducing access to current and future
supplies; and
(e)   management of plantations was increasingly  influenced  by  non-technical
considerations and subject to external interference, particularly in licensing, the issue
of directives and evasion of royalty payment.
Sawmillers reported that these factors had discouraged investment in the industry, had
led to a reluctance to take part in cost-sharing initiatives with the FD, and an increased



Evaluation Summwy                    v
tendency for rent seeking by both parties and others with political and commercial interests.
Hence, the achievement of project objectives with regard to private sector development was
negligible.
Because of the fact that the project's development objectives were not met, and that
the investments are unlikely to be sustainable, project outcome is assessed as Unsatisfactory.
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED
(a)   Extensive past experience with the Forest Department provided a strong rationale for
developing altemative and more cost-effective means for establishing and managing
industrial pine and cypress plantations. The involvement of the private sector, through
leasing arrangements, was to have been an important project vehicle for improving
the efficiency of plantation management. At appraisal, Government, in contrast,
sought to maintain the status quo and argued that leasing was not an option. The
result was that no improvements in efficiency or in the financial viability of industrial
plantations were likely, the way the project was appraised.
(b)   Having dropped these initiatives to transform the management of the industrial
plantation subsector, the project's development objectives were never modified in a
manner which was congruent with the components which were retained. The role of
the private sector was subsequently never defined or developed. The failure to engage
the primary stakeholders in the industrial forest plantation subsector-the timber
industry-during implementation was one of the more significant failings of the
project.
(c)   Steps leading to substantive institutional and legal reform should have been clearly
articulated at a much earlier stage, rather than in the final year of project
implementation. Arguably, IDA support should have been made more explicitly
conditional, in the first instance, on the adoption of meaningful institutional reforms.
The Bank's earlier experience with the FD and the fact that Government was never
committed to any serious reforms-indeed was opposed to any change in the status
quo-suggests that it was not at all appropriate that this operation should have gone
forward.
(d)   A well focused and purposeful training program, extended to diverse groups of staff,
made a significant contribution to improve technical operations and management, but
these improvements are unlikely to have much impact in the absence of an
appropriate enabling institutional, legal, and policy framework.
(e)   Placing task management responsibilities in the Resident Mission posed additional
challenges in terms of increasing the need to broaden the perspective beyond day-to-
day project management concerns. In addition, there is the danger that regular
oversight results in less frequent 'formal' supervision reporting, and an over-
optimistic assessment of project progress.



Evaluation Summary                  vi
(f)   From a broader perspective, experience with KFDP gives support to the view that
Bank operations in Kenya must more effectively address issues with regarding to
governance, institutional sustainability, and expenditure management.   The
development of a budgetary framework, which links clear policy objectives with
budgetary provisions, and the development of alternative, more efficient, and legally-
backed plantation management modalities, should be a cornerstone of any future
donor investment in industrial forestry in Kenya.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2198-KE)
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.    The World Bank has been supporting forestry sector development in Kenya since 1969. The
first three loans and credits, which supported project implementation between 1969 and 1989, had an
aggregate value of US$60.1 million, and focused mainly on the development of the industrial forest
plantation subsector.1 The fourth project - the Kenya Forestry Development Project (KFDP) - was
originally intended to broaden Bank support into other areas, and to foster donor coordination in a
way which would bring about more balanced development within the forestry subsector. KFDP was,
in part, an outcome of a major piece of sector work in which a large number of donors participated,
the Kenya Forestry SubsectorReview (Report No. 6651-KE) completed in 1988.
2.    As it was originally designed, KFDP was to provide support for forestry extension, industrial
plantation development, and indigenous forest conservation, as well as institutional strengthening,
and research and education. The project was appraised in November 1990 by several donors2 under
the leadership of IDA. The original objectives of the project were to:
(a)   enhance conservation and protection of indigenous forest resources as well as soil and
water of forest, farm, and range land;
(b)   alleviate the accelerating fuelwood deficiency;
(c)   improve the efficiency and financial viability of timber production; and
(d)    establish a framework for the forestry subsector's long-term development.
3.    The project was to provide support for:
Of these three investments, the first was quite successful in terms of physical achievements, but failed to
address basic issues related to cost recovery. Both the second and third projects failed in their aims to improve
the Forest Department's management perfonnance, or to achieve more efficient plantations operation by
improving labor productivity and increasing rates of cost recovery. Having said this, the most significant
impact of these first three projects was that they succeeded in establishing a significant area of industrial
plantations-around 50,000 ha-providing a valuable source of raw material for the domestic pulp and paper
and sawnilhing industries.
2   The project was appraised in March/April 1990 by IDA, Finnida, the EEC, ODA, and the SDC, which had
planned to co-finance the project.



Part 1. Implementation Assessment           2
(a)    farm forestry extension (to be financed by the Swiss Development Corporation);
(b)   indigenous forest management and conservation (to be financed by the Overseas
Development Agency-now DFID-of the UK);
(c)   forestry education (to be financed by the European Economic Community-now EU);
(d)    forestry research (also to be financed by the EEC);
(e)   forestry master planning (to be financed by the Finnish Development Agency);
(f)   industrial plantation development, comprising the replanting of 19,800 ha and the
establishment of 3,500 ha of new plantations, promoting private sector involvement in
commercial forestry and improving plantation roads (to be financed by IDA); and
(g)    strengthening the central functions of the Forestry Department (FD), by up-grading its
technical capability, improving its vehicle fleet management, and by improving its
labor productivity (to be financed by IDA).
4.    The Project, which was to be implemented over a six year period, was estimated to cost
US$ 83.83 million (KSh 1,939.3 million), of which IDA was to finance SDR 13.9 million (US$ 19.9
million). Implementation was to take place under the existing institutional structure (through the FD),
although it was envisaged that a Steering Committee would coordinate project execution. The Credit
Agreement was signed on February 21, 1991, but only became effective on October 31, 1992, some
18 months after the original date planned.. Delays in meeting the project's conditions for
effectiveness were associated with the lack of adequate office space for the FD. Due to these delays,
other donors3, either withdrew their support altogether or proceeded independently to implement their
components, without waiting for the Credit to be declared effective.
5.    By the time the Credit became effective, a lack of coordination and coherence between the
original project components had become problematic. It was agreed to delink other donors'
components from the overall project concept, which, from the Bank's perspective, instead was to
focus only on the two original IDA-financed activities i.e. industrial plantation development and
strengthening the FD's central functions. The project's objectives were, therefore, amended to:
"...improve the efficiency and financial viability of timber production from industrial
plantations, and to establish an institutional framework for the forestry subsector's
long-term development".
3   Prior to the time the Credit was declared effective, two donors (EEC and SDC), pulled out, promptingde facto
the exclusion of three components from the appraised project. The EEC signed a new agreement with GOK in
1992 to provide assistance for naturl forest conservation and management. The other two donors, ODA and
FINNIDA, proceeded separately to implement their respective components. After two years of support for
naturl forest management and conservation, ODA also withdrew, in 1993, following the lack of an agreement
with GOK about its development approach. FINNIDA provided support to complete the Kenya Forestry
Master Plan (1994); and has continued to provide sectoral support for indigenous forest conservation and
forestry extension development within the framework of the Master Plan.



Part 1. Implementation Assessment           3
6.    One of the problemis with the project, as appraised, was that there were only weak links
between the project's objectives and the components and activities which were put ina place to achieve
them. While the project's objectives focused on bringing about general improvements in the industrial
plantation forestry sub-sector, the project's components provided support for more specific activities
geared toward ED operations: replanting, improving forest operations and maintenance, and
strengthening its central functions, viz, planning, supervision, monitoring, forest inventory, and road
construction and maintenance.
7.    The activities which the project did support with regard to improved efficiency and financial
viability and the development of a sound institutional framework were also undertaken only as
studies, rather than as clear and objective-oriented initiatives with implementation timetables, and
with clear support from Goveniment: an institutional study to develop alternative models of
plantation management was undertaken in the absence of a clear commitment from Govemnment to
introduce any significant organizational reforms; studies of improvements in methods for calculating
royalty rates, were prepared in the absence of any commitment to rationalize sectoral expenditure;
projections of roumdwood supply and demand were assessed without any clear linkages with a
transparent policy and planning process, any specific plantation management outcome, or with the
needs of the industry.
8.    The project was also inadequately designed to addes other systemic shortcomings of the
sector. The appraisal report noted that the ED operated as a weak line agency with limited political
support. A declining budget had gone mainly to salaries and wages, leaving few resources for
operations and reinvestment. Forest infrastructure, notably the forest road network and other assets
was in a state of disrepair as a result. Politically motivated excisions of the industrial plantation estate
also served to undermine any potential improvements in production efficiency. Though stumpage
rates have long been periodically adjusted, non-payment and non-coliection of royalties was (and
remains) rampant. There is no transparency in the manner in which sawniiUers are licensed, and there
are few incentives for the industry to reinvest in plant and equipment.
9.    Indeed, the project as appraised seemed to have left the interests of the primary stakeholders
in industrial plantation development-the timber industry-almost at the periphery. The idea that
industrial plantation development must ultimately be undertaken for the benefit of the forest industry
was almost completely lacking during project implementation.4
10.   This puzzling disconnect was not intended when the project was first designed. Indeed,
project preparation documents noted that '... There is no economic justification for the FD to be
solely responsible for industrial plantations. On the contrary, the past actions of the ED during the
last 20-30 years have demonstrated the inefficiency of the ED in managing its plantations.' Three
altemnatives were explored during project preparation: leasing the rights to manage the plantation
estate to the private sector; converting the industrial plantation sector into a parastatal; or completely
privatizing industrial forestry in Kenya. Maintaining the status quo was never seriously considered
during project preparation. As appraised and implemented, however, this is exactly what happened.
4As an hinput to thi ICR, a 'Service Delivery Survey of Sawmiihng Industiies in Kenya' was undertaken to
determine the imipacts of Bank investmnents on the delivery of services to the forest industry. A summary of
that report is included as Appendix C to this report.



Part 1. Implementation Assessment              4
11.   Indeed, as the project was originally designed, the private sector was to have had a major role
in project implementation, and resources were to be provided to develop a mechanistn for the first of
these options: leasing long-term rights of industrial plantation management to the private sector. The
objective of this was to reduce the managerial burden on the FD, and to create new sources of
revenues which could be used for financing recurrent costs and investments, while improving the
efficiency of timber production as a whole. Financial support was going to be provided, through the
project, to interested and capable private and parastatal wood-based companies. to lease gazetted
forest land on a long term basis to grow timber.
12.    Based on an agreement with the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources (MENR),5
project preparation and design had proceeded along this basis, and a great deal of work had gone into
preparing project components consistent with this understanding. However, during the Appraisal
Mission wrap-up meeting, the Ministry reversed its earlier position on timber leasing, even on a pilot
basis, and stated that private sector leasing could not be allowed, and that the FD should be provided
more support instead of trying to involve the private sector in plantation management. There was,
and continues to be, little economic rationale for this view.
13.    For reasons which are not clear from project documentation, but which likely relate to Bank
management's concern about the costs of preparing and appraising the project and a sense that there
was pressure to push the project forward for Board approval, Bank management conceded this point,
and the project, as appraised, left out this significant component.6 The resulting mix of components
skirted around this central issue of how to improve sectoral performance.
14.   In retrospect, the project's objectives could only have been accomplished in the absence of
this component if Government had been committed to a significant overhaul of the system. Any
failure in project design was a result of a refusal to acknowledge that these main problems would
have to be addressed first before the project's objectives could be achieved. Accordingly, measures
should have been introduced to enable and empower the FD to operate unencumbered and on a
commercial basis for the optimal management of the plantations, or alternatively to involve the
private sector in plantation management as had been proposed. In the end, the project as appraised
made no significant suggestions for a reorganization, going so far as to say that no organizational
changes were envisaged.7  It was the draft Kenya Forestry Policy (1993) and the Kenya Forestry
Master Plan (published in 1994 under the Ministry's cover), which argued that radical reforms were
necessary in the ways plantations were managed.
5 The FD is now part of the new Ministry of Natural Resources (MNR), which has retained responsibility for
forestry, wildlife, fisheries, and mining, while the environmental policy, planning, and regulatory functions
have been taken on by a new Ministry of Environmental Conservation (MENR). These institutional changes
came after the project closed.
6   In addition, the Nairobi-based Task Manager, who had been advocating the position with regard to the
involvement of the private sector-and who had been very strongly cognizant of the need to improve the cost-
effectiveness of plantation management-was actually excluded from negotiations with Government, which
were held in Washington. The result was that those who participated in negotiations on the Bank side had little
appreciation of the issues concemed, and other important points were conceded to Government, evidently in the
interests of facilitating project approval.
7 Despite this fact, one of the conditions of effectiveness was that 'the Borrower has finalized a management
strengthening arrangement for FD headquarters with a suitable organization.' Evidently, its acceptability to
IDA was not a condition.



Part 1. Implementation Assessment             5
15.   IDA subsequently encouraged Government to undertake a study of institutional options for a
reorganization of the FD, which was completed in June 1997. Government has taken no substantive
steps to implement the recommendations of this study. These ideas should have been part and parcel
of project design, an intentional omission for which Bank management holds considerable
responsibility.
B.    ACHEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECT1VES
16.    Broader sectoral performance notwithstanding, and despite these systemic problems, the
project's physical objectives have been partially achieved.8 Many physical targets which had been set
were met. Good results have been achieved in replanting about 20,000 ha of clear-felled plantations
with commercial species (pine, cypress and eucalyptus), as envisaged at appraisal. The project also
succeeded in constructing a building for FD headquarters staff, bringing all FD units under one roof,
thereby saving time and other resources required to travel between different offices in Nairobi.9
17.    The achievement of the project's physical objectives in other respects was much poorer,
particularly in the roads rehabilitation (which continues to be a priority for the private sector), in
reducing the backlog of areas targeted for silvicultural treatment which had been identified at
appraisal (pruning, thinning and coppice reduction),10 and in establishing newly planted areas. The
project never successfully introduced any technical changes in the ED's silvicultural practices, despite
recommendations regarding the need to do so to improve productivity and efficiency.
18.    The FD's management skills were improved by the project, accomplished through very
intensive training inputs, though the institutional framework remains entirely unsuited for putting
these skills to use. Indeed, among the most significant, albeit somewhat irrelevant, project
achievements has been the strengthening of the ED's skills through massive training, both at
headquarters and in the field, and through the provision of equipment and technical assistance. At
project completion, all forest stations were regularly preparing individual Annual Work Programs
(AWP), which are subsequently consolidated into district plans and later into a national work
program. This system of work planning, apart from forcing people in the field to prepare realistic
plans in line with available resources, was an innovation and has proven useful for supervisors in
monitoring performance and outcomes.
19.    The establishment of a Project Management Team (PMT) to guide project implementation
also created a management culture amongst senior staff of meeting and discussing together matters
concerning industrial plantations. In terms of capacity building, improvements in the Inventory Unit
stand out. This Unit, which has been up-graded quantitatively and qualitatively, is now capable of
8   The achievement of the project's various objectives is summarized in Part II, Table 1.
9   Having said this, there are recent reports that, 'The Forest Department has been issued with a notice by "private
developers" to vacate its office in Karura ForestI (Daily Nation, Wednesday, September 30, 1998). The
Minister of Natural Resources recently justified these allocations-and the loss of Karua Forest to
developers-because of a perceived need for land toaccomodate urban growth. This is a stunning indictment
of the Ministry's actions in the face of its responsibilities, which first and foremost involve protecting natural
environments.
During implementation, targets for pruning and thinning were revised downwards, by over 50 percent, because
for many areas, these operations would have yielded insignificant benefits.



Part 1. Implementation Assessment              6
undertaking inventories for commercial and other purposes over a much larger area than previously.
Since 1995, the Unit has carried out inventories on about 45,500 ha of plantations.
20.    Another outcome, with mixed impact, was the reduction of the FD's permanent staff by about
39 percent or 6,700 people as a result of labor efficiency studies and staffing reforms carried out by
the Department through the project. Between 1991 and 1995, personnel costs declined from 80
percent of total recurrent and development costs for forest plantations, to 47 percent. The original
objective had been to free up resources for reinvestment in plant and equipment. This objective was
undermined, however, by a decision by Treasury further to cut the total budget for plantation
development. During the same period, adjusted for inflation, total expenditures on plantations were
cut by nearly 20 percent. Rather than improving efficiency or increasing the ability of the Department
to reinvest in plant and equipment, the Department has been left at the close of the project with fewer
staff and resources to undertake critical plantation management tasks. Overall, because the project's
substantial capacity building efforts, and actions taken to retrench staff, were not accompanied by a
significant, and needed, institutional restructuring, the project's objectives with regard to institutional
development and public sector management were only partially achieved.
21.    Staffing reductions were partly compensated for by the reintroduction in 1994 of the 'non-
resident labor' program, sometimes known as the 'shamba system,' which had been abandoned in
1988. Under this system, ostensibly landless farmers are allocated areas of newly cleared plantations
to cultivate. Seedlings are subsequently interplanted with crops, and cultivation continues for up to 4
years, reducing the Department's labor and weeding costs, and producing short term benefits from
crop production which accrue to the farmer. The system consistently produces higher plantation
yields at lower cost, and so its reintroduction was seen to be a major achievement." Because of its
social and poverty-related impacts, the project partially achieved its objectives in these areas.
22.    From a Policy perspective, as one of the conditions of the credit agreement, the FD drafted
and forwarded for Cabinet approval a new Forest Policy-the first major revision to policy since
1968. At least in terms o articulating a new policy, this was a substantive achievement. The policy,
however, is not being implemented, and minor changes in the macro policy framework have meant
that achievement of macro policy objectives has been negligible, and the achievement of sectoral
policy objectives-at least in terms of defining a new policy-has been partial.
23.    If the results of the Service Delivery Survey of the Sawmilling Industry (Appendix D to this
report) are any indication, the private sector's position has deteriorated over the life of the project.'2
The Survey found a general belief among sawmillers that plantation management had declined in the
previous decade. Sawmillers reported that
Arguably, the system should never have been abolished-a move which was undertaken for essentially political
reasons. By the nid-1980s, the system was being badly abused, but the fact was that it needed reform, rather
than elinination.
12 The other significant stakeholder in the forest industry is the pulp and paper industry. The industry comprises a
single company, Pan African Paper Mills, which accounts for perhaps as much as a third of the total annual
harvest of industrial roundwood. PPM has, for many years, operated as a monopsony, separately negotiating
extremely favorable royalty rates with government, and using highly valuable sawlogs for pulpwood. The
inefficiences which have been created as a result have been significant, and most efforts of the FD to overcome
these inefficiencies by requiring, for example, a more rationale roundwood pricing regime or integrated
harvesting, have been frustrated. The Ministry's views of PPM are referred to in Appendix B.



Part 1. Implementation Assessment               7
(a)    sufficient quantities of roundwood were no longer available and that shortfalls in the
future were anticipated;
(b)    there had been a decline in the quality of roundwood;
(c)    access to plantations had become generally more difficult because of the poor state of
forest roads;
(d)    plantation areas had been excised, further reducing access to current and future
supplies; and
(e)    management  of  plantations  was  increasingly  influenced  by  non-technical
considerations and subject to external interference, particularly in licensing, the issue
of directives and evasion of royalty payment.
24.    Sawmillers reported that these factors had discouraged investment in the industry, had led to a
reluctance to take part in cost-sharing initiatives with the FD,'3 an increased tendency to depart from
proper procedures in procuring roundwood, and rent seeking by parties in the FD, in the industry, and
by others with commercial or political interests. Hence, the achievement of project objectives with
regard to private sector development was negligible.
25.    The project's environmental objectives-related to the impact of  industrial plantation
development on reducing pressures for indigenous roundwood-were only partially achieved, but
have fundamentally been undermined by excisions and resettlement of the plantation estate.
26.    Many of the constraints in meeting the project's objectives were very much beyond the FD's
control and outside of the project's mandate. The project's most significant failings were a result of
the inability to address these systemic concerns during the design and appraisal process, and an
unwillingness by Bank management to make further support dependent on substantive reform,
despite the fact that the need for significant institutional and legal changes had long been
acknowledged."4
13  Sawmillers have been contributing in a substantive way to routine FD operations since 1988 in recognition of
the FD's management and cash constraints, and at the request of Government. The assumption was that these
contributions would eventually be offset against stumpage payments. This never happened with any
consistency, and abuse and mismanagement has resulted in a suspension of many of these arrangements.
Sawmillers claim large suis of money donated for road repairs routinely go missing, and operations promised
in return for cost-sharing never materialize. More substantive abuses have occurred when operators are give
stumpage concessions against claims they have physically achieved particular objectives, such as tree planting,
though there is no means within the FD to monitor impact and performance of the private sector. Huge
concessions have been made on this basis alone.
14  An earlier FAO review, on which this ICR is based, determined that the project's physical accomplishments
were sufficient to conclude that project performance had been 'marginally satisfactory' in light of the
disconnect between the project's development objectives and its components. The FAO review noted that,
"...if project achievements are to be judged strictly from the point of view of the overall industrial plantations development,
it is clear that the project has not achieved its stated objectives. Notwithstanding this, however, the project has made
significant contribution to industrial plantations in Kenya in line with the way it was designed. Taking into account the
achievements made under the project components in establishing plantations and strengthening the FD it is fair to say that
the project met its objectives partially."



Part 1. Implementation Assessment         8
27.   Despite the project's occasionally satisfactory performance in meeting physical targets, the
project's two development objectives-"to improve the efficiency and financial viability of timber
production from industrial plantations, and to establish an institutional framework for the forestry
subsector's long-term development"-have not been met. The efficiency of timber production has
been improved in some respects, but ultimately has been undermined by large-scale excisions"s of the
industrial plantation estate and their loss to resettlement (estimated at between 20,000 and 30,000 ha
since 1995), and by political and commercial interference in plantation management. The revenue
base, and hence, the financial viability of the plantation estate, has actually contracted because of
excisions, and while a framework for the long-term development of the sector may have been
established, arguably it is not being implemented. Achievements in meeting the project's financial
objectives have been negligible. Significant improvements in the ability of the FD to manage the
plantation estate, in the current circumstances, will have little impact.
C.    IMPLEMENTATION REcoRD AND MAJOR FACTORS THE PROJECT
General
28.   Project implementation was slow to get underway during the first two years after the credit
had been declared effective. Progress during the first year was basically limited to the establishment
of the Project Management Team (PMT) and the positioning of the Management Support Team
(MST) consisting of international consultants. Slow start up was due to inexperience and staff
turnover, lack of clear authority by the Project Manager (PM) as the head of the PMT, inadequate
budget provisions, and the slow release of funds by GOK Further, the FD's headquarters were
unfinished for the greater part of the first year, and poor staff working conditions contributed to the
PMT's difficulties in planning and managing the project efficiently. Planned procurement of vehicles
and equipment, and the road rehabilitation program during this period were not achieved. The
plantation establishment program was curtailed for lack of funds. In the second year, however,
project implementation accelerated following improvements in project management with the
assistance of the MST, the establishment of better communication between the PMT and Treasury,
and a better understanding by management about funding and procurement procedures.
29.   By the time the Mid-term Review was carried out in January/February 1996, it was widely
acknowledged that, apart from the roads component, project implementation-at least in terms of
achieving physical targets-had improved markedly. During this joint FD/IDA review, it was agreed
with MENR that, among other things, the project would: (a) undertake studies on reorganizing the FD
to improve plantation operations management and on wood products demand; (b) prepare plans and
programs for revising royalty rates; (c) establish district level forest management plans (including fire
management plans), and (d) determine a program for future disposition of game damaged forests.
30.   The Mid-term Review also noted the FD's deteriorating financial position with regard to
plantation management. Total recurrent and development expenditure on plantation establishment
For the reasons noted, however, Bank staff believed this conclusion was not robust enough to lead to a
satisfactory rating.
15 'Excision' refers here to the illegal andde facto loss of plantations to politically-motivated resettlement, rather
than to the much later de jure process of excision, which only formalizes in law the loss of forests and their
degazettement from the forest estate.



Part 1. Implementation Assessment         9
exceeded well over 70 million Kenyan pounds (in 1995 prices) in the early 1980s, but had declined to
around 26 million pounds in FY94/95 -- 37 percent of their 1980/81 levels. Between 1986/87 and
1994/95, timber royalty collection declined, in 1995 prices, from around 30 million Kenyan pounds
to less than 10 million pounds-an even greater decline than the decline in expenditure on plantation
development.
31.   With regard to the problem of revenue collection, there have been two principal reasons for
poor performance. Firstly, although stunpage rates between 1980/81 and 1994/95 had increased in
nominal terms by as much as 6-fold (for cypress), these increases were considerably less than the rate
of inflation. Accounting for the effects of inflation, in real terms, the stumpage rate for cypress had
declined by 1996 to only around 35 percent of its 1986/87 levels. The ability of the Forest
Department to increase stumpage prices in line with the rate of inflation, which exceeded 40 and 50
percent on an annualized basis during the early 1990s, was greatly constrained.  Secondly,
noncollection and undercollection of royalties has also greatly contributed to the problem. Using
fairly conservative assumptions, it has been estimated that, at most, only 45 percent of sawlog
royalties due are actually collected.
32.   Concerns about the ability of the FD effectively to manage the industrial plantations under
existing arrangements, though mooted during appraisal (March 1990), were not formally articulated
again by the Bank to Government until September 1994. The process of preparing a new Forest
Policy (required by the Credit Agreement), and the Kenya Forestry Master Plan (completed in 1994
with the assistance of Finnida) both highlighted the need for an alternative institutional structure. The
Bank eventually endorsed this view, arguing that 'there has to be a reorganization of the operational
management and financing of industrial plantations if (the) decline in potential production is to be
arrested and the resource managed to its full potential.' Subsequent correspondence reinforced this
message. 1 Still, these were issues which should have been addressed at appraisal, instead of during
implementation.
33.   The project did substantively attempt to deal with these more fundamental issues of the
efficiency and financial viability of the industrial plantation sector, but in the absence of wider
political support in Kenya for change. A study of institutional options for improving the management
of industrial plantations was an outcome of this effort. Consultants were invited to tender for this
consultancy in July 1995, but it wasn't until February 1996 (in conjunction with discussions related
to the Policy Framework Paper) that Government gave its clearance to proceed further. The study
was launched in November 1996, completed in July 1997, and almost immediately shelved.
Following a subsequent agreement with GOK that specific actions would be taken to initiate the
reorganization of the ED, the closing date for the project was extended by four months to January 31,
1998. A failure to initiate any of the agreed actions which would have led to an institutional
reorganization was the reason the project's closing date was not extended further, and why nearly $2
million of the original credit were canceled.
16  Correspondence from S. Ganguly to P. Mbithi (Head of the Civil Service), September 1994, and subsequent
correspondence from S. O'Brien to P. Mbithi, April 1995. Interestingly, Prof. Mbithi replied that 'It is our view
that industrial plantations should be able to generate enough revenue to meet both investment and operational
costs, and at the same time yield surplus revenue to the Treasury.'



Part 1. Implementation Assessment          10
Industrial Plantation Development
Replanting and New Plantings
34.   In order to reduce the backlog in planting that accumulated over the previous years, the
project proposed to replant 19,800 ha of already harvested plantations and to establish 3,500 ha of
new plantations.17 At completion, the project succeeded in achieving its replanting.target (19,880 ha),
but not its new planting targets, as barely 10 percent of the expected area was planted. The reason for
the reduced new planting was mainly because of the preference of FD foresters to replant logged-over
sites first, since these areas were relatively easier to establish, compared to new sites. Replanting
targets could have easily been exceeded had project start-up been prompt. Replanting for 1992/93
amounted to 2,240 ha, while the annual average for the following four years was about 3,900 ha.
Replanting accelerated after the gradual re-introduction of system of non-resident cultivation (the
'shamba system') in 1994, which both lowered establishment costs and increased survival rates in
replanted sites.
Plantation Management and Silviculture
35.   The project introduced a new system of plantation planning, operations and reporting. Under
this system, each district prepares a plan that, apart from containing basic information on individual
blocks, provides details on the work program. A separate felling plan is also prepared by each district.
District plans are then consolidated at the national level by the FD. Monthly progress reports are
produced by District Forest Officer's (DFOs), and these are used for monitoring project operations.
This system has the potential for greatly improving forest operations (and indeed, did so while the
project was under implementation), and provides management with a clear picture of performance
and outputs at any desired time. At the end of each year, AWPs are reviewed before preparing new
ones, and consideration is given to activities that suffered in the past year.
36.   The project cleared a small part of the backlog of silvicultural operations on existing
plantations: 11,900 ha of pruning, 5,880 ha of thinning, and 1,870 ha of coppice reduction. This is
less than 20 percent of the targets set at appraisal, but about 70 percent of revised targets. The failure
to meet the targets set was mainly due to labor constraints which developed as staff were retrenched,
and in some instances, due to poor access to plantation sites. In spite of a consensus amongst
foresters, and as a result of research, that the FD's standard silvicultural practices should be revised
with a view to reducing costs, no action was taken through the project to bring about these changes.
New technical guidelines for pine and cypress management which are needed include plant spacing,
the frequency of pruning and thinning, and the rotation length.
37.   Despite these reported improvements in overall management practice, there continues to be a
significant 'disconnect' between the FD's operations, and the perceptions of the industry which is
dependent upon it to provide future roundwood supplies. Only 6 percent of respondents in a survey of
sawmillers knew of felling plans which covered their areas, and had access to this information. In the
17  Arguably, 'backlogs' in both replantings and silvicultural operations should never have happened in the first
instance. After 25 years of investment in the sector, the FD was still not able to regularly plan and pay for the
replanting and management of cleared plantations, and required yet another Bank project to organize and
finance these normal silvicultural operations.



Part 1. Implementation Assessment        11
same survey, 81 percent of respondents reported that plantation management was, in their view, either
poor or non-existent. Infrastructure, taxation, the failure transparently to implement policy, and the
unreliability of supplies of roundwood were considered to be major constraints to the industry. (See
Appendix D).
Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance
38.   Four road units have been created at strategic locations, and road equipment, engineering
stores and staff have been assigned to these units to improve the FD's ability to undertake operations
in remote areas. These units have also constructed two bridges, and are now the FD's backbone for
any road works. An engineering unit was also established at the FD headquarters to plan and
supervise road rehabilitation, and vehicle fleet management and maintenance.
39.   Additional roadworks were to be undertaken under contract. Although seven contracts were
awarded by early 1993 to rehabilitate 530 km of forest roads, contractors failed to perform because of
disputes over price adjustments to reflect inflation and an increase in the volume of work. Treasury
and the FD for the most part rejected these claims. In the end, two contracts were terminated and
another five resulted in the rehabilitation of only 162 km. Subsequent contracts were prepared on a
much smaller scale, at the district level and on force account. However, even these small contracts
were unsuccessful. Of the combined target of 135 km set for rehabilitation in 1996/97 over several
districts, only 20 km were rehabilitated.
40.   Overall, some 690 km of roads were rehabilitated and 890 km maintained under the project,
against appraisal targets of 1,600 km to be rehabilitated and 3,000 km to be maintained. Of these
achievements about 66 percent were carried out under force account. The standard of the roads which
have been rehabilitated is poor. Although it was believed at appraisal that it would be more efficient
to carry out road repair and maintenance through private contracts, this did not prove correct. More
road work was carried out under force account, and the quality of the work was at least comparable to
that of the private contractors.
41.   Poor performance in road rehabilitation and maintenance is considered a major failing of the
project because it did not succeed in reducing significantly the problem of plantation inaccessibility.
Indeed, the sawmilling industry reports that the single biggest constraint to the operation of the
industry is the state of access roads to plantations and forest roads within them (Appendix D).
Around 85 percent of sawmillers surveyed reported this was a major constraint. The poor state of
forest roads has major implications for the industry in terms of securing reliable log supplies and
maintaining fleets of vehicles.
Increasing Revenuesfrom Plantations
42.   The project aimed at improving the system of royalty collection through several initiatives.
Firstly, it was envisaged that a strengthened Forestry Inventory Section would better enable the FD to
keep track of revenues collected and revenues due. Secondly, royalty assessments were to be based
on standing volume, rather than cut volume, and this system was to be extended to all districts.
Thirdly, various studies were commissioned and action plans prepared to indicate how the system of
royalty collection could be further improved. It was envisaged that these changes would result in full
cost recovery. For its part, the Bank was to monitor the achievement of targets specified at appraisal.



Part 1. Implementation Assessment          12
43.   With regard to the Forest Inventory Section of the FD, the project provided staff training,
vehicles, additional staff and equipment necessary for collecting information, analyzing data and
assessing volumes. The number of the field inventory teams was increased from six to thirteen, two
more than what had been anticipated at appraisal. While in the past the Inventory Section was
involved only in sales inventory, it has been up-graded to carry out inventories not related to sales.
Under the project, about 45,500 ha of plantations have been inventoried for general volume
assessment and 8,170 ha for sale purpose. The expansion of the Inventory Section's task to cover
general inventory was not part of the original project design, but was introduced during
implementation. The area inventoried during the project (a large area by any standard), would have
been greater if project start-up had been prompt and if all the 13 inventory teams had been fully-
equipped: the project only financed equipment and vehicles for 7 of the 13 teams. The strengthened
Inventory Section only began operating in earnest in 1995. Presently, the FD is well equipped to
maintain and carry out inventories of its plantations. Assessment capabilities are now more accurate
than before the project started. The Unit has provided an important basis for increasing revenue
collection, by improving the accuracy of its assessments and by lowering the size of the salable
18
logs, .
44.   Despite the project's achievements in increasing the Inventory Section's capacities, further
actions to increase the rate of royalty collection have been inadequate, seriously undermining the
sector's financial viability. Between 1986/87 and 1995/96, timber royalty collection declined, in
1995 prices, from around 30 million Kenyan pounds to around 10 million pounds. In 1986/87,
timber royalties covered around 71 percent of the costs of plantation establishment and management.
By 1995/96, this proportion had declined to around 32 percent.
45.   Not surprisingly, the industry voiced no real concerns, in the Service Delivery Survey, about
the levels of royalties which are gazetted, but was more vocal about irregularities in the manners in
which royalties and other taxes were assessed and collected. Most operators voiced the opinion that
revenue collection was unfairly and unevenly imposed across the industry, depending on the strength
of commercial and political interests. Larger and more established sawmills claimed that smaller and
unlicensed operations evaded almost all forms of taxation, whereas larger operaters were regularly
followed up by government revenue agents. Fees and taxes were described as 'crippling' by one
sawmiller.
46.   Governance is clearly a key issue here. Unless Government is willing to take on this very
central issue, and to implement a means of fairly and transparently assessing and collecting royalties
which are due, the economy will continue to pay a heavy price, subsidizing rent seekers in
Government and in industry more generally, while ultimately sabotaging the forest-based economy.
Strengthening the ED's Central Functions
Support to FD Headquarters
47.   The project provided considerable support to improve FD headquarters operation. One of the
conditions of effectiveness was that the FD would have adequate offices for its personnel, which
The diameter of salable logs was reduced by the FD from 20 cm to 15 cm for pinesawlogs, and from 15 cm to
10 cm for cypress sawlogs and for all types of pulpwood.



Part 1. Implementation Assessment        13
were to be housed in one building. After an almost two year delay, the project constructed temporary
headquarters office space on land owned by the Ministry, in the outskirts of Nairobi, with all the
necessary facilities including water supply, an all-weather access road and modem electrical
connections. Despite its temporary nature, this has enabled the FD to bring all its headquarters units
under one roof for the first time in more than 20 years, and has greatly improved work efficiency.
This investment is now in jeopardy, as, reportedly, a title to the plot on which the headquarters
building rests has been allocated to private developers.
48.   FD headquarters' management capacity (though not the enabling institutional structure) has
also been strengthened as a result of management courses and through in-service training, and
through the provision of computers and vehicles. Most professional staff have been trained in
commercial management techniques. All the specific units, e.g. those dealing with inventory,
procurement, engineering, financial and field operations were also given training, custom-tailored to
their respective specialization. The MST spearheaded the identification and planning of training for
each unit. Improved communications between the headquarters and field offices through a radio
network was to be provided by the project. The lack of an agreement between the FD and Postal
Authorities about payment of a frequency-use tax prevented the installation of a usable
communication system. The transport capability of the FD has improved under the project, following
the strengthening of the Engineering Unit at headquarters through training and the provision of
additional staff and equipment. Roads units have also been strengthened in terms of their ability to
service, repair and maintain vehicles. Under the project, the FD has rehabilitated several vehicles,
improving staff mobility. Unlike the pre-project situation, the FD is in a better position to know the
location, number and condition of its fleet of vehicles.
Private Sector Involvement
49.   Much project design had been carried out on the basis of an understanding that the FD would
initiate leasing arrangements with the private sector to undertake plantation management. As noted,
during the appraisal wrap-up meeting, the Ministry indicated that it wished to exclude any leasing
activities from the project, and so the project was modified to reflect this omission, and Bank
management conceded this important point. In the end, although it was originally an intention to
involve the private sector in industrial forest matters, this engagement was never subsequently
defined, and little involvement of, or consultation with, the industry took place. In addition to the
earlier noted reticence to address some of the major institutional changes which were needed, the
failure adequately to engage the industrial plantation subsector's primary stakeholders-the timber
industry-in project implementation, was a central failure.
Project Organization and Management
50.   Project organization and management was much leaner than envisaged at appraisal, during
which it had been proposed that an inter-ministerial steering committee would be established. The
PM, and the management team (consisting of the heads of operational or service units of the FD),
became the main management group. After initial difficulties in the first two years, the performance
of the PMT improved markedly because of intensive training in management and other skills; by
relieving the PM of administrative tasks outside the project; and by introducing clearer channels of
authority. These arrangements, together with the introduction of new working and management
methods, such as the preparation of AWPs, periodic reporting, regular supervisory and monitoring



Part 1. Implementation Assessment        14
visits to the field districts, have stepped up the FD's ability to perform. At the end of the project, the
FD was in a position to extract from its information management system most of the relevant
information needed on its plantations down to the forest station level. The PMT was not an
implementation unit,per se, because PMT members continued to be responsible for all activities in
the FD under their respective authority. By the time of project completion, project management had
evolved into FD management. The improvement of the FD's management capacity is one of the good
achievements of the project-though this achievement has little relevance in the absence of an
alternative institutional framework.
Technical Assistance and Training
51.   Institutional capacity building through technical assistance (TA) andthrough training was an
important element of the project. Critical longer-term assistance was provided by the MST. This team
was helpful in laying down the basis for improved management, and in assisting in the identification
of training needs and in drawing up the training program. In general, the MST discharged its tasks
satisfactorily. The project's training program was headed by a full time senior professional who was a
member of the PMT. A large training program, encompassing a wide scope of topics, was financed
by the project, covering management, forestry techniques, administration, engineering and finance.
Training courses were conducted mainly at the Kenya Forestry College, though some were held at
district locations. The total number of people trained was 1,294 professional and technical staff, 426
vocational and 182 administrative and technical support staff. Training has been the main vehicle for
improving the FD's management and operational performance. The institutional structure, however,
is entirely inappropriate for taking advantage of this substantial investment.
Studies
52.   The project has undertaken five major studies, in addition to many surveys and plans carried
out to facilitate implementation. Most of these studies were identified during the mid-term review and
comprise the only really significant efforts to identify the means to improve the efficiency and
financial viability of the sector or of the FD. The most important, from the point of view of future
efficient plantation management, was the "Reorganization of Management of Industrial Plantations
and Restructuring Options for the Forestry Department", completed in June 1997. While this study
could have provided the basis for future action with regard to a reorganization of the FD, few steps
have subsequently been taken to either refine or modify its recommendations best to suit the FD's
needs. Any subsequent action to implement the study's recommendations have not been taken. A
major criticism of all the studies has been that the forest industry was not consulted during their
preparation. In addition, they were undertaken only as studies, rather than as clear and objective-
oriented initiatives with implementation timetables, or with clear support from Govemment.
Procurement
53.   Procurement was carried out by a project Procurement Unit which was established in
1993/94. Because of government procedures which required clearance by the parent ministerial
procurement board, and then by the GOK central organs, delays were frequently encountered,
frustrating project implementation plans. Most of all, however, budgetary shortages arising from
ceilings imposed by GOK, and the slow release of funds, delayed procurement. Because of these



Part 1. Implementation Assessment        15
problems, some 20 vehicles which were to be procured in 1997/98 could not be purchased before the
project closed.
Project Costs and Financing
54.   At completion, total project costs amounted to US$ 21.19 million or KSh 1,126.2 million.
Total disbursement by IDA accounted for US$ 17.25 million, or which is about.87 percent of the
original Credit. The balance of the Credit, US$ 2.6 million, was canceled after one extension of the
closing date. Costs totaling around US$ 3.94 million were financed by GOK. About 70 percent of
project costs covered technical assistance, the purchase of vehicles and other equipment and vehicle
operation and maintenance (Appendix C, Tables 5 and 6).
D.   PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
55.   The sustainability of the plantations established by the project and of the enhanced
institutional capacity of the FD will depend on the level of support that GOK provides to the FD to
operate and manage its plantations efficiently. Sustainability will require,
(a)   that Government provides adequate and continuing budgetary support for plantations
operations and management;
(b)   that the FD must be enabled to manage the plantation resource responsibly,
autonomously, and with accountability, and without external interference; and that
(c)   excisions of industrial plantations should be stopped if the economic viability of the
industry is to be assured.
56.   In the absence of these three elements, the sustainability of past investments cannot be
ensured. Current trends are not encouraging:
(a)   Because of the prevailing fiscal crisis in Kenya, budgetary allocations are already
unlikely to be adequate. Budgetary allocations for 1998/99 were drastically reduced
after the project closed. Around 96 percent of the budget will be spent on salaries and
other personal emoluments, and only, 4 percent on forestry operations and
maintenance. This will not be adequate to cover necessary operation and maintenance
costs.
(b)   There has been little real progress in terms of undertaking substantive institutional
reforms in the FD, nor has there been progress in the development or passage of
adequate amendments to the Forests Act which would give a forest institution
autonomy or independence or which would improve the security of tenure over the
plantation estate.
(c)   The disastrous loss of between 20,000 and 30,000 ha of industrial plantations as a
result of excision and resettlement over the last several years will have a profound
impact on the economic and financial viability of the forest industry. There are no
steps which have been put in place to evaluate or to mitigate the costs of these, or of
future, losses.



Part 1. Implementation Assessment         16
57.   Recent performance suggests that these conditions for sustainability will be almost impossible
to achieve in the absence of substantive institutional and legal reforms. These reforms could include,
for example,
(a)   the transfer of responsibility for industrial plantation operation and management from
the Forest Department to a new corporate structure, established under the
Corporations Act, and staffed with personnel competent to manage such a corporate
entity;
(b)   the development and implementation of clear and transparent forest industry licensing
guidelines, which unambiguously establish the conditions under which licenses for
sawmilling and other forms of forest product use can be issued, denied, or revoked;
(c)   the development of modalities for leasing areas of the plantation estate for sustainable
plantation management by the private sector (while still ensuring Government
receives an adequate return on its investment);
(d)   security of tenure over the resource, for example, which could be introduced by new
legislation which would require explicit Parliamentary approval before degazettement
of either plantation or indigenous forest resources.
58.   There are few indications that these reforms will be introduced any time soon, which leads to
the conclusion that the project's investments are unlikely to be sustainable.
E.    BANK PERFORMANCE
59.   IDA's performance has been satisfactory, but only marginally so. At the technical level, Bank
staff have consistently been committed to supporting the project, with a view to introducing real
reforms in the way the FD manages the plantation resource. This commitment began long before
appraisal, during identification and preparation, and continued until the project was closed. The 18-
month delay before the Credit could be declared effective would have been even longer, had IDA
staff not worked continuously with GOK to assist it in fulfilling the conditions for project
effectiveness. Bank staff even recommended to its management that the project should be declared
effective before FD headquarters were completed (a condition of effectiveness), because they
recognized the substantial costs which were being incurred by the lack of plantation management.
60.   IDA's performance at appraisal was, however, deficient, as Govemment's reversal of an
earlier decision to encourage the leasing of plantations as part of the project was never satisfactorily
remedied by an effective agreement, backed up by Bank management, to undertake institutional
reforms or by the development of an alternative framework for private sector involvement. The
impact of budgetary ceilings on implementation performance was also not addressed during appraisal.
Bank management was not supportive of the Task Manager's efforts to ensure that these issues were
adequately addressed during appraisal, and the project moved inexorably toward Board approval in
the absence of a well-defined means for addressing these constraints. The project's outcome is a
fairly harsh indictment of the Bank's culture surrounding 'the pressure to lend.'
61.   For most of the project's life, from its inception nearly until the project's first closing date, it
was supervised by Bank headquarters staff based in the Resident Mission. The advantage of this was



Part 1. Implementation Assessment         17
that it provided very high quality technical support and oversight on a day-to-day basis. Bank staff
made significant efforts to resolve problems as they developed during implementation, and attempted
to move the process of institutional reform forward by suggesting steps and studies which would lay
the groundwork for reforms. The disadvantage was that task management and supervision tended to
focus on narrow, project management concerns, rather than on the bigger picture. If anything,
supervision reports were perhaps overly optimistic about how the project was going. For example, of
12 formal and informal Supervision Mission reports, Implementation Performance was rated as
Satisfactory 7 times, and Unsatisfactory 5 times. With regard to whether or not the project was
meeting its Development Objectives, performance was rated as Satisfactory or Highly Satisfactory II
times, and Unsatisfactory only once. Clearly, this was not a realistic assessment of performance.
62.   An additional disadvantage of mission-based supervision was that formal supervision
reporting was inadequate. Day-to-day intensive involvement in project implementation was,
evidently, viewed to be a substitute for regular and formal supervision reporting-this was a systemic
problem for the Kenya portfolio during the period. During implementation, there were only 6 formal
supervision missions, and 6 informal 'portfolio updates.' The mix of specialist skills during
Supervision was also inadequate. There was a tendency to rely on Resident Mission staff rather than
on other specialists. Though royalty collection and cost recovery issues were, for example, central to
the long-term financial sustainability of the subsector, an economist was only involved in 2 out of 12
formal or informal missions to review project progress. This was clearly inadequate. Royalty
collection targets as specified in the appraisal report, were not systematically monitored in the manner
identified at appraisal, or included in supervision reports as performance indicators.
F.    BORROWER PERFORMANCE
63.   Overall, the Borrower's performance should be considered as deficient. This assessment does
not apply specifically to the Forest Department, or the PMU, which carried out their tasks efficiently
and to the best of their ability.
64.   The assessment of deficient borrower performance is based, more generally, on the almost
complete lack of political support in Kenya for the establishment of an effective and viable institution
capable of managing the industrial plantation estate in a cost-effective and commercially viable way.
Government has simply been unable to provide the FD with the support needed either to prevent the
loss of industrial plantations to uncontrolled resettlement, to ensure some sort of security of tenure
over the plantation estate, or to institute the policy, legal, and institutional reforms necessary to
sustain the sector into the next century. This lack of support from Government has been fundamental
in undermining the project's original development objectives, of improving the financial and
economic viability of the plantation sector.
65.   The impacts of the failure to support the development of a viable, independent, and cost-
effective institution will be felt most profoundly by the forest industry, which will find future supplies
constrained and costly. The indications are already clear that the practices of the last 5 years will
create significant shortfalls in roundwood supply, and that it is likely that Kenya will become a net
importer of timber and timber products in 10 years or so, imposing ridiculous and very discouraging
economic costs in the face of very heavy investments in the sector over the last 30 years, and the
significant comparative advantage Kenya has as a timber producer, in terms of growing conditions
and labor costs.



Part 1. Implementation Assessment        18
G.   ASSESSMENT OF OUTcoME
66.   The project has not met its stated development objectives and it is unlikely to be sustainable.
Because of this, the project outcome is unsatisfactory.  However, the project's physical
accomplishments were significant and many physical targets were met. It should be recognized that
the project has established plantations that can produce high quality timber, if they are well
maintained and tended. In line with the calculations made at appraisal, an economic rate of return
(ERR) has been calculated for the project. If it is assumed that the plantation stock established by the
project is protected and well-managed, and recommended silvicultural operations are undertaken, an
ERR of 13 percent can be expected.
67.   In the more likely event that GOK is unable to provide adequate resources for plantation
management, and fails either to undertake some of the significant reforms which are needed or to
protect the plantations from resettlement, it is more likely that the rate of return will fall considerable.
It is estimated that with a 50 percent reduction in the value of project output due to poor maintenance
and loss of plantations by fire or through excisions, the ERR would drop to about 6.7 percent, making
the project economically unviable.
H.   FUTURE OPERATIONS
68.   With the project, a new system of operations and management of the plantations based on the
AWP has been introduced, and this is expected to continue in the future. All districts will prepare
AWPs which will be submitted to the FD for approval. Once approved, the DFO will submit monthly
progress report, which will be used for monitoring field activities. Field visits by FD staff will
complement these monitoring activities. The worry now is, whether the FD will obtain sufficient
finds to carry out sustained forest operations and maintenance. This appears to be unlikely.
I.    LESSONS LEARNED
69.   Important lessons that can be drawn from the implementation experience of the project are:
(a)   Extensive past experience with the Forest Department provided a strong rationale for
developing alternative and more cost-effective means for establishing and managing
industrial pine and cypress plantations. The involvement of the private sector, through
leasing arrangements, was to have been an important project vehicle for improving
the efficiency of plantation management. At appraisal, Government, in contrast,
sought to maintain the status quo and argued that leasing was not an option. The
result was that no improvements in efficiency or in the financial viability of industrial
plantations were likely, the way the project was appraised.
(b)   Having dropped these proposals to transform the management of the industrial
plantation subsector, the project's development objectives were never modified in a
manner which was more congruent with the components which were retained. The
role of the private sector was subsequently never defined or developed. The failure to
engage the primary stakeholders in the industrial forest plantation subsector-the
timber industry-during implementation is one of the more significant failings of the
project.



Part 1. Implementation Assessment         19
(c)    Steps leading to substantive institutional and legal reform should have been clearly
articulated at a much earlier stage, rather than in the final year of project
implementation. Arguably, IDA support should have been made more explicitly
conditional, in the first instance, on the adoption of meaningful institutional reforms.
The fact that Government was never committed to any serious reforms-indeed was
opposed to changing the status quo-suggests that it was not at all appropriate that
this operation should have gone forward.
(d)   A well focused, objective-oriented and purposeful training program, extended to
diverse groups of staff, can make a significant contribution to improve technical
operations and management, but these improvements will have little eventual impact
in the absence of an appropriate enabling institutional, legal, and policy framework.
(e)   Placing task management responsibilities in the Resident Mission poses additional
challenges in terms of increasing the need to broaden the perspective beyond day-to-
day project management concerns. In addition, there is the danger that regular
oversight results in less frequent 'formal' supervision reporting, and an over-
optimistic assessment of project progress.
(f)    From a broader perspective, experience with KFDP emphasizes the importance that
Bank operations in Kenya must more effectively address issues with regarding to
governance, institutional sustainability, and expenditure management. The purposeful
development of a budgetary framework, which links clear policy objectives with
budgetary provisions, and the development of alternative, more efficient, and legally-
backed plantation management modalities, should be a cornerstone of any future
donor investment in industrial forestry in Kenya.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2198-KE)
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1:    SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS .............................................                                                    21
TABLE 2:    RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS ..............................................  23
TABLE 3:    PROJECT TIMETABLE ..............................................  23.
TABLE 4:          CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL ....................................... 24
TABLE 5:          KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .............................................                           25
TABLE 6:          KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION .............................................                                26
TABLE7:            STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT .............................................                                        26
TABLE 8A:  PROJECT COSTS .............................................                                                              27..
TABLE 8B:   PROJECT FINANCiNG ..............................................28..
TABLE 9:          ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS .............................................                                         28
TABLE 10:          STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ............................................. 29.
TABLE 11:         COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS .............................................                         3.0
TABLE 12:         BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS .............................................                                        30
TABLE 13:         BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS .............................................                                            3.1.



Part 2. Statistical Tables                      21
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives       Substantial    Partial    Negligible  Not Applicable
Macro policies                    Ei           Ei           E            Li
Sector policies                   E7]                       ED            Li
Financial objectives               Li          Ei           En              ]
istitutional development          E7]                       ED           F]
Physical objectives                  i         EnL                       [E
Poverty reduction                 Ei                        ED            L 
Gender issues                     [7]          E]           E]           El
Other social objectives             7                       LI           [F]
Environmental objectives          n7                        1]           FLI
Public sector management          ni           En           o            [o
Private sector development        En           Fi           En           E
Other (specify)                   [I             E] Li 0
B. Project sustainabiity           Likely      Unlikely    Uncertain
Li   En ~ ELi
C. Bankperformance              satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
Identification                  Ei            n           OL
Preparation assistance                      [             L-i
Appraisal                       E]          [7]          [f
Supervision                                 E             Li



Part 2. Statistical Tables                     22
Highly
D. Boirower performance          satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
Preparation                      C]                        I]
Implementation                    ]         ED K
Covenant compliance             E]          [C           E]
Operation (if applicable)        E]          D           EI
Highly                                    Highy
E. Assessment of outcome       satisfactory   Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory  unsatisfactory
El  OLE1



Part 2. Statistical Tables                    23
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title         Purpose             Year of approval           Status
Preceding operations
1. Agricultural Research   Strengthening              1988           Completed
agricultural research
2. Agricultural National   Strengthen the extension   1990           Completed
Extension Project II   Service, including tree
planting
Following operations
1. Wildlife Services   Improve wildlife               1992           On-going
Project                management
2. National agricultural   Strengthening              1997           On-going
Research Project II    agricultural research
3. Biodiversity Strategy   Development of             1997           On-going
(GEF Enabling Activity  strategies for
Grant)                 biodiversity
conservation
Table 3:   Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle              Date planned            Date actual/
latest estimate
Identification                                May 1988             April 1988
Preparation                                   February 1989        February 1989
Appraisal                                     March/April 1990    March/April 1990
Negotiations                                  October 30-          October 30- November 2,
November 2, 1990    1990
Board presentation                            December 20, 1990    December 20, 1990
Signing                                       February 2, 1991    February 21, 1991
Effectiveness                                 May 1, 1991          October 30, 1992
Dec. 31, 1991l
August 1, 1992l
Midterm review                                January 16 -         January 16 - February 7,
Febnury 7, 1996     1996
Project completion                            date not specified   May/June 1998
Loan closing                                  September30, 1997   Janua-ry31, 1998



Part 2. Statistical Tables                    24
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY91       FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97    FY98    FY99
Appraisal estimate       .600      2.8      7.6     10.7     13.1     16.7     19.9        -
Actual                       -       -    2.21      3.87     6.61     9.98    15.27.   17.68    17.25
Actualas%of                 -        -    29%       36%      50%      60%      77%         -        -
estimate
Date of final
disbursemnent July 10, 1998



Part 2. Statistical Tables                                  25
Table 5:       Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key implementation indicaton                         Unit           Estimated                     Actual
Industrial Plantation Developmert
Planting                                              ha               3,500                        310
Replanting                                            ha              19,300                     19,880
Copice Reduction                                      ha               9,900                      1,870
Pruning                                               ha             108,850'                    11,900
Thinning                                              ha             39,900'                      5,880
Game Moats Maintenance                               km           Not specified at                   30
appraisal
Firebreak Maintenance                                km           Not specified at                3,700
.________ _ ,appraisal
Road Rehabilitation and Repair                       km                 1,680                       690
Road Maintenance                                     km                3,200                        890
Rehabilitation of Vehicle Plants                     no.                   2                          4
Construction of Forest Guard Posts                   no.                  50                          n.a.
Construction of Fire Towers                          no.                  50                          7
Renovation of Station Buildings                                          100                          3
Up-dating Old Inventory                               ha          Not specified                  25,375
Carrying out New Inventory                            ha          Not specified                  16,160
Sales Inventory                                       ha          Not specified                   8,170
Preparation of Strategic Fire Plan                  District         All forest              All forest Districts
Districts
Preparation of District/Station Fire Plan           District         All forest              All forest Districts
Districts
Strengthening FD Functions
Construction of HQ building                          no.                   1
Technical Assistance                                 p/m                 255                       255
Training of Professional & Tech. Staff               p/m                 463                        584
Training of vocational Staff                         p/m                 697                        521
Provision of New Vehicles                            no.                 126                         72
Rehabilitation of Vehicles                           no.                  55                        25
Studies                                              no.                   2                          5
The pnming and thinning targets were revised downwards during implementation to 14,500 ha and 9,000 ha,
respectively.



Part 2. Statistical Tables                    26
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation
I.  Key operating indicators in
SAR/President's Report              Estimated                       Actual
Not Applicable
Table 7:   Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study              at appraisal/redefined     Status          Impact of study
1. Royalty Assessment   Increase revenue from      Completed in  The goal was not totally
and Revenue Collection   industrial plantations        1993      achieved because FD was
not yet empowered to
enforce the findings of the
study
2. Game Damage Survey  Assessment of the extent of  Completed in   Repair of game moats has
in Mount Kenya and     damage in plantation areas by   1995      started, but progress is slow
Aberdares              wild animals
3. Fire Control and    Prepare a plan to avoid or  Completed in  District fire protection plans
Broad Strategic National  control fires in the plantations  1996  are being drawn up based
Plan                                                             on the study
4. The Reorganization of  Render industrial plantations    Completed in  The recommendations of
Management of          commercially viable             1997      the study have not been
Industrial Plantations                                           adopted, but are being
considered by GOK
5. Supply and Demand    To determine if current    Completed in  The number of licences are
for Cypress and Pine   harvesting regimes are          1997      being controlled, but will
Plantations            sustainable for the next 45               have little impact in the
years                                     presence of continuous
excisions of plantations



Part 2. Statistical Tables                     27
Table 8A: Project Costs2
Appraisal estimate (US$'000)    Actual/latest esfimate
(US$'000)
Item
Local      Foreign     Total             Total
costs      costs
Farm Forestry                   2,450.8     2,833.2     5,304.0
Indigenous Forestry Management  10,150.7    13,739.8    23,890.5         --
IndustrialPlantations          11,516.6     6,355.0    17,871.6         21,190
Institution Building            3,305.0     5,054.6     8,359.6          --
Forestry Research               3,805.4     4,815.9     8,621.3
Forestry Education                937.2       771.1     1,708.3
Forestry Master Plan              567.7     4,661.3     5,229.0
Physical Contingencies          2,794.4     2,650.5     5,444.9
Price Contingencies             3,702.1     3,699.1     7,401.2          --
Total Project Costs            39,229.9    44,600.5    83,830.4         21,190
Total project costs only reflect IDA-financed activities related to industrial plantations. Other cofinanciers
either withdrew from the-project or implemented their respective components independentdy and on a parallel-
financing basis.



Part 2. Statistical Tables                   28
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)       Actual/latest
estimate (US$M)
Source               Local      Foreign      Total          Total
costs      costs
IDA                     7.2       12.7        19.9        17.25
EEC                     4.1       11.7        15.8         n.a
ODA                     4.3        9.4        13.7         n.a
SDC                     2.3        3.3        5.6          n.a
FINNIDA                 0.7        5.3        6.0          n.a
GOK                    20.6 v      2.2       22.8          3.94
Total                  39.2       44.6       83.8         21.19
SI Including US$ 10.3 million of taxes and duties. Final colunm reflects the fact that co-
financed project components were eventually undertaken separately, and were not linked
to implementation of the IDA-financed components.
Table 9:  Econoniic Costs and Benefits
At project appraisal, the economic rate of return (ERR) was estimated at 17%. At
completion, the ERR has been estimated at 13%. The re-estimated ERR is lower because during appraisal
the project included benefits arising from extension forestry and from the proposed new plantings3which
both did not materialize under the project. In addition, yield assumptions for the industrial plantations
were slightly higher, and were reduced in the re-estimate of the ERR to align them with the present yields.
Since the introduction of the Shamba System, the total investment costs incurred by the FD did not
include the true costs of plantation establishment, as from FD's point of view, they were caTried out with
no cost by farmers, in exchange for free cultivation between the new plants. Therefore, the ERR
calculations are based on one ha models for pine, cypress and eucalyptus, by inputing total establishment
and maintenance costs. A 35% per year of the establishment costs have been included to cover costs
related to overheads, supervision and replacement of equipment.
In the more likely event that GOK is unable to provide adequate resources for plantation
management, and fails either to undertake some of the significant reforms which are needed or to protect
the plantations from resettlement, it is more likely that the rate of return will fall considerable. It is
estimated that with a 50 percent reduction in the value of project output due to poor maintenance and loss
of plantations by fire or through excisions, the ERR would drop to about 6.7 percent, making the project
economically unviable.
3   The project-established plantations consisted essentially of replanting harvested industrial plantation sites.
Planting on new areas was practically excluded from the project.



Part 2. Statistical Tables                         29
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Revised
Covenant Present    Oniginal    fulfilment         Description of
Agreement   Section     type     Status  fulfilment date    date            covenant              Comments
DCA Text      3.04        12       CD    June 30, 1993            The borrower shall.. by June 30, The Forestry Policy
1993 adopt a new Forest Policy, reviewed by
satisfactory to the Association . Cabinet in October
1995
DCA Text  4.01 (b) (i)    01       CD                             Have its records and accounts
audited in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles
DCA Text  4.01 (b) (ii)    01      CD                             Furnish to the Association ... not Delayed
later than 9 months after the end  compliance
of each fiscal year a) certified   particularly in the
copies of its financial statements; initial years
and b) the report of such audit
DCA Text    7.01 (e)      10       CD    Nov.30,1992              Construction of adequate offices Constructionwas
for FD                       not totally comple-
ted even at project
effectiveness
DCA         Item 2 & 3    05        C                             The bonrower shall establish a   A project manage-
Schedule 4                                                        Project hIplementation Team    raent team has been
and establish project        established before
implementation procedure    project
effectiveness
DCA          Item 8       09       CD    June 30,1991             Introduce separate accounts for  In July 1993,
Schedule 4                                                        the Industrial Forestry Division  Treasury gave
by FD                        verbal approval
DCA          Item 9       10       CD    June 30, 1991            FD to prepare and furnish a  Implemented
Schedule 4                                                        monitorable Action Plan to   through retirement
improve the productivity of its  and retrenchment
permanently employed labour
DCA          Item 10      02        C     Sept. 30, 1991          The borrower shall complete a   Stumpage rates are
Schedule 4                                                        review of royalty assessment and reviewed annually
thereafter introduce improved
methods for the calculation of
stWnpage
DCA          Item 5       05       CD                             Prepare detailed annual work    Started in 1996/97
Schedule 4                                                        programs including budgets
DCA          Item6        09        C                             Semi-annualprogress reports    Semi-annual reports
Schedule 4                                                        (March & September)          prepared up to June
1995. Now changed
to quarterly
reporting
DCA          Item I1      10        C     June 30, 1991           Prepare amonitorable Action    Completed.
Schedule4                                                         Plan to eliminate energy pricing  Fuelwood/pole,
and related disincentives to  royalties have
smallholders tree farming and   however, remained
commercial fuelwood growing,  stagnant Limited
to include measures to increase  monitoring of rates
FD fuelwood and poles as well as of collection.
seedling sales prices
Covenant type:
C = complied with
CD = complied after delay
CP = complied with partially



Part 2. Statisfical Tables                    30
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title       I   Descnbe and comment on lack of compliance
Basically there was compliance with the applicable Bank Operational Manual Statement
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                     Planned                 Revised                Actual"
project cycle                                                                             l
Weeks        US$        Weeks        US$       Weeks       US$
Preparation to            NA           NA         NA           NA        139.0  185,600
apprisal                                                           I
Appraisal                 NA          NA          NA          NA          52.4  131,000
Negotiations though       NA          NA          NA          NA           4.0  11,700
Board approval                        _
Supervision              NA           NA          NA          NA         148.4  413,800
Completion               NA           NA          NA          NA             .9   3,700
TOTAL                                                                   344.8  745,800
1/ Including travel cost (Direct Cost Only)
NA= Not available-not recorded in the FACT System



Part 2. Statistical Tables                                31
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Perfonnance rating
Stage of project cycle    Month!    Number   Days in       Specialized    Implementation   Development    Types of
year        of         field       staff skills       status        objectives   problems
_    persons   __  represented
Preparationd/        02-05/89
Pre-appraisal
Appraisal            03-04(90       10         180       FO, FO, FO,
FO, FO, FL
EN, EC, E, E,
Portfolio updaleU    08/91          1          n.a Of    FO                    NR             NR
Portfolio update '   08192          1          n.a,      FO                     2              2          CF, LC
Supervision I        07/93          2           18       FO, PR                 3              2          PM,PR,
LC
Portfolio update      08/93         1          n.a       FO                     3              2          PK PR,
LC
Supervision 2'       03-04/94       3           75       FO, FL, PR             2               1         PM  PR,
LC
Portfolio update"    08194          1          n.a '     PO                     S             HS
Supervision 3        03/95          3           54       FO, Fl                U               S          CF, PM
Portfolio update '   06/95          1          n.a .'    FO, FL PR             U               S          CF, PM
Mid-Term Review,     01-02/96       6          108       E, FL FO, PO,          S              S
Supervision 4                                            FO, PR
Supervision 5        06/97          3           21       FO, FL PR              S              S
Supervision 6        07/97          2           14       FO, PR                 S              S
Porlfolio update     02/98          2           15       E, FO                 U               S            PC
Completion report    06/98          3           54       E, FO, EN             U                          CF, FC,
missione                                                                                                    LC
d E = Economist; EC = Ecologist; EN = Engineerw PI = Financial Analyst; FO = Forester, PR = Procurement Specialist
v S = Satisfactory; U = Unsatisfactory; HU - Highly Unsatisfactory; HS = Highly satisfactory; NR = Not Rated
Cf CF = Counterpart Funds; FC = Financial Covenants; PM = Project Management; LC = Legal Covenants; PR = Procurement
dt Prepared by the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme in two stages
' Portfolio status update prepared by the Task Manager in Nairobi field Office
'f Completion report mission led by FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme on behalf of the Bank.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2198-KE)
APPENDICES
APPENDIX A:     IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT MISSION AIDE MEMOIRE
APPENDIX B:     COMMENTS FROM GOVERNMENT ON THE DRAFT ICR
APPENDIX C:    ASSESSMENT OF THE INDUSTRIAL PLANTATIONS SUB-SECTOR AND
KFDP PROJECT ASSESSMENT - A TECHNICAL PAPER PREPARED BY
THE ICR MISSION
APPENDi D:      SERVICE DELiVERY SURVEY OF SAWMILLING INDusTRIEs IN KENYA



Implementation Completion Report
Kenya
Forestry Development Project
(Credit 2198-KE)
APPENDIX A: IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT MISSION AIDE MEMOIRE
A. INTRODUCION
1.         A Mission1' from the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme (CP) visited Kenya from
27 May to 13 June 1998 to prepare an Implementation Completion Project (ICR)on behalf of the World
Bank for the Kenya Forestry Development Project (KFDP). The Mission worked mainly with the Forestry
Department (FD) of the Ministry of Natural Resources (MNR), and held meetings with other relevant
public institutions, viz., the Ministry of Finance, the Kenya Forestry Research Institute (KEFRI) and the
Kenya Forestry College (KFC). The Mission also discussed project implementation with members of the
timber industry and donor agencies that were involved in the project. Field visits were undertaken in the
plantation areas of the Central and Rift Valley Provinces.
2.         At the outset; the Mission was provided by the FD with a Terminal Review Report on the
project. This report, which was prepared by the different divisions of the FD, has become a useful
document in the ICR preparation exercise. The mission would like to express its appreciation to the
Ministry of Natural Resources and to the staff of the FD for their assistance and co-operation. The
mission's preliminary findings and conclusions on the implementation of the project are presented below,
and have been confirmed by IDA management.
B. BACKGROUND
3.         KFDP is the fourth of a series of projects financed by the World Bank for the forestry sub-
sector, since 1969. Unlike the previous three projects, which focused mainly on the establishment of
industrial plantation, KFDP proposed to expand its scope to the entire forestry sub-sector in order to avoid
unbalanced development in forestry. To this end, the Govemment of Kenya (GOK), with the assistance of
the CP, prepared a comprehensive investment project during the first half of 1989. The preparation report,
which benefited from the Forestry Sub-Sector Survey carried out by the World Bank in 1S8, was
submitted to donors for their assistance, and was appraised by several donors in March/April 1990, under
the leadership of the World Bank The other donors, who later became the co-financiers of the project,
were the British Overseas Development Administration (ODA) - now known as the Department For
Intemational Development (DIFD) - the Swiss Development Corporation (SDC), the Finnish Development
Agency (FINNIDA), and the European Economic Community (EEC) - now the European Union (EU).
4.         As appraised, the Project's main objectives were to: i) enhance conservation and protection
of indigenous forest resources as well as soil and water on forest, farm and range land, ii) alleviate the
Messrs. Pietros Kidane (Mission Leader/Economist; CP), RiclardKaguamba (Natural Resources ManagemeI
Specialist, World Bank) and Jack Easton (Indusrial Foresty Specalist, Consultant).



Appendix,A                                34
accelerating fuelwood deficiency; iii) improve the efficiency and financial viability of timber production;
and vi) establish a framework for the forestry sub-sector's long-term development. Project components
consisted of:
a) farm forestry extension, aimed at strengthening the Forestry Extension Services Division
- to be financed by SDC;
b) indigenous forest management and conservation, primarily focusing on inventory and
management plaming for the natural forests and to improve roads within these forests - to be
financed by ODA;
c) industrial plantation development, aimed at improving the management of plantations,
replanting 19,800 ha and establishing 3,500 ha of new plantations, promoting private sector
involvement in commercial forestry and improving plantation roads - to be financed by IDA;
d) strengtiening of FD's central functions, consisting of up-grading FD's technical
capability by improving its vehicle fleet management, and through the provision of studies
and measures to improve labour productivity - to be financed by IDA;
e) support to forestry education by strengthening teaching programmes and improving
facilities at the KFC in Londiani - to be financed by EEC;
f) support to forestry research by improving research facilities and up-grading staff
proficiency at KEFRI - to be financed by EEC; and
g) preparation of a forestry master plan, in order to determine appropriate long-term
development plans, support policy formulation, and prepare investment projects for
implementing the plan - to be financed by FINNIDA.
The Project, to be implemented over a six year period, was estimated to cost US $ 83.83 million (lch
1,939.3 million). About 83 percent of the total project costs were to be financed by the five donors, and the
remaining 17percentby GOK IDA's level of financing was set at US $19.9 million, or 24percent of total
costs.
5.         Project implementation was expected to be carried out under the existing organisational
structures of the implementing agencies, by incorporating project activities within their normal operations.
However, given the multiplicity of the implementing agencies, involving three ministries, and the wide
sub-sectoral scope of the project; implementation was expected to be co-ordinated by a Project Steering
Committee (PSC), whose membership was expanded to include other concemed ministries not directly
involved in project execution.
6.         The project was signed in February 1991. IDA had earlier approved in June 1990 a Project
Preparation Facility (PPF) of US $ 1.5 million to finance FlYs immediate logistical and equipment needs
and activities required to fulfil conditions for project effectiveness. These included actions to improve
labour productivity, better assessment of royalty (stumpage), provision of separate accounting for industrial
forestry, development of a forestry policy and establishment of an adequate accommodation for FD.



Appendix A                               35
7.         Although the Project was scheduled to become effective on May 1,1991, it was declared
effective only on October 31, 1992, after three postponements and with some 18 months delay from the
original date, due to the inability by FD and its parent Ministry to fulfil the conditions on time. During this
period of time, two of the donors, i.e., EU and SDC, pulled out, promptingdefacto the exclusion of three
components from the appraised project. However, the EU signed a new agreement with GOK in 1992 to
assist in natural forest management, which is still under implementation. The other two donors - ODA and
FINNIDA - went ahead separately to implement their respective components. After two years of
involvement in natural forest management and conservation, ODA also pulled out in 1993, following the
lack of agreement with GOK on some development approaches. FNNIDA succeeded in completing the
preparation of a Forestry Master Plan in 1994; and continued its engagement in forestry as it is
implementing a project in natural forestry and extension development within the context of the Master
Plan. Within the last 6 months, both FINNIDA and the EU have seriously curtailed their project activities.
C. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND RESULTS
General
8.         The project's scope and content was radically changed from what had been envisaged at
appraisal, as the donors pulled out or went their separate ways. Therefore, when the project was declared
effective, it basically consisted of the two IDA components, i.e. industrial plantation development and
strengthening FD's central functions. Project objectives were, therefore, amended during project
implementation to reflect the changes as follows: "to improve the efficiency and financial viability of
timber production from industrial plantations and to establish an institutional framework for the forestty
sub-sector's long-term developmenft. The Implementation Completion Report will cover the two IDA
assisted components only.
9.         The possibility of continuing with project implementation unencumbered, in spite of the
withdrawal of some donors and the exclusion of some components,was because the project was designed
to provide parallel financing, by each donor, for individual components each of which was totally self-
contained. Had the arrangements been to finance parts of each component by more than one donor, (e.g.
provision of technical assistance, equipment or training by one donor to all the components), the project
would have faced serious difficulties after the withdrawal of some of the donors, entailing, at best, time
consuming discussions to revise the project.
10.       In spite of the eighteen months which elapsed before the project was declared effective, and
the provision of funds under the PPF, project start up was slow. Little progress was recorded during the
first year of the project, except for the establishment of the Project Management Team (PMT) within the
FD and the positioning of the international consultants - the Management Support Team (MST) - by April
1993. The main reasons for the slow start up included PMTs difficulties in planning and managing the
project due to the inexperience of its staff and their frequent changes, lack of clear authority by the Project
Manager (PM) as the head of the PMT, and inadequate budget provisions and flow of funds. Further, the
FD's headquarters were unfinished for the greater part of the first year, resulting in poor working
conditions for FD staff, and contributing to the difficulties encountered by PMT in planning and managing
the project efficiently. The planned procurement of vehicles and equipment, and the road rehabilitation
programme were not achieved, and the plantation establishment programme was curtailed for lack of
funds. In the second year, however, project implementation was enhanced, following improvement in
project management with the assistance of the MST, the establishment of better communication between



Appendix A                                36
the PMT and Treasury, and better understanding by management about funding and procurement
procedures.
11.       A mid-tenn review was carried out in January/February 1996 andconcluded that, apart from
the roads component, project implementation hal improved markedly, and that satisfactory progress was
being made toward achieving project objectives. During this joint FD and IDA review, it was agreed with
the MENR that, among other things, the project wouldbegin a long-delayed study to assess the options for
reorganising the FD to improve plantation operations management on wood products demand; and to
prepare plans and programmes for revising royalty rates, establishing district level forest management
plans that includes fire management, and for the future disposition of game damaged forests. As the credit
closing date of September 30, 1997 approached, most of these studies and planshad been completed, but
few actions had been taken to implement recommendations relating to thereorganisation of the FD or to
improve the level of royalty collection This situation became subject to active dialogue between GOK and
IDA, and it was agreed that the eventual extension of the credit requested by GOKwould depend on
progress made in implementing these two items. Following an agreement with GOK that specific actions
would be taken to initiate the reorganisation of the FD, the closing date for the Project's credit was
extended by four months to January 31, 1998. These actions and the timetable which was prepared to
show completion dates,, included the creation of a Task Force on the reorganisation of the FD within
MENR, preparation of recommendations by the Task Force, organising a workshop for senior staff,
preparation of an implementation plan for the reorganisation of FD and presentation to the Cabinet for
approval of the reorganisation plan. As no progress was made in undertaldng the agreed actions, the proj ect
was closed on January 31,1998.
Industiial Plantation Development
12.        Replanting and New plantings. In order reduce the backlog in planting that accumulated
over the past years, the project proposed to replant 19,800 ha of harvested land and to establish 3,500 ha of
new plantations. At completion, the project succeeded in achieving its replanting target (19,880 ha), but not
its new planting targets, as barely 10% of the expected area was planted. The reason for the reduced new
planting was mainly due to the preference by FD foresters to replant the logged area as priority, since areas
are relatively easier to work in, compared to new sites. The Replanting target could have been exceeded
easily had the project start-up been prompt. In fact the replanting of 1992/93only amounted to 2,240 ha,
while the annual average for the following four years was about 3,900 ha. Replanting accelerated after the
reintroduction of the shamba system in 1994, which had been discontinued in 1988. The area to be planted
would have been less without the shamba system, because under the staff retrenchment programme, FD
had lost many labourers who were supposed to carry out forestry works, including plantation
establishment In addition, the costs for establishing plantation is far more expensive if done by hired
labour than by the shamba farmers. The quality and survival rate of plantations is also higher under the
shamba system as farmers keep the plantation clean, free from weeds and adequately protected until the
age of 3-4 years, while the farmers cultivate in between the plantations.
13.        Plantation  Management and Silviculture.  The project has improved plantation
management by introducing systems of operations work planning and reporting. Under these system,
district plans that contain plantation details and annual work program (AWP) for each district are prepared.
These are consolidated at the national level in the context of a management information system (MIS). A
monthly progress report is produced by the District Forest Officer (DFO), and this is used for monitoring
project operations. This system has greatly improved forest operation both in the field and at headquarters,
as it provided with a clear picture on the progress of work at any desired time. At the end of each year, the



Appendix A                                37
AWPs are reviewed before preparing new ones, and due consideration is given to activities that suffered in
the past year.
14.        Unfortunately the project has maiged to accomplish only a smallproportion - less than 20%
- of the actual reduction of the backlog in silvicultural activities set at appraisal: 11,900 ha of pruning,
5,880 ha of thinning, and 1870 ha of coppice reduction. This modest accomplishment is mainly due to lack
of labour after the reduction of FD field employees during the project implementation period, and in some
instances, due to poor access to the plantation sites. In spite of the long standing ideas of reviewing the
current silvicultural practices, the project has not acted to modify the long established silvicultural practices
with a view to reducing costs with out affecting benefits. Operations frequently mentioned as needing
reviewing for the two main commercial species, i.e. pine and cypress, with the assistance of KEFRI, are
plant spacing, number of prunings and thinnings and the age of clear-felling mature trees.
15.        Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance. The roads component was saddled with many
problems from the outset. Although seven contracts were awardedas early as 1993 to rehabilitate 530 kin,
these contracts did not accomplish what was expected of them, because disagreements emerged soon after
the contractors demanded to raise prices. T.he reason given by the contractors was that readjustments were
necessary to reflectthe high levels of inflation which affected every sectorin 1993/94 and the increase of
volume of work since the vegetation growth on the road sites has increased between the time the contracts
were drawn up and the start of work. Treasury and FD resisted these claims and the contractors did not
work until they were resolved. In the end, two contracts were terminated and the other five were able to
rehabilitate only 162 km. After this experience, project management became averse to big contracts,
preferring instead to work through small district level contracts and on force account. However, even these
small contracts did not prove successful. Of the combined target of 135 km given in 1996/97 to several
districts only 20 km were rehabilitated. Overall, some 1560 km of roads have been rehabilitated and
maintained under the project, against appraisal targets of 1,600 km to be rehabilitated and 3000 km to be
maintained. Of these achievements about 66% were carried out under force account The poor performance
in road rehabilitation and maintenance is considered a major short-coming of the project in that it did not
succeed in reducing significantly the problem of inaccessibility to the plantations. The four road units have
been strengthened under the project through the provision of road repair and maintenance equipment.
These units have also constructed two bridges, and are now FIYs backbone for any road works.
16.        Increasing Revenues from Plantations. The Project aimed at improving the system of
royalty collection by strengthening the Forestry Inventory Section of FD in assessing the compartments to
be clear-felled and extending the standing volume assessment to all plantations. To this end, the project has
provide staff training, vehicles, additional staff and equipment necessary for collecting information,
analysing data and assessing volumes. The number of the field teams that carry out the inventorying
exercise has been increased from six to thirteen, two more than what has been anticipated at appraisal.
While in the past the Inventory Section was involved only in sales inventory, it has been up-graded to
cany out up-dating of old inventories and completion of areas not yet inventoried. Under the project,
about .45,530 ha of plantations have been inventoried for general volume assessment and 8,170 ha for
sales purposes - for clear-felling and thinning. These achievements, which are remarkable, would have
greatly increased, had supporting activities to the Inventory Section not delayed during the initial years of
the project The actual field work by the strengthened Inventory Section started only in 1995. Likewise, if
all the thirteen teams were to have vehicles, much more areas would have been inventoried. The project has
provided vehicles only to seven teams. Presently, FD is well equipped to carry out inventorying of its
plantations satisfactorily, and the assessment capability is now more accurate than before the project
started. Although the objective of improving the FD's inventory capabilities had been to increase its



Appendix A                                38
capacity to assess and collect royalties, performance in actually collecting royalties declined during the
project period, and so from this perspective at least, this component has had a relatively minor impact.
Strengthening FD's Central Functions
17.        FD's Headquarters Functions. Considerable support was given by the project to strengthen
PD headquarters in terms of providing facilities and staff training. A condition of the project was that the
FD head office personnel be housed in one building. After two years' delay, the project constructed a
temporary wooden HQ office building on land owned by the Ministry in the outskirts of Nairobi, with all
the necessary facilities including water supply, an all-weather access road and modem electrical
connections. This has enabled the FD to bring all its units under one roof for the first time, after more than
20 years. This has greatly facilitated the work of staff by eliminating time wasted shuttling between
different locations.
18.        FD headquarters' management capabilities were also strengthened through management
courses and other in-service training, provision of computers and vehicles. The professional staff were
trained in commercial management techniques. All the specific units, e.g. inventory, procurement,
engineering, financial and field operations were also given training customtailored to their relevant
specialisations In this endeavour, the MST spearheaded the identification and planning of training to each
unit. Improved communications between the FD and the field offices through a radio network was also part
of the project, but this did not materialise since the equipment provided by the project could not be used
due to conflict between FD and the Post Office Authorities on payments of the frequency use tax.
However, the transport capability of the FD has improved, following the strengthening of the Engineering
Unit at headquarters through training and the provision of additional staff and equipment. The four road
units have also been strengthened in terms of the ability to service, repair and maintain vehicles. Under the
project, FD has rehabilitated several vehicles thereby improving staff mobility. Unlike the pre-project
situation, FD is now in a position to know the location, number and condition of its fleet of vehicles.
19.        The proj ect intended to involve the private sector in industrial forest matters. However, sice
this engagement was not well defined at appraisal, lihtle involvement of the timber industry occurred. The
only noteworthy involvement of the timber industry was towards the end of the project, in June/July 1997,
when the FD called a meeting to discuss the future commercial management of the plantations.
Organisation and Management
20.   The organisation and management of the project that emerged during implementation is much
leaner compared with appraisal plans, where an inter-ministerial steering committee was proposed. The
project co-ordinator (PM), with his team, which are the heads of operational or service units, became the
main management group. After initial difficulties in the first two years, the performance of the PMT
improved markedly due to: a) intensive training in management and other skills; b) relieving the PM of
administrative tasks outside the project; and c) introduction of clear channels of command where the unit
heads becamne answerable to the PM, and the latter directly to the Director or Chief Conservator of Forests.
These arrangements, together with the introduction of new working and management methods, such as the
preparation of AWPs, periodic reporting, regular supervisory and monitoring visits to the field districts,
have stepped-up FD's performance. At the end of the project, the FD was in a position to extract from its
information management system most of the relevant information needed on its plantations up to the forest
station level. The improvement of FD's management capabilities is one of the notable achievements of the
project.



Appendix A                                39
Technical Assistance and Training
21.       Institutional capacity building through technical assistance (TA) support and through training
was an important element of the project. Therefore, apart from specific TA inputs, a full-fledged long-term
TA team, the MST was provided by the project. This team was helpful in laying down the basis for
improved management and in assisting in the identification of training needs and in drawing up the training
program. In general, the MST has discharged its tasks satisfactorily. The project's training program was
headed by a full time senior professional who was a member of the PMT. A large training program,
encompassing a wide scope of topics, was provided by the project. Types of training included
management, forestry technical matters, administrative, engineering related and finance. Training courses
were conducted mainly at KFC, with some given in the districts. Total people trained were 1,294
professional and technical staff, 426 vocational and 182 administrative and technical support staff. Training
has been the main vehicle for improving the FD's management and operational performance.
Procurement
22.        Procurement was caried out under the procurement unit of the project which was established
in 1993/94. Because of the bureaucratic requirements that necessitated clearance by the parent ministerial
board, and then by the GOK central organs, delays were frequently encountered, frustrating project
implementation plans. Most of all, however, budgetary shortages arising from ceilings imposed by GOK,
and slow flow of funds, resulting from quarterly releases delayed procurement. Because of these problems,
some 20 vehicles which were to be procured in 1997/98 could not be purchased before the project closed.
Project Costs and Financing
23.        At completion, total project costs amounted toUS $ 20.58 million or KSh 1,141.7 million.
Total disbursement by IDA accounted for US $ 17.54 million , which is about 88 percent of the original
target. The remainderUS $ 3.04 million was financed by GOK.
Borrower and IDA Performance
24.        The 18 months delay by GOK in fulfilling the conditions for project effectivenesshad a
negative impact on the project by lowering staff morale and increasing project costs. Other project
weaknesses that could have been avoided by GOK were delays in the flow of funds, poor collection of
revenues and the excision of plantations without adequate plamning and the involvement of the FD. On the
other hand, GOK concurrence to the construction of FD headquarters at Karura and to the provision of
substantial training, should be considered as positive contribution towards the successful implementation of
the project. IDA' s performance has been generally satisfactory in that the supervision staff have
relentlessly endeavoured to impress upon GOK the need to expedite project effectiveness and to resolve
problems that cropped up during implementation. However, some loopholes appear to have been left
unresolved or unforeseen during appraisal. For instance, no serious efforts appear to havebeen made to
ensure that undue interference in FD' s management of the forest were avoided. Further, some project
elements, such as the need to involve the private sector in forestry affairs, were not defined, hence
remained untackled by the project.



Appendix A                                 40
Project Impact
25.        The project has made a significant contribution to the development of industrial forestry in
Kenya by replanting with commercial species-some 20,000 ha of plantations, which had been previously
clear-felled. The strengthening of FD's capability in improved development planning and plantation
operations should result in higher efficiency. The improved forest inventory capability has also created
conditions for a higher revenue collection, as a result of more accurate assessment. FD's enhanced
management capability will provide a strong basis for carrying out more objective orientated development
programs, including the adoption of cost effective silvicultural operations. Preliminary assessment indicate
that the area replanted will provide attractive economic returns to the country if the investments mnade under
the project are sustained by adequate funds for operation and maintenance costs. Through the revival of the
Shamba cultivation system, the project is already making a significant contribution to the country's food
security. Replanting of clear-felled areas is also making a positive contribution to the environment.
Sustainability
26.         The sustainability of the project will depend on the level of support that the FD receives
from GOK to satisfactorily operate and manage the plantations. The support required comprises: a)
provision of adequate budgetary funds to enable the FD to continue carrying out the management and
operations system introduced by the project both at headquarters and in the field; b) enabling the FD to
manage the forests efficiently without extemal interference of any sort; and c) guarantees that established
plantations will not be removed through excisions without any plan and study on their implications to the
timber industry's future. In the absence of these three elements, the sustainability of past investments will
not be ensured. If the FD is given minimal funding, sufficient only to cover salary costs, then its current
operations will suffer. Current FD operations require mobility to prepare and implement the AWPs and to
monitor and report on forest operations and status. Without adequate finding these operations will stop.
Further, neglected maintenance of equipment, roads and buildings will lead to progressive deterioration in
the post-project period. Obviously, the excision of plantations will be a wastage of past investments and
can lead to the total destruction of the resource. Apart from excisions, interference in the nonmal
silvicultural operation of the FD also affects the sustainability of plantations, e.g. by interfering with the
silvicultural operations such as thinnings or the age of clear-felling. in short, project investment will be
sustained only if adequate operational and maintenance funds are provided to the FD and it is left to operate
with some autonomy under well defined responsibility and accountability. Presently these elements that
can guarantee sustainability are missing, exposing the project to unsustainable operations. This gloomy
outlook can be changed if there a strong commitment by GOK to empower the FD to manage the
plantations efficiently. It is understood that there is a Forestry Bill before the Parliament that, when
approved, will pave the way for improved management.



Appendix A                                41
Lessons Lend
27.   Important lessons that can be drawn from the project are:-
Project design should have realised that the FD would not be able to function as intended under the
existing bureaucratic ministerial procedures. Being an agency managing a living resource, the FD
can be faced with many immediate crises that need rapid action e.g. diseases outbreak, damages by
fire, animals and human beings. Accordingly, there should have been an organisationalset-up and
modus operandi appropriate to the expected tasks of the FD.
*     Co-financing arrangements should ensure that specific components are made to stand on one
source of financing in order to avoid any frustration in their implementation, in case one or more
donors withdraw their financing for whatever reason.
A fourth time repeater project like this should have endeavoured to up-date the current silvicultural
operations, with a view to reducing costs. Many foresters now are expressing their misgivings
about several operations considered unnecessarily adding to costs e.g. the short spacing of
seedlings and numerous prunings and thinnings in a rotation. The age at clearfelling is also
considered high. In the absence of comparative analysis, however, these expressions remain
opinions, subjectto debate. This projectwouldhavebeen betterplacedto accomplish that.
As proven by the project, a well focused, objective-oriented and purposeful training programme,
extended to a diversified category of staff, can make a significant contnbution to improve
management and operational standards.
Items intended to be tackled by a project are likely to be ignored or forgotten during
implementation, if there is no clear and specific way of handling them, by identifying who should
initiate and implement the related activities. This is the case with the stated idea of the project to
involve the private sector in the project, but totally missed as the project did not indicate the ways
and means for this involvement, the subject of involvement and the responsible entity for
undertakdng this task.



Implementation Completion Report
Kenya
Forestry Development Project
(Credit 2198-KE)
APPENDIX B: COMMENTS FROM GOVERNMENT ON THE DRAFT ICR
The following comments were forwarded to the World Bank Country Director, Mr. H. Waclnan, by
the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Natural Resources, Mr. C. Mbaka (letter dated January
13, 1999):
Generally, I am in agreement with the findings of the report and our views were incorporated in the
Draft Aid Memoire made during the wrap up meeting of the Implementation Completion Report.
It is noted that the Service Delivery Report, which mainly gave the views of the industry but not
necessarily of all other stakeholders, has had a big impact on the report.
I wish to make following observations on the ICR.
Kenya Forestry Development Project was an enormous Project with ambitious objectives (e.g
improvement of the efficiency of timber production) which would require more than the Project
period of six years to create an impact.
Due to the large size of the Project, coupled with 18 months delay at take off, the Implementation was
seriously impaired by financial liquidity problems and long procurement procedures involving the
Bank and GOK unforseen at planning stage.
The Road Contracts for example were, many (seven) and huge instead of smaller district based for
ease of implementation.
As noted in the report there is a marked improvement of management with continuous inventory,
work programming, harvest planning and fire plans among others. Again the Project was fully
integrated into the Forest Department which is necessary for sustainability. A successful and major
training programme had a positive impact on institutional strengthening.
It is our view that on a shorter term, sustainability of the activities is very much dependent on the
level of funding provided by GOK and availability of other resources. Funding has remained low
and there is no revenue retention for industrial plantations.
Our revenue collection efforts have continuously suffered because the industry has been reluctant to
pay the market price especially the PPM, who being a monopoly, dictated prices (They are paying a
third of the real price).
The industry has failed to invest on new modem and efficient machinery and the recovery of the
majority of Sawmills remain as low as 30%.



Appendix B                              43
Pan African Paper Mills has also utilized materials suitable for sawlog which results in lower
revenue.
Industry has not organized itself and many small mills have continued to sprout. They have not
considered other aspects to increase profitability e.g efficiency, approaching other area of
Government for machinery importation, tax reduction etc. Instead it has continued to demand to pay
low royalties of timber leading to low revenue from Industrial plantations.
In the Long Term sustainability is dependant on re-organization of the management of industrial
plantations. Although Price-Waterhouse Report made some recommendations i.e formation of a
Public owned Company or a Parastatal, to manage plantations, the recommendation lacked backing of
Practical relevant successful examples. The recommendation attempts to separate plantations from
natural forests. The views of all stakeholders were never sought.
Industrial Plantations support Natural Forests Conservation and integrated management of these with
involvement in management of adjacent communities to provide social, economic and environmental
benefits, would be what we would envisage. Separating Industrial Plantations from indigenous
forests may have marginal economic gains but not sustainable social, economic and environmental
benefits.
It is therefore necessary to carefully consider the future institutional and legal reforms and the
modalities of community participation in management of Forests in future.
The issue of excision has always been a contentious one. The GOK critically examines all excisions
and only allows them where the good of all Kenyans override the retention of Forest areas. Excisions
are mainly allowed for settlement of the landless, and for social amenities e.g schools and hospitals
etc.
Finally, the success and sustainability of Industrial Plantations development should not only be
measured by the economic gains but more important, how the Forests both industrial and indigenous
sustainability provide social, economic and environmental benefits to the people of this Country, the
region and the World at large.
The food, timber, poles fuelwood, fodder, soils and water Conservation, amenity, biodiversity and
climate amelioration benefits must all be appreciated.
During the Project planning the objectives should have been based not only on economic objectives
but also social and environmental considerations which are important in improving the welfare of all
Kenyans.



Implementation Completion Report
Kenya
Forestry Development Project
(Credit 2198-KE)
APPENDIX C: ASSESSMENT OF THE INDUSTRIAL PLANTATIONS SUB-SECTOR AND KFDP
PROJECT ASSESSMENT -- A TECHNICAL PAPER PREPARED BY THE ICR MISSION
A. INTRODUCrION
1.    This note provides an overview of the industrial plantations sub-sector and discusses salient
features of the Kenya Forestry Development Project (KFDP). It reviews plantation management
practices and attempts to assess the viability of project investments. In this endeavor, the major
constraints that face the Forestry Department (FD) and the plantations are also discussed. An
economic re-evaluation of the project is also carried out to assess the impact of the project on the
economy.
B. BACKGROUND
2.    The early development of Kenya's forest plantations was aimed at supplying wood for the
railway transport system at the turn of the century. Species found suitable for this were the Australian
species of Eucalyptus sp. and Acacia mearnsii. After 1945, large-scale plantations were started and
continued in the fifties and sixties, with pines and cypresses becoming gradually the main plantation
species. A major boost to the development of industrial plantations was provided by the three World
Bank supported projects during the 1969-89 period. By 1991/92 industrial forest plantations
amounted to about 150,000 ha.
3.    Plantation establishment was largely by use of resident labor who, although not paid wages
by the govemment, benefited from the cultivation of food crops in between the newly planted forest
land for a period of about 3-4 years before the closing of tree crown canopy. This system, known as
"shamba system", was discontinued' in 1988, resulting in massive and forced evictions of families
from the forest villages. The government, however, did not have any better alternative to support
plantation establishment and maintenance than to hire labor, hence incurring high costs. Fortunately,
a non-resident cultivation system was introduced in 1994 during the implementation period of KFDP,
providing the FD with a possibility of establishing good quality plantations at a relatively lower cost.
By presidential directives, all families resident in the forest estates were evicted. Albeit the govemment had
invested in housing for these families, schools, medical clinics and shopping facilities, most of the structures
were brought down. Although the shamba system was somehow a "symbiotic" arrangement whereby the
government benefited from the free labour and farmers enjoyed land use rights for a specified period, the
decision to discontinue the system was not consultative and many feel that it was ill-conceived. On the other
hand, others argued that resident farmers were intentionally destroying seedlings and young plantations in the
hope of getting longer leases for food crops to mature.



Appendix C                               45
4.    The total area of the industrial plantations is currently estimated at about 120,000 ha, about
20% less than the levels of 1991/92. The main reason for the decline is the continuous excision of
forest plantations. In terms of the overall plantation resource, the current system of pulpwood and
sawlog working circles is not efficient, and much of the resource is not being utilized properly. Some
material that is fit for sawing, but found within the pulpwood circle, is used as pulp while
considerable logs within the sawlog circle that can be used for pulping is wasted or used as fuelwood.
Such wastage could have been avoided if the assessment of resources in a sawlog working circle
included the valuation of the wood volume below the established sawlog top diameter as pulpwood,
and charged as such. The supply and demand study prepared under the project indicated that the
paper industry will not be able to sustain its required supply from the pulpwood working circle, and
that about one-third of the pulpwood requirement will need to come from the sawlog working circle.
If the users were to pay for the pulpwood, then the sawmillers felling the sawlog circle would very
likely be keen to sell the pulpwood, after extracting the sawlogs.
5.    Currently, the sawmilling industry in Kenya is comprised of a few reasonably efficient mills
and a large number of inefficient mills which achieve, not only very low sawn recovery, but poor
product quality. Sawntimber is not kiln dried and is subject to staining. If security of supply of
sawlogs can be ascertained, it is likely that the industry will modernize as has been happening in
other African countries in recent years. With increased royalty levels and full payment of royalties,
many of the small inefficient sawmills would either improve or quit business. With modernization of
the industry, sawn recover improvement would lessen the volume of timber required to meet the sawn
timber demand in Kenya. Forest resources and industry in other East and Southern African countries
are growing and export markets are being sought. For example, in Zimbabwe there has been
significant expansions in the saw milling industry during the 1990s. This has seen the closure of
many of the small saw milling operations and the rebuilding of existing mills with updated
technology.
5.    Although in terms of hectarage the industrial plantations account only for a small part of the
total forestry coverage, the economic significance to the country is considerable. The raw material
required for the paper industry and the wood products needed by the construction sector come mainly
from the industrial plantations. The growing manufactured soft wood products also originate from the
industrial plantations. The contribution of these activities to the economy are substantial although
exact figures are not available. In addition, industrial plantations provide employment, directly and
indirectly, to tens of thousands of people. Forest plantations in Kenya also play a key role in the
conservation of important natural forests by becoming a buffer between the natural forests, on the one
hand and villages and agricultural land, on the other. In fact some of the most important
forest/watershed areas and their wildlife, such as Mount Kenya and the Aberdares forests, are
surrounded by industrial plantations, and have proven efficient in protecting these areas from fire,
animal or human damage.
7.    In spite of all these useful functions, however, the industrial plantations appear to have been
neglected or not given due consideration. For instance, GOK continues to provide the FD with
insufficient funds to look after the plantations, hence the normal silvicultural operations and
protection activities from fire, animal and human damages are not carried out satisfactorily.
Moreover, because of outside interference in the management of forests, the FD is not in a position to
ensure the viability of the industrial plantations and ensure sufficient timber production for future
generations.



Appendix C                                    46
C. MAIN CHALLENGES TO INDUSTRIAL PLANTATIONS
General
8.     The management of plantation resources is guided by the Forest Policy which was first
published in 1957 and later revised in 1968. The same policy had been under review during the
period 1992-94, and had been approved and adopted by government in 1995. However, a Forestry
Bill that would help to implement the policy by addressing the current forest management problems,
including paucity of funds and the lack of autonomy by the FD in decision making, is still under
preparation. The Ministry of Natural Resources (MNR) and the Office of the Attorney General are
finalizing the Bill, after which it is expected to be presented to the Cabinet for approval. The Cabinet,
in tum, will present it to the Parliament for conversion into law. However, it is not clearly known as
to when this will take place. If it takes too long, the deterioration of the industrial plantations will
certainly accelerate. The major difficulties that this Bill will hopefully address are discussed below.
Institutional Weakness
9.     The legal framework under which the FD operates may have been adequate at the onset of
forestry activities in Kenya in the thirties when population pressure was not high and the FD had full
authority over the plantation estates. In the last two decades, however, the FD's authority has
gradually been eroding to the extent that operational authority and power are now shared within a
complex of institutional and personal interactions with forces external to the FD. In many cases these
external forces have greater influence on decision-making. It is evident from the Mission's visit that
forestry technocrats have not necessarily been making decisions based on professional considerations
or forestry legislation, but also on instructions from political quarters such as the districts and other
authorities. In such instance, the administrative system often prevents2 the FD from actually carrying
out their role, thereby creating conditions for inefficient exploitation of forest resources. Important
decisions such as the licensing of tree harvesting is practically undertaken by the district authorities.
In some districts, directives that interfere with the management of plantations, e.g. on plant spacing
and age of clearfelling, are issued by the district authorities with out any regard to plans and technical
directives of the FD. Sadly enough, such directives are followed by the foresters without serious
opposition within the administrative legal framework, which is a sign of apathy accumulated over
several years. The present institutional set-up has largely influenced the degree to which forestry
development objectives within the project have been achieved. The FD has the tools and technical
skills needed to properly operate and regulate forestry activities in Kenya. The present forest cadre is
well trained with good skills for the role they should be playing in ensuring the sustainable supply of
2   In the present legal set-up of regional administration (provincial commissioner, district comnuissioner etc.)
there are members who, appointed by the President, seem to have the authority and power to decide on any
forest activity within their administrative boundaries.  Unfortunately, several decisions made by the
administration have not. been in line with sound and professional forest management. For instance, any
clearfelling in Kiambu forest district had been stopped without any consultation with the licensees or the FD. In
a similar case, the use of power saws for tree felling inNakuru district was made illegal. Only axes were
allowed. This hurts the industry. In such cases the FD is totally in capable of conrecting the situation as the
district powers seem to be above FD. While such administrative decision may be well meaning, they lack
consultation and respect of business law. More education is needed in understanding the law and if necessary
making amendments that would facilitate consultative decision-making rather than superiority from a single
office.



Appendix C                               47
timber in the future. It does, however, lack the necessary political support from GOK, which is hoped
will come with the approval of the Forestry Bill.
10.   Due to changing needs and the operating environment, a review of the forestry legislation has
become necessary. The measures taken by the FD to prepare a new forest policy are commendable,
but the Forestry Bill that would facilitate the implementation of this policy by translating it into
practical law is yet to be approved by the Government. Having consulted with forestry stakeholders,
the Mission felt that there is very sketchy knowledge of the contents of the Forestry Bill outside the
department. One has to conclude that the process of developing this Bill was not participatory and
consultative as might have been expected.
11.   Shortage of funds has also hindered the optimal management of the plantations, as
demonstrated by the backlog accumulated in silvicultural operations. GOK budget provisions to the
FD have been notably inadequate over the past several years. According to latest information, this
year will not be an exception, as total budget allocation for the FD for the fiscal year 1998/99 is set at
only KSh 800 million. About 96% of this amount will be eaten-up by salaries and other personnel
related costs, leaving only 4% for all forestry operating and maintenance costs, which is clearly
inadequate. In addition, even when budget resources are improved by specific projects, the release of
budgetary funds is generally a problem. This is so, because while the Ministry of Finance through the
Treasury make annual provisions through printed budget estimates for forest operations, realization
of the same is generally erratic. Exchequer releases to the FD have not been timely, especially given
the fact that operations are seasonal based on the oscillations of wet and dry seasons of any given
year. Basic concerns in terms of operations were: acquiring of planting materials early enough to
facilitate field work, preparations for fire protection measures, hiring of casual labor, payments to
contractors and general procurement. This calls for some sort of imaginative financing arrangements
to take account of the seasonality of forestry operations. For instance, setting up a 'buffer" fund from
which contract work and casual labor could be paid quickly, would have resolved some of the
problems connected with slow flow of funds. At present, the FD has to request an Authority to Incur
Expenditure (AIE) in relation to casual labor from Treasury via MNR, and again seek permission
from the Directorate of Personnel Management (DP"  in the office of the President for authority to
actually hire the laborers. This has particularly caused long delays and difficulties in project
implementation.
External Interference
12.   As noted, project management efficiency could be supported or hampered by forces outside
the FD. For example all decisions on royalty for forest products are made by the Minister of Natural
Resources. The Department may do the necessary groundwork justifying specific levels3 to charge
potential consumers only to be later overruled, without consultation (Table 2). It is reported that
aggressive lobbying to reduce or stop any positive adjustments to the pulpwood royalties has been
going on throughout the project period. The pulp industry pays to the government a royalty of KSh
357 per cubic meter of pine standing timber. In addition the industry has forwarded arguments that it
spends unspecified amounts of money in seedling production and planting within the designated areas
for the pulpwood circle. This, in their understanding, should be compensated for by reducing royalty.
The mission visited one of the private tree nurseries operated by industry to boost the FD's planting
3  These levels are currently determinedby evaluating the costs of plantation establishment, maintenance and
protection, resources used, inflation and comparable regional and internal tariffs.



Appendix C                                 48
program. While the nursery had excellent stock and working arrangements4, the Mission could not
find any documentary evidence of an agreement with the government on what area was to be planted
by industry, and at what cost, in order to attract a given level of compensation.
13.   Licensing of forest products is also characterized by similar problems. Although the FD is
responsible for licensing the harvesting of trees, it does not have exclusive authority. The local
district commissioner chairs the licensing committees, and on many occasions the awarding of felling
licenses is based on political grounds. Whereas it is to the interest of the FD and the government to
actually receive payment for roundwood before the licensees can be allowed to start logging, the
reverse has been the case on several occasions. This has resulted in debts running over several years
(Table 1). The FD has been unable to collect all the debts due to the debtors' "protection" from
influential people. The fact that the FD is not allowed by government to retain part of the revenues,
and that they have to wait for treasury allocations to finance operations, might have also not
motivated the FD staff to undertake aggressive collection campaign.
14.   Other administrative and political interference also affected the industrial plantations. Some
of these are political directives that interfere with forest operations and management. For instance,
felling of trees using any instrument other than axes has been banned in the Nakuru region by the
government. This includes all licensees, and has resulted in expensive and wasteful logging
operations. A similar directive was issued last year stopping all clearfellings of trees, even of the
mature commercial forests. Whereas such directives take effect immediately, they do affect the
industry and greatly reduce investor confidence. There is usually no consultative process (involving
industry or other stakeholders) when such decisions are made. Other unprofessional statements made
by the politicians include the need to produce very tall seedlings and to modify the spacing between
plants, without any regard to the FD's technical responsibility. Lately, it has been reported that the
district authorities are deciding on the allocation of land to non-resident farmers to cultivate in the
newly planted forest estates. In many instances, it has been found that farmers selected were not the
ideal ones form the point of view of vicinity and knowledge and experience of cultivation, and would
not have been chosen if the FD had a say.
15.   Forest land excisions are the most serious interference that affect negatively the forest
plantations. During the implementation period of KFDP alone, some 26,000 ha of industrial
plantations with varying age of trees have been excised (Table 3). The present legislation allows the
Minister of Natural Resources to issue only a 28 days notice on the Kenya Gazette' before approving
this exercise. Site selection for excision is not consultative and very rarely involves officers from the
FD. The mission learned that several hectares of plantations earlier established using KFDP funds are
targeted for excision in some forest stations. The stock, whether mature or growing, is not assessed
before the excision starts and the govemment does not collect whatever revenue is possible. The
material is left to the beneficiaries at their discretion. This, again is a major demoralising factor, not
only to the practicing foresters, but also to the industry representatives who occasionally, and on
request by the FD, contribute funds for plantation establishment. Although any government may
4   The nursery's present stock was 2.5mil1/year raised and managed by 13 staff. Comparatively this is several
folds above what the FD nurseries have been able to produce using the same staff inputs.
5   Kenya Gazette is a government publication. It does not enjoy broad circulation and is therefore limited in
coverage and target audience.



Appendix C                              49
have the prerogative to change the use of land from forestry to agriculture or other use, it is
disheartening to see government resources invested in developing the plantations being wasted.
16.   Plantations have also been affected by illegal felling, and the FD has been unable to stop this
criminal practice, because it lacked the necessary political clout and resources. In recent years,
clashes among local people in some areas have also resulted in the abandonment of some locations
where there are plantations, and are now suffering due to labor migration, arson activities and lack of
general communication due to insecurity. The non-resident forest cultivation program does not do
well in such areas.
17.   A strong consensus exists among forestry professionals that the key obstacle to forestry
development in Kenya is poor governance. This is manifested in the almost total lack of participation
by the stakeholders in the planning and development of the forests plantation, lack of accountability
and poor resource and expenditure allocation in the sector and the resultant poor returns from forest
investments. If the present situation was to continue, then any efforts to promote local industries
would be highly jeopardized. Kenya still has a viable and professional forest industry, and although
there is increasing concern about the long-term supply of raw materials, the industry continues to
have expertise and good investment capacity. In the absence of a sustainably managed and self-
financing industrial forestry for Kenya, there will inevitably follow severe consequences. These will
include increased competition for foreign exchange to import timber, loss of jobs and livelihood for
tens of thousands of workers and their families, acute environmental degradation brought about by
the increasing demand for domestic fuelwood, and the continued low working morale of the FD staff.
A downward slope for industrial plantations is undesirable at this moment when many believe and
see a clear way forward.
D. IMPROVING FOREST MANAGEMENT AND PRIVATE SECTOR PARTICIPATION
18.   During the project implementation period, considerable thought was given to the optimal
management of the industrial plantations, although these remained at the level of studies and plans.
The Kenya Forestry Master Plan (KFMP) is one of these, and has, among other things, introduced the
concept of leasing forest areas to private industry to manage under prescribed management plans.
From discussions with the industry, this concept appears feasible, providing security of the land can
be assured. In the past, much of the participation by forest industries in plantation forestry appears to
have been on an ad-hoc basis, with little in the way of formal agreements in place.
19.   The KFMP report considers the cost of growing wood to be high in Kenya because of
inefficiencies in the FD. The general opinion is that as civil servants, the FD staff's jobs do not
depend on their production, and hence, there is little incentive for higher working efficiency. The
report strongly makes the point that development partners (stakeholders) with specific interest in
forestry should be given the chance to contribute to the management of the industrial forests.
20.   The master plan advocates that GOK should own the land and the trees, but that specialized
organizations should be established to manage some of the forests on behalf of GOK. The FD should
be the forest authority responsible for setting and monitoring policy, carrying out forest research,
extension forestry, etc. It indicates that the FD should divest itself of the actual forest management
operations and concentrate on forest policy, legislation, conservation and multi-purpose forestry. It
also advocates that the private industries should be encouraged to develop their own private industrial
plantations on land that would be leased on a long-term basis from GOK. The Master Plan study



Appendix C                              50
notes that failures in replanting and lack of expansion of the plantation areas since the mid-I 980s, are
now a threat to the long-term industrial wood supply.
21.   The KFMP indicates that Treasury allows operating ministries to increase expenditure for any
particular year by the amount which collected revenue exceeds Treasury's budget estimates. The
problem here appears to be that the ED do not actually collect and hold the revenues, but on
collection they forward the revenues to Treasury. If the FD were commercialized as a company under
the "Companies Act", one of the main criteria would be to ensure that royalty collections are free
from political interference and that funds be collected and held by the company for operating capital
with profits paid to the shareholder(s) as dividends. The commercial company would also be
expected to pay taxes.
22.   The KFMP recommends that: GOK establish a distinct forest plantation zone or zones as part
of the planned forest estate; use a greater variety of species, including indigenous species; and
develop new forest management and silviculture systems for the plantations. The Master Plan study
also recommends the introduction of a continuous forest and forest industry development planning
function.
23.   Another management study was also carried out under the project in 1997: "Reorganization
of Management of Industrial Plantations and Restructuring Options for the Forestry Department".
This study proposed to examine a suitable management option for the forests. Highlights of the study
are: increasing concern regarding management of the industrial plantation resource; proposal for a
separate entity to manage industrial plantations; and proposal for the establishment of a GOK owned
company, under the "Companies Act'. Conditions stipulated for successful restructuring are: security
of forest land and trees; provision of autonomy from GOK; adequate funding during initial
restructuring period; and enforced legislation that protect against outside interference.
24.   The management study concluded that the current management and operating procedures in
the FD are not appropriate for commercial operations. The ICR mission agrees with this observation
and, to some extent, believes that this has been a shortcoming of the KFDP in that it has not instilled
a commercial sense into the FD. It was stated in the study that improved general management,
marketing, financial and specialized forestry skills and management systems will need to be
introduced.
25.   The management study considered two types of management systems. First, self-management
in which a managing director appointed by a board takes full charge and organizes the operations by
recruiting staff from within and outside the FD, including international recruitment, if necessary.
Provision of supporting skills could be obtained through the use of consultants, such as retired
executives, from other organizations elsewhere. Second, contract management, in which a team
would be recruited from a corporate entity, with a proven track record in forest plantation
management, and given a contract. The study envisaged a management contract for 5 years for 9
persons, plus 4 other persons for fewer years.
26.   The authors of the study favor the contract management option, advocating higher speed of
transformation, more cohesive approach, greater accountability of the contracting organization, and
better access to good systems and technology. They propose that the commercial enterprise should
sell logs to the industry on delivered mill-gate basis. A system of integrated harvesting is also
suggested to allow more efficient utilization of the resource. The authors also propose that a log



Appendix C                              51
auction system be introduced, whereby logs or standing timber could be sold to the highest bidder.
The study considered leasing to private companies, as suggested in the KFW, but rejected this
option, although this could be a viable option to sustain operations in the industrial forest, provided it
is done in accordance with approved management plans. The one advantage of the log auction system
is that it establishes an open log market and marketvalues for logs.
27.   The options outlined by the study need careful consideration. The creation of integrated
logging operations could develop a new tier of industry in the form of logging contractors, and would
also improve the utilization level of the available plantations. The concept of using CQntrart
management, as suggested by the study, for the initial five years after commercialization of the FD
could run the risk of not developing the local commercial skills. There are individuals in Kenya with
a good track record in operating successful businesses who could be hired to direct a commercialized
FD company. They could be supported by management assistance drawn from experienced
comlmercial forestry companmes in the form of consultancies.
E. PROJECI REVIEW
Forestry Operations
28.   The replanting program under the KFDP was successful due to the ability to recruit casual
labor by using project funds. It is understood that the areas classified as planted have survival rates in
excess of 75 percent. However during the field visit it was noted that there is animal and human
damage in the plantations. The new planting program and silviculture operations were constrained by
retrenchment of permanent staff that did not take the annual working plans into consideration. Much
of the new planting appears to have been accomplished by the re-introduction of the Shamba System.
29.    The silvicultural operations, comprising pruning, thinning and coppice reduction fell well
short of the target as specified at project appraisal. Reasons given for not achieving the silvicultural
targets include: the need to use casual labor due to retrenchment of the FD workers and lack of funds
to hire sufficient casual labor; lower productivity due to increased age of permanent staff; need to
transport casual laborers greater distances for which there was a lack of adequate transport; poor state
of the forest roads; land clashes; and inappropriate flow of funds resulting from the methodology
used for the provision of funds. Funds were released through the districts to the project operations on
a quarterly basis. The resulting flow of funds did not correspond with peak expenditure periods such
as the planting season. The FD indicated that, with the new budget, they would be able to draw funds
on a half yearly basis. However, with the limited budget of the FD for 1998/99, it is difficult to see
how this will help the next year's operations. The delay in the commencement of project
implementation, coupled with the above difficulties, have rendered pruning and thinning unnecessary
in some areas, as they would have little effect on them being much overgrown. Therefore, the pruning
and thinning targets were lowered during implementation. The pruning and thinning operations, the
litde that was seen, appeared to be well done. About 11,900 ha of pruning and 5,880 ha of thinnings
have been carried out under the project, equivalent to 11% and 15% of the appraisal targets,
respectively. However, accomplishments are 82% of pruning and 65% of thinning if compared to the
revised targets. It is unfortunate that these operations were carried out on a limited area as this will
affect the log size and quality of wood products, and could have dire implications for the production
of better quality sawnwood and plywood.



Appendix C                              52
30.   The repair of game moats, which are mainly located in the Mount Kenya region, was delayed
pending an investigation by the Kenya Wildlife Society of utilizing electric fencing instead of moats.
Some work was started towards the end of the project. During the visit by the mission to the
industrial plantations in the Mt. Kenya and Aberdares regions, significant game damage was noted in
the plantations. The general impression is that in terms of field operations, only the replanting
component could be considered as successful. The remining operations are not as successful in
terms of the key indicators established at appraisal. Human and game damage is degrading some of
the plantations while excising of land is decreasing the total area of industrial plantations.
Training
31.   A major component of the project was directed towards the training of the FD staff, which
included modem management and other technical and vocational training. In this respect the project
did a creditable job. The training program as envisaged at appraisal was modified during the project
with inputs from the long-term consultants, i.e. the Management Support Team (MST). The level of
person-days training by the project is shown in part II, Table 5, of the Main Report.
32.   The training program is considered to have been well implemented with clear results. The
Project Management Team (PMT) took initiative in planning the trainig program and in using the
training facilities at the Kenya Forestry College (KFC) at Londiani. The FD now has a well-trained
core of professional, technical and vocational personnel. This is one of the major successes of the
project. What is regrettable is that the personnel may not able to put into good effect the training they
have acquired for lack of operational funds. In general, the level of expertise found within the FD
headquarters and field personnel was good. Current mobility of the senior FD officers appears to be
adequate, and they are able to supervise on-going operations.
Staffing and Working Environment
33.   Although the number of personnel has declined from 17,370 in 1991/92 to 10,660 at project
completion, the department is still over-staffed with permanent personnel. Given the budget
restrictions being imposed on the FD the level of operations possible in 1998 will be negligible. If the
GOK budgetary arrangements would allow the reallocation of budgetary funds from salaries to
operations, it should be possible to reduce staffing to significantly lower levels, and utilize the
released funds for casual labor and operating supplies. One objective of the project was to improve
low productivity in the industrial plantation operations of the FD. This has been achieved in the
replanting and planting operations by the retrenchment program of permanent staff, and the use of
casual labor or utilization of the "Shamba" system. Yet, in the opinion of the mission, productivity is
still not as high in the FD nursery operations, compared to some private nurseries.
34.   The move towards consolidating the nursery operations into a smaller number of nurseries is
commendable. Comparing the FD industrial plantation operations with other similar operations in the
world, it should be possible for the planting programs, as those proposed under the project, to be
carried out with three or four strategically located nurseries. This would, of course, place a higher
demand on transport for conveying the seedlings to the planting areas.
35.   Regulation and allocation of forest harvesting operations are not govemed or allocated in a
manner which encourages the development of an efficient industry that maximizes the economic
benefits from the forest. Indeed, the current relationship between the FD and the



Appendix C                               53
provincial/districtllocal administrations is likely to promote the continued irrational exploitation and
decline of the forest resource.
36.   As explained earlier, the FD has been weakened over so many years, and this must be
reversed if forests are to be saved from destruction. The regulations to protect the forests are in place,
but these appear to be circumvented by the provinces, districts and other local administrations. Stiff
penalties should be imposed for illegal felling of timber and checkpoints established at key locations
to ensure that logs are not being removed illegally. The FD organization needs to become more of an
authoritative group with some power to enforce the forest law. Without appropriate funding from
GOK, the FD will not be able to fulfill its role in managing the forest plantations adequately, and
Kenya's investment in forestry is likely to be frittered away, and the limited number of reasonably
efficient industry members may well disappear.
Felling Plans and Royalty Collection
37.   Through KFDP, district felling plans have been developed for all 25 districts and now
provide a basis for revenue targets and licensing. Pulpwood and eucalyptus felling plans have also
been developed for projecting revenues. The 1997 and 1998 felling licenses have been based on the
felling plans. A revenue reporting system was introduced in 1997 as a means of monitoring the
collection of royalties. Revenue collection has not met the planned targets due to: unrealistic felling
plan volumes; inappropriate felling technology; unscheduled supply of logs on the market coming
from forest land excisions; unlicensed harvesting without royalty payments; political interference in
the forestry operations; poor road conditions into some plantation areas; and resistance by industry to
increased royalty rates.
38.   It was noted at appraisal that royalty rates were low by international standards, and that they
did not reflect plantation cost coverage, or a reasonable netback from market prices. In line with the
proposals made at appraisal and the recommendations of the mid-term review, the project prepared a
revenue collection plan. This plan included proposals for increasing royalty levels. The proposed
schedule for revision of royalty rates and what has been achieved is presented in Table 2. The royalty
rates are reviewed annually by the FD and submitted to the Minister's office for approval. The trend
in the last three years has been to adopt the FD recommendations with regard to sawlogs but to
reduce the recommended rates for pulpwood by 15% to 30% (Table 2). In spite of the project's
efforts to increase royalty collection by strengthening the FD's Inventory Unit, the collection of
revenues is still below what had been assessed. This is because log users have delayed or refused to
pay the royalty, although they have extracted the material. The overdue payment accounted for KSh
75 million, 48 million, 38 million and KSh 52 million for the years 1994/95, 1995/96, 1996/97,
1997/98, respectively. The proportion of these overdue royalty payments varied from 19 to 38% of
the total revenue collection.
39.   Currently, the estimated delivered cost of pulpwood to the industry, based on the
recommended royalty rate, is comparable with wood costs to mills in other similar areas, such as
Chile. However, this is not the case with sawlogs and peeler logs. They are about 10% and 20% less
than the equivalent prices obtained in similar areas, for sawlogs and peeler logs, respectively.
40.   One of the objectives of the project was the improvement of the collection of royalties. The
ICR mission saw forest estates where trees had been illegally cut, resulting in loss of royalty
collecting by GOK. Royalties are an emotive issue, subject to lobbies by pressure groups and political



Appendix C                              54
intervention, With the establishment and training of the inventory assessment group, standing timber
sales should be made on the basis of felling assessments and the subsequent felling'plans. The final
clearance for felling should be given after payment is received from the logging enterprise. Currently
this system is circumvented by political intervention. Similarly recommended stumpage levels can be
modified by GOK if the purchaser can prove that they are investing in supporting the FD forestry
operations. Annual wood volume assessed for sale during the project period is shown in Table 4.
Economic Analysis
General
41.   The project aimed at improving the efficiency of timber production and establishing a
framework for the long-term development of the commercial forestry sub-sector. It also proposed to
establish plantations of commercial species on the clearfelled areas, and to undertake over-due
prunings and thinnings in the existing plantations. Because of difficulties in valuations, the economic
analysis shown below is carried out on the plantations established by the project only. However, it
should be understood that the project has made useful contribution to the existing plantations by
strengthening fire protection measures and by improving their quality through pruning and thinnings,
albeit over a smaller area. Of the quantifiable benefits, the production of food crops in between
plantations has not been included in the economic analysis for lack of details.
Production
42.   The production of project plantations would be sawlogs - both from thinnings and clearfelled
trees - peeler logs, pulpwood, poles and firewood. The latter consists of residue after the commercial
logs are removed. Area planted under the project is about 19,880 ha; consisting of 3,976 ha of pine,
13,915 ha of cypress and 1,988 ha. of eucalyptus. Total project production is expected to be about 9.9
million m3 as shown below, and is based on mean annual increment of 20 m3 per ha for pine, 20 m3
per ha for cypress and 25 m3 per ha for eucalyptus. Annual commercial timber yields have been
estimated to be 16 m3, 17 m3 and 20 m3 for pine, cypress and eucalyptus, respectively. A rotation of
30 years for pine and cypress, and 9 years for eucalyptus, with 2 coppices, have been assumed in
accordance with present practices.
Production of Project Plantation
Item               m3'000
Sawlogs                     6,224
Peeler Logs                    20
Pulpwood                     1,308
Poles                         833
Fuelwood                     1,481
Total                       9,866
Project Costs
43.   Annual project costs are given in Tables 5 and 6. However, these tables could not be used in
the economic analysis as they exclude the establishment costs incurred under the Shamba System.
Therefore, the economic analysis is based on a one ha model. Costs related to overheads, supervision



Appendix C                              55
and replacement for equipment, amounting to 35% of the establishment costs, have been included in
the analysis. These are in line with the pattern of expenditure in the region. In conformity with the
approach used at appraisal, the shadow wage rate for unskilled labor has been assumed to be 70% of
the financial costs. All costs are net of duties and taxes and are based on June 1998 prices.
Markets and Prices
44.   Demand for project output is increasing continuously due to the high population growth. On
the other hand, the area of the industrial plantations is shrinking, creating a condition for shortage in
the supply of timber products. It is anticipated that Kenya may not be able to meet its total demand
for timber products sometime in the next decade, if it continues with the present management
practices. Therefore, as far as the project is concerned, there will be no problem in disposing of its
output.
45.   As traded commodities, the prices of sawlogs and pulpwood have been determined based on
international prices. Thinnings and peeler logs have been valued at 50 percent and 119 percent of the
clearfelled logs, respectively. Since Kenya will be in an importing situation, rather than in exporting
position, import parity prices have been calculated as shown in Tables 8 and 9. Poles are sold freely
on the market, and their prices are expected to reflect their true value. Therefore, the market prices of
poles have been used in the economic analysis (Table 7). Fuelwood has been valued in terms of the
prices of liquefied petroleum gas (LPG), assuming that this would be the substitute for fuelwood
when this is in short supply. More households are now changing from fuelwood to LPG for cooking
and this trend is expected to accelerate in the future. Calculations of fuelwood economic price are
shown in Table 10.
Economic Rate of Return
46.   Based on the assumptions made above, an economic rate of return (ERR) was calculated for
the project over 35 years. The replacement costs of project equipment has been assumed to be
included as part of the supervision and management costs. The ERR for the project has been
estimated at 13%, slightly lower than the 17 percent that has been estimated at appraisal. The main
reason for this difference is the exclusion of the extension forestry that was expected to be part of the
project, but later dropped; and the non-achievement of the 3,500 ha of new plantations under the
project. In addition, the yields of commercial timber have been assumed to be less than appraisal
estimates, in line with present realizations.
Sensifivity Analysis
47.    Sensitivity analysis was carried out for the project to test the impact of increased costs and
reduced benefits. The results show that the project would still provide acceptable returns with
reasonable increase in costs and decrease in benefits. As shown below, a 20 percent increase in costs
or a 20 percent decrease in benefits would reduce the ERRs to 11.3 percent and 11 percent, and the
net present value to roughly one-half and one-third of the basic rate, respectively. The project is thus,
relatively more sensitive to reduced benefits than to increased costs.



Appendix C                                 56
Net Present Value
ERR                  (at 10% discount rate)
KSh Millions
Base rate                               13.2%                         535.2
Costs up by 20%                         11.3%                        256-2
Benefits down by 20%                    11.0%                         149.2
48.   Sensitivity tests were also carried out against possible excisions of project plantations.
Assuming that it will take four years from now until the Forestry Bill that will put an end to the
excisions is promulgated and put into effect, and assuming that during the interim period excision of
project plantation will take place at a rate of 4% per annum, equivalent to the rate that took place
during project implementation, the ERR drops to 11 percent. Further, sensitivity tests assuming a
50% reduction in value of output as a result of major failure in management, e.g. neglect of
silvicultural operations, damage by fire or animals and increased excision, has been carried out. As
would be expected, the result shows a major drop in project returns: an ERR of 6.7 percent and a
negative net present value of KSh 430 million. This clearly shows that project investments would not
be sustainable and would not bring the desired benefits to the country, if the FD is not provided with
the necessary funds and strong mandate to manage the plantations.
Table 1. Forest Products Royalty Rates and Revenues (1991-98
Clearfell cypress          266      325      408     408      449      561     671
KSh/nm3
Clearfell pines            245      299      375     375      413     516      617
KShftn~
Thnning cypress            242      295      371     371      408      510     610
Tbimning pines   _____  213         260      326     326      359      449     537
KShIm3
Pulpwood                    213     248      311     311      311      357     357
KSh/n?
Fuelwood                    25      26       32      32       35       50      50
KSh million
Total Revenue                       162      178     196      224     203      136
_ KSh millionl
Debts                                                75       48       38      52
Source: as presented to the mission by KFDP
Remarks: Whilst recommended royalties by the project were approved and implemented by
government in almost all cases, those for pulpwood did not tally from 1995 to 1998 as shown in the
table below. In all cases the pricing was kept low as a result of "lobbying" and interference by the
industry.



Appendix C                                   57
Table 2. Comparison of Recommended and Implemented Pulpwood Royalties (KSh/cubic meter)
Recommended by FD                    359                 449                  519
Implemented by the Ministry          311                 357                  357
Source: as presented to the mission by KFDP
Table 3. Forest Land Excisions Since 1991/92
includes parts of natual forest
Kaptagat Forest                            3,000
Manzini Forest                              750
Cengalo Forest                             2,000
includes about 1,000 ha of bush
Kipkabus Forest                            4,000             land
Kakamega Forest                            1,500
Kitale                                      700
5 forest stations have excisions,
Likia, Elburgon, Nesuit                    8,000             including the office site of the
Nakuru DFO
Nabkoi Forest                              1,800
Others                                     4,250
TOTAL                          26,000
Table 4. Total Wood Volume Assessed for Sale Over the Project Period (cubic metres)
Pulpwood     219,046      203,246       363,835      152,183      264,386       501,943
Sawlog       440,828      454,510       351,020      372,271      383,093       310,943
Total        65,987       657,777.2    714,875.99    524,474.78    647,499.58    812,906.38
Source: as presented to the mission by KFDP



Appendix C                                                   58
Table 5. Actual Project Costs
|  1990/91  |  1991/92  |  1992/93   i  1993/94   |  1994/95  |  1995/96   |  1996/97      1997/98       Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
Civil Works                      -       9,454.8    12,696.2     40,195.4     13,676.6    31,381.3     14,862.1     1,887.1      124,153.5
Vehicles                         -       2,238.9        -         5,050.3     18,919.1    44,345.2      1,181.8     3,904.5       75,639.8
OtherEquipment & Material        -       2,998.1     5,620.2     33,654.4    104,191.9    24,497.3     28,287.5     8,095.0      207,344.4
Traning                          -          -        1,725.4     11,543.8      4,926.8    11,705.6      5,019.7     2,603.8       37,525.1
Technical Assistance             -       2,581.8    23,059.0     63,198.3     51,837.4    63,933.8     47,048.2    76,783.3      328,441.8
Pilot Project Funds           1,028.4       -           -             -            -           -            -           -          1,028.4
Sub-total Invest. Costs       1,028.4   17,237.6    43,100.8    153,642.2    193,551.8   175,863.2     96,399.3    93,273.7      774,133.0
II. RECURRENT COSTS
Wages and allowances             -          -        2,892.9      5,572.7          -      23,471.1     30,112.1    17,930.6       79,979.4
Vehicleoperation&                -          -       10,804.9     21,704.4          -      71,810.8     66,478.3    47,669.7      218,468.1
maintenance
Building and mateial             -          -        1,202.6        141.9          -       2,030.4      2,068.6     1,5853         7,028.8
Supply of handtools &            -          -         103.9       5,827.5          -      25,913.2     15,826.1    11,485.0       59,155.7
material
Inputs for Seedling Production   -          -           -             -            -       1,093.0      1,151.5      720.1         2,964.6
Sub-total Recurrent Costs        -          -       15,004.3     33,246.5    193,551.8   124,318.5    115,636.6    79,390.7      367,596.6
Grand Total                   1,028.4   17,273.6    58,105.1    186,888.7    193,551.8   300,181.7    212,035.9   172,664.4     1,141,729,.6



Appendix C                                                         59
Table 6. Actual Project Costs 1
1990/91   i  1991/92  i 1992/93  i 1993/94  i 1994/95       1995/96  1  1996/97       1997/98   I   Total
.......................................................... .......................  U $ 0 0 ...... ......... .......... U$00.... ......................................................
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
Civil Works                          -         295.5       396.8        933.0      202.0      557.2        265.2        30.5         2,680.2
Vehicles                             -          70.0          -         117.2      279.5      787.4         21.1        63.0         1,338.2
OtherEquipmentt&Material             -          93.7       175.6        781.2    1,539.0      435.0        504.7       130.6         3,659.8
TIaining                             -           -          53.9        268.0       72.8      207.8         89.6        42.0           734.1
Technical Assistance                 -          80.7       720.6      1,467.0      765.7    1,135.2        839.4     1,239.0         6,247.6
Pilot Project Funds                 32.1         -            -           -           -          -           -           -              32.1
Sub-total Invest. Costs             32.1       539.9      1,346.9     3,566.4    2,859.0    3,122.6      1,720.0     1,505.1        14,692.0
II. RECURRENT COSTS
Wages and allowances                 -           -          90.4        129.4         -       416.7        537.2       289.3         1,463.0
Vehicle operation &                  -           -         337.7        503.8         -      1,275.0     1,186.1       769.2         4,071.8
maintenance
Building and material                -           -          37.6          3.3         -        36.1         36.9        25.6           139.5
Supplyofhandtools&                   -           -           3.2        135.3         -       460.1       282.4        185.3         1,066.3
material
InputsforSeedlingProduction          -           -            -           -           -         19.4        20.5        11.6            51.5
Sub-total Recurent Costs             -           -         468.9        771.8        -       2,207.3     2,063.1     1,281.0         6,792.1
Grand Total                         32.1       539.9     1,815.8      4,338.2    2,859.0    5,329.9      3,783.1     2,786.1        21,484.1
Converted from Table 5 using the following exchange rates to 1 US$ ofKSh 32.0; 32.0; 43.08; 67.70; 48.33; 56.32; 56.05 andKSh 61.97, respectively for
1990/91 to 1997/98.



Appendix C                                    60
Table 7. Financial and Economic Prices of Forest Products
Item                  Royalty Rates            Economic
KSh per m3            KSh per m3
Pine
Sawlog-clearfelled                       617                3,377
Sawlog-thinning                          537                1,689
Peelers                                  617                3,715
Pulpwood                                 519                1,856
Fuelwood                                  50                1,260
Cypress
Sawlog-clearfelled                       671                3,377
Sawlog-thinning                          610                1,689
Peelers                                  671                3,377
Pulpwood                                 519                1,856
Fuelwood                                  50                1,260
Eucalyptus
Poles                                    350                  500
Pulpwood                                 519                1,856
Fuelwood                                  50                1,260
In this case, financial prices to the producer are equivalent to royalty rates.
Table 8. Import Parity Price of Pine and Cypress Sawlogs
Unit  |             Amount
1  US$             KSh
New Zealand log price ex Beira Port a             m3Ub               70.90
Quality Adjustment (10%)                          m3Ub                7.09
Estimated Zimbabwe log price FOB Beirae           m3Ub               63.810
Ocean Freight to Mombassa and Insurance           m3Ub               15.00
Handling costs                                    m3Ub                1.50
Loading and inland transport to Kenya highlands   m3Ub               13.00
Price of logs at Kenya highlands                  m3Ub               93.31
Price of logs at Kenya highlands                  m3Ob               82.11          4,927
Transport of logs from the forests to mill/market  m30b                               800
Harvesting costs                                  m3Ob                                750
Inport parity price of standing tree              m3Ob                              3,377
Trend price @ US$ 80/ r Ub and US$ 67/rn Ub for Japanese sort and Korean sort respectively. It has been
assumed that 30% would be Japanese sort and 70% Korean sort.
w The nearest markets to Kenya that can supply softwood are Zimbabwe and South Africa. A 10% discount has
been applied for quality adjustnent on the radiata price.



Appendix C                                   61
Table 9. Import Parity Price of Pine and Cypress Pulpwood
Unit                Amount
US$      |    KSh
Estimated Zimbabwe log price FOB BeiraV          m'Ub              35.00
Ocean Freight to Mombassa and Insurance          m3Ub              15.00
Handling costs                                   m3Ub               1.50
Loading and inland transport to Kenya highlands  m3Ub               13.00
Price of logs at Kenya highlands                 m3Ub              64.50
Price of logs at Kenya highlands                 m3Ob              56.76          3,406
Transport of logs from the forests to mill/market  m3Ob                            800
Harvesting costs                                 m3Ob                              750
Import parity price of standing tree             m3Ob                             1,856
W Trend price for pulpwood. The nearest maikets to Kenya that can supply softwood are Zimbabwe and South
Africa.
Table 10. Economic Price of Fuelwood in Terms of LPG
item                  unit      Unit Value        LPG           Fuelwood
Nairobi Market Price                 Ton          KSh          57,700 '         1,400 v 
Duties and Taxes                     Ton          KSh           13,900           224
Economic Price                       Ton          KSh           43,800           1,176
Heat Value                           Ton         TOE'            1.06            0.37
Cooking Efficiency                    %            %             55               10
Efficiency adjusted Heat Value"'     Ton          TOE           0.583           0.037
Price of Fuelwood in LPG Terms       Ton          KSh             -             2,772
Price of Fuelwood in LPG Terms        mn3         KSh             -              1,980
Wood Collection Costs"'               n3          KSh             -              120
Loading and Transport (average 150 km)    mn3     KSh             -              600
Farm-gate Economic Price of Fuelwood  n3          KSh             -              1,260
The price of 13 kg of liquified petroleum gas (LPG) is KSh 750 and that of fuelwood is about KSh 1,000 per
n3 or KSh 1,400 per ton.
"'The fuielwood is only residual product and harvesting costs are borne by the major wood products.
' The ratio of heat value LPG: fuelwood is 15.8: 1.0



TablellI. Economic Analysis                                                                                                               Page  1
Value ofProduction                                        UniY                                 Y2    I Y3    Y--4                 Y            j         y           YS          is      vI YO                     Y12         Y13        Y14         yis         V11        VIT
PineSaWogs oiii              6Imo         16                                            0           a           0          0           0          0           0          0           0o          0-         0         2611        4602-2 1-5674
___________   P~~~ineS!   s"Cicar-lsv                tVm3o       3,3177                                                                              0  0                                       0           0           0       -      -       0           0          0
____________  PinePeaIera               lCshfm3o      ~~~~3,715   0                                                         0        -0-           0           0           0          0           0           0--        0           0           0          0o
Pine PLOpKlsImooDd56                          0           0          0           a           0           0        14566       25266       8612       6162        3474        606          0          0         72829      126431      4359-
______________________  ine Fuelwood              Khmo           120        0          0           0           0          0           0-       37062       64373      224         156i63      86a45       2306    0_____           0       -13597-    23604         9039
C    .16  a. 79km  KIS.'m3o    ~1.689      0          0           0          a          -0          -0          0           0          00                              16-08        11f431     25i504      24038       2 -2227    20i055
CessSaa6sCIoar.166  KsIsJn3o       3.377     0            0-         0           0           0o         0           0           0          0           0          00                 - 00                        0           0 
l<slIm3*      1,656      0           0           00          0                                                     _016  26  62856  26415_    24425    _15954      45625      91063-   65847          79361      40372
Cy cc Fecod                 l(cm3o        120        0           0-    -0-              0                                          __506  6243_    60861    7212        047'       39470d     6_00         4152       3675       125-07      55299
Eualyptus                 ka/3             0        0-00                              0           0           0     -   0            0        1652        59060d      320         7776i    -3528          00                      0          0
Once    ePA         I(cIVm.-W3.     1656-     o                              0                          0           0-O-  -    0         22-y5-84-   3935         666       1604i       729          0           0           0-         0
EucalypusFulwod             I(cnm-30       1260   -0             0-         0           0          0                    -0  -         0      -5366-1  6-34-9-    156-    -3610               -1729          0           0      - 0             0o
Gross Valuo of Production                                                           6           9          0           a                                58513      138464     321 79      164          173        734        143          609       361797      4212        149
Unit                     Yi         Y2          Y3         Y4          VS          VO          Y7         Y6          V           IS        VII         VI         YI3         Y14         VIS         via        V17
Internal Ret. of Return ERR~~~ie                                            37        03~     -76i            79          97          74          S6         52          86         86          86         789        789         112         76



Tablel1l. Economic Analysis                                                                                                                        Page 2
V.k...4 Poduo5io                                        Wit                     Yu         Y59        725              Y25    3         723        Y24       Y25          726        Y27         Y26        Y25        730          3132                 Y3 34                  YU73U
Pk. $ao.A-   Thi"ngi      itohMS.        1.689    ii 126     6324        1648         0        86I599     149571     50940       36624      20552       9358         9          8           0          0          90                                          45465
pim.01    Clow-la         KOW.n3.        3377       0          5                      8          5          9          0           9          8-         9           0          8        882444- _154712    40iO3484       209          265       42439      3763159
Piigs. peela              K,54M3o        3,755      0          0          9           0          9          5          0           9          0          9           0          8         53222      3583       10774       770        4347         12          73854
Pin. pp                   K.Wn,3.        1.856    30959      17372       4528         9        6994-6     553788   _38733        270         5635       47           0          0        239         44295      159075     585         600      -585          733
P6WN.bKIWSO               R84S,M39       5.260    5765        323         45          0        6559       59729       3654       2627        1474       384          5          0        52365       24 56      7F356        254-      29438       768        380847
C   .n.Sn.5   .15,lnnln K.h?.n3o  5.689    77560      5 721515   582255     562093      547845     59279      580284     566704      69053         0          8          81                                                                             433648
C   .s. S  , CS.-5.I   K.htn3.    3.377      8          0           5          8          8          8           0          9          0           0          0          0        29351    5763590    3939566-  3752748    3433592    5425237    14539395
C   noS PPsi               6 KS.h3.      5.356    5338       5585599    552263     107340      68997      50035      52829       435        20223        0           9          0         9276       6594-7   147134   5-T38677       53232          iS      53788
C   .s.P..5n..d     6.5,5vm.3     5.360    1492       33296      35382      35557       28536      45823       50408      46950      38964       696          0          0         3398       27755      658"39     552890      53890      225         15858H
_________________ ______________________789                                            86        76e789                  72u766               789w86d769                         799         36_769                789         85        769        789          90        789      2897
53960              53669953900           53869       53660355545           i690       5366        5366       536605366             25366       53769    5_3669        1360       565        560         560       47
___________                                       5377       2085       5677        5877       5677       5077        877        5877       2581       5977        567        5877        5877       5877       597        5177        5677       5877      *IiI
Eu..Wtu. F..K~~~~~~~d89                             40         543         89        48          480         89        48         48015       54          89         49         48          8         439         499        458-        46     524493
O..$ Vokm of P5.5 .,3. PIn.372339    33894                                                     355451        552       377 3340 07  63377    23798    32209l        33S956     335          15        35809   i0352353 -358829          35882ii   _4235893    3553        3593     13687
Wit              Yi~53        2526         528       252      Y2526      Y353       Y252          3526       3526     Y25    28   256          252         2536       2536       25262   2Y28           252_       352        735
000 Kh             7~~669      866        7866       7866        3661     3769      -66   58     8764         866         86          6          6           8          6          6          8           6          8         32
7,5.5 Coos. Eu..  5,~~~~~o             18946W    -199O   -16846   -15546           1806        155i46     50946d     55946       95946-   -10644       986O        18346      559660     59944-      19546      55548      13646       19644      WM1
5504       45352      45327       45352      49047     5457       357!        537        5374        352552 45    B         4537        45352     53372      53372      53572        45372     53572     48524
32025      33571     3028        39285       33528      33545     30280       37250       34525      39289      30250      30290       3250       336250      09        302503 3    025 9       0280        3650
203        26539      3564       25539      25539      38539      35642       28535       28539        s     - 3339  233   285387     25639       30587 --  - 28539     38539        2559      253       97455
___________________                26389~ ~~~ 2638       2639          923      3639       2889       3686        2820       2638         5269      3689       2688       2935        2689       26389      26339      26388       2089    87603)
T.w C-ft Pk.                           MN~~~~992  5092       50923      50925       52552      5925       56925      508255      12552      50925       558925     358925    359         31092       M 2        59926      50925       55903    213128
7o5.5805.bliohoonng&Mnbot.n.n..C,.5.        0 Kh12Z39                         162947     533607     1629200    562200      164252     5365 1      63633220  568343      585904     58142051        0 13850345         18485       22006   1640           20        152045     MISS
E.o.nn4.58.5oo8 8.So..  _________________________               58~212   258       -202       322           2126       232         242        282      326          272         252         28       216         252          332        332       312        314       738
0,n..V.hs.o8P,.dsmlInn  0606.5,/8                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~37833  36313  39545    35274      467.4      86,4       37.63    329653          355549   23.61    22354           3,461  503.23    3       5    3.6471  4.23.63   .7.736   1836. ___12!
Eo5.bloh.nnSA.hoS..n..  800.5,/.161,90    52,84                                 962.87    13.60        363.41    94,20       163696 1w.e3           168843659,50695W405659,43                    188461       55.45     ii111 66.401           159.51219.45
NoI Cob Fin  11lowa                                       25.943      39,85      595.51    15.253       44,97     398.13    39.049        66539       8,202       2.935    537.579183555    83.7833.96764034439.2034.04.5832.4313295.62.55
Snlnno.I bln.8t1Co 6-ypu.60,540104                                                                           59 ERR6 543.3 18                                       i94          Fi"       IS          61         lsl         S         114         SS4        1546       IS"        53ii



Implementation Completion Report
Kenya
Forestry Development Project
(Credit 2198-KE)
APPENDIX D: SERVICE DELWIERY SURVEY OF SAWMILLING INDUSTRIES IN KENYA



Appendix D                                                                        65
Implementation Completion Report
Kenya
Forestry Development Project
(Credit 2198-KE)
APPENDIX D: SERVICE DELIVERY SURVEY OF SAWMILLING INDUSTRIES IN KENYA
Table of Contents
INRODUCTION .............................. 6.7.
T E SURVEY  OF FOREST INDUSTRIES .............................                                                                                                       67
Survey Instrument ...............68
Sampling ..............................8 
Implementation ......................................70
Data Processing ..............................20
Other Sources ofInformafion ..............................                                                                                                       71
Survey Constraints .................                                                                     ;                                                        22
SURVEY FNDINGS ..................73.
Introduction ..................73
Overview of the Industry .................                                                                                                                        73
Licenced Sawnillers .................... 7.4
Unlicensed Sawmillers .................... 74
Age and Ownership .................. ..5
Processing Capacity .................                                                                                                                             76
Equipment, Facilities and Efficiency ........................... 7.7
Timber Source Areas ...........................                                                                                                                  80
Forest Departnent Plantations .............................                                                                                                   SD.
Private Land .............................                                                                                                                    81
Quality ............................81
Accessibility of Plantatisons .............................                                                                                                   81
Size of Trees .............................                                                                                                                   82
Distance to Plantations .............................                                                                                                         82
Pruniing of Trees .............................. 83
Species Availability .............................. 83
Wood Defects .............................                                                                                                                    84
Log Supply ..............................84
Form of Trunks .8............................. 5
Products and Pricing ...........................                                                                                                                  85
Products ..............................85
Prices ................................
Royalties ..............................87
Cost Sharing ...........................                                                                                                                          87
Opinions on Forest Department Services                                                                                                   ........................... 88
Technical Advice .............................. 89
Fire Control ..............................89
Licensing.............................. 9.Q
Plantation Management ..............................90
Timber Certification ......................................92
Plantation Allocation .............................                                                                                                           9.2
Plantation Assessment ..............................93
World Bank Support and the FD .............................                                                                                                   9.4
Constraints in the Industry ...........................                                                                                                           95



Appendix D                                             66
Infucture ................................ 95
Taxationa...........   . 96
Govemnment Policy ...........                                                                             9.7
Corupption                               .......... l0
Inflation...........1.00
Competition.0.............. l
Crime .101...........
Insecurity .1........ Lot
Market Demand ...........:.101
System of Complaints .101...........
Responses to Problems Related to Log Supply ...........1D2
Product Diversification ...........102
Shift into RetaiL ...........102
Reduction in Workforce and Shifts ...........                                                            103
Other Coping Strategies .103.........                                                          ...
FuRupE OF THE INDUSTRY ........................ 103
ATrACHMEN .s.0............... 5
Literature Consulted ....................
Abbreviations ................108
Conversion Factors ................108



Appendix D                                67
Implementation Completion Report
Kenya
Forestry Development Project
(Credit 2198-KE)
APPENDIX D: SERVICE DELIVERY SURVEY OF SAWM[LLING INDUSTRIES IN KENYA
INTRODUCTION
1.    This Service Delivery Survey was prepared as a supplementary activity to the Implementation
Completion Report of the Kenya Forestry Development Project (KFDP). The aim was to determine to
what extent Government's investments in industrial plantations, especially during KFDP, have had
the desired results in terms of improving the delivery of services to the private sector. A cross-section
of sawmilling industries was consulted to assess current access to quality roundwood timber,
opinions on issues of quality, quantity, service and price, the level of satisfaction with the services
offered by the Forest Department (FD), and the overall condition of the sector in terms of market
trends and levels of investment. A field survey took place in June and July 1998, and an extensive
questionnaire was administered to a sample of 100 sawmillers.1
2.    A major criticism leveled at the FD, both in the past and during the most recent period of
Bank support through the KFDP, has been that it has neglected to consult sufficiently with the private
sector involved in timber processing. Such consultation was not well defined at appraisal of the
KFDP and this is one reason given why so little took place in this latest phase of investment. Yet
dialogue with the primary users of roundwood timber would appear fundamental to the remit of the
FD, the sole supplier of plantation roundwood in the country.
3.    Industry representatives claim, in particular, that the important recommendations of the June
1997 reorganization study were presented to them in finished form at the end of the research, rather
than through any process of dialogue and consultation. Many do not consider themselves
stakeholders in the recommendations, and several support a private leasing option for the plantations
that was ruled out by the Price Waterhouse study team (but, incidentally, supported in the 1994
Kenya Forestry Master Plan).
THE SURVEY OF FOREST INDUSTRIES
4.    This survey of forest industries was intended to determine to what extent the Bank's
investments in industrial plantations, especially during the last period of support of KFDP, have had
the desired results in terms of improving delivery of services to the private sector. The objective was
The study team wants to adknowledge the kind and generous assistance of the Forest Department and the
Timber Industries Employers' Association in canying out this study. In addition, the study team is grateful to
the more than 100 sawmillers and their employees in Kenya who were surveyed for their openness and support
and for their diverse and constructive opinions. Chetan Shah and P.C. Patel in Narobi George Gitonga in
Elburgon and J.W.Mathenge in Molo deserve particular thanks.



Appendix D                               68
to consult a cross-section of forest industries to assess current access to quality roundwood timber,
opinions on issues of quality, quantity, service and price, the level of satisfaction with the services
offered by the FD, and the overall condition of the sector in terms of market trends and levels of
investment.
Survey Instrument
5.    The majority of the survey data were collected by means of an extensive questionnaire
introduced to sawmnillers, the primary users of roundwood timber. A draft questionnaire was
developed and field tested in Meru District in May 1998 and also circulated among Nairobi-based
sawmnillers who attended a project briefing meeting at the Ministry of Natural Resources headquarters
on May 27th. Suggestions and revisions were incorporated in the final version. The questionnaire
solicited both operational facts and personal opinions from the target sawmillers about their
businesses and the availability of required material.
Sampling
6.    The survey was intended to reach a representative sample of sawmillers in Kenya. There are,
however, considerable discrepancies between the numbers of licensees and the number of people
involved in milling, which meant that a straightforward cross-section of licensees would not capture
the industry's diversity. It also became apparent that it would be problematic to interview certain
types of operator, especially those using tractor-mounted equipment (mostly unlicensed) and the so-
called 'briefcase sawmillers', who do not operate from fixed locations.
7.    The team determined that the most viable approach would be to survey a cross-section of the
permanent, established sawmilling enterprises, whether licensed or otherwise. Consultations with FD
personnel and the industry indicated that there were approximately 350 such permanent sawmills in
the country.
8.    The aim was to interview a sample of 100 representative companies across four of the
country's eight Provinces. Nairobi and North-Eastern Provinces were excluded because they have no
mills and Nyanza was omitted as it has only eight small licensed operators. In Coast Province the few
mills that exist deal with indigenous and non-plantation wood and the Bank investment has been
mainly in the up-country pine and cypress plantation sector. The sample was therefore drawn from
the four remaining Provinces: Central, Eastern, Western and Rift Valley.
9.    The initial level of sampling was geographical. Based on FD records of 1998 sawmilling
licenses broken down by district, a representative number of sawmills was selected from each. In
order to make the fieldwork manageable and geographically contained, any districts with less than
about five licensees were omitted. The target sample size in each remaining district was a simple
reflection of that district's total number of mills. The four Districts of Nyeri, Kiambu, Nyandarua and
Meru thus dominated (as Table I below shows).
10.   In the field an effort was made to keep to the pre-defined sample size for each district
wherever possible, but a pragmatic approach was adopted where insufficient operating sawmills
proved to be available but additional enterprises were available close by across a district boundary.
Thus, for example, Lugari was dropped but Vihiga was added. Sawmills were classified by the
district where they sourced their wood, not necessarily the district in which they were actually



Appendix D                                        69
located. For example, some mills in Molo in the far west of Nakuru District constitute part of the
Koibatek District sample, since they procure their logs in that district. Table I summarizes the sample
of sawmills, and Figures 1 and 2 show their locations.
Table 1: Summary of Sawmilling Licensees and Mills Surveyed, by District
RitValley ..... Baringo         9                 4
Keiyo                18                7
Kericho              39                10             5
Koibatek             25                7              4
Laikipia             21                2
Marakwet             5                 3
Nakuru               48                7              15
Nandi                8                 2
TransNzoia           7                 9              5
Uasin Gishu          18                6
__55_B'f________ BS    FBtt'."~'e@'.:@k ........ (O
Eastern     Embu                  3                 2              2
Machakos             2                 2
Makueni              8                 7
Meru                 21                26             10
..5,   . .i  ...B                          .   :. gi:..................
Central     Kiamnbu              52                45             16
Kirinyaga            6                 10             3
Maragwa                                5
Muranga              31                3
Nyandarua            46                42             15
Nyeri                82                74             22
Thika                                  5
Western     Kakarnega             4                4               2
Lugari               8                 10
Mount Elgon          4                 5
Vihiga               1                 2               I
yanza     fMigori               2                 2
jRachunoyo            2                 4
jSuba                 2                 2
oast                           N/a                6
11.    Within each district the team selected companies with permanent facilities rather than trying
to interview mobile entrepreneurs who were evasive and uncooperative. This introduced a bias of
sorts, although permanent operators were well versed with the entire sector and were able to provide
information on all types of wood processors.



Appendix D                               70
12.   An attempt was made to select mills of different sizes with different types of management and
equipment. Not all the sample mills were licensed (particularly in Nakuru District where many now
obtain wood from excised plantations no longer under FD jurisdiction and are therefore not subject to
official royalty payments and licensing regulations).
Implementation
13.   The field survey was carried out between June 16th and July 24th 1998 in a series of three
field missions: the first around Mount Kenya in Eastern Province, the second in Central Province and
the third in Rift Valley and Westem Provinces. 30 sawmillers were interviewed by a 2-man survey
team and the remaining 70 by one enumerator only.
14.   The team attempted to meet the District Forest Officer on arrival in each new area prior to
commencing interviews, to inform him of the work and seek co-operation in locating sawmills. In
fact the DFO was only available in three districts and the work mostly proceeded independently.
15.   After a short introduction at their sawmill, most managers were open and relaxed about
providing information. It was clear that few had ever been approached for their opinions and were
willing to spend as much as two hours completing the questionnaire. Only one sawmiller demanded
evidence that the survey team represented the Bank, and when this was forthcoming he was fully co-
operative.
16.   A typical interview lasted around one hour and was conducted in English, Kiswahili or
Kikuyu, depending on the preference of the miller. Questionnaires were completed by the survey
team in English.
Data Processing
17.   The data derived from the questionnaire were of two types: quantitative and qualitative. The
responses were categorized manually and quantitative data were extracted as numerical entries in a
customized Paradox database. These were afterwards converted into a series of Excel spreadsheets
for further analysis by sawmnill size and by location. Non-quantifiable information was summarized
and incorporated manually in the written analysis to depict views and opinions and provide
illustrative examples and explanation.
18.   For the sake of analysis, the sample of 1 00 sawmills was stratified. It was apparent that this
could have been done along geographical lines, but the 12 districts represented would not have
generated valid generalizations. Provincial level analyses would be more statistically valid but less
useful, as there was so much intra-Provincial variation.
19.   The most suitable division was deemed to be by size of operation. Size was defined by
volume of logs processed annually, in terms of cubic meters of roundwood, overbark (m3 r.o.b. p.a.).
Other surrogates, such as number of employees or number of saws, were considered less reliable
ways to judge the size of an operation since many staff are part-time and many saws are not in regular
use.



Appendix D                                71
Other Sources of Information
20.   The field survey was supplemented with information from the following sources:
*  An introductory meeting with the FD and the team carrying out the ICR of the KFDP at
the Ministry of Natural Resources in Nairobi on May 27th, chaired by the Permanent
Secretary, Mr Mbaka.
*  Meetings with Chetan Shah and P.C. Patel of the Timber Industries Employers'
Association.
*  A round-table meeting with the ICR team and representatives of Kenyan forest industries
at the Ministry of Natural Resources on June I0th, chaired by Peter Kubebea, Deputy
Secretary.
KM/1
Figure 1: Location.of Surveyed Sawmil\ers in Kenya
>  _g   't    ' 1  '_               NORTH
\~~~~~~'                       L\C\'\ 
0560100  200                   /  
Figure 1: Location of Surveyed Sawmillers in Kenya



Appendix D                              72
* Various literature from the Bank files in Washington, supplemented with material from
the Nairobi office and the Kenyan Forest Department. This literature is s=mmarized at the
end of this Appendix.
Survey Constraints
21.   The field survey was constrained somewhat by the poor state of the roads in some parts of the
country, which meant that Mount Elgon District was left out in spite of being originally targeted for a
sample of five sawmills. In other places the work was retarded by the absence of mill managers and
the need for several return visits, sometimes ultimately fruitless. A target of five mills per day was
modified to three or four as the fieldwork progressed.
22.   Some of the statistical data provided for the study contained contradictions. Inconsistencies
were found between felling plans, volumetric assessments for stumpage and actual royalty payments,
for example, Most of these inconsistencies, however, were not directly relevant to the TOR of the
survey.
.  Trans Nzoia
:Kakamega)              
+ ,~lia                        Ny5) andaruaX       er
Koibaek  :
Kericho                (X. N e e
/ t  tk  rk       *       ~*~ *j   Kimnyaga
ak3_  9<  Curuu&   S   Embu
/         <Xt~~~iambu
<                  X    4A~~~~~~~~Niobi     X
Figure 2: Location of Surveyed Sawmillers
23.   The difficulties involved in procuring information from (and concerning) the license-holders
not directly involved in sawmilling, and smaller-scale 'mobile' operators, dictated that the survey
focused on established sawmilling operations.



Appendix D                                73
SuRVEY FmDINGS
Introduction
24.   Information collected during the course of this survey indicates that almost all sawmillers
believed industrial plantations had been neglected over the last decade and that normal silvicultural
operations and protection activities from fire, animal and human damage had not been carried out
satisfactorily. This had resulted in a significant decline in quality of roundwood logs and was
expected by the industry, in the near future, to result in large shortfalls in supply. Reasonable access
to the plantations had, in many areas, become increasingly problematic due to the poor state of roads.
Large plantation areas had also been transferred to private ownership through a series of
unpredictable excisions.
25.   The predominant view of survey respondents was that the FD, though technically competent,
had seen its authority eroded by external forces, and that management decisions were now being
made according to political influence rather than technical forestry considerations. Key examples
given included: interference in the review of licensing applications, directives inhibiting routine
plantation management and sawmilling operations, and evasion of licensing, royalty and taxation by a
significant proportion of roundwood consumers. All these had discouraged established sawmillers
from investing in the sector and had led to a decline in goodwill and contributions to cost-sharing,
and a greater tendency to circumvent proper procedures.
26.   The above had led to a great diversity of operators within the sector. As there was a lack of
hard information, it was not possible to determine with any degree of certainty the total number of
businesses processing roundwood timber, the number of these licensed, the number operating
permanent sawmills, and the number of mobile and unlicensed millers2.
27.   Within the districts sampled the situation was contradictory. In Meru, Embu and Kakamega
for example, the number of licensees exceeded the number of mills. In Meru there were 26 licensees
and only 15 of them actually operated mills. Meanwhile in Nakuru there were 7 licensees and this
survey succeeding in locating and interviewing 15 permanent operators without difficulty.
Overview of the Industry
28.   The timber processing sector is characterized by a small number of medium-sized sawmills
with varying levels of sawing technology, and a large number of small or very small-scale sawmills
and mobile saw benches using relatively out-dated equipment. According to FD records of timber
sales and allocations to licensees, the industry is thought to process approximately -1 million m3 of
roundwood pine and cypress clearfell p.a, in addition to an unknown quantity of thinnings and
clearfell of other species. Although the survey targeted permanent milling enterprises, reaching a
sample of 100 out of an estimated 3 50 in existence, it was apparent that a wide range of operators
exists within the industry.
2  Gathering infonnation on the operations of illegal and quasi-legal log processors presents considerable difficulties.



Appendix D                               74
LicencedSawmillers
29.   There were 307 licensees in 1998. Legitimate sawmillers sourcing roundwood from FD
plantations are, officially, required to own and operate a permanent sawmilhing facility, have
demonstrated capacity for sawmilling and procure an FD license that gives authority to source
govermment-grown logs.
30.   Licensed operators can be sub-divided into three categories:
(a)   Licensed sawmillers with permanent sawmills. The majority of license holders
operated full-time, permanent wood processing facilities, in accordance with FD procedures
and regulations.
(b)   Licensed sawmillers with mobile equipment. Some individuals succeeded in
obtaining licenses but did not operate full-time, static sawmills. They instead used mobile
round-saw units mounted on tractor power take-offs (PTOs). According to respondents, they
rarely paid any form of tax and evaded stumpage payments much more easily than permanent
millers.
(c)   Licensed sawmillers without equipment. There were an unknown number of
'briefcase' sawmillers who had managed to secure FD licenses without actually owning any
processing facilities of their own. They made arrangements with other entities, whether
licensed sawmillers, unlicensed sawmillers or mobile operators, to fell and saw logs on their
behalf. They obtained their wood from FD plantations and were therefore expected to pay
royalties as any other license holder, but as they did not work from permanent sites the
possibility of evasion tended to be greater. 5-10% of licensees were thought by key sources
not to operate sawmills.
Unlicensed Sawmillers
31.   Unlicensed roundwood processors fell into a further three categories:
(a)    Unlicensed sawmillers with permanent sawmills The survey indicated that there were
a large number of fully functional sawmills with permanent facilities that had no sawmilling
license. In some cases they were reported to operate totally outside the law and did not appear
subject to official control, mainly due to high level connections. A number of these mills also
processed indigenous timber.
In some cases an unlicensed sawmiller may not be contravening the law. The excision of
large plantation areas had meant that many previously licensed mills, particularly in Rift
Valley Province, were now processing trees from former forest reserves which were settled
farms as a result of excision orders. Such millers therefore had access to government-grown
timber free of official licensing requirements or stumpage payments. Payment for them had
become a matter of unpredictable negotiation with both the Foresters, who often retained
some nominal claim over the trees, and the settled farmers.



Appendix D                                                             75
In Nakuru District these cases were particularly numerous. In this district there were only
seven licenses issued in 1998, but there were at least 50 operating sawmills. In Elburgon town
alone there were two licensees but 13 permanent mills.
(b)    Unlicensed sawmillers with mobile equipment. According to survey respondents, the
largest numerical category of wood processors were the unlicensed, mobile operators who
moved around plantations and private farms sawing wood on demand using tractor-mounted
or power saws. They had minimal overheads, paid no taxes and did not have licenses.
(c)    Unlicensed sawmillers without equipment. In some parts of the country a pattern of
"brokerage" in the industry was widely reported. This involved independent businessmen
making deals between log suppliers, operators of sawmilling machinery and timber
purchasers to source, process and supply a given quantity of material on an individual basis.
Such brokers used various means to secure their log supplies, rented transport as needed to
meet the terms of the deal, and were often involved in various additional non-timber
businesses.
.    ..l.   .... .... ... ...    .  ... ..... .........    .......  ................   ..........    . . . ........................ ..... ....-
M hZe. ::': ''':! ': '" .' -   ::    '''i...................... ........... 
,,,,,,.,,..,............  .... . . . .  .........  - ;   ..   ...   '.'.'''''.''..'.:':.
.......    ................................. I........    ..........I...................  ......................................... ..........  .......................................................... ...
...Mee         o           i    i        i   s cii ...........1..i..e.s....edawwii        n i         icensid mobil
,~~~~~~~~~., i.,.,,.,,,...,,,,,.....    ..  , ..i. , ,.. i,,....   ,.....i.i........ W   
operators0: a          g         li.....,,,  t.h  lima, A i  'eg'''on '' .. .. .............c. .
,,, ..,.   ..   i....   ..   ....  '.   '   'i                                                                           : .............
......i.it   t e   C i   ai   i        ii               ................e   ......................  ............  ...i.s  p. a i   t
m                                           mpySi i    ii ii iii ii::::: ...................................................... iii .::: ' ii:::::::::::......   . . .   .   ..........  . ............... .i..i . ..i..i . .. . ..........i . .. .. . ........i . ..... . .........di f i d i
effect it is havingon th~~~e. p ide ofwoU.dtei            nlgtmtebsnse,  bu                      Mh & i   otrsl
..ii.i    i i i i   ,~~~~~~~....... ii ..... ........  if i.ii.iii.ii     .....i.........,.        ii.i'iiiiiiiiiiiii
mii  action being takei    gaz             nlcensedoperators Ti iere wa  wid                      si cio i          iittl
iiiiiiiw,,.,... iiii ij;ij; ii iiI.............. ..............  ..............I..........  ..................... i .............i......iiiiiji i 
greate iium   ofi  woo  t 1i  i mi  i th ; with ii  e rm            i  '''ntii itiuls  .n i~1to  a ioi ther  wer ii aii    to beii
Disti ctiiD !indertaing r-ai ng i forclesSitsin  iboth the go emmenit=ra                     e  aind excisedplantaionii 
die 5o' adce a    ilr
Age and Ownership
32.   The average age of the sawmills surveyed was 17 years, with a tendency towards newer
establishments in Western Province and older ones in Central and Eastern Provinces, where
previously they were processing indigenous timber from Mount Kenya and the Aberdares, banned by
Presidential Decree (usually dated 1986).
33. All sawmilling businesses surveyed were Kenyan owned and operated. Almost half were
family firms, invariably run by father and son partnerships. None imported wood at present. A small



Appendix D                                      76
number exported their top grade products through Nairobi wholesalers, but none did so directly, and
the total was estimated at only 11,000 m3 per annum (well below 1% of national output)3.
Processing Capacity
34.    Table 2 presents the sample mills by volume of roundwood processed per annum, and breaks
them into four sub-groups according to size. Figure 3 summarizes this sub-division -graphically.
Table 2: Breakdown of Sample Mills, by Volume of Roundwood Processed
Size of Sawmill         Log Intake        No. of Mills in   Ave. Log Intake
(m3 r.o.b. p.a.)     Category        (m3 r.o.b. p.a.)
Vey Small                Up to 999            23                 660
Small                   1,000-2,499            35               1,630
Medium                  2,5004,999             31                3,550
Medium-Large             5,000 +               11               7,960
Total: 100     Overall Ave: 2,700
14,000
12,000
10,000
d ^.  8,000
g~ W  6,000
4,000
2,000
0            20           40            60            80           100
Sawmill Sample Number
I  < 999cou.m.     0 1,000 - 2,499 cu.m.
)K 2,500 - 4,999 ou.m. +> 5,000 ou.m.
Figure 3: Sample Mills, by Volume of Roundwood Processed per Annum
-35.    The largest mills surveyed were in Rift Valley Province. 5 of the 11 largest mills (processing
above 5,000 m3 r.o.b. p.a) were in Nakuru District alone. The average annual intake of the Rift
Valley mills surveyed was 3,760 m3, compared with 1,900 to 2,300 m3 in the other three Provinces.
3  Sawnpine and cypress exports, from White, 1997.



Appendix D                                77
Equipment, Facilities and Efficiency
36.   Those mills processing more wood had better machinery and overall infrastructure. Tables 3
and 4 summarize ownership of saws and other equipment by sawmill size.
Table 3: Equipment Ownership, by Sawmill Size
m m~~~~~ m a sa 'smja>Pan &E                                            t
Up to 999      28        1.8    70    30      0       87%      22%    22%    35%
1,000-2,499    27        1.9    74    26      0      77%       31%    23%    29%
2,500-4,999    43       3.2    35    48    16        74%       45%    35%    52%
5,000 +        144      6.0     9      45    45      36%       64%    55%    55%
Table 4: Infrastructure and Vehicle Ownership, by Sawmill Size
Up to 999        65         4          65           2         2
1,000-2,499      66         3          63          3          2
2,500-4,999      65        26          65           4         2
5,000+           91        27         100          7          4
BB,1                 67a',$x  ..D
37.   The average number of saws in the firms surveyed was 2.7, with a mode of 3. This excludes
breakdown (primary) saws, which were ubiquitous, but included other saws used for re-saw and
cross-cut. Smaller mills had a single breakdown saw, whereas the average increased to 1.1 for mills
with an annual input between 2,500 and 4,999 m3 and 1.7 for mills processing 5,000 m3 and above.
Such mills were obviously more likely to be operating twin processing lines.
38.   73% of the sawmills surveyed operated circular saws only. There was a concentration among
the smallest millers, of whom 87% owned only circular saws, compared with 36% sole ownership of
circular saws among the largest mill category. Most of the remaining 27% used a combination of
circular saws, band saws and gang saws. Just 3% used band saws alone and there were none found
with gang saws alone. The industry is widely considered to be relatively out-dated and inefficient,
using equipment based mainly on circular sawing technology. 20% of sawmills had some diesel-
operated equipment, with the balance using electricity alone.
39.   It was common, but by no means widespread, for sawmills to operate additional equipment
for adding value to their products. 37% had planers, 30% had T&G (an attachment to a planer) and
40% owned other equipment as well such as a wrathe, treatment plant or kiln. In addition to their
wood processing machinery, the majority of sawmills had their own lorries and tractors, averaging 2
and 3 respectively. Ownership rates of telephones were high, averaging 67%, with a predictable bias
in ownership towards the larger mills.
40.   Among most of the small and very small mills there is a lack of basic record keeping. Many
mills do not maintain accounts and are unable to prepare a reliable breakdown of their income and



Appendix D                                 78
expenses. They instead operate on a lorry-by-lorry basis, paying off their immediate costs, selling the
timber, and redeeming whatever profit remains. A small-scale miller in Embu could say no more on
budgeting than that he realized a Sh 5,000 profit from a lorry of logs on an approximately weekly
basis. Many mills could not estimate their annual wood throughput in volumetric terms, and figures
on weekly or monthly lorry loads of logs processed or sawn timber sold had to be used instead to
estimate annual volumes processed.
41.   This contrasted with a small minority of mills, predominantly with the largest capacities, who
maintain detailed accounts, set output targets and record income and expenditure carefully on an
annual basis.
42.   The lack of record keeping was attributed by sawmillers to uncertainties in the industry and
inability to make reliable projections of price of logs, availability of logs, and price of sawn timber in
the market. Table 5 summarizes some suggested indicators of efficiency derived from the survey.
Table 5: Possible Indicators of Efficiency
Up to 999            30           467           0.09          24            8
1,000-2,499          31          1,089          0.10          60            9
2,500-4,999          40          1,492          0.08          83            9
5,000 +              55          1,575          0.05          55           10
Note:
( Excludes primary saws.
(b) Includes total employees, full-time and casual. Total of saws excludes primary saws.
43.   The indicators of efficiency selected are as follows:
(a)    Recovery Rates: Less than 10% of mills were able to provide an estimate of their
recovery rate. As outlined, many did not know with any certainty either the amount of wood
they processed or how much timber they sold.
Those using circular saws alone claimed an average recovery rate of 30%. Those with a mix
of machinery claimed 47%. The national average according to these claims is 41%.
(According to other sources, such estimates appear high. While in some cases in Rift Valley
Province a Moi University research team had been able to provide millers with a reliable
estimate, in most instances the millers themselves were only able to offer personal opinions.
The fact that so few were able to give an idea of their recovery is a sign that efficiency has not
been addressed by many, and doubt must be cast on the figures provided. It is thought that the
national average recovery rate is around 32%, reaching 42% for mills using band saws. This
is based on the Moi University findings, FD staff estimates and extrapolation from those
millers who had done the calculations carefully for themselves.)
(b)   Logs Processedper Saw: An average of 1,120 m3 of roundwood was processed
annually per saw owned. There were enormous differences reported between small and large
mills, however. Mills handling above 5,000 m3 of logs processed an average of 1,575 m3 per



Appendix D                               79
saw, whereas those handling below 1,000 m3 annually only processed 467 m3 per saw. They
appeared to be running at very low rates of capacity, due to a combination of mechanical
breakdowns, electrical power cuts, shortage of logs and low level of skills among staff.
(c)    Efficient Use of Labor: The average number of sawmill employees was 46, with
exactly half on casual arrangements and half on full-time contracts.
The larger mills were able to benefit from economies of scale and employ fewer people in
relation to their output. The smallest mills employed an average of 0.09 people per saw
owned as compared with 0.05 for the largest.
Another indicator of efficiency, the volume of wood processed annually per employee,
showed a less clear pattern. The smaller mills could handle an average of only 24 m3 r.o.b.
per employee and those in the next two larger categories 60 and 83 m3. However the largest
mills appeared to over-employ, according to this statistic, as they processed just 55 m3 p.a.
for each person employed. This may be a result of the greater diversity of these larger outfits.
They were employing additional staff as drivers, loaders and mechanics for their wholesale
businesses, as administrators and managers to handle their larger payrolls and tax obligations,
and operators of other machinery for value-added products such as planers or T&G.
It was not clear why this pattern is not also reflected in the figure of employees per saw, as it
might be expected to rise for larger mills if they are employing these extra staff. As the figure
reflects employees per saw owned, rather than saws confirmed to be operating, it might be
conjectured that it reflected greater slack capacity among larger mills.
(d)   Months of Operation: Few of the mills surveyed operated full-time. Taking into
account slack periods and periods of total closure, they operated for an average of 9 months
per year. (In Central Province they operate for an average of 8 months.)
Smaller millers reported more enforced closure, with those below 1,000 m3 annual intake
shutting for a cumulative 4 months on average and those above 5,000 m3 capacity closing for
only 2 months. This was because the larger mills stockpiled more wood, because they tended
to be using a greater number of source areas and because they often had more vehicles at their
disposal in case some were slowed down by mechanical problems or poor road conditions.
In fact the main reason given by sawmillers for shut-downs or reductions in output was poor
access roads to the plantations and consequent inability to gain access to many forest areas
during the rainy seasons. Other less significant reasons given included shortage of
roundwood, saw breakdown and (in the Rift Valley) ethnic insecurity in the forests.
Insecurity was reported to have been one result of excision and new settlement.



Appendix D                               80
Timber Source Areas
Forest Department Plantations
44.   The main source of roundwood timber for sawmills remains the FD's plantations. 67% of
mills surveyed relied on FD plantations for their entire supply, the balance sourcing a proportion of
their trees from private land.
45.   About half (54%) of the sawmills sourced their logs from one forest station, with 23% using
two stations, 14% using three stations and 7% using four different stations. The average number of
forest stations used was 1.7, but there was a tendency for large mills to use more forest stations than
small mills. Those with an annual intake above 5,000 m3, for example, used 1.9 stations on average.
46.   26% of small-scale mills claimed that they were using an increasing number of forest stations,
while among the largest category of mills only 9% identified such a tendency and 64% said they used
the same forest stations as they had always done. It seems that the large mills had a more diverse
supply base from a larger number of plantation areas, but continued to use these source areas over a
long period, whereas smaller mills had a tendency to use fewer plantations but were inclined (or
forced) to seek new source areas more often.
47.   The average distance traveled to the wood source was 15.1 km. Millers claimed that this had
been increasing dramatically. Reasons were not given for the increase, although excisions and past
clearfell in peripheral areas are likely to have necessitated a progression further into the plantations in
many cases.
48.   The issue of felling plans and future wood availability was one that concerned the industry
greatly. Only 6% of respondents said that a felling plan existed and was available to them, mostly in
Eastern Province. Only 7% said they knew where they would be felling trees in 1999, mainly in
Eastem Province and Central Province. There were more extreme cases. One miller in Meru said he
did not know where he would be felling "next week". Several had not heard the terminology "felling
plan".
49.   Many millers believed that the use of felling plans in the field lapsed from about 1988
onwards, at least in terms of their accessibility to sawmilling licensees. In some areas sawmillers
claimed to have seen a reactivation of the system from 1990-94 (mainly in Nakuru), but these were
said to have been of little relevance since they were not followed. The last felling plans that
sawmillers actually saw appear to have been applicable up to 1994 or 1995, but it is claimed that their
implementation lapsed from as long ago as 1990.
50.   The majority of sawmillers had no knowledge of current Annual Work Programs (AWPs) or
the National Felling Plan for the sawlog working circle developed for 1996-2000. Longer established
sawmillers reported that the current situation contrasts markedly with former management systems of
the 1970s and 1980s, under which long-term (five year) licenses were issued to approximately one
third of licensees and felling plans were published accordingly and made available to all interested
parties. Such plans made the Foresters accountable to a pre-defmed management regime. Sawmillers
could seek bank loans on the basis of cash-flow projections that the license and the felling plan made
possible. They could adjust their felling throughout the year to harvest nearby stands in the wet
seasons and distant or steep allocations in the dry season. Such planning was no longer possible. This



Appendix D                               81
deterred long-term investment and resulted in slack periods and greater wear and tear of vehicles
when plantations were hard to reach, but no other options had been provided.
Private Land
51.   A growing trend towards the use of farm-grown trees was revealed by the survey. 33% of
mills used trees from private farms and 21% of these said that the quantity from such sources was
increasing (only 3% said it was declining). Small-scale operators showed the greatest tendency to buy
trees from farmers, with 39% of those under 1,000 m3 r.o.b. annual input using farm-sourced wood.
These small-scale millers got 19% of their wood from such sources. The trend was strongest in
Eastern Province, where farm forestry was well established. 40% of the millers surveyed in that
Province bought some of their trees from private farmers.
52.   The most common farm-sourced species was Grevillea robusta, used in joinery. Cypress,
Pinus patula, Pinus radiata and Eucalyptus saligna (for flooring blocks) were also recorded as
coming from farmers, but tree management was often technically deficient and there could be
problems with knots in the wood or nails from fencing support that could damage saws. In some
areas, especially Laikipia, farmers sold indigenous trees such as cedar (Juniperus procera).
53.   The main seasons for farm-sourced logs were just after the harvests when labor was said to
become available and there was no chance of incidental damage to crops. This was mainly March and
September.
54.   In some cases sawmillers bought standing trees from farmers and handled the felling and
transport themselves. In other cases the farmers brought logs to the sawmiller and, in return for
sawing, the sawmiller kept a proportion of the finished product as payment.
55.   It was pointed out by several millers that although the price of trees bought from farmers was
lower, typically 10-15% less than those bought from the FD, the logging and transportation
requirements could be cumbersome and costly. Other drawbacks included the fact that many access
roads to farm areas were impassable during the rainy seasons, and there was stiff competition for
farm-sourced wood from tractor-mounted saws that had lower overheads and greater mobility.
Quality
56.   The survey sought-an idea of how service delivery in terms of quality of material had changed
over recent years. Sawmillers were asked to assess the change in quality of various features of the
logs and the plantations that they were using. Table 6 summarizes the results, ranked with the most
seriously deteriorating aspects first.
Accessibiity ofP/antations
57.   The results showed that the most drastic decline in quality of management, or at least the one
that affected sawmrilers most seriously, had been quality of the roads to the timber source areas. 64%
said that the road situation had got "much worse". The state of access roads was rated as the biggest
single constraint to the industry.



Appendix D                                     82
58.    It was pointed out that those establishing the plantations in the 1950s and 1960s would
naturally have selected the most accessible and well drained locations first, therefore it could only be
expected that access to plantations would become worse as those established on more marginal land
became ready for clearfelling. Hence the need for proper road maintenance would be expected to
increase.
Table 6: Opinions of Sawmillers on Changes in Quality of Wood and Plantations
Accessibility of   Quality of roads to the harvesting   4              32             64
Plantations        areas
Size of Trees      Availability of large diameter trees  31            28             39
l _________________    (esp.  1o" and above)                                                   l
Distance to        Distance that must be traveled to    20             41             39
Plantations        reach the plantations
Pruning of Trees   Quality of roundwood interms of      29             41             29
pruning and knots                                                          l
Species Availability   Ease with which millers can obtain  33          29             28
species that suit customer demand
Problems with wood such as knots,   19             55              24
Wood Defects       disease, oemida, die back, etc.                                             I
Log Supply         Reliability of supply from month to  27             57             14
month
Form of Trnks      Straightness of tree trmks           54             41              4
Note:  No sawmiller rated any aspect as "better" or "much better", though both categories were offered in the
questionnaire.
Characteristics are ranked by % assessing as "much poorer". The same order is applied in the written
analysis below.
Size of Trees
59.    The size of available trees had, in the opinion of the sawmillers, declined substantially. Less
than a third had not noticed any change. Evidence from the field bore out the claim of smaller log
sizes. According to sawmillers, clear fells were currently being allocated as young as 16 years in
Meru, 18 years in Kiambu, 18-23 years in Koibatek and 27 years in parts of Nakuru, meaning that no
sawn products above the 9" series could be made. Small log sizes resulted in greater wastage, weaker
wood with lower average density, and more sawnwood distortion on drying.
Distance to Plantations
60.    As well as citing poor roads and accessibility problems, 80% of millers said that distances to
wood source areas had been increasing. As outlined above (0), this was likely to be a result of
excisions and past clearfell on accessible plantation peripheries, as well as a predominance of over-
mature stands in distant plantation areas that needed to be felled.



Appendix D                                83
Pruning of Trees
61.   A marked decline in tree pruning was reported to have caused major problems for sawmillers.
The process of felling was said to be more cumbersome because in unpruned plantations the trees'
branches became interlocked. The wood was much knottier, which made it harder to saw. This was
said to damage sawing machinery and lead to more wastage. Such wood was also said to fetch a
lower retail price.
62.   Poor log quality had forced many sawmillers to look to the local retail market for their sales,
as they could only source and process the lower grades - which were not acceptable to many Nairobi
wholesalers. Smaller sawmillers in particular purchased smaller, unpruned logs and hence
encountered a greater knot problem.
Species A vailability
63.   The species reported as felled by most sawmillers were a straightforward reflection of the
plantations allocated to them by the FD, given that farm-sourced wood still played a relatively small
role. In light of the shortage of material that prevailed in most areas, the millers did not have an
opportunity to request pine rather than cypress, or vice versa, and thus reported operating according
to the FD's decisions rather than their customers' preferences. Only 9% of those who gave a reason
for their species choices said that they reacted according to customer demand, while 81% put their
species mix down to sheer availability of wood from the plantations allocated to them. 57% said that
the species availability had got poorer (meaning that they could not match the preferences of their
customers as well as they used to).
64.   A market preference for cypress was reported, but the available supply (at least of clearfell) is
heavily biased towards pine. In the age classes 25 years and above, pine acreage exceeds cypress by
470/%4
65.   50% of millers said that the proportion of pine had gone up in recent years compared with
only 28% who said there was now more cypress. Cypress was said to be under-supplied by 57%, but
pine by only 31%. Thus while all wood was in short supply, the situation seemed more acute for
cypress.
66.   Sawmillers were apparently not well informed about the qualities of pine, and the right
treatment of the timber was rarely seen to be carried out. Its susceptibility to blue stain could be
MM6f&  e with dipping or kiln drying. Pressure treatment wvth preservatives (CtA salts) could
improve durability. But few mills had such facilities - in fact only one pressure treatment plant and
one dip were seen.
67.   Given that milling losses with pine are lower than cypress due to the relative straightness of
the logs, and the stunpage rate is lower, millers could be expected to benefit from better marketing of
properly treated pine.
4  Figures given to survey teanm by KFDP. The imbalance may be rectified as cypress acreage exceeds pine by 48% in the age
class 20-25 years, and in the 15-20 year age class by 156%.



Appendix D                                84
Wood Defects
68.   79% of sawmillers said they had observed an increase in defects in logs related to damage
during growth. The types of defects reported included the following:
* Aphid damage: The cypress aphid featured high on the list of problems perceived, although this
had declined substantially in the last five years.
*  Oemida: Poor pruning and other management was said to have led to an increase in prevalence of
oemida galleries.
*  Stem cracking: Failure to remove defective trees during thinning cycles was reported to have led
to the maturing of trees with almost no commercial value.
*  Game damage: Damage from monkeys in particular was reported in many areas, especially
where plantations abut indigenous forest, and led to die back, heart rot, oemida and other
problems.
The actual trend in game damage was difficult to determine. When the shamba system was in
place, animals which threatened plantations would often be repelled by the shamba dwellers. In
the absence of the shamba system, the level of protection was greatly reduced and game damage
was said to have increased in many areas as a result5.
* Other wood defects: These included butt rot, spiral grain, knots, taper, sweeps, and crooks.
Log Supply
69.   The reliability of supply was of considerable concern to respondents, with 71% saying that it
had got worse. This meant that from month to month, over two thirds of sawmillers were now less
confident that they would be able to secure sufficient logs to work at capacity. The situation was
reported to be worst in Eastern and Central Provinces, while in Rift Valley Province a relatively low
53% claimed it had become more difficult to source sufficient logs. (This may be a direct result of the
oecont Rift Vnlloy meigiong and abundnco of logg in some locations.) Table 7 summarizes opinions
towards levels of roundwood supply.
Table 7: Industry Views of Roundwood Availabiity
% claiming Roundwood Supply "Far  % Under-supply    % Under-supply
from Enough"              Pine           Cypress
55%                   31%              57%
Note:  Average from all respondents
70.   Over half of the sawmillers surveyed said that the timber they could procure was "far from
enough". The degree of under-supply claimed varied from 31% for pine and 57% for cypress.
5 Though, conversely, more game damage is probably likely to be reported if farmers are working within the plantation areas
on a regular basis.



Appendix D                               85
Form of Trunks
71.   The form of the trees available was reported as not having deteriorated by over half of the
sawmillers, with only 4% saying that form was now "much worse" than it used to be. Since form is
determined by management practices in the early years of growth, if the large trees currently being
felled were well looked after in their establishment period they should be producing straight logs
today.
Products and Pricing
Products
72.   The survey indicated that sawmills produced a standard range of sawnwood sizes,
concentrating heavily on those in demand in the construction industry. Table 8 summarizes the main
dimensions marketed.
Table 8: Main Timber Sizes Produced
Descnrition     Sizes
Most Comm{on    6xl, 4x27 3x2 2x2 offcuts
Also Common     6x3, 6x2, 4x3, 4xl, 3x3, 3xl, 2xl
Less-Cominon    12xI, 10xI, 8xI, 8x2, 6x4
73.   Larger sizes, that is those greater than 6", made up an average of 28% of production.
However, 66% of respondents said that product sizes were either constant or were decreasing, with
60% of these putting the problem down to shortages of large logs. The problem appeared worst in
Central Province. Only 8% identified a trend towards larger wood sizes, mainly in Western Province.
74.   It was, however, pointed out that the large product sizes are generally in lower demand. They
are used mainly in carpentry, whereas the smaller sizes are mainly required by the construction
industry, which constitutes the larger market.
75.   Equipment was a constraint in sawing certain sizes. At the large end of the scale, small
diameter saw discs are incapable of cutfing 10 and 12" series timber. For small sizes, the absence of
band saws in many mills was clearly a constraint, as this effectively precluded production of sizes
less than one inch (because the circular saw kerf was too wide).
76.   Thus the trend towards smaller product sizes seemed to result not only from reduced
availability of large diameter logs, but also skewed market demand and limitations of processing
equipment.
Prices
77.   Timber prices did not appear to vary significantly with size of sawmill, but did vary between
different parts of the country. Table 9 summarizes wholesale and retail prices of sawn timber by
Province.



Appendix D                                     86
Table 9: Timber Pricing by Province
Westem                        14              n/a              33%
Rift Valley                   15              12               77%
Central                       17              12               64%
Eastern                       20              15               33%
I$bI~IAve,g         >Sb35 13         S 
Notes:
(a) Retailers sell wood by the running foot (r.f). Wholesalers sell by the board foot or
the metric ton. The table presents all prices in board feet, for ease of comparison.
(b) The prices listed are averages for all species. Pine is normally priced about Sh 1 less
than the average and cypress about Sh 1 more. (The cypress stunpage rate is about
9% higher, processing losses are higher and market demand is greater). Grevillea,
where used, is about Sh 2 less than the average.
(c) Prices can go higher for Grade I ('export') timber if available. For example, Sh
10,000 per ton for cypress, or Sh 17 per bd.ft., 25% above the normal price. This
grade is becoming rare however (e.g. in Molo there was reported no Grade I pine
available and less than 2% of cypress was top grade).
(d) There is seasonal variation not allowed for in the summary figures presented. Prices
tend to be higher in the wet seasons when fewer operators can get reliable access to
the plantations because of the condition of the roads, and illegal operators in
particular reduce their output. Nevertheless, there is a pattem of stock-piling by
Nairobi wholesalers that balances out some of the fluctuation.
78.    87% of millers reported that their selling prices had risen in the last 2-3 years, but 63% said
that this rise had been slow and below the rate of inflation. The price of plywood had dropped from
Sh 260 per sheet in 1997 to Sh 230 in 1998.
79.    The principal reasons given for the current stagnation of prices were the flooding of the
market with under-priced wood, mainly from illegal competitors and excised plantations; and the
fixing of prices by Nairobi 'cartels'.
80.    Wholesale prices were lowest in Rift Valley and Central Provinces and retail prices lowest in
Rift Valley and Western Provinces. Rift Valley had the highest proportion of millers claiming that
their prices have been increasing at below the rate of inflation. It was apparent that Rift Valley
Province had the most significant glut of cheap wood.
81.    Nakuru District was most commonly cited as the source of the cheapest wood because of the
large-scale excisions there over the previous 1-2 years. It was reported that illegal operators with
tractor-mounted saws could sell pine planks wholesale in Nakuru for as little as Sh 3,000 per ton,
compared with Sh 6,000 from established mills.
82.    In Trans Nzoia, the retail price differential between legal and illegal millers was quoted as Sh
2 per r.f. for most sizes (being Sh 5 instead of Sh 7 for 6xl" pine, for example). One miller in Meru
had reduced the retail price of 6xl" timber from Sh 10 to Sh 5 per running foot, to compete with the
influx of mobile operators.
83.    The large mills seemed to suffer particularly from the market flooding as they were more
likely to be paying the taxes and license fees expected of them, simply because they represented an



Appendix D                                 87
easier target for government revenue collectors. Small mills can operate more discreetly with lower
overheads and are able to undercut larger operators.
84.   The Timber Manufacturers' Association (TMA) had attempted to set sawnwood prices, but
had been unable to secure co-operation from all its members - and certainly not from the glut of
illegal suppliers. Sawmillers were said to be able to apply the TMA tariffs only in the case of new or
gullible customers unfamiliar with the prevailing market conditions. Without legal backing for price
recommendations through government regulation, many millers saw little hope for setting higher
prices. Current retail prices were 33% below the TMA recommendations in Meru and 42% lower in
Nyeri.
Royalties
85.   Procurement of roundwood, ostensibly in the form of royalty payments, accounted for an
average 32% of total operating costs for the sawmills surveyed. This proportion did not appear to
vary significantly for different-sized mills or different parts of the country.
86.   Most sawmillers did not view stumpage rates as excessively high. Only 17% say the rates
were "much too high" while 81% considered them "acceptable" or only "a little too high". It was
commonly felt that the annual royalty increases kept approximately in line with inflation.
87.   It was reported that higher royalty rates in recent years, with a lack of corresponding increase
in market prices for wood, had led to greater evasion of royalty payment. This was borne out by the
official revenue figures, which show a decline in total revenue for the last two years to a 1997/98
level lower than anything seen for the last 7 years, in spite of annual royalty increases and greater
rates of felling6.
88.   Many sawmillers felt that VAT should be included in stumpage payments so that they would
not continue to be put in the difficult position of imposing this tax on unwilling customers. VAT
evasion is widespread at present, especially in the retail sector.
89.   The system for paying the royalty was considered unnecessarily complex by some
sawmillers. It was reported in Nyeri that the District Accountant must certify the Forester's invoice,
yet the revenue is neither determined by, nor awarded to, the district, and the involvement of such an
official seemed an unnecessary obstacle to smooth payment.
90.   Forestry regulations state that payment for roundwood should be received before licensees are
allowed to start logging, but the reverse was commonly reported to be the case - provided that a
deposit had been made.
Cost Sharing
91.   Sawmillers reported that they began contributing to routine management of forest plantations
after 1988. 91% of those interviewed had engaged in some form of so-called 'cost-sharing' with the
6  1995/96 revenue was Sh 224 million, falling to Sh 203 million in 1996/97 and Sh 136 million in 1997/98. Wood volume
assessed for royalty was 524,454, 647,480 and 812,886 m3 for the corresponding years, according to information supplied
to the survey by KFDP.



Appendix D                                   88
FD in the last two years. In Nakuru District and other areas where excision had been rampant, this
had recently stopped as the plantations no longer fell under FD jurisdiction and further sawmiller
contributions were considered pointless. Table 10 summarizes the types of cost-sharing reported.
Table 10: Cost Sharing by Sawmillers
g   ~ ~    ~     RR4~         tn       nsey~~~~....  ......it
Up to 999            86       100        91         60             5            30
1,000-2,499          97        94       73          59            18            11
2,500-4,999          85        95        65         61            15            4
5,000 +              91        80        60         70            20            0
Note: Percentages engaging in each type of cost-sharing are taken from those who stated that they cost share, not
from the total sample.
92.    The type and value of cost-sharing support reported varied greatly, but was at a consistently
high level regardless of the size of sawmill. Large mills were more likely to offer focused support for
one or two activities, perhaps with the loan of a large piece of machinery, provision of fuel or cash
support. Smaller mills provided more diverse support across many sectors and were more likely to
offer human labor or materials as a form of cost-sharing.
93.    Sawmillers resented the fact that mobile operators did not engage in cost-sharing, yet utilized
the same forest resources and contributed to the road damage that established millers were asked to
repair. Animosity arose between farmers and sawmillers when the former blamed the latter for the
poor state of rural access roads, when in fact many such millers paid council taxes and contributed to
road repair on a regular basis, and it was the illegal operators who failed to co-operate.
94.   Millers reported that not all Foresters were keen on cost-sharing by millers. In some areas
Foresters appeared to have rejected cost-sharing efforts. In Meru, for example, it was said that millers
had recently offered funds for nursery establishment and road repair, both of which had been
declined. This was put down to the fact that poor roads are less problematic for illegal operators who
use only tractors and are favored by the Forester, whereas large, licensed mills are more likely to be
taking lorries some distance into the plantations and require better conditions.
95.   At the time of the survey, cost-sharing appeared to be in a state of rapid decline in many parts
of the country, with sawmillers disillusioned about its past impacts and future prospects for their
investments being rewarded.
Opinions on Forest Department Services
96.    86% of sawmillers categorized their relationship with the FD positively, with only I(,'%
describing it as "poor". However, sawmillers endorsed their statements with sentiments such as "we
must keep a low profile". One sawniiller in Nakuru said he had not seen the Forester for three years,
and could not claim any relationship with him at all.
97.    Sawmillers were given the chance to describe a series of services offered by the FD as
"good", "poor", or "not provided". The results are summarized in Table 11.



Appendix D                                                                 89
g9v' ' '' '-E ,,,,............ ............. .g
The level of reported cash support varied.    M                     ad   i yaga. the.niad . .b...............
10,000 annually, per sawmilerfor roadrpi, ompae wit  roud 1 5,000in Nye an up to S"
|3y0,00    .0 i   adan, As muc as Sb50,000was demdd of soelre mils ho weer. One
la e mil        l        ed'n Xi .. a asbugave uptSh100,000.- It wa ,sai  by s         al'ht
repair. is i8hfe. jab,-of sawilr" relect , ,e 'compl.^e 'te' ab'sene-of' 'Dqumn orerne ' or
th s    w o rk ; ::....  . . ......                                   ..........................................
,   .              .  ..  ..................................~~~~~~~~~~ .. .................
...   ......    .. .                              ..    .......E    EEEl      EE 
from Sb 10O to Sb 10,000 per anu, Agin lrereuss wer  oetes re -tdas  wellu
toge Sb 20,00001
L   tq   ,  u, . , k k!ii .ii S .i .......................  .................................... ......    ..,..,................. iE
.In many caes the s nWil                  .. said t  p.     ie   a  i........ .d contri.u.io    a..e. than cs... This.
',h,., y. s s. ... .. .. .......... .. .      .e.........                                                   :  ' '   ' 
, , .,,,, ,,,,,,, ,,, , e~~~~~~~~...8. ..... ... ... .   ......... .. . .. . .. .
seedng or tasor for seedigtopatnsie.Aenmilreardgve eneice
fre   fchrg    t his wrlso.A              yein lebitabiden a fors   lnaini  194A
Kiambu,,,,s,awin,,,,,     dona,t,ed. 35,000 ,seedlng   in.  197 Asa'r'awmlereengv9sw tm e
.biacto. the .Fore ster..whi.       wa.  su        e   t  b        d t
.noto, wa ........... s. .                     almos.  ssen              sp        s                          s
.o.r.el f          r vehicle ........g...........                               assessed" ....  ,         e     s
f   e .                             r            was in fa..............r .e..                y       ics, M       es    i .................e...
t.rese ......... .. .... .   rs........   e                           Isto w    orgaie   and for              e..sed
.. . . . ....  ..,,.   .    . ,  ..    ........... .   .   i . .   EE..... LE i,E   4i ..................  E.:  .E:i !.  -........................- . ..... -  - 1   . - E .. . . . . .   ..... ....
millers contrbuted .equally to agreed projecets--on amonthye or annual basis. There was .ahope that .:
cotibut.ion      s migh       vetull  beo_e gis   tmtacpy et.I    a  ee    ugse   osm
S                                                                .   f   .   i S   IS   SS L iSiS j iSSE E ...................... SS . S ...... ^ . ..... . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
::of thiem tat cost-sharingwa-s te irt step towards ful forest manTiieiit b.y sawilers. Tis igwas
.,.cX is --f --  -P,rE,. -  .s ................                                               ..................  ................. 
Envrnme nt-and Na rl Reores'. '0'...                                     ....,-.,.,.  i.    .,,,,200054
..    . . . . .        .. . . . .. . . . .. . . . .   ...............: : .   :E - :  E tl . . t :   .......................... .......... ......... .......... ......... .........
Many millr,s, 'said that the '.wer,e .nolonge  happy' to ofe  thi opotad   a                                     ed         ot
.sha    ..One c. ae t               e     "eitploi,at.       Ue l.a.i- ........l............... .......ge   do        fo  ro
.repir rotnl w'ent' mssing. Sh 7,00 as paetyrie  n                                                  o  earn   nE   rco
that,wasne.verfixed. At pubic futis,-  vis-in Miter or. otero .itsw                                                ad
:istctalsawnies to cnibteX toapar.clratvt    hc                                           igh  nev     maeiaieOnecase
way . p          e iN         kI whereal wererequired t                                S5             a r               th
fi   i            . .. .. .. .. .. .   ... .. . .. .. . .. X ..   . .. . . ...   .. . . . . .   .. ..   ... . .. . . .   . . . . . .   .. .. ....   .. .. .. .. .
for only a matter of months. Mllers i. Kiiyaga stopped contributingfundsforpanngbeas
tl) fa              opren . a  da g toa mb  ol                                                                    su          
iNakunithe    w re-g h                                         p            t -                  f anta
establishment opera. on.u.....              w                                                te f d   cn                    wa    t
TechnicaldA dvice
98.    Very few sawmillers (6%) reported that they had have ever received any kind of technical
advice from FD staff. Some used to send workers to the Forest Industrial Training Center (FITC) in
Nakuru for sawdoctor training, but this appeared to have stopped 2-5 years prior to the survey. Even
when FITC-trained sawdoctors were available, sawmillers complained that these individuals
demanded excessively high salaries for the quality of training they had received.
Fire Control
99.    79% of those interviewed said that fire management was non-existent. Sawmillers were
unaware of the National Strategic Plan for fire control (drawn up in 1996).



Appendix D                                    90
Licensing
100.   77% of respondents said that they considered licensing services provided by the FD to be
"good". License applications are normally made in September and the licenses issued the following
March. They may be issued as early as January in some years.
101.  Among those reporting licensing services to be poor or non-existent (in the case of millers
who failed to secure a 1998 license), respondents reported that the issuance of a license did not seem
to reflect the capacity of the applicant to process wood or their history in the business. Many millers
would support a system that involved pre-inspections to confirm their physical capacity. Others went
further, and sought a system that judged them according to efficiency as well. All agreed that a
sawmiller should be required to supply a physical address, VAT registration number and some sort of
accounting record.
Table 11: Level of Service Provision by the Forest Department
B~~~~~~1nto                                              IServicin*    E--3rEl   mo
Technical Advice            Advice on processing, equipment or     94          2       3 I
marketing____                            ____
Fire Control                Maintenance of firebreaks and           79          11      8 
I  management of any fires                                      I
l Licensing                 Ability to process applications and    13           9      77
provide licenses                                                I
Timber Certification        Checking of timber against receipts    12          15      64
I _____________________    and hammer marking
Plantation Management       Quality of planting, weeding, pruning   12         69       8
and ffhinning
Plantation Allocation       Clarity of allocation and security of   10         41      45
that allocation once made                               I
Plantation Assessment       Correctness of assessments for          37                 36
royalty due
Note:  Services ranked by % grading as "not provided". The written analysis below follows the same order.
102.  The number of licenses issued is falling each year while the number of operators is rising.
The situation is worst in Rift Valley Province, with a great number of operators unlicensed in 1998 in
spite of a long and satisfactory history of sawmilling.
Plantation Management
103.   Several sections above address the issue of sawmiller views on different aspects of plantation
management and the trends in recent years. Refer to 0 (Size of Trees), 0 (Pruning of Trees), 0 (Wood
Defects) and 0 (Form of Trunks).
104.  The overall view of survey respondents towards plantation management was that:
* 69% of sawmillers considered FD management to be "poor";
* said there was no management at all;



Appendix D                                     91
* considered plantation management "good";
105.   Sawmillers were asked if they could identify a particular year when management became
noticeably worse, rather than attributing problems to a progressive decline. 50% offered to do so. By
far the most significant year appeared to have been 1988, the year the shamba system was abolished
and all squatters and workers were evicted from the plantations. This is when 'cost-sharing' was first
introduced as FD planting almost came to a halt.
* Liensingle
order to  if   ra cd                                   L                 u
-awmillermNakunaDistnchvitb considf  beb sw,    arpo dtbs aet
means to- seure a-license that he had, officially, been denied. Royalty.debts arerun.in..at
r ecord levels and KFfDP has developed n ew: systems to stremie payniet~ Meanw-il
i~~~~~~~~t ,, iEiEd  , FE                     ..... .   .................   r  , . , . , .  -s  041y    .EREiEEERR EEE
licese-holders in . Nakumwho have o.perate for ov.ei 20 years withoutnaig up. debts. 
~~~~~~~~~~..........                 ............  -..
:have been deniedi licenses in 199S, reportdyini favor of politically favored etiic groimps.s
iEE iEE ERE hEEig E.................     ..... .... .   Ei.. 11 I :  ,E      
;~~~~~~~~~~~~ .      .   ..     .....     . .. v....   .. .  ... . :    . :             E  . E.......i!!
The hcesof obag a icense- were inimany cases reported toWY e direct depemient on.
t ff ci          of thfe retionsp beweenae sai   d th    se.
. . . . . . . .. . . . .-.. . . .:. .E E R   : :  i i  E   .E iE ..   . . . . . iD S. ... . . . .  .  . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . - . . . . . . . . .
Altoghte F)isresposibefrliesn th haresig o: tree, itdosothv
-on occasiong 'he awarding of felling lic-enSe wa sa d  o b  t g .
TDistic ndProica adnitaonsar not teliial conietnauthoiis ,bevl
in the poliicalihieacwiti te Offie of th Prsdnhuigtesre   okata
o   ..local  = s  w   r    s..pls      y .........w..........-   ....    ............ to   -- 
-.structios',.b ut they have no official role in forest mana entand   .. . i .c.i .
106. Sawmillers reported a strong preference for the shamba system of plantation establishment. It
was said to engender better relations between local communities and the forestry sector and resulte
in better management practices at lower cost.
107. The partial re-introduction of the shamba system in 1994 was not considered satisfactory by
many respondents. It was said that farmers were no longer planting tree seedlings as required, but
continued to stay on the land free of charge for farming purposes. "They are growing more potatoes
than trees" according to one Nanyuki sawmiller. The system had become "commercialized" claimed a
miller in Kiambu, who believed that farmers and land-owners, rather than landless squatters, were
using ED land for extensive production of cash crops. Deliberate suppression of plantation
establishment was also reported, by ring barking and shaking the roots of seedlings.
108. Survey results indicate that in the view of most millers, the eviction of squatters and forest
workers in 1988, combined with large-scale retrenchment within the ED (39% of employees since
1992), had serious negative consequences for the quality of routine plantation management. It was
reported that many staff houses constructed in the forests had been destroyed, and the workers instead
provided with housing allowances. These workers were often reported by respondents to face such a
7  Debts wereequalto 38% ofrevenuein 1997/98, comparedowith 21% in 1995/96 and 19% m 1996/97.



Appendix D                                92
long walk to their places of work that their effective hours of work had been considerably reduced.
Under such circumstances, basic management operations were bound to suffer, and atly fires in the
plantations were likely to bum overnight before being discovered. As several forest stations were
now sited on excised land, some Foresters now resided at a considerable distance from the
plantations, and some were reported to have returned to their own private homes in other districts.
109.  Besides 1988, other key years in the decline of management were said to be 1991 and 1992
(at the time of the country's first multi-party elections), 1995 (when large-scale excisions started) and
1997 (with the exceptional El Nino rains).
Timber Certification
110.  Timber certification (the joint responsibility of the sawmiller and the Forester) was stated by
64% of sawmillers to be "good".
111.  However, a large number described difficulties in finding the Foresters and how inefficiency
and corruption meant that large quantities of logs left plantations unchecked. The old system of
holding logs at check dams for efficient certification in bulk was said to have been largely abandoned.
112.  It was apparent that locating the Forester in many places to have timber marked with the
revenue hammer was viewed as rather difficult. Many no longer resided at their duty stations and it
had become common for Foresters to allocate the hammers to their assistants, a practice which had
previously been avoided. The absence of the hammer was said to lead to delays and simple evasion of
certification.
Plantation Alfocatdon
113.  Whereas in the past, sawmillers used to be allocated a single stand, in the survey they
reported that several sawmillers might be allocated the same stand and each given an allowance of
trees within it. Some of these millers might be licensed and others not. In Nakuru it was pointed out
that this had caused problems when a plantation allocated to a miller was over-thinned by a second
operator who had used political connections to over-ride the existing allocation decisions. The
licensee was the one then accused of the over-thinning.
114.  One strategy reportedly used to allocate stands illegally was to declare a plantation damaged
by fire, wind or game, and allocate it for "salvage". It was therefore assigned no royalty value and
was available for allocation at the Forester's discretion. Mucheene forest station in Meru District had
had no fires for at least 10 years, but there had been several instances of 'fire damaged' plantations
being written off for salvage in official records and allocated to sawmillers free of official royalty.
115.  Allocation was reported to be influenced heavily in some areas by the sawmiller. A few
millers admnitted to what was termed "groundwork" with the DFO to secure a desirable allocation in
an accessible area. Plantation allocation seemed to favor the larger sawmillers who had means to
travel to FD HQ in Nairobi and pursue the process.
116.  Millers stated that allocated plantations remain on the whole secure. Forest guards might
occasionally sell some trees in an allocated plantation, but the problem was not widespread.



Appendix D                                93
Plantation Assessment
117. The process of having allocated plantations assessed for royalty payment was rated as "good"
by 45% of respondents and "poor" by 41%, the balance saying that assessment was not done at all.
Most of this minority were in areas where excisions had taken place and hence FD assessment was no
longer required prior to sale.
118.  Among those rating the service negatively, there was general dissatisfaction with the standing
volume method of assessment and a widespread perception that the ground-scaling system was
preferable. The reasons given for this included the following:
* Suspicion arisingfrom poor understanding of the methodology. Ground-scaling was said to be
more readily understood by an untrained sawmiller, whereas the method of carrying out standing
volume assessment was considered confusing. This meant that it raised suspicions, even if
entirely accurate. An Embu sawmiller, for example, said that he found it unfair that the full height
of the tree was measured when assessing standing volume, when merchantable height was far
lower. He was not aware that the volume formulae take into account the taper of the trunk up to
the minimum merchantable diameter, based on tree top height8, but that the licensee is not
charged for the tops.
* Suspicion arising from centralized processing of the calculations. The royalty calculations for
standing volume assessment are made at FD headquarters in Nairobi and a computer printout sent
to the sawmiller, based on the information supplied to them by the field inventory teams. Some
sawmillers viewed this as a mysterious level in the process, whereas ground-scaling was matter
for mutual agreement with the Forester on the spot. It is now "purely a question of trust" said one
Nyeri sawmiller.
 Problems in claiming refunds for incorrect assessment. During the time that elapses between
royalty assessment and the arrival of the invoice from Nairobi, sawmillers are expected to pay a
deposit and begin cutting trees. According to FD General Order 232, cash is supposed to be paid
in advance for every stand or its parcel to be cut, beyond the level of the deposit paid. If an
assessment is disputed then a claim must be made for a refund. Under the ground-scaling system
a sawmiller could measure the logs for himself prior to any payment and was unlikely to bring
subsequent complaints. The system to seek a re-assessment under the standing volume method
was considered so cumbersome and time-consuming by the industry that few sawmillers were
said to find it worthwhile to pursue complaints, unless of a seriously erroneous nature.
Nevertheless, some sawmillers did make the effort and were rewarded. One sawmiller in
Kirinyaga reported successfully applying for a re-assessment that resulted in a royalty reduction
of 30% for 500 trees from Sh 900 to Sh 625 each, but this involved several personal visits to
Nairobi to organize. It thus appeared worthwhile only in the case of substantial over-assessment
clai-ms.
* Problems in claiming refunds for damaged trees. Similarly, sawmillers have the right to claim
refunds for royalty paid against trees that prove to be defective once felled. The process involves
reporting the problem to the DFO, via the Forester, who must certify that any defects are
8  Ihe sawwood merchantability top diameter limits were reduced by the FD during the KFDP from 20 cm to 15 cm for pine
sawlogs, and from 15 cm to 10 cm for cypress sawlogs.



Appendix D                               94
excessive and refer the case to the CCF. Only the CCF has the authority to cause a mill test to be
carried out. Such tests, at the cost of the sawmiller, determine the recovery possible from the
defective wood and allow an adjustment to be made. One Nyandarua miller said that the
"compensation allowance does not at times meet the costs of preparing the mill test, leave alone
the costs of the defects". "By the time you get compensated, you have almost forgotten the claim"
according to another sawmiller in Nyeri.
* Problems in claiming refunds for lost trees. In case of fire or of breakage during felling (a
problem said to particularly affect pine), a claim can be made for loss against the previously
assessed royalty. Again, sawmillers reported that they were unlikely to seek regress because the
system was cumbersome. A miller interviewed in Kiambu reported that he had lost 80 assessed
trees through fire, but did not consider it cost-effective to try and make a claim for
reimbursement.
*  Reported over-assessment to match central records. The sales inventory teams are said to be
under pressure from headquarters to return figures that tally with known plantation conditions,
but when illegal thinning and clear felling has been taking place the plantation may contain
substantially fewer trees than were expected. In some cases assessors were said by sawmillers to
base their calculations on the assumption that plantations were properly stocked, thereby over-
billing the licensee.
119.  Opposition to standing volume assessment was not universal. Some millers said that they
preferred a system controlled by an outside team, as ground-scaling could become an arbitrary
process of discussion and debate between the miller and the local Forester. It was seen by some as
unscientific and open to manipulation by dishonest sawmillers.
120.  Others pointed out that although the standing volume assessment was complex, any errors
appeared to work in the miller's favor more often than they went against him, as the assessors were
aware of the negative perception of the millers and tried to be fair. For example, the assessment might
assume a d.b.h. of 22 cm, but it would prove to be 22 cm when the trees were actually felled.
121.  In all areas of the country it was reported that insufficient funds seemed to be available to
inventory teams. A widespread form of cost-sharing was said to be for sawmillers to provide fuel
(and sometimes transport) for these teams. It was also reported that in some areas the inability of the
assessors to reach the plantations meant that Foresters had resorted to conducting their own
assessments based on ground-scaling, often of an informal and unregulated nature.
World Bazk Support and the PD
122.  There was a feeling recorded across the industry that the primary users of timber had not been
sufficiently consulted in management decisions related to the sector. 68% of sawmillers were
unaware that the Bank had ever supported the FD. Among those who had heard of the support, nearly
20% had erroneous information or had mis-attributed other donor support to the Bank. Some
believed, for example, that the Bank had suspended its support in the early 1990s; others thought that
the FAO Inventory or the KIFCON or COMIFOR projects were part of the Bank investment.
123.  A considerable number of respondents were cynical as to whether funds given to the FD
would be used properly.



Appendix D                                     95
Constraints in the Industry
124.   Sawmillers were asked for their views on a variety of potential constraints to the industry, and
rate these as "major", "minor", or "not a constraint". The results are summarized in Table 12.
Table 12: Perceived Constraints to the Industry
Infrastructure     Poor roads to (and within)           85              1 1             1
plantations                                  .       .
Taxation           Levies and fees, as compared with    73              21              4
other industries
Government Policy   Rules, regulations, licensing       71              17              11
systems
Log Supply         Poor or unreliable supply of logs    66              12             20
Financing          Inability to secure fmancing for     65              15              17
investment
Corruption         Need to bribe for services           63              25              8
Inflation          Rising prices of goods and           63              29              6
services, as compared with market
price of timber
Competition        Other suppliers of wood in the       50              18             31
market
Plantation         Quality of management of trees       43              49              6
Maintenance
Mill Equipment     Poor quality of saws                 39              27              29
Crime              Insecurity and/or theft of logs and  33              30             35
equipment                                                                    l
Insecurity         Ethnic clashes and other risks in    17              24              55
l ______________    the plantations
Market Demand      Low level of market demand            4               4              89
Personnel          Poor quality of staff                 0               6              85
Note:  Ranked by % of respondents describing constraint as "major". The same sequence is used in the analysis
below.
Infrastructure
125.   The single biggest constraint to the operations of the industry at present was reported to be
infrastructure, principally the state of the access roads to the plantations and the forest roads within
them. 85% of respondents cited this as a "major" constraint.
126.   The worst periods for forest access were said to be the rainy seasons, normally from April to
June and September to December. In the past, the FD would close roads during the rainy seasons to
limit damage, but this practice had been abandoned. The poor state of roads had major implications
for the industry in terms of securing reliable log supplies and maintaining fleets of vehicles and their
support staff.



Appendix D                              96
Taxation
127.  Only 4% of sawmillers did not consider taxation and other fees imposed on the industry to be
a constraint to their operations. The issue of taxation, as raised by respondents, had two facets.
Firstly, the overall level of taxation was widely felt to be too high, and out of line with other sectors
of Kenyan business. Secondly, the vast majority of operators believed that taxation was unfair
because it was imposed in an uneven manner across the industry. Larger and more established
sawmills claimed that smaller and unlicensed operations evaded almost all forms of taxation, whereas
they were regularly followed up by government revenue agents. Fees and taxes were described as
"crippling" by one Nanyuki sawmiller.
128.  The range of taxes and levies that were reported included the following:
* Sawmilling License: The fee payable for a sawmilling license is set at three levels for small,
medium and large-scale operations. Sh 15,000 is paid by the estimated 90% of mills that have an
annual intake capacity of less than 4,000 m3, with most of the balance paying Sh 30,000. Any
mill with a capacity above 10,000 m3 pays Sh 70,000, which applies only to one company at
present. A further 'Special License' is granted to the country's single pulp and paper mill, costing
Sh 100,000 per annum.
* License Application Fee: An application fee was recently imposed on those applying for
sawmilling licenses. This was reported to vary by district. It was Sh 1,000 in Meru.
*  Royalty: The FD stumpage fee paid for all trees felled. As outlined above (0), royalty was not
generally perceived as unnecessarily high, but a system to ensure fair assessment and even-
handed collection was felt to be lacking.
* County Council Trading License: This district-based license was reported to vary in price.
Sawmillers reported charges of Sh 5,000 in Kericho, Sh 10,000 in Meru (up from Sh 4,000 two
years ago) and Sh 15,000 in Kiambu.
* County Council Cess: Cash is paid at County Council roadblocks by vehicles carrying wood
products. In Nyandarua a fee of Sh 300 for each tractor carrying logs was reported and Sh 500 for
lorries carrying timber. In Kiambu the charge was Sh 150 per lorry of,sawnwood.
* Value Added Tax (VAT): The issue of VAT payments was reported to be one that caused many
problems. In common with other sectors of the Kenyan economy, sawmillers' customers were
reported to often refuse to pay VAT, currently rated at 16%. Most millers said they were forced to
evade VAT in order to remain competitive.
* Standard Levy: Sawmillers believed that this levy should only legitimately be placed on export
goods, and it was therefore not appropriate for most of them.
* Training Levy: This charge was said to be levied for the purpose of supporting FITC in Nakuru,
but was not in fact put to this use.
* Service Charge: County Councils were reported to be imposing a service charge on sawmillers,
depending on either the number of staff employed or the number of saws operated, but not
providing the services assured (mainly sewerage and refuse collection).



Appendix D                              97
* Manufacturer's License: A sawmiller in Embu reported that he was charged Sh 7,500 per annum
by the District Trade Officer.
* Registration with Ministry of Labor: Costed at Sh 2,000 per year in Embu.
* Municipality License: Said to be required for sawmills in urban areas.
* National Social Security Fund (NSSF) Contributions: Paid on behalf of employees.
* Income Tax: Also paid on behalf of employees
* Rates: Payable to the Land Commission
* Inspection License
* Vehicle Licenses and Insurance
* Harambees: Public fund-raising functions, with obligatory minimum contributions from
businessmen such as sawmillers.
* Other miscellaneous payments: These were reported to include a variety of FD cost-sharing
contributions, for which no compensation or reduction in royalty was received, unofficial local
taxes (for example, a Chief in Nyandarua was said to charge Sh 2,000 per tractor per month using
local roads) and access fees imposed by farmers whose land was crossed to reach plantations
(especially in areas of excision and settlement).
Government Policy
129.  Sawmillers' views on government regulations were diverse. While 88% identified
"government policy" as a constraint to production, 53% said that the industry was subject to few
regulations and 8% freely admitted to evading regulations.
130.  The dominant view appeared to be that policy towards the industry and the regulatory
environment according to the law were largely acceptable. As outlined, regulations were considered
minimal by over half of the sawmillers interviewed. Problems, however, were reported to stem from
(a) widespread evasion of regulations, and (b) unpredictable directives made by high-level politicians
outside official statutes. These factors made for an uncertain and non-supportive working
environment.
131.  The following examples of non-compliance with regulations were given:
* Weekend lumbering operations: There is an FD ban on weekend extraction of logs from
plantations. FD staff are expected to work a five day week and so are sawmillers, but the private
sector in Kenya mostly operates a six day week. This time can be used to repair machinery and
vehicles and consolidate work. With the poor condition of forest roads, many sawmillers said
they were forced to extract wood at weekends to secure sufficient stock to remain operational for
Monday to Friday. The rule was said to be rarely enforced, which meant that weekend activities
in the forests went largely unmonitored.



Appendix D                                98
* Tree felling height: There is an FD regulation that trees should be cut at a height of 6 inches,
which is little known and was said to be rarely enforced.
*  Safety at work: Safety at work considerations appeared to be absent, with no sawmill visited
having a single worker with a helmet, ear protection or face mask, and very few saws with any
kind of safety guard.
132.  In terms of non-technical ('political') interference in the industry, sawmillers outlined various
decrees 'from above' on issues of plantation management and sawmilling that took no account of
technical advice from Foresters on the ground and the prevailing regulatory environment. Examples
given of such interference included the following:
(a)   Plantation excisions: Large-scale, unpredictable excisions of plantations, often over
20 years old were reported. This was rampant in Rift Valley Province, with 5 acre plots being
given out to settlers. Such settlers were said to have inherited up to 300 mature or semi-
mature trees per hectare. During the implementation period of KFDP alone, some 26,000 ha
of industrial plantations with varying age of trees were excised, according to FD figures. The
stock, whether mature or growing, was not assessed before excisions started and the
government did not collect revenue due.
Sawmillers working in excised plantation areas said that short-term financial gains could be
considerable, with trees available free of stumpage payment at locally negotiable rates In
Nakuru, a sawmiller estimated that the government royalty for a log of 27-30 years would be
Sh 450-500, whereas the same log would be sold by a settler on excised land for Sh 100 -200.
A tree aged 20 years could be bought for Sh 100 instead of Sh 3 00-400. Trees of 10 years
were available for Sh 50, though extremely weak structurally.
In spite of the short-term gains, there was widespread concern that the supplies of trees in
excised areas would be exhausted in 2-3 years and that businesses would then fold.
The excision of plantations and settlement of outsiders had other implications. Allocations
were made to politically favored individuals and groups. These settlers had introduced
charges in some cases for sawmillers to cross their land to gain access to plantations, even
when those plantations remained under government control and royalty had been paid. A
typical fee was Sh 100 per week. The issue of access roads was reported to be unresolved in
many excised areas, because of the speed of the excision process and lack of planning time.
Double payment of royalty was said to have taken place in some areas, where excision had
taken place after allocation to a sawmiller. Royalty was first paid to the FD and then to the
settlers (the new owners of the trees). It was reported that the Foresters, supported by armed
police, had no authority over the settlers in many areas, who used intimidation tactics and
outright violence to prevent access and logging unless furither payment was made.
(b)   Illegal allocation ofplantations: False declaration of plantations as game damaged,
wind damaged or fire damaged was reported, enabling them to be written off and allocated to
favored individuals. Allocation free of licensing and/or royalty requirements was also widely
reported, often in exchange for unofficial payments to FD staff.



Appendix D                               99
(c)    External influence of license applications: Several personalities external to the FD
were said to be routinely involved in vetting license applications, particularly/ District and
Provincial Commissioners. Non-applicants or personalities unknown at the local level were
also said to influence the process in Nairobi and secure licenses with no prior history in the
industry.
There was reported to be a widespread problem of denial of licenses to long-established
operators with modern machinery, for reasons unknown, in favor of individuals with political
connections. One Nakuru sawmiller called these "godfather connections", that over-rode
Foresters' recommendations.
(d)   Directives: Sawmillers reported a number of directives that had severely hampered
their operations and did not appear to be based on technical considerations. For example:
-     Ending of shamba system: The most serious directive was said to be that
ending the shamba system in 1988, with only a partial reinstatement in 1994 (and
in a much less organized manner);
Ban on power saws: There had been a ban on the use of power saws in the
plantations in several districts in Rift Valley Province since 1996. The regression
to use of axes was said to result in felling losses of 1 meter at the stump of each
25 m tree (4%), as well as other considerable losses during re-cutting into logs.
Felling using hand tools was also said to leave taller stumps in the plantations,
making access much harder for skidders and tractors.
-     Ban on clearfell: Clear felling had been banned in some areas by local
politicians (such as Kiambu District). The ban was widely ignored, but officially
remained in place.
(e)    Restrictions on working hours: Directives were reported on the hours during which
sawmillers could enter plantations, and these were considered unjustified and restrictive by
sawmillers, given the state of forest roads and the need to maximize working time. Entry to
plantations was said to have been banned before 8 am in Kiambu District, for example.
133.  Directives were said to take place with immediate effect, compromising the industry and
reducing confidence in the FD. There was no consultative process reported (involving the industry or
other stakeholders).
134.  Overall, while there were clearly certain aspects of government policy that were reported to
constrain the industry, the consensus appeared to be that the problem did not lie with policy as
written. Most regulations, if followed, appeared acceptable to the majority of sawmillers surveyed.
Indeed, many looked back to earlier days when regulations were adhered too as a more profitable
time for their business. The problems stemmed from evasion of regulations by a significant
proportion of the industry and, especially, 'political' interference.



Appendix D                               100
Corruption
135.  On most matters there were no significant differences in opinion between different types of
sawmillers. On the issue of corruption, however, a split was apparent. 73% of large millers
(processing over 5,000 m3 p.a) cited corruption as a major constraint, compared to only 3 5% of the
small concerns (processing below 1,000 m3 annually). The trend was geographical as well. 77% of
Rift Valley sawmillers said that corruption was a major constraint, compared to 55% and 57% in
Central and Eastern Provinces respectively.
136.  Corruption was reported at all levels and for all services. Several said that the worst affected
was at the level of the forest guard, with whose assistance small-scale millers with tractors could
extract wood without even the Foresters' knowledge. Others claimed that the assessment process was
most affected, and that it was possible for a sawmiller to be grossly under-assessed on particular
plantations through corrupt means. One miller claimed to having been allocated a stand of 1,000 pine
trees free of royalty and without receipt, and confirmed the location to the survey team.
137.  It was pointed out many times that if all official royalty and taxes were paid, then it would be
impossible to make a profit in the sawmilling business given the abundance of illegal and corrupt
operators who had led to a deflation of market prices. A sawmiller in Meru said "there is no way you
can make a profit if you get your wood in a straightforward manner". Another in Molo claimed that
"corruption is not a constraint; we survive because of corruption". An example was provided of a tree
assessed for royalty at Sh 1,000 that could provide seven 6 x 1" planks and two 3 x 2" pieces, all of
1O' length, priced at Sh 10 per running foot retail and thus bringing an income of Sh 1,000. This left
not room for any running costs or profit.
Inflation
138.  As a constraint, inflation was rated as significantly as corruption by respondents. 63%
described it as a major constraint. The problem appeared to stem from the failure of retail prices of
timber to keep pace with annual increases in stumpage rates, licensing fees and the cost of raw
materials - especially fuel.
Competition
139.  31% of sawmillers did not identify market competition as a constraint, yet 50% said it was a
"major" constraint. The sample was divided on the issue, or at least on how they answered the
question. The difference appeared to come down to interpretation. Competition was welcomed by
most operators in the industry as a spur for greater efficiency. With so many illegal operators,
however, it was clear that swamping of the market with cut-price timber was causing considerable
problems.
140.  Those claiming that competition was a constraint were, on the whole, referring to illegal
competition and its effects on their businesses.
141.  Section 0 above (Overview of the Industry) outlines the types of legal and quasi-legal
competitors in the market at present. An area of particularly rapid growth is said to be that of the
'broker', especially since 1996. These were reportedly individuals with no license or facilities who
sourced logs and had them processed by others. In Kiambu, one of the surveyed mills reported



Appendix D                                101
operating using material from three independent brokers, who were able to source wood at 50% or
less of the standard price, royalty-paid. Brokers were said to be allocated accessible plantations at low
cost, whereas licensed millers complained of being allocated more distant plantations and made to
pay full royalty. In Kiambu, sawmillers using brokers were said to be able to sell timber at Sh 10 per
board foot, compared with Sh 14 for those operating within the law.
Crime
142.  Opinion was split on the issue of crime and its impact on industry operations. Respondents
said that it was a major constraint, a minor constraint and not a constraint in approximately equal
numbers.
143.  The issue seemed to be highly localized. In some forest stations it was reported that felling
must be completed and logs removed in a single day, rather than risk leaving material in the forest
overnight. So many forest guards had retired or been retrenched that sawmillers reported having to
guard logs themselves after felling. In Kiambu District most sawmillers said they employed their own
guards in the forest. One had been involved in a 30 km chase with armed police to recover stolen
logs. In Koibatek a miller had lost a batch of pine logs in the forest to charcoal makers.
144.  Several sawmillers reported that trees allocated to them had been cut down at weekends by
criminals in the plantations. The issue was noted to be especially serious in Kiambu District. In
Nakuru it was reported that theft of fuel and parts (such as injector pumps) from tractors was a
problem in the excised plantation areas..
InsecurIty
145.  Insecurity was not widely reported to be a problem, but in Rift Valley Province there was a
risk of insecurity in the forests that went beyond theft of logs and equipment. Some of the plantations
had been the scenes of civil unrest over the preceding 2-4 years and forced lumbering operations to
be suspended for extended periods.
Market Demand
146.  According to the survey, market demand for timber products was very high. 89% of
respondents said that demand was not a constraint to their operations9.
System of Complaints
147.  Respondents were asked what they considered their routine point of contact within the FD for
operational matters concerned with lumbering and sawmill operations. It was unanimously reported
that the Forester was the first person to be approached over such matters.
148.  Millers were then asked what system they would follow in case of a dispute over royalty
assessment, licensing issues or other problem that could not necessarily be handled at the level of the
9  The Kenya Forestry Master Plan estimated an annual increase in market demand for sawnwood of 3.3% between 1990 and
2020.



Appendix D                                 102
Forester. Issues demanding further clarification or consideration should normally be taken to the
DFO, PFO and, ultimately, the Chief Conservator, PS or Minister. This was not reported to be the
case recently, however. It was said to be increasingly common for sawmillers to take their concerns
directly to the Nairobi level, circumventing the intermediate steps.
149.  It was said that influencing licensing, plantation allocation, royalty assessment or other issues
affecting the sawmiller could best be assured by central-level lobbying rather than following official
hierarchical channels of redress.
Responses to Problems Related to Log Supply
150.  It was made clear by the industry that a variety of problems are faced at present, as outlined.
Key among these was the increasing difficulty in sourcing material, as described in 0 (Accessibility
of Plantations) and 0 (Log Supply), in the light of great market demand for timber. Poor roads and
sheer lack of roundwood in many areas are significant constraints. The industry had responded to the
problems of securing sufficient material in a variety of ways, as summarized in Table 13.
Table 13: Responses to Problems Related to Log Supply
(in3 o. . ,4~}   Pr*duct~    ktto R*t.i1    W*          ShI.. ...t. .. .....  O
Up to 999                19          21           13           9             30
1,000-2,499             35           26          31            6             17
2,5004,999              42           26           16           3             26
5,000 +                 50           18          27           36             27
m g                 3iii%t    t 24%    i. 22              9=, __ K ii, < .& B:.2%, 
Product Diversification
151.  There had been a move towards product diversification, especially among larger sawmills.
Half of the largest category of millers said that products had changed over the last few years,
compared with only 19% of the smallest millers. The trend towards diversification had been weaker,
however, in Rift Valley Province. Only 3% of sawmills there reported a change in products,
compared with a national average of 35%. This was said to be due to pessimism in that Province due
to multiple plantation excisions, hence a short-term vision of the industry and lack of motivation to
attempt to diversify.
152.  Sawmillers reported making a variety of furniture and various machined wood products with
added value such as T&G, mouldings, parquet flooring, wood block flooring, flush doors, treated
poles for horticulture businesses, crates for soda bottles and pallets for industry.
Shift into Retail
153.  24% of respondents said that they had moved more into the local retail market, whereas only
13% reported a move towards wholesale. Price fixing in the wholesale sector by Nairobi cartels,
along with the increasing cost of maintaining or hiring transport, were cited as the main reasons for
the stronger trend towards retail sales direct from the sawmill gate.



Appendix D                             103
Reduction in Workforce and Shifts
154.  The industry had seen a change from a formal to an informal labor force; from full-timne to
part-time; from permanent to casual. In the face of the log shortage in most parts of the country, 22%
of millers said they had laid off staff, 9% had reduced working shifts and 24% had adopted other
changes, such as putting full-time staff onto casual status or suspending overtime allowances.
Other Coping Strategies
155.  Sawznillers had resorted to various other means to cope with inadequate log supply:
* Re-sawing: Millers reported moving into the re-sawing of logs from other mills or mobile
operators with inappropriate equipment. Three mills in the sample had already switched entirely
into re-sawing and did not fell any of their own trees at all. This precluded the need for a
sawrnilling license or royalty payment.
*  Selling vehicles: A number of sawmillers reported selling their lorries and instead renting
transport to Nairobi as required to satisfy wholesale orders.
* Making use of waste material: In most sawmills there was very little utilization of waste material
recorded. Sawdust was burned or dumped along roadsides. Some mills, however, reported selling
sawdust as domestic fuel, manure, mulch, animal bedding or for the manufacture of mosquito
coils. It was pointed out that sawdust could be used to make medium density fiberboard (MDF),
but that this was not cost-effective at present due to the duty payable on imported machinery. A
fiberboard plant in the sample reported using sawdust, bark and other waste to provide heat for
steaming fiberboard. Another mill used shorts to make blockboard. One was selling wood chips
to a vegetable oil company for fueling their boilers. On the whole, however, productive use of
wastes was not observed.
- Buying trees from farmers: As outlined in 0 above.
156.  Coping strategies had not, in the vast majority of cases, included investment in more efficient
processing machinery. This was believed to be the best way to reduce wastage and increase operating
profits, but it was said that given the lack of perceived future in the industry, investment inimproved
machinery (such as band saws) would not be worthwhile.
FUTrURE OF THE INDUSTRY
157.  The industry had a generally pessimistic view of its own future. 88% of millers believed that
the industry would "shrink a lot" and 10% that it would "shrink somewhat". The industry was judged
to have a future of anything from 2 to 10 more years.
158.  53% of operators believed that the small mills would close first compared with only 11%
seeing the large millers suffering most. With a trend towards smaller log sizes, some thought it likely
that large-scale millers with high volume equipment would have a growing problem of surplus
capacity.



Appendix D                                     104
159.   The sawmillers in the sample were asked how they thought the plantations should be
managed in the future. Table 14 summarizes the results.
Table 14: Views on Future Plantation Management
Up to 999             30              43              17                  9
1,000-2,499           40              20              26                  14
2,500-4,999           55              19              10                  16
5,000 +               36              18               9                  27
160.   Privatization of plantation ownership and management was supported by 42% of sawmillers.
25% said they would prefer the plantations to remain under full FD control. This significant minority
were satisfied with FD operations until as late as 1994/95, and cite political interference and
corruption in the last few years as causes of the current malaise, rather than problems with the
concept of FD management per se.
161.   It was pointed out by some that private management would probably lead to an increase in the
price of roundwood, but that this would not be reflected by better market prices for wood products
due to uncontrolled imports, duty evasion, stock-piling and price fixing by Nairobi timber yards.
162.   15% felt that the sawmillers themselves should lease and run the plantations10. Those
expressing this opinion represented mainly the larger operators, some with integrated processing of a
range of products. It was pointed out that an integrated company could make efficient use of trees at
all stages in their growing cycle and hence manage plantations for optimum efficiency. Thinnings at
11 or 12 years could be used for fiberboard, thinnings at 18 years for sawmilling, and clear fell at 30
years for plywood. The main concern under a leasing system was said to be assured security over the
land for the full tree growing cycle.
163.   17% of respondents had alternative management proposals, normally for overall plantation
management by the FD with contracting-out of certain silvicultural operations to sawmillers or other
interested private entities. For example, tree nursery operation, planting, weeding and pruning. Many
pointed out that under cost-sharing arrangements this is what they already do, except under their
proposal they would be paid or compensated for the contribution.
10 This was the position presented to the survey by the Timber Industries Employers' Association, which believes that long-
term leases should be granted to private sawmiiling concems under Tree Farm Licences. This is similar to the position of the
KFMP, wlich advocated that GOK should own the land and trees, but that specialised organisations be established to
manage some forests. The FD would set and monitor policy, carry out research and extension, but divest itself of actual
management operations. It also advocated that private industries should be encouraged to develop their own private
industrial plantations on land that would be leased on a long-term basis from GOK.



Appendix D                             105
ATTACHMENTS
Literature Consulted
Cranny, P.T., 1998. Review of Operational Management ofPlantations within the Kenya Forest
Department. Working paper for Kenya Forestry Development Project and World Bank mid-term
project review. FORTECH, Canberra.
Dewees, P., 1998. Kenya Forestry Development Project: Portfolio Status Update. World Bank office
memorandum to Country Director, Kenya, AFKME. Washington, DC.
IUCN, 1996. Forest Cover and Forest Reserves in Kenya: Policy and Practice. World Conservation
Union. Nairobi.
KFDP, 1995a. Reports and Summary of Issues for Mid-term Review. Kenyan Forestry Development
Project. Nairobi.
______ 1995b. Mid-term Review Supplementary Reports (1,2,3a, 5a, 5b). Kenyan Forestry
Development Project. Nairobi.
1 1997. Performance Indicators, July-September 1997. Kenyan Forestry Development Project.
Nairobi.
Mayaka, P., 1997. Ministerial Position on Implementation of the Price Waterhouse Report. Letter
from Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, to World Bank Country
Director, Kenya and Djibouti. Nairobi.
MENR, 1994a. Kenya ForestryMasterPlan 1995-2020: Executive Summary. Kenya Ministry of
Environment and Natural Resources. Nairobi.
, 1994b. Kenya Forestry Master Plan 1995-2020: Development Programmes. Kenya
Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources. Nairobi.
, 1994c. Kenya Forestry Beyond 2000: an Overview of the Kenya Forestry Master Plan.
Kenya Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources. Nairobi.
Omwami, R.K., 1992. Review of Royalty Calculation, Assessment and Revenue Collection.
Consultancy for Kenya Forest Department. Nairobi.
Price Waterhouse, 1997. Reorganisation of Management of Industrial Plantations and
Restructuring Options for the Forestry Department. Consultancy report for Kenyan Forestry
Development Project. Nairobi.
Ryan, P., 1996. Industrial Forestry in Kenya - The Losses and the Opportunities. World Bank office
memorandum to Country Director, Kenya, AFKME. Nairobi.



Appendix D                              106
Shah, CA. and Mathenge, J.W., 1997. Privatisation of Kenya 's Industrial Forest Plantations: An
Alternative to the Price Waterhouse Proposal. Joint letter to Permanent Secretary, Ministry of
Environment and Natural Resources, from Chairmen of Timber Industries Employers' Association
and Timber Manufacturers' Association. Nairobi.
Shah, CA., 1997a. World Bank Funding of the Forestry Sector in Kenya. Letter to World Bank
Forestry Representative in Kenya, from Chainnan of Timber Industries Employers', Association.
Nairobi.
, 1997b. Stoppage of Clear-Felling in Softwood Plantations. Letter to Permanent
Secretary, Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, from Chairman of Timber Industries
Employers' Association. Nairobi.
Wamichwe, K-M. and Ndambiri, J.K., 1995. National Felling Plan (Sawlog Working Circle) 1996-
2000: Supplementary Report 3c. Kenya Forestry Development Project. Nairobi.
White, S., 1997. Cypress and Pine Industrial Roundwood in Kenya: Analysis of Supply and Demand.
Consultancy report for Kenyan Forestry Development Project. Nairobi.
World Bank, 1969. Forest Plantations Project, Kenya. IBRD/IDA publication. Agriculture Projects
Department, Washington, DC.
, 1975. Appraisal of the Second Forestry Plantation Project, Kenya. Eastern Africa
Projects Department, General Agriculture Division, Washington, DC.
, 1977. Project Performance Audit Report: Kenya Forest Plantations Project.
Operations Evaluation Department, Washington, DC.
, 1982a. Staff Appraisal Report: Kenya Third Forestry Project. Eastern Africa
Region, Central Agriculture Division, Washington, DC.
, 1982b. Project Performance Audit Report: Second Forestry Project, Kenya.
Operations Evaluation Department, Washington, DC.
______ , 1984. Kenya: First and Second Forestry Projects. Impact Evaluation Report.
Operations Evaluation Department, Washington, DC.
, 1988. Kenya Forestry Sub-sector Review. Volume 2: Annexes I-III. Agriculture
Operations Division, Eastem Africa Department, Washington, DC.
9 1988. Kenya Forestry Sub-sector Review. Volume 3: Annexes IV-VI. Agriculture
Operations Division, Eastem Africa Department, Washington, DC.
,1988. Kenya: Forestry Sub-sector Review. Volume 1: Main Report. Agriculture
Operations Division, Eastern Africa Department, Washington, DC.
, 1990. Staff Appraisal Report: Forest Development Project, Kenya. Eastern Africa
Department, Washington, DC.



Appendix D                              107
, 1991. Project Completion Report: Third Forestry Project, Kenya. Agriculture
Operations Division, Country Department II, Africa Regional Office, Washington, DC.



Appendix D                              108
Abbreviations
AWP            Annual Work Programme
CCA            Copper-Chrome-Arsenic salts
CCF            Chief Conservator of Forests (formerly Director of Forestry)
d.b.h.         Diameter at breast-height
DFO            District Forest Officer
FD             Forest Department
FITC           Forest Industrial Training Centre
GOK            Government of Kenya
ha             Hectare
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
IDA            International Development Association
KFDP           Kenya Forestry Development Project
KFMP           Kenya Forestry Master Plan
MENR           Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources
MNR            Ministry of Natural Resources
PFO            Provincial Forest Officer
PTO            Power Take-off
r.f.           Running Foot
r.o.b.         Roundwood, over-bark
TLEEA          Timber Industries Employers' Association
T[MA           Timber Manufacturers' Association
Conversion Factors
Density of logs           1.0 t./m3 r.o.b.
Density of sawn timber0.7 t./m3
Sawn timber per tonne     600 board feet
US$i                      KSh 60



SUDAN  -?                   ,   N.
./                |   ----                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~E T H I O  P I A                  ,
Con'   rncb ETHIOPIA
<   O'APEVGU,?A                              Ea      <g te n ...........
UGANDA            t          Aj               2               X         g                         <             fWrJji              i
\      \     \       $  ~~~~Nyohururu                                                  if on5       nc, 
' Nf eilConserQc   
rm-p./~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
> ;   J//          E & <~~~~~~~ XAS~orth  Eostern                                              j 
11 tOdOr poBA
Conervany                                                                                                     SOMALACo;vn
y7on                                                     bu       Cosras
& Kar-  H,J                            -A
/  Bater  CO  ~      CoConservanc
PROJECTaGsare
P,otedi..,, Fn-t 
P.,k
Drotictio ForestsN Ofic Bo..d.,-                                                                Mali
Forst Sotati-n                        /A hN-vnc
Futur Foe  dR.AESt Slototio,,                                                                                   UAsEHOI
Rail-d,                                                        D. f 0. MOMB43.4/
NatForest Sta itions                                                                   KWA LE  ,,i$UGANDA
o   - RABS. Statin
Main Roads  TANZANIA             'N,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TNZNI
Railroads             0mi                                             F 0 MOM ~0 io 
    Notional Capitol                N.<              KWA,8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



