CREDIT NUMBER cq9    KE
Development Credit Agreement
(Forestry Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated 4     r-       / , 1991


﻿CREDIT NUMBERW ISKE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      4             V        , 1991, between
REPUBLIC OF KENYA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)   the Borrower intends to obtain from     the European
Community (EC) a grant (the EC Grant) in an amount equivalent to
fifteen million eight hundred thousand dollars ($15,800,000) to
assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions
set forth in an agreement (the EC Grant Agreement) to be entered
into between the Borrower and EC;
(C)   the  Borrower  intends  to  obtain  from   the  Swiss
Development Cooperation (SDC) a grant (the SDC Grant) in an amount
equivalent to five million six hundred thousand dollars ($5,600,000)
to assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in an agreement (the SDC Grant Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and SDC;
(D)   the Borrower intends to obtain from Overseas Development
Administration (ODA) a grant (the ODA Grant) in an amount equivalent
to $13,700,000 to assist in financing part of the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the ODA Grant
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and ODA;
(E)   the Borrower   intends  to obtain  from  the Finnish
International Development Agency (FINNIDA) a grant (the FINNIDA
Grant) in an amount equivalent to $6,000,000 to assist in financing
part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the FINNIDA Grant Agreement) to be entered into between
the Borrower and FINNIDA; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section   1.01.  The  "General   Conditions  Applicable   to
Development   Credit  Agreements"   of   the  Association,   dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Project  Preparation  Advance"   means  the   project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated May 24, 1990, and June 8,
1990, between the Borrower and the Association;
(b)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(c)   "MOA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
(d)   "MENR" means the Borrower's Ministry of Environment and
Natural Resources;
(e)   "FD" means the Forest Department with MENR;
(f)   "KEFRI" means the Kenya Forestry Research Institute;
(g)   "KFC" means the Kenya Forestry College at Londiani under
FD;
(h)   "FESD" means the Forestry Extension Services Division
of the FD;
(i)   "NFMD" means the Natural Forest Management Division of
the FD;
(j)   "NGO" means Non-Governmental Organization; and
(W)   "FY" means the Borrower's Fiscal Year which runs from
July 1 to June 30.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirteen
million   nine   hundred   thousand    Special   Drawing   Rights
(SDR 13,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the
Central Bank of Kenya on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1997,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.


﻿(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) -without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15
commencing April 15, 2001, and ending October 15, 2030. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on October 15,
2010, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
(b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due con-
sideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the


﻿-5-
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICIE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end shall:
(i)   carry out Parts A through E and G of the Project
through MENR with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate forestry practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required
-for such Parts of the Project; and
(ii)   cause KEFRI to carry out Part F of the Project
with  due   diligence  and  efficiency   and  in
conformity with appropriate forestry research
practices, shall take or cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds,
facilities,   services  and   other   resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable KEFRI to carry
out the Project, and shall not take or permit to
be taken any action which would prevent or


﻿-6-
interfere with the carrying out of the Project by
KEFRI.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out Parts A through E and
G of the Project and shall cause KEFRI to carry out Part F of the
Project, all in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth
in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the p.oceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Association and the Borrower hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04 through 9.09 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and
land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part F of the Project
shall be carried out by KEFRI.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall not later than July 31, 1991,
prepare a Forestry Policy Framework and by June 30, 1993, adopt a
new Forestry Policy, satisfactory to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)   have its records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section, including those of
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;


﻿-7-
(ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning such records, accounts, financial
statements  and   the  audit   thereof  as   the
Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)   maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
Section, records and accounts reflecting such
expenditures;
(ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
has received the audit report for the fiscal year
in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account
or payment out of the Special Account was made,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;
(iii)   enable  the  Association's  representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as
to whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the
procedures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause KEFRI:
(a)   to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
to make other provision satisfactory to the Association for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice;
(b)   to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance with sound administrative, financial and forestry
research practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers; and
(c)   at all times to operate and to maintain its plants,
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time,
promptly as needed, to make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
forestry research practices.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified:
(a)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the pro-
ceeds of any grant made to the Borrower for the
financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in
part, pursuant to the terms thereof, or
(ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction
of the Association that: (A) such suspension,
cancellation or termination is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate
funds for the Project are available to the
Borrower from other sources on terms and


﻿-9-
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement -vithin the meaning
of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the Borrower has finalized a management strengthening
arrangement for FD headquarters with a suitable organization;
(b)   the Borrower has prepared an annual work program,
satisfactory to the Association for the first fiscal year 1991/1992;
(c)   the Borrower has submitted to the Association a report,
satisfactory to the Association, on labor-productivity of the
workforce permanently employed in the Forest Department;
(d)   the Borrower has submitted to the Association copies of
the audit reports prepared by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association for the Third Forestry Project (Credit Number 1213 and
Loan Number 2098); and
(e)   the Borrower has submitted evidence, satisfactory to
the Association, showing that adequate offices for FD have been
constructed.
Section 7.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister at the time responsible for finance
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿- 10 -
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 30007
Nairobi, Kenya
Cable address:               Telex:
FINANCE                   22921
Nairobi                   MINFIN-KE
For the Association:
International Development
Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:               Telex:
INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
By            S     4f/Ac6L
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /5/
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Vehicles                   2,230,000        100% of foreign
expenditures and
100% of local
expenditures (ex-
factory cost)
(2) Furniture and              1,600,000        100% of foreign
equipment                                   expenditures and
100% of local
expenditures (ex-
factory cost)
(3) Civil works                2,510,000        50%
(4) Incremental                2,025,000        100% up to the
operating                                   aggregate equi-
costs                                       valent to
SDR 300,000 for
FY 1991; up to
aggregate equi-
valent to
SDR 900,000 for
FY 1992; up to
aggregate equi-
valent to
SDR 1,500,000
for FY 1993; up
to the aggregate
equivalent to
SDR 1,800,000
for FY 1994; up


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
to the aggregate
equivalent to
SDR 1,925,000
for FY 1995 and
up to the aggre-
gate equivalent
to SDR 2,025,000
in FY 1996
(5) Training and                700,000        100%
studies
(6) Consultants'              2,440,000        100%
services
(7) Refunding of              1,050,000        Amounts due
Project                                    pursuant to
Preparation                                Section 2.02 (c)
Advance                                    of this Agreement
(8) Unallocated               1,345,000
TOTAL                    13,900,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and


﻿- 14 -
(c)   the term "operating costs" means the incremental costs
incurred by the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for the carrying out of the Project, related to the operation and
maintenance of buildings, offices, vehicles and equipment.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) enhance conservation
and protection of indigenous forest resources as well as soil and
water on forest, farm and range land; (ii) alleviate the accele-
rating fuelwood deficiency; (iii) improve the efficiency and
financial viability of timber production; and (iv) establish a
framework for the forestry subsector's long-term development.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Farm Forestry Extension
1.    Strengthening the FESD and reorientation of its activities
towards extension services to farmers, NGO's and rural target
groups.
2.    Strengthening of FESD headquarter's staff and establishment
of an Extension Monitoring Branch through the provision of training,
institutional support and the acquisition of vehicles and equipment.
3.    Coordination and monitoring of all on-going pilot schemes in
farm forestry extension through the training of field extension
staff, development of a standard monitoring system and development
of a mechanism for regular information exchange between the pilot
schemes and FESD headquarters.
4.    Intensification of forest extension in initially two pilot
districts, namely Kakamega and Laikipia followed by a third
district, Samburu.
5.    In-service training in forestry extension for FESD field staff
and the MOA extension staff.
6.    Provision of materials, including plastic bags, fertilizer,
and seeds for seedling production in FESD nurseries outside the
pilot districts.


﻿- 16 -
Part B:     Indigenous Forest Management and Conservation
1.    Strengthening of indigenous forest management and conservation
including in-service training for NFMD field staff, and acquisition
of vehicles, equipment and materials and rehabilitation of forest
station buildings.
2.    (a)   Regeneration and enrichment of degraded indigenous
forests, rehabilitation of about 460 kilometers of forest roads,
maintenance of about 960 kilometers of roads, repair of graders,
acquisition of equipment for topographical survey, permanent
demarcation of all forest boundaries in Gazetted and Ungazetted
Forest Reserves, and boundary planting near villages.
(b)   Construction   of  about   250   conservation   posts,
acquisition of tools and equipment for rehabilitation or
construction of firebreaks and game moats.
3.    Replanting about 2,700 hectares and enrichment planting over
2,700 hectares with indigenous species with commercial value.
4.    Carrying out of an inventory on ecology, timber resources and
socio-economic aspects of Gazetted and Ungazetted Forest Reserves
classified as "natural forests" and larger blocks of indigenous
forests; ranking of conservation priorities and preparation of
management recommendations for inclusion in the Forestry Master Plan
through the provision of technical assistance vehicles and
equipment.
5.    Preparation of and carrying out pilot projects in three
threatened areas of ecological importance, in Arabuko-Sokoke,
Kakamega and Mau Forest areas, including the acquisition of vehicles
and motorcycles, construction of staff houses and offices, and
acquisition of office and field equipment.
Part C:     Industrial Plantations DeveloRment
1.    Strengthening of FD' s plantation establishment and maintenance
capacity through in-service training in plantation management,
planning and operations of FD field staff. Acquisition of vehicles,
(including standard trailers and tanker-trailers), and the rehabi-
litation of other vehicles.


﻿- 17 -
2.    Rehabilitation of forest station buildings and construction
of about fifty new forest guard posts and acquisition of basic
survey and mensuration equipment.
3.    Rehabilitation and upgrading of the fire protection system
through the construction of fifty fire towers, acquisition of fully
equipped fire tenders with tanks, pick-up trucks and fire fighting
equipment, and acquisition and repair of communication radio sets.
4.    Replanting of about 3,300 hectares annually of clear felled
areas, new planting of 700 hectares annually from the second to the
sixth year of Project implementation, silvicultural maintenance
operations over the entire plantation estate of about 170,000
hectares.
5.    Rehabilitation of about 1,680 kilometers of forest roads in
priority areas in the plantations. Maintenance of about 3,200
kilometers of roads. Acquisition and rehabilitation of vehicles,
including tipping-trucks.
6.    Vocational training for all machinery operators, and technical
and management training to higher level staff.
7.    Strengthening the system of royalty collection and the Forest
Inventory Section. Acquisition of vehicles, and computing and field
equipment.
Part D:     Strengthening of FD's Central Functions
1.    Improvement of FD's technical and management skills and of
its capacity in planning, policy formulation, and implementation,
supervision and monitoring of forestry investments through staff
training, management support and technical assistance.
2.     Redefining FD's role and responsibilities in relation to the
private sector.
3.    Strengthening  of   FD  headquarter  functions,   including
management and technical specialist training.
4.    Acquisition of vehicles, equipment and furniture for offices
of FD.
5.    Establishment of an Engineering Unit at FD headquarters to
plan and supervise matters related to FD roads and transport and to


﻿- 18 -
take responsibility for the maintenance of FD's fleet of plant and
vehicles including training of all staff of the Unit.
6.    Acquisition of vehicles, improvement of workshop facilities
and acquisition of repair and service tools and equipment, and the
installation of a new radio-communications network.
Part E:     Forestry Education
1.    Reorientation of KFC programs towards extension/farm forestry,
and modern management of plantation and indigenous forests, includ-
ing in-service training of KFC teachers.
2.    Construction of new staff houses, acquisition of vehicles and
reconditioning of existing vehicles for student and staff
transportation and acquisition of teaching equipment.
3.    Refurbishment of existing dormitories, and construction of a
senior staff hostel.
Part F:     Forest Research
1.    Implementation by KEFRI of the first stage of its long-term
Strategic Plan 2000.
2.    Improvement of research facilities and expansion of office,
laboratory, greenhouse and other facilities and staff housing at
KEFRI headquarters at Muguga, the Forest Products Research Stations
at Gede and Turbo, and Field Research Centres at Kibwezi and
Londiani.
3.    Acquisition of furniture, office equipment, computers, an
equipment repair workshop, vehicles, motorcycles, reconditioning of
existing vehicles and construction of garage space and vehicle
repair workshops.
4.    Training of KEFRI staff through in-service courses and the
provision of fellowships for post-graduate studies in forestry and
related fields.


﻿- 19 -
Part G:     Forestry Subsector Master Plan
1.    Formulation of a long-term development strategy for the sub-
sector (the Forestry Master Plan), and establishment of targets for
the implementation of the Plan.
2.    Preparation  of   an  action   plan  with  development   and
institutional support programs.
3.    Preparation of investment projects for the implementation of
the Forestry Master Plan.
4.    Preparation of up-to-date Forest Policy Framework.
5.    Improvement of FD's and the forestry's subsector data base,
development and installation of planning systems, and improvement
of FD's local planning capacity.
6.    Training of FD staff in various forestry-related areas through
workshops, seminars and scholarships.
Th P
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1997.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicabla, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Kenya may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Items or groups of items for vehicles and equipment estimated
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $400,000 and civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or less per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $4,200,000 may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in   accordance with   procedures  satisfactory  to  the
Association.
2.    Items or groups of items for equipment estimated to cost the
equivalent of $20,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $150,000 may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.


﻿- 21 -
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $200,000 and for goods and equipment
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of
the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall
be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ specialists and consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.    The Borrower shall establish and maintain until completion of
the Project a Project Steering Committee (PSC), which shall comprise
a high-level, multi-disciplinary group including representatives of
FD, KEFRI, MENR, Moi University, MOA, Ministry of Energy, Ministry
of Reclamation and Development of Arid, Semi-Arid and Wastelands,
Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Planning and National Development,
Office of the President, the wood using industries and NGOs. PSC
shall be chaired by the Permanent Secretary, MENR, and have members
of at least Department Director or equivalent level. It shall meet
at least twice a year. The main functions of PSC shall be to discuss
and make recommendations on: (a) progress in implementing the
Project; (b) high-level inter-agency coordination; (c) policy
issues; and (d) donor coordination.
2.    The Borrower shall establish and maintain until completion of
the Project a Project Implementation Team (PIT) to be headed by one
of FD's Deputy Directors as a full time Project Manager (PM) and
shall include the five Headquarters Division Chiefs of FD, the
Principal of KFC plus representation in a coordinating role of
KEFRI.
3.    The PM, assisted by a full-time Assistant Project Manager,
shall establish project implementation procedures, guide overall
execution and maintain linkages with other public and private
organizations in the subsector. The Borrower shall establish a
Project Service Unit in FD to service PIT with capacities in
management information systems and monitoring, document production,
accounting and procurement.
4.    The Borrower shall establish a new Extension Monitoring Branch
within FESD.
5.    Both FD and KEFRI shall prepare detailed Annual Work Programs,
including budgets for the Project and related services and in the
case of FD also set targets on revenue collection. Such Annual Work
Programs shall be furnished to the Association for its review by
December 1 in each year.


﻿- 23 -
6.    The Project Manager shall develop a computer-based monitoring
and evaluation system to generate information for Project Imple-
mentation and for semi-annual progress reports (March and September)
on physical and financial progress.
7.    FD and KEFRI shall by September 30 of each year, prepare for
review by the Borrower and the Association an analysis of its past
and expected performance against established and agreed key
indicaeors. The Borrower shall, by June 30, 1994, carry out jointly
with the Association a mid-term review of the progress of the
Project and soon thereafter shall implement the recommendations of
such a review. The review shall cover, inter alia: (a) policy
actions on pricing of forest products; (b) status of studies and
the Forest Master Plan; and (c) the framework for encouraging the
private commercial sector involvement in industrial forestry.
8.    FD shall, by June 30, 1991, introduce separate accounts for
the Industrial Forestry Departments Operations.
9.    FD shall prepare and furnish to the Association by June 30,
1991, a monitorable action plan on measures to improve the
productivity of its permanently employed labor force, and shall
commence implementation by September 30, 1991.
10.   The Borrower shall, by September 30, 1991, complete a review
of the method of royalty assessment and promptly thereafter
introduce improved methods for the calculation of stumpage rates.
11.   The Borrower shall, by June 30, 1991, prepare a monitorable
action plan satisfactory to the Association, on measures to
eliminate energy pricing and related disincentives to smallholder
tree farming and commercial fuelwood growing, which shall include,
inter alia, measures to increase FD fuelwood and pole as well as
seedlings sales prices.


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accorrIance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the  term  "Authorized Allocation" means    an  amount
equivalent to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for deposits into the Special Account at such
intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the


﻿- 25 -
documents and other evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been
paid out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph      3 of   this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)   once  the total   unuthdrawn  amount  of  the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have


﻿- 26 -
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request, or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to para-
graph 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the
Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including
the General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
1 hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


