Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16586
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BELARUS
REHABILITATION LOAN
(3660-BY)
AND
INSTITUTION BUILDING LOAN
(3640-BY)
May 15, 1997
Country Operations Division I
Country Department IV
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BRR                   Belarusian rubel
CEM                   Country Economic Memorandum
DIC                   Direct Imports Component
EBRD                  European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development
EPS                   Executive Project Summary
EU                    European lJnion
FEC                   Foreign Exchange Component
FSU                   Former Soviet Union
GoB                   Government of Belarus
IBL                   Institution Building Loan
ICB                   International Compctitive Bidding
ICR                   Implcmentation Completion Report
IFC                   Intemational Finance Corporation
IMF                   Intemational Monetary Fund
MERP                  Memorandum of Economic Reform Policies
MFER                  Ministry of For-eigii Economic Relations
MoE                   Ministry of Energ%
MoF                   Ministry of Finance
MoH                   Ministry of Health
MoP                   Memorandum of thc President
MoPriv                Ministry of Privatization
MoStat                Ministrv of Statistics
OECD                  Organization of Economic Cooperation and
Development
OED                   Operations Evaluation Department
PHRD                  Policx and Human Resource Development
PIA                   Project Implementaiion Agency
PIll                  Project lImplementation Unit
PAS                   Procurement Advisory Services
SBA                   Standby Agrecment
SOE                   State Owncd Enterprise
STF                   Systemic Transfomiation Facility
TACIS                 European Community Program for the
New Independent States and Mongolia
UNCTAD                Unitcd Nations Confercnce on Trade and
Development
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of January 10- 1997)
Currency Unit= BRR
US$1.00 = 22,000 BRR
1000 BRR = US$0.04S
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric Svstcm
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
Januarv - Decembcr
Vice President:              Johaniies Linn
Director:                    Basil Kavalsky
Division Chief/Manager:      James Harrison
Staff Member:                Anders Zeijlon



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
PREFACE ..................... i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .....................                                                     ii
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.  Statement/Evaluation of Objectives .I
B.  Achievement of Objectives                              .2
C.   Major Factors Affecting the Projects                      .6
D.  Projects Sustainability                             .8
E. Bank Performance                                   .8
F. Borrower Performance                                  .9
G.     Assessment of Outcomes ..................                        ,            10
H.     Future Operations and Impact on Other Operations .10
1.  Key Lessons Learned .11
STATISTICAL TABLES
IBL.,..                      .      .     .      .     .      .      .     .     .      13
Rehabilitation Loan .............. 23
Table 1       Summary of Assessment
Table 2:      Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:      Project Timetable
Table 4:      Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:      Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:      Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:      Studies Included in the Project
Table 8A:    Project Costs
Table 8B:    Project Financing
Table 9:      Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:     Status of Legal Covenants
Table I 1:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:     Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:     Bank Resources: Missions
ANNEXES
Ann1ex A:    IBL - Summary Of Expenditures And Results .33
Annex B:      Rehabilitation Loan - Summary Of Status Of Policy Actions .43
Annex C:   Borrower's Evaluation Reports .53
Annex D:  Comments from Cofinanciers .66
Annex E:      Aide Memoire from the ICR Mission (January 1997) .70
MAP IBRD No. 28262
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perforrnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BELARUS
INSTITUTION BUILDING LOAN
(Ln. 3640-BY)
AND
REHABILITATION LOAN
(Ln. 3660-BY)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Institution Building Loan (IBL, Loan
No. 3640-BY) and the Rehabilitation Loan (Loan No. 3660-BY) for Belarus. The two operations are
covered in the same ICR since they provided complementary assistance to achieve closely related
objectives, and were implemented during the same time; the IBL was designed to strengthen Government's
capacity to design and implement economic reforms, and the Rehabilitation Loan to facilitate the adoption
of key policy decisions to start the reforms.
The IBL of US$8.3 million equivalent was approved on July 29, 1993 and made effective on
November 12, 1993. The loan closed on December 31, 1996. Total disbursements amounted to
US$7,334,378 on the closing date and increased to US$8.113,807 after all withdrawal application forms
were processed. The remaining US$186,193 was canceled.
The Rehabilitation Loan of US$120 million equivalent was approved on November 16, 1993 and
made effective on January 24, 1994. The loan closed on November 1, 1996, 18 months and two extensions
after the original closing date of July 27, 1995. A request for a third extension was declined. Total
disbursements amounted to US$116,039,364 at closing and increased to US$116,433,390 after all
disbursement applications were received. The remaining US$3,566,610 was canceled (out of which
US$3,139,993 had already been canceled on August 8, 1996).
This ICR was prepared in the Country Operations Division for Belarus, Estonia, Latvia and
Lithuania of the Europe and Central Asia Region by Anders Zeijlon (Task Manager for the two
operations), with inputs from Prabhat Garg (former Task Manager), Wafik Grais, John Hansen, and
Daniela Gressani. Inputs were also provided by Christopher Willoughby, Nikolai Lisai, Sergei Kritchevsky
and Elena Klochan of the Minsk Resident Mission. The ICR was reviewed by James Harrison, Chief of
Country Operations Division I, and Judy O'Connor, Project Advisor. Leigh Hammill provided word
processing and editing support. The ICR is based, inter alia, on inputs from Borrower staff involved in
project implementation, on discussions with cofinanciers and consultants who worked on the projects, and
on material from the project file. A final draft of this report was sent to the Borrower for review.
Mr. Vasilij Tarasevich (Head of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) for the two operations)
prepared the Borrower's evaluation of the implementation of the projects, which is included as Annex C to
the ICR. Comments received from cofinanciers are attached as Annex D.






ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BELARUS
INSTITUTION BUILDING LOAN
(Ln. 3640-BY)
AND
REHABILITATION LOAN
(Ln. 3660-BY)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
Shortly after Belarus joined the World Bank in 1992, two complementary lending operations were
designed to support the Government's introduction and implementation of economic reforms: an Institution
Building Loan to enhance Government's ability to design and implement economic reforms, and a
Rehabilitation Loan to facilitate the adoption of key reform decisions and to provide critically needed
imports to maintain production and provision of vital social services.
The Institution Building Loan
The US$8.3 million IBL met its immediate objectives of building capacity in the participating
agencies. Key government agencies received on-site and foreign training, technical assistance from
international experts and equipment. In total, over US$3.8 million (about 46 percent of the loan) was used
for office equipment; about US$0.6 million (or 7 percent of the loan) for external training of about 100
public officials; and the remaining 47 percent of the loan proceeds was used for technical assistance. Key
outcomes include (a) establishment of a Treasury within Ministry of Finance (MoF) and strengthening of
the national tax administration; (b) drafts of several new laws supporting the reform efforts (e.g.
privatization and property reform, regulation of the financial sector and the securities market, anti-
monopoly and small business development regulations), some of which have been approved by the
Parliament; and (c) development of implementing guidelines for mass privatization, demonopolization
procedures, accounting reform and pension reforms. In the Ministry of Statistics, the project helped
establish capacity for the implementation and analysis of quarterly household surveys which provide
essential analysis of poverty trends and living standards and are highly appreciated both inside and outside
the Government.
The Government expressed satisfaction with the support provided under this loan. The institution
strengthening achieved would have been even more beneficial if Belarus had chosen to implement
comprehensive and timely market-oriented economic reforms. The agencies which participated in the
project would then have had even more opportunities to use the newly gained skills. Notwithstanding the
limited implementation of reforms, the agencies which took part in the IBL now perform better than they
would have without the project, and continue to analyze and advise on key areas of economic reform in
Belarus.



iii
The Rehabilitation Loan
This US$120 million loan was designed to support the implementation of key market reforms as
outlined in the Government's Memorandum of Economic Reformn Policies, attached as Annex 4 to the
Memorandum of the President (MoP) for the project. Many of the project's development objectives were
not met because only part of the planned economic reforms were actually implemented and sustained.
Following initial good progress in the implementation of a number of the agreed-upon actions, in 1995
Belarus began adopting policies that in many cases reversed progress made earlier, and stopped further
reforms. However, the Rehabilitation Loan did provide much needed financing for the struggling economy,
particularly during 1994. It was especially important in supporting the currency auctions that at the time
formed the beginnings of a market-oriented exchange rate regime, which unfortunately was abandoned in
late 1995.
Despite the erratic reform efforts, day-to-day management of the loan was handled well. Support
for the auctions came from the project's foreign exchange component (FEC), which was quickly disbursed;
the direct import component (DIC) moved more slowly, largely because of Belarus' unfamiliarity with the
Bank's competitive procurement rules. The project closed after two extensions of the closing date, and
about US$3 million was canceled. Further extensions were not considered because there was no
improvement in either the economic policy environment or in the resulting unsatisfactory development
impact rating for the Rehabilitation Loan.



1
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BELARUS
INSTITUTION BUILDING LOAN
(Ln. 3640-BY)
AND
REHABILITATION LOAN
(Ln. 3660-BY)
A. Statement/Evaluation Of Objectives
1.    Following the breakup of the former Soviet Union (FSU), the Government of Belarus (GoB) was
faced with the immediate problems of establishing a functioning public administration for the Republic and
a future path for its economic policies. The initial response of expansionary policies intended to avoid a
decline in employment and real wages worsened the problems and pushed the economy into hyperinflation.
There was little progress in adopting the necessary structural reforms to set the stage for recovery and
transition to a market-based economy. The Bank's relationship with Belarus began with the Bank Group's
Technical Cooperation Program in late 1991. Belarus formally joined the World Bank in 1992. A Country
Economic Memorandum (CEM) was published in May 1993, and two complementary lending operations
were identified to assist Belarus in dealing with its fundamental economic problems and to support its
transition to a market-based economy: (a) an Institution Building Loan to strengthen the ability of key
public agencies and sectors to implement and manage the envisaged reforms; and (b) a Rehabilitation Loan
to facilitate the adoption of the necessary reform measures and ease the economic difficulties during the
transition period. The two operations were thus designed to provide complementary support to the
Government's introduction and implementation of econornic reforms. A similar initial approach was
followed in most other FSU countries.
Statement of Objectives
2.    The chief objective of the IBL was to assist the Government in strengthening the institutions for
economic reform through institution building programs in four functional areas: (a) resource mobilization
and economic management, including improved tax administration and establishment of a Treasury
function in MoF, and improved external aid management; (b) enterprise reform including privatization,
anti-monopoly efforts, private sector development, and improved management of state-owned enterprises;
(c) banking sector reform for a decentralized financial system, more autonomous financial agencies, better
financial accounting standards, and better banking supervision; and (d) social sector reform to develop a
social protection system capable of meeting emerging social needs (unemployment, welfare, pensions),
support better resource use, make the pension system financially sound, separate insurance and assistance
functions, and tailor benefit levels to capacity.
3.    The core objective of the Rehabilitation Loan was to support the adoption of a comprehensive
program of initial economic reforms as outlined in the Memorandum of Economic Reform Policies (MERP,
attached as Annex 4 of the project's Memorandum of the President (MoP)). The MERP identified reform
measures to be taken over an 18-month period in six key areas: (a) macroeconomic stabilization; (b)
promotion of competition; (c) private sector development; (d) accountability for the state-owned enterprises



2
(SOE); (e) ownership reform; and (f) social sector reform. Objectives for the loan also included improved
access to market-based credit allocations through expanded credit auctions (which began July 26, 1993)
through the foreign exchange component, and financing for critically needed imports, such as inputs for
energy and agriculture, essential medicines and environmental monitoring equipment (to assist Government
monitoring of the Chernobyl disaster) through the direct import component. Another important objective
was to introduce the practice of international competitive procurement, for which there was no in-country
experience at the time. Taken together, these policy actions were expected to form the basis for a future
reform program in the country, and a framework for further support from the World Bank and other donor
agencies.
Evaluation of Objectives
4.     The objectives for both projects were sound at the time the projects were designed. The broad
institution building objectives for the IBL were justified as Belarus was seeking to put in place many of the
public agencies and functions needed to manage the young republic. It was also dealing with severe
problems, including the threat of economic/financial collapse. following the breakup of the FSU. The
Government needed assistance for improving the management of almost every area of the economy and
public administration.
5.     The ambitious and comprehensive objectives for the Rehabilitation Loan were appropriate given
the Government's initial interest and achievements in establishing a medium-term economic reform
program. In 1993, the Government had developed a cautious but active dialogue with both the Bank and
the IMF. Many initial reform steps were taken, plans for future reforms drawn up, and a Memorandum of
Understanding with the Bank was signed in mid-1993 outlining further actions. A stabilization program
including fiscal and monetary measures received support under the IMF Systemic Transformation Facility
(STF) in July 1993. It was, therefore, expected that the loan would support the stability and pace of the
reform process, and provide needed inputs to stem the reduction in output and help sustain the delivery of
essential public services.
6.    The combination of a rehabilitation project and an institution building operation to pursue
complementary objectives was also developed for a number of other countries in Eastern Europe and the
FSU, and provided valuable assistance in their transitions to market-based economies. There was no reason
to expect that a similar approach would not work well in Belarus.
B. Achievement of Objectives
The Institution Building Loan
7.    The IBL met its objectives of improving the institutions in the participating agencies. There are
several visible outcomes of the support provided under this loan, and further results are likely to materialize
in the future. The training aspects of this project proved very important as Belarus was a new state when
the IBL was launched, and the Belarusian civil service was unprepared to run a country under completely
new circumstances. The project objectives would have been achieved to an even greater extent, however, if
the overall economic reform process had been sustained, as this would have provided more opportunities
for the agencies to use their newly acquired skills. The following sections discuss the outcomes for each of
the four areas supported by the project. A more detailed summary of funds spent and results achieved is
provided in Annex A of this report.
8.    Economic Management and Resource Mobilization Component. The project helped all
participating agencies to develop and improve their work under this component. In two cases, achievement
of the institutional development objective led to clearly visible and sustained results. The first of these is the
establishment of a Treasury function in MoF, where the Bank provided funds for equipment, and the IMF



3
provided technical assistance. The project helped establish a functioning Treasury at the national level,
while no such body existed prior to the project. All payments are now made out of, and all revenues
received by, one unified Treasury account. The status of the budget is more easily monitored and the
budget can be used more effectively as a tool for fiscal policy. This is a vast improvement over the earlier
situation where MoF would allocate the budget through a system of users' accounts, and would not be able
to see how and when funds were used. Some problems remain such as the legal status of electronic
transfers (hard-copy documents are still needed in some cases) and the lack of funds for the establishment
of regional Treasury offices. The second case is the Ministry of Statistics where project equipment and
Japanese PHRD (Policy and Human Resources Development) grant funds enabled the ministry to establish
a computer center and design and carry out household surveys. The surveys are important to Belarus'
policymakers as they provide up-to-date information on changing economic conditions and trends in living
standards for the various segments of the population. The surveys are continuing, even after the project, on
a regular basis, and are published quarterly and made available to public, intemational and private parties
and to the mass media.
9.    The project also helped strengthen the Government's capacity to do public procurement in an
efficient and professional fashion. The project provided training as well as practical experience with
procurement, which produced a critical mass of local experts who are trained in international procedures,
and who are able to manage public procurement in Belarus, train other staff, and even compete for
procurement advisory contracts in other countries. (One such staff member has recently been retained by
Latvia to work on a Bank supported project). A public procurement law of international standards has been
prepared, and the Govenunent has issued a decree instructing GoB agencies to use tender procedures for all
public procurement.
10.   Enterprise Reform Component. The project helped build skills and reform-minded advice among
the participating agencies, although little reform in the sector was actually achieved. A new Privatization
Law was drafted and a mass privatization program was launched, but the Government's strategy towards
privatization changed, and most privatization was halted in 1995. The same is true for the area of
demonopolization. A new Antimonopoly Law was drafted, foreign training was provided for the staff of the
Antimonopoly Ministry, but the implementation of these and other project-supported measures proved
difficult because of GoB's lack of commitment to overall reform.
11.   Banking Sector Reform Component. Progress achieved under this component includes some
advancement in the introduction of international accounting standards in the banking sector, and
strengthening of the Economic Court's work on bankruptcy procedures and legislation. Some progress was
made with the support provided to Belarusbank and the State Savings Bank, although a merger of the two
banks proved disruptive. In 1995, a Presidential Decree merged Belarusbank, then a small but fast-growing
privately owned commercial bank, with the large Government owned State Savings Bank. At the time, the
IBL was financing twinning arrangements for the Belarusbank with a French bank, and for the Savings
Bank with a German bank. At the time of the merger, Belarusbank had a staff of about 400 and 24
branches. After the merger the new bank employed some 20,000 staff and had 190 branches and 2,830 sub
branches. The World Bank clearly conveyed concerns about continuing the assistance, fearing that the bank
authorities would not have the freedom to benefit from external advice. However, the senior management of
the new bank asked the World Bank not to discontinue funding the project. As a result, the project
component was allowed to continue. In the end the staff and management of the new bank received valuable
recommendations and action plans from the consultants. Some have been implemented and some are with
management for review/decision. The new bank saw a high turnover (from the Belarusbank side) in its staff
after the nationalization, which further reduced the immediate effectiveness of the assistance provided by
the project.



4
12.   Social Sector Reform Component. The project provided good education for, and strengthening of,
the Ministry of Labor and the Ministry of Social Protection through training, technical assistance and
equipment to help keep the pension processing system in working order and set up an information system
for social protection. Technical assistance helped build a better understanding of the links between the
macroeconomic constraints and social sector issues. Specific areas for assistance included pension reforms,
unemployment centers, informatiun technology improvements, actuarial models, and labor laws. Progress
in reforming the sector was limited and many of the changes proposed were judged not compatible with
GoB policies. For example, targeting of social benefits was not improved despite recommendations from
external advisors.
The Rehabilitation Loan
13.   Belarus' erratic progress in pursuing economic reforms makes it difficult to summarize progress in
meeting the objectives for the Rehabilitation Loan. Before the loan was made effective, there was a period
during which GoB undertook cautious but reform-minded actions, and drew up plans for further reform
steps. This was followed by, first, a slow period with little reform between late 1993 and mid 1994, and
second, by yet another period of significant reforms between August 1994 and June 1995 following the
most recent presidential elections. The momentum of these reforms, combined with progress in
stabilization, provided the basis for an IMF Standby Agreement (SBA) in September 1995. The Bank also
began preparations of a possible SAL and negotiated a proposed private enterprise development loan. From
late 1995, however, there was a marked shift in policies; little if any new reforms were pursued, some
earlier reforms were reversed and replaced by an increasing reliance on administrative interventions rather
than market-based mechanisms These changing policies present a complex picture. Many reforms were
more or less forcefully started at some time during the previous years. However, most of them were
discontinued or reversed after 1995, while others were never implemented to begin with, and a few were
attempted and sustained. The impact of these unpredictable developments on the six broad areas of policy
reforms that were listed in the MERP are summarized below. A more thorough review of the policy
reforms is attached as Annex B to this report.
14.   Macroeconomic Stabilization. There was good progress in establishing more prudent fiscal and
monetary policies. Like many of the other FSU countries, Belarus went through a period of very high
inflation rates a few years after independence. Following this painful experience during 1993 and 1994,
powerful stabilization measures were put in place in early 1995, including limits on credit emissions from
the National Bank. This resulted in inflation rates of less than 5 percent per month from mid-1995. In the
last months of 1996 inflation was reduced to less than 3 percent per month although this was at least partly
an artificial reduction resulting from price controls and the overvaluation of the domestic currency.
15.   The project successfully helped support the market-based exchange rate in 1994-95. This success
was not sustained, however. Following this period of exchange rate liberalization, the Government used a
series of administrative regulations to fix the exchange rate of the Belarusian rubel (BRR) at rates above its
market value, thereby effectively subsidizing imports and taxing exports. Multiple exchange rates have
been maintained as have fixed margins for dealers of foreign exchange. This overvaluation of the local
currency has become one of the major obstacles to economic reform and the establishment of a business
friendly climate.
16.   Policies To Promote Competition. After an initial wave of price liberalization, many of the agreed
actions to promote competition did not materialize. A number of price regulations (managed at the oblast
and municipal level) remain in place as do fixed margins for producers and traders' mark-ups. Indicative
prices exist for agricultural products and are often interpreted as binding. Developments on trade are more
positive. The share of the traditional wholesale trade organizations in total supplies to each oblast has fallen
below 30 percent for the vast majority of goods. 1,200 independent companies have replaced 28 former



5
retail trade monopolies. The international trade regime has been liberalized with only a few goods being
subject to export licenses. The mandatory state approval of export contracts is, reportedly, only for
monitoring purposes. An estimated 43 percent of trade is done by state agencies. The overvalued exchange
rate and the continued practice of limiting access to scarce foreign exchange distort resource allocation and
damage growth. Those who can purchase foreign exchange at the official rate get imports at artificially low
prices and this damages the prospects for local producers of competing products. The low official price for
foreign currency also makes it very difficult for Belarusian firms to compete profitably on export markets.
17.   Policies for Private Sector Development. Progress on actions to promote private sector
development was limited to some simplifications in regulations governing hiring and firing of staff. The
propiska system remains intact and state agencies follow set wage scales although wages are not legally
regulated. At the same time, administrative regulations for private businesses have increased. No steps have
been taken to enable access for private business to idle real estate. The laws governing enterprise activity -
especially the tax laws - fail the test of transparency, predictability and equity, both in letter and
enforcement, making it very difficult for enterprises to function effectively unless they have close informal
links to the Government.
18.   Policies for Accountability of State-Owned Enterprises. The tighter fiscal and monetary policies
are felt by the state-owned enterprises, and many of them show a serious desire to restructure and have
shed significant proportions of their labor force. However, there are no transparent rules in place to
increase their accountability and impose hard budget constraints. Administrative case-by-case rulings have
become the main vehicle for managing SOEs, and many privileges and tax exemptions remain intact.
19.    Ownership Reform. Actions under the ownership reform component of the project were designed
to promote privatization of enterprises, housing and land. Available statistics show-that this process has
been much slower than in neighboring countries. Ownership of only about 15 percent of all state and local
council owned enterprises have been 'transformed" of which nearly one third has been corporatized.
Privatization of medium and large enterprises has been very slow as only 639 Republican enterprises were
'transformed" between 1991 and March 1997 of which only 194 were fully transferred to private hands.
The rest were corporatized with majority or minority state ownership. The small scale privatization of
shops, restaurants, etc. at the municipal level has also moved slower than expected with about 1,600
properties sold during the last six years (of which 435 were corporatizations). Although vouchers for mass
privatization have been distributed to 73 percent of the population, there is little interest from the public
since there are very few corporatized enterprises for which vouchers can be used. The privatization of
housing is more advanced, with about 60 percent of houses in private hands; however, housing
privatization excludes common areas, Rules are in place for individuals to own small pieces of land, but
there has been little progress in overall land reform
20.   Social Sector Policies. Attempts have been made to reform social protection measures for the
unemployed, the elderly and the poorest groups of society so that they are financially sustainable, adequate,
and ensure appropriate incentives to work. However, the sector's fundamental imbalances remain due to the
substantial decline of the economy and the lack of reforms. The pension system has, on the whole, not
changed, except that the cap on maximum pensions has been abolished. A system for targeted support to
the poorest groups is being developed, but has not been implemented.
21.    Although the project failed to induce and sustain many of the envisaged policy reforms, it did have
some other positive results. It demonstrated that reforms are possible and can be implemented (even though
many of them were later reversed), and also provided much needed financing at a time when the economy
was collapsing and supplies of critically needed energy imports were uncertain. It also gave some buffer
against social problems at a time when the poor were feeling the impact of the economic collapse. The
implicit objective of introducing (and providing on-the-job training in) international competitive



6
procurement was met. Staff in the PIU and several GoB agencies worked on the procurement of various
contracts for the project and now have a good understanding of procurement principles and practices.
C. Major Factors Affecting The Projects
Positive factors
22.   An Active and Influential Project Implementation Unit. This can be singled out as the most
important factor in the successful day-to-day implementation of both projects. The organizational set up of
the PIU under the MoF, with direct reporting to the First Deputy Minister of Finance, meant that the PIU
could exert influence on the beneficiary agencies to speed up procurement and implementation decisions.
Similarly, the PIU could effectively receive the approvals of the Ministry of Finance on expenditure
decisions, reallocations, invoice payments, customs regulations, and other issues. The competence and
seniority of the heads of the PIU also helped project implementation-the PIU had two different heads
during the project period (and a third after project closure), each of whom had direct personal contacts with
the Minister of Finance, and competence to manage the two complex, multi-agency operations. MoF also
maintained a keen interest in the two projects, partly because these were the first two Bank operations in
Belarus and partly because only one other Bank supported project became active during their
implementation.
23.   Good Procurement Advisory Services. Both projects were supported by a Procurement Advisory
Service (PAS) which included the same full-time external procurement and disbursement advisor
throughout implementation (initially funded out of grant funds (UK) and later by IBL funds). Establishing
the PAS outside the PIU, and making it responsible for advising Government on other projects and
procurement matters as well, proved to be a very successful and cost-effective way to provide procurement
services. As a new borrower, the Government was not familiar with the Bank's procedures; the presence of
this advisory service proved a good way to compensate for this.
24.   Key Problems Absent (IBL). The key problems that have caused poor performance elsewhere in
technical assistance projects were noticeably absent in the IBL. The World Bank has identified the
following five main problem areas: governance problems, inadequate ownership by clients, design and
process problems, weak management, and shortcomings in assistance agencies (OED Lessons and
Practices, May 1996, Number 7, page 7-8). The fact that these problems did not occur in the IBL explains
a large part of its success.
25.   Impact of the Bank's Procurement Rules. Government staff involved in the importation of
medicines and equipment stated that ICB procedures pushed prices down 15-20 percent compared to prices
under previous procurement procedures. As a result of procurement done under the projects, and training
provided under the IBL, there are now about 20 Government staff who can do international procurement
using the principles of ICB. This being the first time ICB had been practiced in Belarus, the introduction of
these procedures caused delays and initial confusion (see below).
26.   Flexible Bank Attitude. Since the two operations were the first two Bank supported projects in
Belarus, the Government and the Bank 'learned on the job" about each other's procedures and
requirements. As a young republic with its economy in transition, Belarus' priorities for how to use the
loan proceeds changed during the implementation period and new requirements emerged. This was
illustrated by the slow start for the IBL with a gap of more than one year between project appraisal and
signing of the first contract. The Bank remained flexible in accommodating requests from the Government
as long as they fell within the objectives of the projects. This led to some changes in the composition of
what was financed, but was highly appreciated by the Government, and ultimately led to good use of the
loan funds.



7
Table 1: Planned and actual use offunds under the two projects
Planned                    Actual
IBL:
TA, Consultants           57%                         47%
Training                   7%                         7%
Equipment                 36%                         46%
Rehabilitation Loan:
Forex component           35%                         82%
Direct Imports component    63%                        13%
Other                     2%                          5% (includes 3% canceled)
27.   Under the Rehabilitation Loan, flexibility was exercised to provide support to the market-based
exchange rate policies in place in early 1994. After project effectiveness, GoB needed further support for
the auctions, which had started in 1993 with very small amounts being auctioned. At the same time, GoB
preferred to remain with the old purchase mechanisms for oil from Russia (which would not qualify under
the Bank's procurement rules) and asked that the US$45 million originally allocated to the DIC for oil
purchases be transferred to the FEC. The Bank agreed. Similarly, the Ministry of Agriculture did not judge
itself in a position to repay the loan proceeds originally allocated to the ministry for agricultural sector
inputs. These funds were also transferred to the FEC to support the auctions. As a result, the composition
of loan proceeds distributed over the various components changed drastically, but the Bank provided much-
needed support for Belarus' first steps towards a market-based exchange rate. Table I shows planned and
actual use of the projects' funds.
28.   Counterpart Continuity. Both operations were negotiated and closed by the same Government
counterpart (the First Deputy Minister of Finance). This continuity, despite many other changes in the
management structure on both sides, provided institutional memory and commitment to make the projects
successful.
29.   Keen Government Counterparts. For the IBL, participating Government agencies and officials
remained enthusiastic and keenly interested in the project throughout the implementation period. This
continued involvement in the various project components (funding for imports, new learning, interaction
with international experts, receiving modem office equipment, and foreign training) all contributed to
successful implementation.
Negative Factors
30.   Absence Of EconomicReforms. The reliance on administrative regulations, which after mid-1995
replaced the earlier cautious but essentially pro-reform policies, prevented the Rehabilitation Loan from
reaching many of its objectives. In this difficult economic climate, the Rehabilitation Project was unable to
support the policy reforms outlined in the MERP. For the IBL, many of the strengthened agencies were not
able to fully use their newly acquired capacities. The Government's decision to merge the two banks that
were undergoing twinning arrangements under the IBL, and the associated state ownership of the new bank,
is one example of how the IBL was affected by the policy reversals.
31.   Procurement Problems. The implementation of the Bank's procurement rules led to good results,
but there were also delays and complications associated with the introduction of the new procedures. These
problems were mitigated by the efficient work of the PAS and the PIA, however, and should be seen as
transitory. Problems encountered include: (a) Many of the initial specifications submitted to the Bank were
geared towards the products of a particular supplier, particularly in the case of computers. New
specifications identifying the required properties of the goods or services to be procured would then have to



8
be worked out before a competitive tendering procedure could start. This delay was annoying for the
respective agencies; (b) The number of people in the participating agencies speaking English is limited.
This meant that the procurement documents often had to be translated which caused delays, and; (c) The
ICB rules were very different from previous procedures for procuring medicines, and this caused delays.
Under Bank rules, all suppliers are allowed to bid, even those who offer medicines not yet registered in
Belarus. In cases where non-registered drugs won the bidding, delays were caused by the mandatory
follow-up registration procedures. There were also 'hew"problems, such as delivery to the wrong port, and
delivery of the wrong medicines.
32.    Tariffs on Project-Funded Imports. The beneficiary agencies were charged with the obligation to
pay import tariffs for imports funded by the projects. At times, this was not recognized by the beneficiary
agencies until the procurement was almost complete, which caused delays, and project funded imports were
often held in the Customs warehouse until either an exemption from the tariffs was obtained from MoF, or
funds to pay the tariffs could be found.
33.   Reluctance To Use Loan Funds For Tec*nical Assistance (IBL). After the IBL was agreed on,
Belarus received grant-funded Technical Assistance from several sources. The Government, therefore,
became reluctant to use the Bank loan funds for foreign consultants. As a result, some contracts were
pursued more slowly than originally envisaged while options for grant funding were explored. In the end, a
smaller portion of the IBL was used for consultants than originally planned (see Table 1 above). Wherever
possible, loan funds were replaced with grants. At the same time, the Government appreciated that the use
of Bank loan funds provided them more control over the selection and usage of consultants. Moreover, the
IBL provided a coherent framework for priority uses of grant TA. The IBL thus helped ensure that
available grant TA was used well.
D. Projects Sustainability
34.   Under the IBL, project funded-equipment, training and advisory services resulted in sustained
improvements in performance in some of the agencies. In other GoB bodies, the strengthened capacity, new
laws, implementation guidelines, accounting reforms, and privatization procedures provided by the IBL
stand ready to be used if and when the political will to reform emerges. These potential benefits will be
eroded the longer Belarus waits to implement reform measures. In many cases the Government agencies are
considering ideas to continue the work started under the project, provided financing is available. These
include expanding the demonstration efforts under the project, extending Treasury branches in the regions,
enhancing tax administration, initiating pension reforms, establishing mass privatization centers all over the
country, and continuing the public media campaign.
35.   Under the Rehabilitation Loan, some reform measures were implemented and are being maintained;
other actions were reversed or never taken. The stabilization policies adopted continue to keep inflation at
comparatively low levels although at a high cost to the economy to the extent this has been done through
administrative controls on prices and the exchange rate. The imports financed by the loan did help to reduce
the fall in output in the economy, and reduced the difficulties for many groups during a time of economic
collapse. The project-supported market-based exchange rate in 1993-94 also showed that exchange rate
reforms are possible.
E. Bank Performance
36.   Tables 12 and 13 in the respective statistical annexes for the two operations summarize staff inputs
and missions undertaken. Bank performance during both preparation and supervision was satisfactory, and
illustrated that the projects were designed as quick response, initial relation-building projects.



9
37.   Preparation of the IBL was quick, and there were no identification/pre-appraisal missions.
Following the issuance of the Executive Project Summary (EPS) in February 1993, appraisal took place in
April, with Board presentation and effectiveness in July and November, respectively. The supervision
inputs significantly exceeded the Bank norm and included mnissions as well as frequent contacts between the
Bank, the PIU and the participating agencies. Day-to-day work focused on procurement, disbursement and
other processing issues, but also on requests for support for new or modified ideas. The project provided a
framework for technical assistance, under which donors made almost matching grant funds available, thus
leveraging Bank resources. The project closed on time with no major modification or extension.
38.   Preparation of the Rehabilitation Loan began in late 1992. The project was appraised in August
1993, presented to the Board in November and became effective in January 1994. The preparatory work
was valuable in building a dialogue and relationship with the new Bank member, and contributed to the
implementation of many reform-oriented actions before the project became effective. Supervision inputs
exceeded the Bank's norm, particularly during the beginning of implementation. The Bank's flexibility in
reallocating funds between project components provided valuable support to the currency auctions in 1993-
94. During 1994 and 1995 supervision work focused on monitoring progress in implementing the MERP.
After GoB's shift away from reforms after mnid 1995, supervision of the project focused more on
procurement and contracting issues for the small part of the loan that remained undisbursed after mid 1995.
39.   The Bank agreed to two extensions of the Rehabilitation Loan, the first in mid 1995 and the second
in early 1996. The first extension was granted since policy reforms were still pursued, and discussions were
underway on a continuation of the reform program. Following the reform reversals in mid-late 1995, the
second extension was nevertheless granted to enable Government to complete some already initiated
purchases of much needed medicines. A request for a third extension to enable further purchases for the
remaining loan proceeds was turned down.
F. Borrower Performance
40.   For the IBL, the Borrower actively participated in the preparation and supervision of the project.
All Government agencies had appointed one person, mostly at a Deputy Minister level, to monitor the
project's design, consultants' work, equipment, and training programs, and to liaise with the PIU and the
World Bank. In most cases, the ministers also took an active interest in the project and themselves
interacted with the World Bank. All ministries met their commitment of contribution to the project (mainly
in-kind), providing office space, equipment, translation, and secretarial support to the consultants working
on the project. The consultants' work was taken seriously; consultant reports were widely distributed, read,
and commented upon. The Government did not hesitate to complain to the Bank if they were dissatisfied
with the performance of a particular consultant-in one case, the Government declined to pay the fee of a
consultant and canceled the contract because his output was not considered of international standards.
41.   For the Rehabilitation Loan, GoB worked well with the Bank during preparation. Questions about
the complicated reform issues and the allocation of the substantial loan amount took time to resolve, but
this was understandable since it was the Government's first major experience with Bank borrowing.
Belarus' break with the MERP program in 1995 interrupted the reform process the loan was designed to
support. Prior to this, the Government had pursued many of the reforms, though often cautiously and with
delays. Still, progress was sufficient to justify an IMF SBA in 1995, initial work to prepare a SAL and
negotiation of a private enterprise development loan (PEDL). With signs of policy reversals emerging in
late 1995, the SBA was suspended in March, 1996, work in the SAL stopped and processing of the PEDL
halted. There was keen interest from GoB to use the loan proceeds to support the foreign currency auctions
in 1993-94, and this part of the loan was implemented very well. The remaining DIC part of the project



10
suffered from problems with procurement and disbursement, although PAS and PIU support helped to
resolve them.
42.   In the early phases of implementation for both projects, there were delays in signing invoices and
Letters of Credits, which raised complaints from some suppliers/consultants. These problems were quickly
resolved with the intervention of the Minister of Finance, who appointed one Deputy Minister to be
responsible for these issues, and invited the Bank and the PIU to inform the Minister if the problems
continued.
G. Assessment of Outcomes
43.   For the IBL, the overall performance and outcome was fully satisfactory. Most of the stated
objectives were achieved, and large parts of the supported institution strengthening is judged sustainable.
The IBL has supported the building of a foundation of competence among the participating agencies, many
of which have already achieved better performance, and some of which will do so when reform policies are
pursued in a more detenrnined fashion.
44.   The Rehabilitation Loan gave clear signals to the Government that the Bank is able to provide
substantial support for appropriate economic reforms, and it complemented the IMF STF and laid the
groundwork for the subsequent SBA. However, due to policy reversals beginning in 1995, the loan did not
reach many of its development objectives. The envisaged reform measures were either not taken or were not
sustained, making the operation's outcome unsatisfactory. Loan administration performance was fully
satisfactory, however, and selected parts of the supported reforms remain in place. The project showed that
reforms are possible and can be implemented, and provided valuable financial support when the economy
was collapsing. Work continues with the Belarus' authorities in developing a substantial reform program
with Bank support.
H. Future Operations and Impact on Other Operations
45.   The IBL was designed to support medium-term institution strengthening activities, and the
Rehabilitation Loan to provide short-term balance of payments assistance in supporting a medium term
reform program. Both loans are now closed and the PIU will wind up its activities related to the two
projects. The two former heads of the PIU have both moved on to senior positions in the private sector
(banking), and the remaining PIU and PAS staff will be offered alternative employment within MoF where
their acquired skills in international procurement and project management will be valuable. It is likely that
some will remain with MoF or other public agencies while others will look for better paying options in the
private sector, and be helped in this by the skills leamed under the project. Similarly, staff trained in the
IBL supported agencies stand ready to employ their skills with their present employer, while some will do
the same in the private sector.
46.   Belarus and the Bank maintained an open and professional dialogue throughout the implementation
of the projects, often at the highest levels of Government. GoB's appreciation of the Bank's work is
evidenced by the recent agreement to make the forthcoming Country Economic Memorandum available to
the interested public, both internationally and in Belarus. The Bank's assistance strategy is to gear the level
of future Bank support to the implementation of market reforms. Initial operations could include activities
to support provision of key public goods, including a possible program to raise energy efficiency, in
schools and hospitals. More ambitious reform implementation could trigger lending for credit lines for
private entrepreneurs and, ultimately, adjustment lending. Currently, there is only one operation under
implementation-the Forestry Project. Experience gained during identification and preparation of several
investment operations shows that both anti-reform policies and poor administrative capacity make it
difficult to prepare and process viable projects.



11
Preparation of several operations was halted during 1996 for these reasons. Recent discussions, however,
indicate a renewed interest from the Government in intensifying its collaboration with the Bank. Both the
Government and the Bank have gained valuable experience in working with each other during the past
years, and this should facilitate future work together. Ultimately, the extent of future cooperation will
depend on the economic policies chosen and improvements made in the processing and administration of
activities proposed for Bank support.
I. Key Lessons Learned
47.    The two projects were designed and implemented under truly unique circumstances-the break-up
of the FSU, the establishment of several new and independent states in the region, an urgent need to
establish capacity in all areas of public policy and management, extremely difficult economic
circumstances following the collapse of traditional trade and production relations, and the moving of prices
of energy and other imported goods to world market levels. The operations were the Bank's emergency
response to this situation, similar to the IMF's STF at the same time, and also supported the IMF's 1995
SBA. It was, therefore, difficult to anticipate many of the subsequent problems at the time when the
projects were prepared.
48.   Need to rebuild commitment to reform. Belarus' break with the reforms outlined in the MERP
after 1995 illustrates the risks associated with the use of Bank lending as a rapid response in a unique and
unpredictable situation. The risk of policy slippage was clearly highlighted in the MoP (Report No. P-
6147-BY, page 30, paragraph 145), and it appears that little could have been done differently to reduce this
risk. In 1993, there was optimism on both sides that the transition into a market-based economy could
proceed reasonably fast, but the transition has been slower than expected, in large part because of the
Government's difficulty in sustaining a commitment to reform. To the extent possible, future operations
should be prepared and designed to reinforce such commitment and assist Belarus to establish credibility
and rebuild confidence with the international community and the Bank.
49.   Strengthening of Public Administration Worthwhile. The successful outcome of the IBL leads to
the conclusion that strengthening public administration and civil service is a worthwhile activity for the
Bank (and others) to support. There will certainly be vast needs for similar strengthening activities if and
when policy reforms do take place in Belarus. Reforming the public sector so that it can manage and
regulate a market economy is a big task, and the IBL indicates that programs to support this could be
incorporated in the future assistance strategy for Belarus.
50.    Flexibility EssentiaL Flexibility from the Bank side in reconsidering the allocation of loan
proceeds was important in increasing the achievement of project objectives. For the IBL, some of the
Bank's financing was reallocated to alternative project activities because of the increased availability of
grant funding for technical assistance. For the Rehabilitation Loan, reallocation from the DIC to the FEC
meant that the Bank maximized its support for the 1993-94 exchange market reforms.
51.   Procurement Issues. The application of the Bank's procurement rules was clearly beneficial to
Belarus (lower prices for procured goods and services, GoB staff trained in international procurement
practices). At the same time, the introduction of these rules came with a cost in the form of delays and extra
effort needed for Belarus to use the new practices. This cost was minimized by the PIU and PAS structures
selected for the projects. The difficulties associated with introducing a new borrower to these rules should
not be underestimated, and adequate measures (TA, design of PIU, PAS, etc.) should be incorporated in
future project designs.
52.   Designing Technical Assistance in Unique Circumstances. Firms and individuals providing
training and advisory services under the IBL had a difficult task-to make their activities relevant in a
difficult and unique situation. Many GoB agencies found that the short-term consultancies were the least



12
effective TA-their knowledge sharing was sometimes perceived as too general and theoretical. Long-term
assignments allowed international and government staff to develop a common language with the
counterparts. Government officials also found training abroad useful in gaining firsthand experience with
international practices in their respective fields. Direct interaction with practitioners in their daily work was
judged a good approach.
53.    Use of Grant Funds. The Borrower and the Bank worked together to ensure that grant funding
almost equaling the IBL loan funds was obtained from other donors. This was very beneficial for the
project. However, this coordination with other donors also required a lot of input on the part of the Bank,
which should be considered in planning for any future supervision requirements.
54.    Overall Budgetary Impact on Participating Agencies. Two issues related to GoB internal
financial procedures emerged during implementation and should be dealt with during the preparation of any
future projects: (a) the issue of whether the final beneficiaries should participate in the loan repayment (as
noted, the Ministry of Agriculture ultimately declined to use loan funds because of this issue); and (b) the
issue of payment of import tariffs for project imports. Under both projects, imported goods were delayed at
Customs because this second issue had not been settled. GoB established that tariffs should be imposed so
as not to give unfair advantage to the user of the project funds compared to other importers (for example
Ministry of Health importing medicines for selling to hospitals and pharmacies), but this decision was not
accompanied by budget increases to the agencies concerned to enable them to pay the tariffs. In cases
where the importing agency did not have enough funds to pay the tariffs, the Government sometimes
accepted delayed payment so that the tariffs could be paid after the goods were sold. Ideally, funds for
repayments of World Bank loans and for payments of customs tariffs should be provided for in the budgets
for the participating agencies in any future Bank supported activities.
55.    Good PIU Important. A well structured PIU and good procurement advisory services can make a
big difference in project implementation.



13
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES
BELARUS IBL
Table 1:   Summary of Assessments
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:   Project Timetable
Table 4:   Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:   Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:  Project Costs
Table 8B:  Project Financing
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions



14
IBL
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives      Substantial       Pat            Negligible     Not applicable
Macro Policies                     O              0l                                0
Sector Policies                    O              0                0                0
Financial Objectives               0              0                El               0
Institutional Development          0              0                0                O
Physical Objectives                O       0               0                        0
Poverty Reduction                  O              0                Ol               0
Gender Issues                      O              0                0                E0
Other Social Objectives            O              0                0                0
Environmental Objectives           O              0                0                0
Public Sector Management           0l             0                0                0
Private Sector Development         O              0                E0               O
Other (specify)                    O              0                0                0
B. Project Sustainability          Likel                   Unlikelv                 Uncertain
(/)                      (1)                      (1)
0                 El~~~~~~ El
HiLh
C. Bank Performanc                satisfact               Satisfactor_v              Deficien
(1)                     (')                      (/)
Identification                   0                        0                        E
Preparation Assistance            00                                                0
Appraisal                         O                       E0                        O
Supervision                       0                       0                         0
Hig*
D. Elorrower Performnance        satisfactory             Satisfactory               Deficien
Preparation                       0                       0                        O
Implementation                    0                       0                        O
Covenant Compliance               0                       O                        O
Operation (if applicable)         E                       El                       0
HiLyhly                            ~~~~~~~~HWIgLY
E. Assessment of Outcome          satisfactor     Satisfactoly   Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactor
(/)    (/)             ~~~      ~       ~~(VI)  0(/)
E              0z               E                E
mAbelarus\ib1tbl.doc



15
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title                        Purpose                       Year of        Status
Approval
Preceding Operations
1. None
2.
3.
Following Operations
1. Rehabilitation    (i)  Support the Government's economic          FY94          Closed
reform program
(ii) Support access to foreign exchange
(iii) Finance critically needed imports
(iv) Promote a framework for financial
assistance from other donors
2. Forestry          (i)  short term: introduce sector reforms to    FY94         Ongoing
Development           reverse decline in wood harvestingpnd
to improve efficiency and cost
effectiveness
(ii) medium term: improve forest resources
management
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Circle                            Date planned           Date actual/
latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summarv)             2/93                  2/93
Preparation                                            2/93                  4/93
Appraisal                                              3/93                  4/93
Negotiations                                           4/93                  7/93
Letter of development policy (if applicable)           NA                    NA
Board presentation                                     4/93                 7/29/93
Signing                                                8/93                 8/13/93
Effectiveness                                          11/93               11/12/93
First tranche release (if applicable)                  NA                    NA
Midterm review (if applicable)                         NA                    NA
Second (and third) tranche release (if applicable)     NA                    NA
Project completion                                   6/30/96               12/31/96
Loan closing                                         12/31/96              12/31/96



16
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(USS thousands)
Appraisal                   Actual As
IBRD Fiscal Year        Estimate        Actual    Percentage of
(USS thousands)           Estimate
1994                 1.98        0.16          8%
1995                 5.11        3.41        67%
1996                8.3          6.44         78%
1997                             8.11         98%
Date of Final Disbursement: March 21, 1997
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Estimated                        Actual
1. Key implementation indicators in SAR
1. NA
2.
3.
11. Modified indicators (if applicable)
1. NA
2.
3.
111. Other indicators (if applicable)
1. NA
2.
3.



17
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Estimated                         Actual
1. Key operating indicators in SAR
1. NA
2.
3.
lI. Modified indicators (if applicable)
1. NA
2.
3.
111. Modified indicators for future operation (if applicable)
1. NA
2.
3.



18
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                                                        Purpose as defined at              Status         Impact of study
appraisal/redefined
I . Privatization and creation of joint-stock     Assistance on issues of privatization and             See Annex A
companies. Completion Report - December.      creation of Joint-stock companies.
1995
2. Progress Report- November, 1994 "Project on    Assistance to enterprises in adjustment of             See Annex A
Accounting. Transformation of Accounts in     their accountability according to
Accordance with lAS".                         international standards.
3. Financial Aspects of Privatization in          Assistance on financial aspects of                     See Annex A
Belarus.Creation of Capital Issues Market.    privatization in the RB.
Preliminary Recommendations. January.1995.
4. Media Monitoring Reports: Final Repon          Assistance in organizing a company in                  See Annex A
mass-media on issues of privatization.
5. "Investigation into the Meat and Milk Industry,    Assistance on issues of preventing of              See Annex A
Brest Oblast. Final Report"January, 1995.     enterprises. monopoly activity.
6. "The Regulation of Natural Monopolies". May,    Assistance on issues of preventing of                 See Annex A
1994.                                         enterprises. monopoly activity.
7. "Belarus Antimonopoly Committee:               Assistance on issues of preventing of                  See Annex A
Methodology Guidelines". 24 August 1994.      enterprises. monopoly activity.
8. "Customer Rights Protection and Antimonopoly    Assistance on issues of antimonopoly                  See Annex A
Activity"- 21.04.1995.                        legislation and study of antitrust institutions
structure.
9. "Review of the Law on Antimonopoly Policy."    Assistance on issues of antimonopoly                   See Annex A
legislation and study of antitrust institutions
structure.
10. "Guidelines on Horizontal Fusions" 'Half-Term  Assistance on issues of antimonopoly                 See Annex A
Report"                                       legislation and study of antitrust institutions
structure.
11. Diagnostic investigations and reconstruction of    Establishment of westem bank practice into       See Annex A
Sberbank operation systems. Diagnostic Review    the intemal procedures of the bank.
Report.                                       Diagnostic investigations and reconstction
30 June, 1995. Program of Institution         of the bank operation systems.
Development (IDF). August] September. 1995.
12. Credit Commercial de France and Gerrnan       Assistance on issues of modernization and             See Annex A
Savings Banks Foundation with Belarusbank.    reconstruction of the bank, of credit
Final Report. December, 1996.                 activity, general accounting, management
of assets and liabilities, internal audit.
13. Report "Financial Soundness and Long Range    Actuarial study of the program of social              See Annex A
Actuarial Projections"- October, 1994.        protection.
14. "Actuarial Seminar on the Social Securitv     Actuarial study of the program of social              See Annex A
Program of Belarus"- January 3, 1995.         protection.
15. "State Information System of Social Protection  Advisory services on creation of                    See Annex A
of the RB. Basic Solutions to the Technical   information systems.
Project".
16. "Report on Computerization of the             Review and study of the system,                       See Annex A
Employment Services of the RB"- July 26.      computerization of offices of the Center of
1994.                                         Employment of the RB.
17. "Minimum Protection in Europe by Deo          Simulation of tax payments. Preparation of            See Annex A
Ramprakash. Report for the Govemment of       orientation criteria and methods of import
Belarus" - 29 August, 1994.                   payments.
18. Accounting Manual-Final Report, October.      Assistance on introduction of new accounts            See Annex A
1996+Add.Information.                         system.



19
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate               Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                      (USS million)
Item                                   Local   Foreign    Total           Local    Foreign      Total
costs     costs                    costs     costs
1. Resource Mobilization               0.84       3.61      4.45           0.8        5.2        6.0
2. Enterprise Reform                    0.75      6.14      6.89            0.7       5.0        5.7
3. Banking Sector Reform                0.56      4.68      5.24           0.5        3.5        4.0
4. Social Sector Reform                  -        0.90      0.90             -        0.9        0.9
5. Unallocated                           -        0.57      0.57            -          -          -
Total                   2.15     15.90      18.05          2.0        14.6      16.6
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate               ActuaUlatest estimates
(US$ million)                      (US$ million)
Source                                 Local   Foreign    Total           Local    Foreign      Total
costs     costs                    costs     costs
1. IBRD                                  -        8.3        8.3            -         8.1        8.1
2. Cofinancing Institutions              -        7.6        7.6            -         6.5        6.5
3. Other extemal sources                 -         -          -             -          -          -
4. Domestic contribution                2.15       0        2.15           2.0         0         2.0
Total                   2.15      15.9      18.05          2.0        14.6      16.6



20
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
NA
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Belarus
IBL
Covenant Present   Original         Revised
Agreement  Section        Type    Status   Fulfillment  Fulfillment  Description of Covenant             Comments
Date          Date
1              4.01         1         C                                 Borrower shall maintain proper
records and accounts of
operations, resources and
expenditures for the project.
Such records will be audited by
independent auditors acceptable
to Bank and submit report to
Bank within 6 months of end of
the Bank's FY.
2              4.02         10        C                                  Bank to review final drafts of
proposed privatization
implementation framework and
anti-monopoly regulations and
discuss them with Borrower
before final enactment.
Covenant type:                                                                           Present Status
I =  Accounts/audits                  8 =  Indigenous people                            C = covenant complied with
2 =  Financial performance/revenue    9 =  Monitoring. review, and reporting             CD = complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries   10 = Project implementaion not                    CP   complied with partially
3 =  Flow and utilization of project        covered by categories 1- 9                   NC = not complied with
funds                           11 =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral
4 =  Counterpart funding                    budgetary or other resource
5 =  Management aspects of the              allocation
project or executing agency     12 =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral
6 =  Environmental covenants                policy/regulatorv;institutional
7 =  Involuntary resettlement               action
13 =  Other



21
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title                    Describe and comment on lack of compliance
1.                                           None
2.
3.
etc.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                    Revised                       Actual
Stage of project cycle       Weeks   US$ (ths)      Weeks       USS (ths)          Weeks     USS (ths)
Preparation to appraisal       -         -           87.8        277.9              87.8       277.9
Appraisal                      -         -           8.3          25.9               0 -         0
Negotiations through Board     -         -            -            -                8.3        25.9
approval
Supervision                  56.0      224.6         38.7        112.8             78.0        242.8
Completion                    6.0       15.8         10.8         31.1              8.3         24.2
Total                                                                     182.4       570.8



22
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance
No. of Days in                            Rating 2           Types of
Stage of project cycle     Month/Year  Persons   Field   Specialization   Implementation Development
status     objectives
Through appraisal             2/93         2       10          E, 0
4/93        5        10         E,0
Appraisal through Board       5/93         1       10          E, 0
approval
Supervision                   9/93         1        3        Bueno, F           S             S          M
12/93       2        3        Roberti, O         S             S           T
3       Cheng, 0
4/94        2        4       Roberti, 0          S             S
4       Cheng, 0
6/94        2        11       Garg, 0            S             S
7       Uelmen, 0
11/94        1       4         Garg, O           S             S
2/95        2        3        Garg, O            S             S          M
3       Bueno, F
7/95        1        5        Garg, O            S             S           -
11/95        1       10        Garg, 0            S            S           -
3/96        1        6        Garg, 0            S             S           -
Completion                    1/97         2       10        Garg, 0            S             S           -
10      Zeijlon, E
Total
I - Specialization                         2 - Performance Rating               3 - Types of Problems
A = Agriculturalist                        I = Minor problems                   F =  Financial
E = Economist                              2 = Moderate                         T = Technical
D = Education Specialist                      Problems                         M = Managerial
F = Financial Analyst                      3 = Major Problems
H = Horticulturist
L = Livestock Specialist
M = Marketing Specialist
N = Engineer
R = Forester
O=Other



23
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES
BELARUS REHABILITATION LOAN
Table 1:   Summary of Assessments
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:   Project Timetable
Table 4:   Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:    Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:  Project Costs
Table 8B:  Project Financing
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions



24
REHABILITATION
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Obiectives        Substantial      Partial        Neglgible      Not applicable
Macro Policies                      O              O                0                0
Sector Policies                     0              0                0                O
Financial Objectives                O              O                0                0
Institutional Development           0              0                0l 0
Physical Objectives                 O              O                0                0
Poverty Reduction                   0              0                0                0
Gender Issues                       0              El               0                0
Other Social Objectives             E              E                O                0
Environmental Objectives            0              O                0                0
Public Sector Management            0              E                O                0
Private Sector Development          0              El               0                0
Other (specify)                     E              E                El               0
B. Project Sustainabilitv           Likelv                  Unlikel                  Uncertain
(V)                      (1)                      (1)
0                       0                         El
C. Bank Performance                satiswy                 Satisfactory               Deficien
(v)                    (v')                      (/)
Identification                     O                       0                        E
Preparation Assistance             0                       0                        E
Appraisal                          0                       0                        E
Supervision                        E                       0                        El
D. Boffower Performance 
satisfactM              Satisfacto                Deficie
(1)                    (1)                       (1)
Preparation                        0                       0                        0
Implementation                     E                       E                        0
Covenant Compliance                E                       0                        El
Operation (if applicable)          0                       0                        E
Hi-gbly                                          llgwy
E. Assessment of Outcome           satisfa         Stifa          Uifa             unsatisfactor
0              E               0                 E
mA:bc1wws\rehabtbI.doc



25
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title                    Purpose                    Year of        Status
Approval
Preceding Operations
1. Institution     To assist in strengthening the institutional  94         closed
Building Loan    base for economic reform through                      (12/31/96)
institution building in four areas:
(i) resource mobilization and economic
management
(ii) enterprise reform
(iii) banking sector reform
(iv) social sector reform
2.
3.
Following Operations
1. Forestry         (i) short term: introduce sector reform,    94          ongoing
Rehabilitation      to reverse decline in wood
harvesting, and to improve efficiency
and cost effectiveness
(ii) medium term: improve forest
resource management



26
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Circle                            Date planned           Date actual/
latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)
Preparation                                                                  11/92
Appraisal#                                             7/93                  8/93
Negotiations                                           9/93                 10/1/93
Letter of development policy (if applicable)           NA                  10/25/93
Board presentation                                     9/93                11/16/93
Signing                                                  -                 12/20/93
Effectiveness                                                               1/24/94
First tranche release (if applicable)                  NA                    NA
Midterm review (if applicable)                         NA                    NA
Second (and third) tranche release (if applicable)     NA                    NA
Project completion                                    6/30/95               11/1/96
Loan closing                                          6/30/95               11/1/96



27
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
Appraisal                   Actual As
IBRD Fiscal Year        Estimate        Actual     Percentage of
(US$ thousands)           Estimate
1994                30          37.25        124%
1995               120          98.80         82%
1996                           110.68         92%
1997                           116.43         97%
Date of Final Disbursement: January 10, 1997
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Estimated                        Actual
I Key implementation indicators in SAR
1. NA
2.
3.
I. Modified indicators (f applicable)
1. NA
2.
3.
IIl. Other indicators (if applicable)
1. NA
2.
3.



28
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Estimated                         Actual
1. Key operating indicators in SAR
1. NA
2.
3.
II. Modified indicators (if applicable)
1. NA
2.
3.
IlI. Modified indicators for future operation (if applicable)
1. NA
2.
3.
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                                     Purpose as defined at        Status      Impact of study
appraisal/redefined
1. None
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.



29
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate               Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                      (USS million)
Item                                   Local   Foreign    Total           Local    Foreign      Total
costs     costs                    costs     costs
1. Direct Imposts                        -        77.0      77.0            -         17.7      17.7
2. Other Imports                          -       42.5      42.5             -        98.2      98.2
3. Consultants Services                   -        0.5       0.5            -         0.5        0.5
Total                     -       120.0     120.0           -        116.4      116.4
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate               Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                      (US$ million)
Source                                 Local   Foreign    Total           Local    Foreign    Total
costs     costs                    costs     costs
1. IBRD                                  -       120.0      120.0           -        116.4      116.4
2. Cofmancing Institutions                     -         -           -                 -          -
3. Other external sources                -          -         -             -          -          -
4. Domestic contribution                       -         -           -                 -          -
Total                     -       120.0     120.0            -       116.4      116.4



30
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
NA
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Belarus
Rehabilitation Loan
Covenant Present   Original        Revised
Agreement   Section        Type    Status  Fulfillment  Fulfillment  Description of Covenant              Comments
Date         Date
1           3.01 (a)(b)      5         C                                 Borrower to furnish report on
progress of program at Bank's
request, and exchange views on
the progress.
2               3.02         10        C                                 Procurement of goods and
services will be governed by the
provisions of schedule 3 of the
loan agreement.
3           3.03 (a)(b)      2         C                                 Borrower shall sell the loan
proceeds to the National Bank
for the local currency and all
project funds related to local
currency transactions shall be
made at the market exchange
rate.
4            3.04 (a)(b)     10        C                                 A PIA will be established and
maintained to the satisfaction of
the Bank.
5              3.05          10        C                                 External procurement and
disbursement advisors will be
retained by the borrower.
6               3.06         9         C                                 Borrower will maintain project
(a)(b)(c)                                                  accounts and get them audited
not later than 6 months after the
end of the year.
Covenant type:                                                                         Present Status
I =  Accounts/audits                 8 =  Indigenous people                            C = covenant complied with
2 =  Financial performance/revenue   9 =  Monitoring, review, and reporting            CD   complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries  10 = Project implementation not                   CP   complied with partially
3 =  Flow and utilization of project        covered by categories 1- 9                 NC   not complied with
funds                          11 =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral
4 =  Counterpart funding                    budgetary or other resource
5 =  Management aspects of the              allocation
project or executing agency    12 =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral
6 =  Environmental covenants                policy/regulatory/institunonal
7 =  Involuntary resettlement               action
13 =  Other



31
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title                     Describe and comment on lack of compliance
1.
2.                                   NA
3.
etc.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                     Revised                       Actual
Stage of' project cycle      Weeks   US$ (ths)       Weeks       US$ (ths)          Weeks    US$ (ths)
Preparation to appraisal          NA                         NA                      71.3       227.4
Appraisal                         NA                         NA                       6.3        19.3
Negotiations through Board        NA                         NA                      10.1        33.8
approval
Supervision                       NA                         NA                      65.5        204.6
Completion                    15.0       41.7         12.3         32.2               9.8        25.3
Total                                                                             157.6       499.8






33
ANNEX A
IBL - SUMMARY OF EXPENDITURES AND RESULTS






34                                        Annex A
Annex A
IBL - Summary of Expenditures and Results
Component A: Resource Mobilization and Economic Management
Benefldlary_               Sinistry of Fiminlce - Treasury                                 --
Bank funded inputs     Equipment (computers) $462,000. A second round of equipment of $460,000.
Cofinancing            IMF: Technical assistance long and short tern advisers provided assistance for
the development of concepts and software for the new Treasury function,
$480,000.
Main outcome           Significant progress in establishing a Treasury with one consolidated Treasury
account. The revenue control works much better than before, and payments are
faster, thereby facilitating using fiscal policy as a macroeconomic tool. The new
Treasury provides management with immediate information on the status of the
budget directly on their computer screens, which is a vast improvement over the
old situation where Government funds often sat idle on a vast number of accounts
held by the various agencies. Today payments are made directly out of the one
consolidated Treasury account (previously this took two weeks). Ministries still
maintain accounts, but they are now only "transit-accounts." The equipment was
judged good and is in use for the compilation of the budget. A number of key
agencies are hooked up on the computer-based network with over 100 users.
About half of the equipment delivered is installed and the rest waiting - some for
the regional centers still to be established.
Some procedural bottlenecks remain. No legislation is in place for computer
transfers of funds, so transfers are still done on hard copies as well. Attempts to
eliminate ministries' accounts have run into big legal obstacles. Difficulties
remain in establishing the regional Treasury offices. Their staffing plans have to
be approved by the President. Project plans were to build up the central treasury,
then regional offices (to facilitate transfers and supervision of funds), and then
connect the two levels. Thus, only the first phase has been successfully
(significantly) completed. There are now no pending requests to IMF or the Bank
for expansion/completion. Efforts are to make what is in place work and to solve
the principal organizational issues. Some ministries are not happy about now
having to apply to Treasury for every payment. They liked it better before when
they had direct control over the funds, and the banks liked it better, too, since
there were big balances on the accounts. Stronger power to Treasury which now
can select and rank urgency of payments.
Combination of TA and equipment worked quite well. The ambitious
comprehensive approach envisaged did not take place. The Government
appreciated the ideas and views of the TA staff, but was also disappointed that
there was no "ready-to-go" model to start from. Concept discussions were viewed
as too long and tedious. Overall reasonable result, the work now needs to
continue.



35                                        Annex A
.. .    ......  .  _,,.....                             .   ... . ..........,,,_,_____
Beneficisq                  Ministry of Finance - Tax Administration
Bank funded inputs     Equipment for modernization of the tax administration in Minsk Central Office
and three oblasts, $1,220,000.
Cofinancing            IMF: Short and long term advisory services on fiscal/tax issues and computer
networks and software installation, $160,000.
EU/TACIS: Short term experts for computerization of pilot project for the State
Tax and Minsk City Inspectorates, technical assistance and equipment,
ECU646,000.
Main outcome           Equipment installed in central office. Bank funds bought about 500 computers.
Beneficiary   _             Ministry of Finance - Foreign Debt and Credit Department
Bank funded inputs     Foreign training in debt management in USA, training of PLk staff in
procurement in Italy, $50,000. Equipment (computers) for improved debt
management, $73,000.
Cofinancing           JUNCTAD: US$83,000.
Main outcome           Equipment installed and DMFAS 4.1 Plus installed in April 1995 with UNCTAD
support and training. DMFAS 5.0 installed and some training scheduled to
complete this upgrading before July 1, 1997. Training completed to enable staff
to monitor debt and do forecasts for different scenarios with varying assumptions
for interest rates and terms of credits, etc. UNCTAD/Bank activities were
coordinated with the help of the Bank's Regional Adviser in Kiev. Total
lNCTAD contribution $83,000. Main problems included delays in clearing
equipment through customs.
Beneficiary                NMinistry of Finance - Department of International Relations and
Department for International Financial Institutions
Bank funded inputs     A first round of equipment (computers and office equipment), $42,000 and a
second round of equipment for the Department for International Financial
Institutions, $60,000.
Cofinancing            None.
Main outcome           Equipment in use mainly for management of payments to CIS agencies, Russian-
Belarusian debts, economic analysis of projects, some Maastricht indicators. The
equipment is network compatible and plans are in place to link up with the rest of
MoF to enable access to more data and shorten the time for info search. Main
issues concern the use of Bank procurement rules when procuring computers. It
takes too long-prices fall and better machines become available during the
process.



36                                       Annex A
Beneficiary                Ministry of Finance - Project Implementation Agency (shared
with Ministries of Forestry and Foreign Economic Relations)
Bank funded inputs     Procurement Advisory Services, $350,000. Procurement and disbursement for
World Bank loans and general advice on international procurement practices.
Cofinancing            UK  (Know-How Fund) funded inputs: Procurement advisory services and
procurement training, $500,000. Advisory services to the PLA (before Bank
financing started) and training of key govemment staff in intemational
procurement.
Main outcome           Good procurement advisory services provided for both projects and other
government activities throughout project implementation.
Beneficiary                Cabinet of Ministers
Bank funded inputs     Project management training, $254,000.
Cofinancing            None.
Main outcome           Training was provided for PIA, MFER, Cabinet of Ministers, MoE and MoF in
project management techniques in USA ($101,000); training of PIA staff on
management techniques in Germany. Second round of procurement training in Italy
on intemational procurement for 5 staff (CoM, MoE, MoF (2) and PIA), $37,500.
Second round of training in USA on project analysis, management, accounting and
disbursement for five staff (CoM, MoE, MoF (2) and PIA), $61,500. Another
round of training in US A on global trade and investment for five staff (CoM, MoE,
MoF, MoFER, PTA), $54,000.
Beneficiary                Ministry of Statistics
Bank funded inputs     Equipment, $299,558 comprising (a) $77,140 to establish a household survey
system; and (b) equipment to computerize the statistical accounting, $222,418.
Cofmancing             None.
Main outcome           Under (a), household surveys were carried out and published and provided
valuable insights into the Belarusian economy. Survey results are sent quarterly to
mass media and selected government agencies, and have been used in World Bank
and UN reports. The equipment enabled flexible and speedy analysis and
processing of collected data and included a small network in Minsk and computers
for the regional offices supported by modems and application packages.
Under (b) a local MoStat network was established and a communications network
(e-mail) for info exchange between the central and regional centers is in place.
Over 140 statistical forms and systems of data processing have been developed and
are in use. The ministry can now provide reliable key operative and monitoring
statistics faster than before.



37                                       Annex A
Deneflciafly               Ministryof Foreign Economic Relations_
Bank funded inputs     Training $16,666, Equipment $20,000.
Cofinancing            None.
Main outcome           Training for one ministry staff on "Promoting World Trade and Investments" in
USA, $7,000, and office equipment for head office, $20,000. Training in Sweden
on principles of public procurement for three staff, $2,500. One staff was trained
in the USA on "New Methods of Settling Commercial Disputes in Infrastructure
Investment Projects," $6,666.
Beneficiary                Ministry nf Economy..
Bank funded inputs     Equipment $135,829.
Cofinancing            None.
Main outcome           Equipment used to improve coordination of Technical Assistance to the Republic.
A useful database of various TA assignments has been established. It is hoped
that this can be used as a service function for agencies wishing to explore
possibilities of, and sources for, TA.
Component B: Enterp rise Reform
Beneficiarv               Ministrv for State Propertv __Langmnent and Privatization
Overall outcome         Significant loan resources were put into the ministry and complemented with
inputs from TACIS, EBRD and IFC/USAID. Despite this, the overall political
climate prevented privatization from taking off. A privatization data base was
established with a registry of publicly owned property. This will be used for future
voucher privatization to registers vouchers, where they were traded, etc. The
project helped the ministry to get a better grip on many reform issues. Work with a
Polish firm was judged particularly useful. Several issues relating to
corporatization procedures and the establishment of investmnent funds were also
resolved. Procedures on how to issue shares and add extra shares were adopted.
Overall cofinancing     (a) EBRD: Technical assistance for pilot privatization, ECU930,000. Three
medium scale enterprises were selected. Privatization, business, and restructuring
plans were completed. Government then decided not to go ahead with the
privatization.
(b) EU: Training for managers, accountants, auditors, National Bank supervisors
and commercial bankers, ECU1,500,000; and Training for Ministry of
Privatization staff on privatization methodology, ECU100,000. Training
completed through consultants and the European Banking School.
(c) IFC/USAID: Design and implementation of small scale privatization in four
cities, $1,500,000 (estimate at appraisal). This program has been expanded and



38                                        Annex A
IFC is now active in 12 cities. Funding for the project has been expanded to over
US$3 million.
Bank funded inputs I    Principle advisor to the Ministry, $280,000.
Main outcome         This assignment resulted in 59 different notes and reports dealing with both
theoretical, analytical and practical aspects of property reform and on issues such
as corporatization, mass privatization, private sector development and the
securities market. Seminars were held for mainly government staff. Based on
inputs from the advisor, 19 new Governmental regulations were prepared. The
advisor worked closely with the ministry and other key agencies on a day-to-day
basis.
Bank funded inputs II   Mass Media Campaign for Mass Privatization, $140,000.
Main outcome         Surveys were conducted in Belarus of some 5,000 people, and based on this, a
methodology for designing media campaigns to promote privatization was
developed. Articles and advertisements for newspapers, the subway, radio and
television were prepared and shown. A model pamphlet "All About Voucher
Privatization" was prepared.
Bank funded inputs III    Corporate Finance Advisor, $90,000.
Main outcome         The advisor developed evaluation criteria for state owned enterprises and drafted
related governmental regulations. The advisor helped establish a stock exchange
now in place (40% owned by the ministry), and plans are to expand its services to
actually trade shares of private companies. The adviser also presented a report
entitled "Creation of a Securities Market in the Republic of Belarus."
Bank funded inputs IV   Accounting Advisor to the Ministry, $240,000.
Main outcome         The advisor worked with four selected enterprises to transform their accounting
systems to international standards. Based on this, a manual was prepared for the
use of other enterprises.
Bank funded inputs V    Training, $128,561.
Main outcome         A total of 30 staff from the ministry and other agencies (CoM, MoE, MoPriv,
MoF, PIA) were trained. 15 staff were trained in the Czech Republic on the
experience of investment funds there. Seven staff were trained in Germany on joint
stock company management and on holding companies. Eight staff were trained in
USA on joint stock company establishment and financing. However, many
specialists who received training have now left their jobs.
Bank funded inputs VI    Equipment (computers and office equipment), $337,000.
Main outcome         Computers, printers and fax machines. The last shipment was received in
December and is being installed.



39                                        Annex A
Beneficiary                Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Investment
(formeriv Ministry of Anti Monopoly Policy)
Bank funded inputs I    Principal Advisor, $230,000.
Main outcome         Amendments to the Law "On counteracting monopolistic activities and promoting
competition" were made and basic materials for drafting the "Natural Monopolies
Law and Small Business Support Law" were prepared. Using the Brest Oblast as
an example, commodities markets have been reviewed for the purpose of
demonopolizing the agroprocessing industry. Seminars on demonopolization,
regulation of natural monopolies, cartels and mergers, joint-stock companies and
holding companies were held for antimnonopoly agencies and attended by local and
expatriate experts; methodological aids and materials on holding companies,
mergers, and natural and state monopolies practice in other countries were
developed.
Bank funded inputs II   Legal Advisor, $229,000.
Main outcome         The structure of antitrust agencies was studied/developed. Day-to-day advice was
provided on: revealing monopolistic activity, unfair competition, and abuse of the
dominating position; carrying out antitrust activities and using the mechanisms
controlling mergers, including control and analysis prior to merger; control of
privatization proposals; and demonopolization techniques and policies. A seminar
on demonopolization was held and attended by expatriate consultants and
employees of the Antimonopoly Ministry, area committees and employees from
other ministries and departments of the Republic of Belarus.
Bank funded inputs III    Equipment, $222,000.
Main outcome         Computer facilities and office equipment. Part of the equipment was installed in
ministerial departments while part of it was transferred to the subordinate area
committees in oblasts. From the tirme at which it was supplied, all the equipment
has been operating at the installation sites.
Bank funded inputs IV   Training, $82,000.
Main outcome         Employees of the Antimonopoly Committee were trained in the American
Management Institute, Atlanta, USA: 4 persons attended seminar "Consumer
Rights Protection;" 3 persons went on a study trip to the Federal Trade
Commission and Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice, Seattle, USA; 2
persons attended a training course on regulation of natural monopolies at The
Institute for Public-Private Relationships, Washington, DC, USA; and 3 persons
went on a study trip to the Monopolies and Merger Commission, London, UK
("Revealing Cartel Agreements and Antimonopoly Control of Mergers").
However, many of the specialists who received training have now left their jobs.



40                                          Annex A
Component C: BankingSector Reform
Beneficiary                  Belaruis HanklSberbank____
Bank funded inputs        Twinning arrangement with foreign commercial bank. Consultancy services
$1,900,000 and equipment $300,000.
Cofinancing               None.
Main outcome              This assignmnent started out as two tasks: one for Belarus Bank which was
privately owned and, with a staff of 400, growing fast; and another for the State
Savings Bank (Sberbank, staff approx. 20,000). The two banks were merged in
1995 and the tasks merged also. The assignment then changed significally from
work on a small, growing private bank, to efforts to improve management of the
biggest bank in the country, which now has about 50% (by size) of all deposits in
the country.
Main outcome: formal credit procedures were established (credits allocated by a
credit committee rather than by individual managers), although some expressed
doubts about the bank's de-facto independence from the state. Procedures for
accounting were implemented in all main centers of financial responsibility of the
bank (still to be extended to the smaller network units). Upgrading tools for asset
and liability management and financial control were developed, but the decision to
make them effective has still to be taken. A full internal audit methodology has
been partly implemented with the completion of it depending on further
management decision. Next steps include management/board meetings to decide
on/adopt the recommendations and their dissemination to the bank's branches.
T'he assigniment has also exposed staff to Western banking practices although
many remain doubtful about the possibility of implementing them in Belarus
Bank. The hesitation to implement the consultants' recommendations comes from
the fact that not all staff really understand them. The secretive attitude in the bank
also prevented the consultants from accessing the bank's accounts. Therefore,
their assistance was limited to transm~itting analysis methodology.
Beneficiary                 Economnic Couirt_of (he Sujlreinc Co!!uncil
Bank funded inputs        Training in bankruptcy law and methodology in USA, $63,000, and seminar for
training on bankruptcy issues in Minsk, $20,000.
Main outcome              The training allowed representatives from the court and others to visit courts and
other agencies in the USA. There was also input provided from the American Bar
Association. A semiinar was held in June 1996. These activities provided input to
three laws (on bankruptcy, rehabilitation, and trustees, which were drafted in
August 1996. These laws were approved by Parliament but sent back by the
President for further work. They may now be coordinated with the ongoing work
on the civil code. The "old" bankruptcy law for 1993 has only been used for small
scale bankruptcies. This should be improved by the new law. The training resulted
in many participants abandoning their old ideas that bankruptcies are bad. Many
now feel that it is a procedure that can be useful for developing a country's
resources.



41                                        Annex A
Jeneficiay                 National Bank
Bank funded inputs      Accounting reforms for the banking sector, $200,000. Assisted Government in
finalizing and implementing modem chart of accounts.
Main outcome            Changes are underway but hampered by legislative reasons. Modified accounts
(BASF) have now been in place for two years but the International Accounting
Standards (IAS) are only partly in place for the National and the commercial
banks. A manual was prepared by the consultants and is being reviewed by the
National Bank. Several seminars were held.
Overall cofinancing for    (a) EU-TACIS: Advise to a large number of agencies and businesses on financial
this component          management and banking, ECU800,000.
(b) UK/Know-How Fund: Specialists in creation of investment funds and
securities trading, $240,000. This was carried out during 1994-5, and an
extension was granted in 1996. A second extension to develop further the capital
market has been approved at a cost of 225,000 British Pounds.
Component D: Social Sector Reform
Benefiiary                 Ministry of Social Protection
Bank funded inputs I    Short term consultant conducted local seminars on actuarial policies. Amendments
to the pension law were prepared, $11,000.
Main outcome         This was a useful assignment where Ministry staff learned how future payments
for the pension system are projected and assessed in other countries. A concept
paper on pension reform and some amendments to laws were prepared and are
being considered/finalized. Next step is to have them discussed by Parliament
during the first half of 1997.
Bank Funded inputs II    Equipment in the head office for pension and social administration, $242,669
($69,941.15 in 1994; $112,680 in 1995; and $60,048 in 1996).
Bank funded inputs III    Training in Italy, $6,420.
Main outcome         This training was useful, but judged too short by the two participants (only four
days). They learned the structure and system of the Italian pension office. Longer
and more specific training would have been more useful.
Bank funded inputs IV   TA for development of information system plan, $20,000.
Main outcome         This was a useful plan; next step is to secure funding for equipment purchases to
establish the information system.
Overall cofinancing     Italy, Ministry of Social Protection: Development of a pension reform plan and
computerization plan for labor and social protection offices, $385,000.



42                                        Annex A
Benefciari y               Ministr  of Labor
Bank funded inputs I     Information systems, $33,000.
Main outcome         Development of a computerization plan for the ministry and for the establishment
of labor offices.
Bank funded inputs II    Cross-country comparison study, $9,000.
Main outcome         A report was prepared on a comparison of OECD countries.
Bank funded inputs III    Equipment, $50,000, computers and office equipment for the head office.
Overall cofinancing      USA: Review of existing labor laws and assistance in preparing a draft labor
code, $100,000.






43
ANNEX B
REHABILITATION LOAN - SUMMARY OF STATUS OF
POLICY ACTIONS






44                                        Annex B
Annex B
Rehabilitation Loan - Summary of Status of Policy Actions
Work during all stages of the project focused on reform measures in six broad areas: Macroeconomic
Stabilization, Policies to Promote Competition, Policies of Private Sector Development, Policies for Accountability
of State-Owned Enterprises, Ownership Reform, and Social Sector Policies. The Policy Matrix in the MoP (Annex
4) shows that 61 key actions were taken before project implementation started, and listed an additional 103 actions to
be taken. Below is a summary assessment of the broader development objectives under each of the six broad areas.
Area 1: Macroeconomic Stabilization
Objective and means    Here the key objective was to reduce the level of inflation and maintain the current
account deficit at a level consistent with available foreign financing. Actions in the
following four areas were called for: fiscal policy to reduce the consolidated government
deficit; monetary and credit policy to control the money supply and credit expansion;
incomepolicy to limit the Government's wage bill and allow market forces to determine
private sector wages; and exchange rate policy to establish a market based and unified
exchange rate.
Outcome               The policies did succeed in bringing down the inflation rate. Annual inflation fell from
over 1000% in 1993 to about 700% in 1994 and about 75% in 1995. Estimates for 1996
suggest an annual inflation rate of about 40%, with monthly inflation towards the end of
the year averaging between 2 and 3%.
(a)    Fiscal policy.
Available data suggest that the Government maintained a relatively modest budget deficit,
growing from 1.8% of GDP in 1993 to an estimated 3.0% in 1996. Government figures
state the 1996 deficit at 1.9%. About 85% of planned expenditures for 1996 was
financed. However, the low budget deficit was maintained partly by expenditure arrears
(unpaid bills) and by pushing deficits into extra-budgetary activities and on to the banking
system (agricultural credits and enterprise credits).
Status of selected actions in the policy matrix:
Increase in Government's wage bill This provision has not been complied with. The
should not be more than 70%  of Government's wage bill in 1995 accounted for
inflation.                       100.3% of the inflation level; in 1996, 146.5%.
Reduce subsidies for bread and milk  The Government continues to control prices for
products.                       the so-called staple goods and services at the state
and local levels. The Ministry of Agriculture and
Food also sets target "purchasing prices" for milk
and grain (and cattle) which, although not
mandatory, are followed and perceived as
obligatory by many producers.
Reduce subsidies on rent and utilities The 1993 target was met, but late-1996 estimates
(to allow  30%  cost recovery in  are that cost recovery for rent, utilities (and local
1993).                          transport) is about 50%, i.e. 20% (and 50%)
lower than earlier Government plans. Government
has announced a plan for 80% cost recovery by
late 1997 (90-100% for energy).



45                                        Annex B
(b) Mouctary and credit po.l.c:
The credit and money supply expansion that went to the agricultural sector and many of
the low- or non-producing state-owned enterprises in 1993 and 1994 was reduced in early
1995. This was the main reason why inflation went down.
Status of selected actions in the policy matrix:
Increase the share of available credit The share of Central Bank credits at auctions was
channeled through  Central Bank  growing rapidly in 1994-1995, reaching 80% in
auctions; reduce directed credits.  1995. However, in 1996 it began declining:
45.9% as of July 1, 1996; 22.87% as of October
1, 1996; 12% as of January 1, 1997.
Central Bank refinancing rate should  The refinance interest rate was 35% in late 1996
be the same as in Russia.       (42% in Russia). In February 1997 the refinance
rate was raised to the Russian level-42%.
(c)   Income policy.
Restrictions on wage determination in the private sector were abolished. The tax-based
incomes policy, both in the state and private sectors, was abolished. As noted above, the
Government failed to keep the increase of the public wage bill under 70% of inflation in
1995 and 1996.
(d) Exchange rate policy.
The Government was to establish and maintain a unified, market-based exchange rate.
This has not been achieved, and this is the area under "Macroeconomic Stabilization"
where the anti-reform measures have been the most severe and have had the most
distortive effect on the economy. Government efforts have resulted in a number of
administrative interventions which discourage exports and cause uncertainty for
transactions.
Relatively liberal exchange rate policies, based on supply and demand at the interbank
foreign exchange market, were pursued in 1994-1995. Restrictions on purchasing foreign
exchange began at the end of 1995. In 1996, the fixed exchange rate policy was replaced
by a foreign exchange corridor policy, but the boundaries of this corridor were too
narrow. At the same time conditions for the Interbank exchange and Off-Interbank
currency market were getting tougher. Enterprises were made to surrender 50% of their
foreign exchange proceeds and pay a 10% tax to the Exporters Support Fund. Only those
enterprises whose imports were included in the GoB list of "priority imports" were
permitted to buy foreign exchange at the Interbank exchange. As a result, there were
several exchange rates: for mandatory purchase of foreign exchange from enterprises at
an extremely high ruble rate; for selling foreign exchange under the "priority exports" list;
and for purchasing and selling foreign exchange at the Off-Interbank market. In July
1996, the 10% tax was canceled. In autumn 1996 conditions on the volumes of foreign
exchange sales at the Off-Interbank market were liberalized. Gradual devaluation of the
ruble began in 1996-with a moving corridor-and was enough to offset the 1996
inflation. Over two months (January-February 1997) it was devalued by 50% in nominal
terms. The Central Bank was authorized to alter exchange rate policies on the basis of
sales/purchases at the Interbank exchange.



46                                           Annex B
Area 2: Policies to Promote Competition
Objective               Actions under this heading were designed to establish a neutral and transparent local and
international trade regime and eliminate price distortions.
(a)    Pricing, Subsidy and Distribution Policies.
Policies aimed at eliminating price distortions, restrictions to entry, market segmentation,
and budgetary pressure caused by price controls, subsidies and regulation of distribution
systems were slow and inconsistent.
Status of selected actions in the policy matrix:
Eliminate   remaining   budgetary  Subsidies  on  staple  foods, rent, heat and
subsidies for consumers, producers  electricity  still  remain.  Cross-subsidies  on
and cross-subsidies.               electricity  and  heat are  being  reduced. In
December 1996, 73%  of electricity costs and
30%-40%  (depending on the region) of heating
costs were recovered from households. Cost
recovery in transportation is about 50%.
Eliminate  price  restrictions  on  Control over staple goods and services has been
producers.                         retained both at the republican and local levels.
The Government is setting the so-called
"approximate" (rniimal) prices for agricultural
produce.
Eliminate  price  restrictions  on  Control of profitability in commerce still exists.
traders.                           Prices for staple goods are under direct control.
The process of destroying wholesale and retail
trade monopolies was slow but consistent. As a
result,  1,200  independent  companies  have
emerged in place of the former 128 torgs (trading
organizations).
Eliminate local price restrictions.  Local authorities retained the right to control
prices of staple goods.
Replace  state  orders  with   a  The  significance  of state  orders has been
transparent and competitive public  continuously declining. In 1994, the share of state
procurement system.                orders in industrial output was 8%, whereas in
1995, it was 2.5%. In 1996 the state orders
system was transformed into the system of
supplies to meet state requirements, which
allocates funds for procurement on a tender basis
to meet state requirements.
Facilitate  entry  to  the  domestic  Trade privatization is under way, however slowly.
distribution system.               The share of state trade in its overall volume was
48.4% in 1994; 46.2% in 1995; and 43.3% in
1996.



47                                         Annex B
(b)    International Trade
Status of selected actions in the policy matrix:
Eliminate administrative restrictions Substantial liberalization has been made.
on exports.                       - Exports licensing is still intact. However, it
covers only a very limited number of goods:
fertilizers, ferrous and non-ferrous metals
waste and scrap, precious metals waste and
scrap, precious stones, and textile exports in
accordance with the quotas set by the EU.
- Registration of contracts is in effect, but its
purpose is to monitor the flow of strategic raw
materials such as wood, flax, alcohol.
Eliminate export taxes.           Export taxes have been abolished.
Eliminate administrative regulations  Administrative restrictions have been abolished
of imports.                       except for a certain group of commodities,
including radioactive and toxic products, and
other products hazardous to the public.
Licenses are required only for 5 types of products:
protection chemicals, industrial waste, and
alcohol.
Simplify and broaden the import tax  On the whole, import taxes have gone up because
system.                          within the Customs Union Belarus introduced
Russian tax rates. Trade conditions in 1995-1996
were determined by a policy of the Customs
Union with Russia. The major aspect of such
policy was the standardization of customs duties
between Belarus and Russia.
Eliminate import subsidies.       No subsidies in place (although selected imports
benefit from preferential exchange rates).
Introduce   a   competitive   and  A special unit was set up within the Ministry of
transparent  system   for  public  Economy which introduces a tender procurement
imports.                          system for state foreign currency purchases.
(c) Antimonopoly Policy
The objective was to break up monopolies and vertically integrated enterprises. Some
trade conglomerates were broken up. Twelve independent organizations were hived-off
from the Gomel obltorg (oblast trade organization). These are scheduled to be
corporatized in 1997. Efforts were undertaken to demonopolize 3 trade conglomerates in
Molodechno, Vileika and Slutsk.



48                                         Annex B
Area 3: Policies for Private Sector Development
Objective              The objectives were to remove obstacles to establishing and running a private business,
and to support private sector development and foreign investments.
Status of selected actions in the policy matrix:
Facilitate entry and exit.        In 1995-1996, the Government was intensifying
its  efforts  to  regulate  private  business
administratively. At the same time, in the first
reading the Supreme Soviet adopted the Civil
Code which authorizes all kinds of alternative
forms of associations.
Set policies to improve labor use, The Government was pursuing a rather consistent
mobility and productivity.        policy aimed at liberalizing the labor market. In
1996, the Supreme Soviet adopted the Labor Code
in the first reading. The hiring and firing system is
rather flexible. Top and in some cases mid-level
managers of state-owned enterprises and private
sector employees are employed on a contractual
basis.
Wages are not regulated directly, although state
enterprises and organizations are recommended to
stick to the wage scale.
The propiska system is still in place, which
hinders labor mobility in Belarus.
Streamline registration and licensing  In 1996, the enterprise registration process was
procedures.                      toughened and made more complicated. The
number of grounds on which an enterprise can be
liquidated was increased. Local authorities have
been empowered to liquidate enterprises. The
system of licensing entrepreneurial activities is
intact. In 1995 it covered nearly 60 types of
activities, whereas in 1996, nearly 90 types of
activities.
Facilitate access to commercial real No real steps have been taken to make access to
estate.                          idle, fixed assets, production space, or work in
progress easier for private business.



49                                         Annex B
Area 4: Policies for Accountability of State-Owned Enterprises
Objective                   Objectives under this component were two: to establish hard budget constraints on
the state-owned enterprises, and to support corporatization through policy changes
and actual corporatization.
Status of selected actions in the policy matrix:
Financial discipline: introduce  No systematic hard budget constraints have been
hard budget constraints on the  imposed, although enterprises are feeling tighter
SOEs.                       fiscal and monetary policies than during 1993-94.
However, administrative discretion is used rather
than transparent rules. Privileges and tax
exemptions are still intact. The system of
allocating and monitoring transfers from the
Government has not been set up.
Facilitate  corporate  gover- The corporatization  process is under way,
nance and corporatization.  however slowly. Altogether, about 500 republican
industrial enterprises were corporatized over the
period 1994-1996.
The statistical reporting system is being
simplified. An accounting system is being set up
in accordance with modem practices. Income
statement-balance sheet reporting has been
brought in line with modem accounting practices.
Cash flow reporting will be introduced in 1997-
1998.
A department responsible for transforming state
property and enterprise restructuring was set up
within the Ministry of Industry in 1996.
Presidential Decree "On immediate measures for
financial and economic rehabilitation of economic
entities" was issued in October 1996. The Decree
provides for drawing up plans to restructure large
enterprises with state property, and plans for
progressive transfer of social facilities presently
owned by enterprises to communal ownership.
Formulation of restructuring plans was initiated
at six of the largest enterprises in Belarus (Minsk
Truck Plant, Minsk Tractor Works, production
association "Integral," etc.) in 1996. A pilot
corporatization project is being drawn up at the
production    association    "Belvar"    with
participation of the Adam Smith Institute (UK);
the project will take into account the modern
experience of Western countries.



50                                        Annex B
Area 5: Ownership Reform
Objective                   The overall objective was to promote privatization of enterprises, housing and land
reform.
Status of selected actions in the policy matrix:
Develop  a  market  for Housing  privatization  conditions  have  been
private housing.         liberalized. Interest in private housing remains
limited since there is uncertainty about what future
obligations will be associated with ownership
(rather than renting). Kolkhozes' right to veto the
sale of housing has been abolished, as has the
prohibition on selling housing within 3 years after
privatization. A system of housing construction
lending has been established. Starting from 1995,
the Ministry of Housing and Communal Utilities, in
concert with the IFC, has been engaged in an
experiment in Brest to create condominiums. Four
condominiums have been set up. Based on the
experience gained the Ministry has prepared a draft
law "On condominiums" which was submitted to
the Government for consideration.
Privatize SOEs.          The privatization process proceeded at a very slow
pace, particularly in 1995-1996. Large and
medium-size  enterprises  saw   virtually  no
privatization over the past 2 years.
According to official estimates, the non-state sector
of the economy presently accounts for 26% of GDP;
however, included here are joint-stock companies
whose state share exceeds 50%, lease enterprises,
kolkhozes and sovkhozes. According to experts, the
real share of the non-state sector in GDP is 10%.
Speed  up  small  scale  About 15-20 percent (1,600) municipal small scale
privatization.           enterprises have changed ownership, of which about
500 have been corporatized. The privatization
process through tenders and auctions is gradually
expanding geographically. Tenders are conducted
on a permanent basis in 12 towns and cities.
Promote medium and large Privatization of large- and medium-scale enterprises
scale privatization.     was proceeding at a slow pace. Only about 630
such  republican-owned  enterprises  changed
ownership from 1994 through March 1997, and less
than 200 are fully in private hands. The rest have
majority or minority state ownership.
Carry     out      mass 73%  of the population has either been issued
privatization.           vouchers or applied for them, but the bulk of



51                                        Annex B
vouchers has not been converted into ownership
because the number of corporatized enterprises with
which vouchers could be deposited is limited.
Establish a market for land  Belarusians have been granted restricted rights to
with  clear and tradable  privatize land. Urban residents are authorized to
tenure rights.           privatize one tenth of a hectare of land for
gardening and one quarter hectare for housing
construction.
Rural persons are authorized to privatize one
hectare of arable land for agricultural work.
The Belarusian Land Cadastre is being devised.
Area 6: Social Sector Policies
Objective                  Provide a fiscally sustainable and incentive-compatible social safety net to protect
vulnerable groups during the transition.
Status of selected actions in the policy matrix:
Establish a social safety net No significant changes in the social safety net have
for vulnerable groups of the taken place yet. The creation in 1995 of a system
population.                for providing households with direct non- cash rent
subsidies could be regarded as the most important
development. The system covered 200,000
households in 1996.
Provide  income   support A system of financial support for the unemployed
during unemployment, reduce is in place. Registered unemployed are paid
job search costs, and increase benefits (equivalent to $9-$10 a month in 1996)
job opportunities.         30% of the unemployment fund is used to pay out
unemployment benefits; 10% to finance the fund's
governing bodies; and 60% to organize retraining
of the unemployed and to create reserves.
A monitoring system to assess retraining efficiency
has been established. In 1996, according to this
system, 56% of retrained unemployed persons
found employment.
Protect    elderly    and  The pension system, on the whole, remains
pensioners.                unchanged, except that a restrictive cap on the
maximum pension level has been removed.
Pensions are indexed concurrently with minimum
wage indexing subject to inflation. The length of
service required to qualify for pension and basic
pension privileges remains unchanged. As a result
of pension reforms and inflation, the maximum and
minimum pension levels have been leveled.



52                                        Annex B
Targeted assistance to the A system of targeted support for low income
poorest groups, including groups is being formed.
families with children.    - In 1996, a system of targeted subsidies to the
poorest families (with income per family
member below BRB 170,000 a month).to pay
for housing and communal utilities was
introduced
- Child benefits and benefits to families with
many children are paid.
- Housing, social services and drug benefits were
introduced for war veterans, disabled persons
and other categories of the population.
The MoStat has introduced quarterly household
statistical reporting.






53
ANNEX C
BORROWER'S EVALUATION REPORTS
The Borrower completed an evaluation report for each of the two operations.
Attached please find the unedited title page, table of contents and sections 1, 4, 5
and 6 (summary sections) for each of the projects. The full reports are available
from the project files.






54                 Annex C
MINISTRY OF FINALNCE
REPUBLIC OF BELARUS
PROJECT IMPLEMENT-ATION, AGENCY
-;MTPLEMENTION COMPLETION REPORT FOR
. E ISTTUTION BUILDING PROJECT
IN--NSTITUTION BUILDINGO LOAN
--BAN AGREEMENT NR3640 0-BY1997
MINSK, FEBRIUARY 1997



55                                    Annux
1. Short summary of the project
2. Initial status of the project according to Loan Agreement with IBRD
2.1. The objectives of the project
2.2. Description of components of the project and the initial schedule of funds allocation
A. Resource mobilization and economic management.
B. Enterprise reform, as follows:
C. Reform of bank sector_
D. Social Sector Reform
3. The final status of the project taking into account the adjustments happened
3.1. The revised schedule of the Loan funds allocation
3.2. Analysis of the results achieved under each component of the Loan
3.2.1. Ministry of Finance
3.2.2. Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations of Belarus
3.2.3. Tax Administration
3.2.4. Ministry of State Property Management and Privatization of Belarus
3.2.5. Ministrv of Entrepreneurship and Investments of Belarus
3.2.6. Ministry of Economy of Belaruse
3.2.7. Ministry of Social Protection of Belarus
3.2.8. Ministrv of Statistics and Analvsis of Belarus
3.2.9. Ministry of Labor (Central office of state employment service)
3.2.10. Belarus Bank_
3.2.11. The Supreme Economic Court of Belarus
3.2.12. The National Bank of Belarus
3.3. Financial management of the project
3.4. The project efficiency assessment
4. The evaluation ofproject realization and of the experience, gained during its implementation
5. The evaluation of the efficiency of the work of the world bank and its interrelations with the
borrower
6. The opinion on the efficiency of the project



56                       Annex C
1. SHORT SUMMARY OF THE PROJECT
The Memorandum of mutual understanding under the project on
undertaking transformations in the sphere of state management was signed
on July 14, 1993 between the Republic of Belarus and IBRD. The given
project was expected to attract the credit funds of IBRD alongside with
other sources of financing. In accordance with the said Memorandum the
Loan Agreement N23640-BY (Institution Building Project) was signed on
August 13, 1993 between the Republic of Belarus and IBRD, according to
which the republic was given the Institution Building Loan in the amount of
8,300,000 US dollars. That was a first experience of cooperation between the
Government of Belarus with the World Bank in the field of providing credit
resources by the latter. Terms and conditions of granting the Loan were
stipulated as follows: term of redeeming - 15 years (till 2008 inclusive),
interest rate - standard variable, defined by the World Bank strategy (about
8%), a five-year grace period for the repayment of principal of the Loan.
Debt service payments were stipulated to be made biannually in equal
amounts.
For implementing the Loan, specified Loan Agreement stipulated
creation of a separate structure under the Ministry of Finance of Republic
of Belarus responsible for all questions of technical management of the
Loan. Project Implementation Agency under the Ministry of Finance (PTA)
was established following the instruction of the Council of Ministers of 8
July, 1993 No 09/199 by the order of the Minister of Finance of 27 August,
1993 No 79. PIA was entrusted to implement World Bank Institution
Building and Rehabilitation loans, as well as to make withdrawals of the
funds under several Grants of the World Bank.
The final phase of implementing any project of the World Bank is
compiling the reporting of the efficiency of using the allocated funds. This
report has been completed by PTA following the instruction of the
Govemment of the Republic of Belarus and Ministry of Finance.



57                       Annecx
3.4. THE PROJECT EFFICIENCY ASSESSMENT
The Project implemented under the funds of the Institution Building
Loan doesn't provide currency benefit, since it is repaid from the state
budget, and end users are presented by budgetary organizations. The
efficiency of using a given credit can be expressed only in the improvement
of state management during the transition to the system of market
economy, improvement of availability of appropriate methodologies and
technical means in public agencies. In view of this, the results of Loan
implementation could be seen under the absolute majority of components
in the long-term plan only.
4. THE EVALUATION OF PROJECT REALIZATION AND OF THE EXPERIENCE,
GAINED DURING ITS IMPLEMENTATION
The Ministries performing as users of the Loan funds give, basically,
positive evaluation of the results of project implementation. The proposals
and recommendations of consultants, made in the course of the project
have been used, are in use at the moment and will be used in the normative
document development, for making methodologies, oriented directly to the
real state of Belarus economy, for planning of global and particular matters
of the economic policy of the Government. The training of the specialists of
ministries and departments and the joint work of the staff with international
experts contributed to accumulation of comprehensive information and
methodological materials, experience and knowledge. The procurement of
the equipment has allowed to strengthen the technical basis of
organizations at a complex period of transition to market methods of
economy management.
The experience accumulated on implementation of projects in
accordance with generally accepted intemational procedures enables the
national organizations already at present to raise the efficiency of placing
the funds of intemational financial organization, budget funds, the use of
other investment resources. In future, the implementation of projects can be
conducted by state agencies itself, without the attraction of consulting
assistance of international experts.



58                       Annex C
5. THE EVALUATION OF THE EFFICIENCY OF THE WORK OF THE WORLD BANK
AND ITS INTERRELATIONS WITH THE BORROWER
The work of the World Bank on cooperation with state organizations of
the republic, with Project Implementation Agency on matters of
implementation of the Institution Building Loan was rather effective.
Questions were solved promptly, professionally and with regard to the real
specific characters of the economy of Belarus. Short delays on some stages
of project implementation and small discords, inevitably existing while
solving complex tasks, were caused rather by the imperfection and
overweening difficulty of the procedures of expending the Loan funds
themselves, accepted in large international organizations, than some
discriminating or unfair attitude of the World Bank towards the Borrower.
The staff of Project Implementation Agency, other officials, involved in
the implementation of the project, gained the a rather unique experience of
work under the project in cooperation with such largest international
financial institution as the World Bank. The given experience could and
should be used further both for implementation of the following credit lines
of the World Bank and other intemational organizations, and for more
efficient placing of other investment resources and own funds of the
Government.
6. THE OPINION ON THE EFFICIENCY OF THE PROJECT
In the opinion of the absolute majority of end users of the Loan its
implementation is recognized as successful, the objective of the project is
reached practically under all components. The same opinion is expressed
by the specialists of Project Implementation Agency, who directly
implemented the Loan.



59                       Annex C
The Proiect undoubtedly has strengthened the institutional basis of the
number of ministries and departments of the Republic of Belarus,
occupying the key positions in the process of conducting economic
reforms, has provided support to financial and bank sectors of economy,
which allows to take professional and skilled approach in solving the
difficult tasks of development of the economy of the republic at a complex
period of deep transformations. Thereby, the basis was created for
successful implementation of economic programs in Belarus, supported also
by further assistance of the World Bank by provision of rehabilitation loans
and development loans.



60                      Annex C
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
REPUBLIC OF BEL9RUS
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AGENCY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REHABILITATION LOAN.-
L AN AGREEMENT 
.   ;                  ;   -    -   f   ---   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



61
1. Short summary of the project
2. Initial status of the project according to the Loan Agreement with IBRD
2.1. Description of Project's objectives, its components and the initial funds allocation schedule__
2. 1.1. Foreign Exchange Component.
2.1.2. Direct Import Component.
2.1.3. Component of Technical Assistance in Project implementation.
3. The final status of the project taking into account the adjustments happened
3.1. The revised schedule of the Loan proceeds allocation__
3.2. Analysis of the results achieved under each component of the Loan
3.2.1. Foreign Exchange Component
3.2.2. Direct Import Component
3.2.2.1. Ministrv of Health of Belarus
3.2.2.2. Ministrv of Natural Resources and Protection of the Environment
3.2.2.3. Ministrv of Fuels and Energy of Belarus
3.2.3. Component of Technical Assistance in Project implementation
3.3. Financial management of the Project
3.4. Long term project efficiency assessment
4. The evaluation of project realization and of the experience, gained during its implementatiol
5. The evaluation of the efficiency of the work of the world bank and its interrelations with the
borrower
6. The opinion on the efficiency of the project



62                       Annex c
1. SHORT SUMMARY OF THE PROJECT
The Memorandum of Economic Reform Policies with the description of
the program of actions, its objectives and policies, developed for the
achievement of economic stabilization and structural reforms in the
republic was signed on 25 October, 1993 between the Republic of Belarus
and IBRD. The given document emphasized a real interest of the
Govemment in the implementation of the specified program and expected
the attraction of credit funds of IBRD for the financing of critical import and
technical assistance necessary in the course of implementation of the credit.
In accordance with the said Memorandum, the Loan Agreement N23660-BY
was signed on 20 December, 1993 between the Republic of Belarus and
IBRD, according to which the republic was provided with the Rehabilitation
Loan in the amount of 120 mln. US dollars. That was the second Loan of
the World Bank given to the Republic of Belarus. Terms and conditions of
granting the Loan were stipulated as follows: term of redeeming - 15 years
(till 2008 inclusive), interest rate - standard variable, defined by the World
Bank strategy (about 8%), a five-year grace period for the repayment of
principal of the Loan. Debt service payments were stipulated to be made
biannually in equal amounts.
According to Section 1 of the Loan Agreement and following the
instruction of the Council of Ministers of 8 July, 1993 No 09/199 the
implementation of the project had been assigned by the order of the
Minister of Finance of 27 August, 1993 No 79 to Project Implementation
Agency under the Ministry of Finance (PLA). Therefore, PIA at the same
time was engaged in implementation of two loans of the World Bank -
Institution Building and Rehabilitation, as well as in withdrawal of the funds
of several Grants of the World Bank.
Originally, i.e. according to the Loan Agreement, 30 June 1995 was
considered as the official Loan closing date. Subsequently, following
requests of the Government of Belarus, the period of implementation of the
Loan was first prolonged till 30 April, 1996, and then - till 1 November,
1996.



63                       Annex C
4. THE EVALUATION OF PROJECT REALZATION AND OF THE EXPERIENCE,
GAINED DURING ITS IMPLEMENTATION
The Ministries performing as users of Rehabilitation Loan funds give,
basically, positive evaluation of the results of project implementation.
The refund of the currency sold in the interbank auction by the
National Bank of Belarus from the proceeds of the Foreign Exchange
Component of the Loan in 1994 and the beginning of 1995 contributed to
some extent to the support of the rate of national currency. Such premise in
making the macroeconomic stabilization could have been used in that
moment as a good base for making deep structural transformations in the
economy of the republic. A certain experience of interaction between the
Ministry of Finance and National Bank in the field of work on stabilization
of the rate of national currency is accumulated in the republic which is
particularly important for the work under possible stand-by credits.
The Direct Import Component of the Loan, realized during 1994-1996.,
has allowed to maintain support of the realization of import of vitally goods
required for the republic during the complex period of economic change.
This helped to reduce inevitable consequences of the transition from
planned economy to market methods of management painful for the
national economy and population, to reduce the burden on the budget
under the corresponding items of expenditure. This concerned the
procurement of drugs and pharmaceutical raw materials, vaccines, medical
equipment, equipment for environmental monitoring, for energy sector. The
Ministries have obtained a possibility of close familiarization with rules and
procedures of employing the funds, provided by international financing
organizations, possibility to produce detailed analysis of world market, that
will allow to improve further the efficiency of working of the national
organizations.
The use of the Component of Technical Assistance in project
implementation has allowed to spend efficiently the funds afforded by the
World Bank Institution Building and Rehabilitation loans, intended for the
help to the Government in maintaining the policy of reforms.



64                       Annex C
Among the positive moments of cooperation it is also necessary to note
that the staff of Project Implementation Agency, other officials, involved in
the realization of project, have received a rather unique experience of work
under the project in cooperation with such largest international financial
institute as the World Bank. Given experience could and should be used
both for implementation of the following credit lines of the World Bank and
other international organizations, and for more efficient placing of other
investment resources and own Government funds.
5. THE EVALUATION OF THE EFFICIENCY OF THE WORK OF THE WORLD BANK
AND ITS INTERRELATIONS WITH THE BORROWER
We would like to note the efficient work of the World Bank in the field
of interaction with interested Ministries, Project Implementation Agency.
All the matters appearing in the course of implementation of the
Rehabilitation Loan have been solving by the Bank very promptly ar,
precisely. There were no discriminating attitude of the World Bank in
respect of Belarus, the Bank executed its functions in a proper manner.
However, some end users of the proceeds of the Direct Import
Component of the Loan note an overweening difficulty of procurement
procedures, whose following is required by the World Bank. This delays the
processes of committing tenders, conclusions of contracts and performing
deliveries that in general reduces the efficiency of procurement of the
import of critically needed goods. But this pertains to rules only, which
adjustment is really necessary, but in no event to the World Bank itself or
its personnel.



65                      Amex c
6. THE OPINION ON THE EFFICIENCY OF THE PROJECT
As a whole, the majority of end users of the Loan, Project
Implementation Agency, other interested persons acknowledge the Project
to be successful in the sense of its technical implementation. All
components of the Loan were executed effectively, and their results could
be used really as measures, making the basis for economic transformations
in the republic and relieving the burden of many inevitable consequences
of such transformations.



66
ANNEX D
COMMENTS FROM COFINANCIERS






67                                  Annex D
European Bank
for Reconstruction and Development
Mr. Christopher Willoughby
Chief of Mission
The World Bank
6A Partizanski Avenue, 5th fl.
Minsk
Belarus                                       Minsk, April,04, 1997
Dear Christopher
I am referring to your letter,dated March 1997, and the draft Implementation report on
Rehabilitation and Institution-Building loans.
I think in general the document describes accurately what has happened in Berlarus
since 1993 when the two loans were approved. I agree with the statement that the
objectives of both of the loans were perfectly agreeable and sound at the time when
the projects were designed. As there was experience of a similar approach (institution
building operation parallel with a rehabilitation project) bringing good results in
other countries of Eastern Europe, there was no principal reason to expect that a
similar approach would not work well in Belarus.
However, the situation was unique, and there was an urgency to act, the risk
associated with IBL and RHL can be seen on the background of a threat of total
collapse and disastrous circumstances.
What comes to the Annex A and activities with EBRD, there are no adverse notions.
Actually the twinning arrangement with Belarusbank facilitated Belarusbank greatly to
achieve eligibility on the EBRD's SMIE Credit line. It is an other matter that the bank
lost this status then as a consequence of drastic changes in the ownersip structure.
Best regards
Ilkka Sulamaa
Deputy Resident Representative



68                            Annex D
Embassy of the United States of America
Minsk
April 11, f 997
Christopher Willoughby
Chief of Mission
The World Bank
Republic of Belarus
Dear Mr. Willoughby:
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on the draft Implementation
Completion Report for the two World bank loans.
Please convey to Mr. Zeijlon that Embassy has no substantive comment on the
document in general. With regard to Annex A, the information about the IFC's USAID-
funded small-scale privatization project should be updated. IFC is now active in 12 (vice
four) cities in Belarus. Funding for the project is over $3 million (vice $1.5 million).
I will be out of the office the April 14-18. If you need further assistance, please
contact Anne Carson.
Sincerely,
/ .~
Amy Stamps
Second Secretary



69                              AnnexD
British Embassy
Minsk
Mr Christopher Willoughby                        37 Karl Marx Street
Chief of Mission                                   220030 Minsk
The World Bank                                       Belarus
5th Floor
Partizansky                                   Telephone: (0172) 292303/4/5
Minsk 220033                                    Facsimile: (0172) 292306
(0172) 292311 (Visa Section)
A9 g /   a11 April 1997
DRAFT IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT ON FIRST TWO WORLD BANK
LOANS TO BELARUS (REHABILITATION AND INSTITUTION-BUILDING LOANS
OF 1993)
Thank you for your letter of 31 March, received in the Embassy
on 7 April.  I have no comments on the draft report in general;
I concur with Mr Zeijlon's conclusions that the projects'
objectives were relevant at the time they were conceived, but
that progress has been hampered by the slow pace of economic
reform in Belarus.
As regards the Know How Fund activities listed in Annex A, it is
not the case that the securities exchange development project
referred to on page 8 of the annex was cancc:led. The British
consulting company Financial Research Associates undertook this
project for the Know How Fund in 1994-5; an extension was granted
in 1996.   A second extension to develop further the capital
market in Belarus has now been approved, at a cost of 225000
over two years.
I am sending the draft report to Nicola Walsh at the Joint
Assistance Department in London; if she has further comments, I
shall pass them to you as soon as possible.
Dawn Lindsay                        /
Deputy Head Of Mission             c






70
ANNEX E
AIDE MEMOIRE FROM THE ICR MISSION
(JANUARY 1997)






71                                    Annex E
AIDE MEMOIRE
Belarus: Institution Building Project and Rehabilitation Project
Implementation Completion Reporting Mission
World Bank Mission: January 7-17, 1997
1.    A World Bank Mission comprising Anders Zeijlon and Prabhat Garg visited Belarus between
January 7 and January 17 to prepare the Implementation Completion Reporting (ICR) for the now closed
Institution Building and Rehabilitation Loans. The mission's objectives were to (i) collect information
for the Bank's ICR report, and (ii) agree with Government on the timing and responsibility for the steps
necessary to complete the ICR process for the two projects. This Aide Memoire records the main
opinions expressed by Government about the two projects and agreed future steps. The mission would
like to express its gratitude to the Government officials met from the agencies which managed and/or
benefited from the two loans. A list of the officials met is attached (Annex 1). The Bank's Resident
Mission provided valuable substantive and logistical support.
A: Information for the Bank's ICR report
2.    This part of the Aide Memoire documents some of the major opinions expressed by the various
Government agencies on three broad areas for both of the projects; (i) the degree of fulfillment of the
overall project objectives, (ii) the Bank's and the Government's performance during preparation and
implementation, and (iii) recommendations for any future Bank supported operations based on lessons
learned from the two projects. Several Government agencies provided written comments to complement
the mission's discussions (attached as Annex 2).
3.    The comments received from the various Government agencies (both oral and written) on the
many project components vary considerably. A preliminary summary of the Government's views and the
mission's findings, for both projects, is provided below and is an attempt to record the overail trends and
opinions expressed. A more detailed account will be provided in the forthcoming Bank's ICR report and
in the Government's report (see below).
(i) Stated objectives and actual outcome
(a) IBL
4.    Overall, the Government agencies expressed satisfaction with the institution strengthening
provided by the project through provision of consultancy services, training and equipment. Most
agencies applauded the quality and professionalism of the foreign consultants, and the transfer of skills
and resources that took place during the project. Several ministries are now better equipped with skills
and computers, and better prepared to carry out their reform work better, though of course restricted by
the fluctuality and generally hesitant overall approach of the Belarusian Government to real
implementation of reform.



72                                    Annex E
5.    The mission endorsed the Government's overall satisfactory assessment of the IBL, although
assessment of the overall outcome is a complex task. Some agencies were successfully strengthened and
undertook most actions recommended. In other instances, good recommendations and training merely
resulted in a vision of how the respective agency should change to better go about its work, and the
necessary actions to turn this vision into reality were not implemented. A fuller evaluation for the various
agencies and project components will be provided in the Bank's draft ICR.
6.    Some Government representatives explained that the Bank had underestimated the time needed
to reach the goals for the IBL. The project successfully exposed many agencies and their staff to
international standards of carrying out work in the respective fields. Further benefits from the project
funded activities can, therefore, be expected in the future.
(b) Rehabilitation Loan
7.    The mission pointed out that a significant part of the stated objectives recorded in the policy
matrix agreed on at the time of the approval of the loan were not fulfilled. Overall, many of the agreed
policies were pursued until mid-late 1995, after which many decisions stopped further reform actions and
even reversed some reform-oriented directions previously a&cpted. Again, a full account of this will be
provided in the Bank's draft ICR.
8.    Most Government officials agreed that policy actions had fallen short of what was expected due
to changing economic and political conditions in Belarus. Nevertheless, the loan funds contributed
positively to the Belarusian economy by alleviating the foreign currency constraint at a time of shortages
of medicine and energy supplies and implementation of reforms (price liberalization, cost recovery for
public services). The funds also helped in maintaining a market based exchange rate and macro
economic stability in 1994-95.
(ii) Bank and the Government performance during preparation and implementation
9.    Ministry of Finance officials said that it would have been better if the Rehab loan had been
divided into several tranches. Processing of the (one tranche) Rehabilitation loan put all the focus on
action to merely make the loan effective rather than on the subsequent implementation phase of the
policy actions. The Government also judged many actions not possible to implement, at least not in the
time frame proposed by the Bank. However, the Bank was perceived as not wishing to delay or delete
these actions, and this put the Government in a position where it was tempted to accept the conditions
and work out the implementation issues after the loan was effective. Greater care should be taken to
build consensus between the Bank and Government in developing and reaching policy agreements for
future loans.
10.   Government officials said that it was difficult to apply many of the Bank's rules for project
processing and procurement. However, most of these problems were due to the fact that these were the
first Bank supported projects in Belarus. Once the respective rules and procedures had been explained
most of the issues were better understood.
11.   The Government found that the Bank's procurement rules did not work well when procuring
computers and medicines. When purchasing computers, 6-12 months elapsed between specifications and
delivery, by which time there were better computers available for the quoted price. The complaints were



73                                    Annex E
particular severe for the part of the Rehabilitation Loan where the Ministry of Health (MoH) bought
medicines. The Ministry would have preferred to follow its traditional procurement procedures. MoH
found the Bank too rigid in insisting that certain medicines be included in the purchases. Many, mainly
logistical, problems arose because the Bank rules caused the ministry to deal with previously unknown
suppliers, some of which supplied wrong or poor quality medicines. The Ministry had a dispute with one
supplier which is currently being addressed in an international court. At the same time, the Government
acknowledges that the applied procurement rules led to lower prices in many cases (estimated at 15-20%
on average for all project components).
12.   Other agencies (i.e. Ministry of Energy) expressed appreciation of the Bank's procurement rules
as they led to lower prices and also taught staff how to do international procurement. Many of the
problems arose because this was the first time that the Government had to follow international
competitive procedures and deal in international markets.
13.   Project Implementation Agency (PTA): The Govemment was satisfied overall with the
implementation service (for both projects) provided by the PIA of the Ministry of Finance. As expected,
some beneficiary agencies complained about delays since the PIA hecamcz an extra Ia er of processing
between the beneficiaries and the Bank. The mission: noted that this is a common problem in cases where
projects have many and varied components.
14.   Procurement Advisory Service (PAS): The PAS serviced both projects as well as the Bank
supported Forestry Project. The Government agreed that sharing an advisory service among several
projects proved to be a successful and cost effective concept eliminating the need for dedicated foreign
procurement advisors in each implementation unit.
(iii) Lessons Learned
15.   The Ministry of Finance suggested that disbursements for future adjustment loans be phased over
time and linked to gradual progress in meeting targets set up and agreed on. This would provide more of
a focus on economic reform as a process rather than an event, and provide more discipline in the
implementation. Care should be taken to build consensus around the selection and implementation of
policy conditionality between the Bank and the Government.
16.   The Government found foreign training very useful in providing first-hand training in the
respective fields. Some in-country seminars were judged too general and theoretical. Although the
professional quality of the consultants was generally high, and the Bank's procurement rules allows the
Government to chose between competing consultants, use of these types of services should be carefully
assessed before adopted for future projects. Also, there are many sources of grants for Technical
Assistance which should be (and were) explored before loan funds are used.
17.   The Government found that the long-term consultancy assignments were often more useful than
the short-term ones. Short term assignments often did not allow the consultant(s) to develop the
appropriate understanding of the Belarusian economy and often focused on too general advise and
concepts.
18.   Import duties for imports often delayed implementation since agencies could or would not pay
import duties. Instead they would seek contract by contract waiver which would take time to obtain,



74                                     Annex E
resulting in imports lying idle in the customs ware house. It is better to obtain a general waiver for all
project imports before the project starts.
19.    The originally envisaged energy and agriculture components of the Rehabilitation Loan did not
materialize, and the funds were transferred to the Foreign Exchange component. Procurement of
medicines was, therefore, the only remaining component for which the Bank's procurement rules
applied. The Government feels that earmarking of funds for particular imports in Rehab-type projects
should be carefully analyzed before the project starts, although the educational benefits of doing
international procurement were significant.
B: Next Steps
20.    The Bank will prepare a draft ICR and submit it to the Government (Ministry of Finance, Mr.
Rumas) not later than April 1, 1997. Any comments from Government will be received within one month
after the draft report is received by Government.
21.    The Government will prepare a report on the two projects and submit it to the Bank by March 1,
1997. These reports normally do not exceed ten pages per project, but if they do it is recommended that a
summary is prepared as well. The report normally includes the following sections: (i) an assessment of
the project objectives, design, implementationi, and operation experience; (ii) an evaluation of the
borrower's own performance during the evolution and implementation of the project, with special
emphasis on lessons learned that may be relevant in the future; and (iii) an evaluation of the performance
of the Bank and any cofinanciers during the evolution and implementation of the project, including the
effectiveness of the relationship among the borrower, the Bank, and cofinanciers, with special emphasis
on lessons learned.
22.    The Head of the PIA, Mr. Vasilij Tarasevich, is responsible for the drafting of the Government's
report.
23.    Both projects will need to be audited for the year leading up to closure (as is the rule for all Bank
funded activities. The mission informed the Government that it has no objection to the Government using
the same audit firm as previously for the final audit reports for the two projects.
Annex 1: List of people met.
Annex 2: Comments from various participating agencies.
Annex 3: Report on the projects from the President's Audit Commission and Crown Agents' Reply.



75                                     Annex
Annex 1: List of people met
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Mr. Nikolai RUMAS, First Deputy Minister of Finance
Ms. Valentina KRAVCHENKO, Head, Department of International Financial Institutions
Mr. Pavel BUSO, Head of Division, Department of International Financial Institutions
CENTRAL TAX ADMINISTRATION
Mr. Alexander DOROSHENKO, Deputy Head, Central Tax Administration
Mr. Mikhail FEDORENKO, Head, Technical Assistance Department
MINISTRY OF SOCIAL PROTECTION
Mr. Gennady BESPALOV, First Deputy Minister of Social Protection
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
Mr.Vladimir OREKHOVSKY, First Deputy Minister
Mr. Boris RANCHINSKY, "BelMedTekhnika", General Director
Mr. Anatoly GARIEV, "Pharmacia", Director
MINISTRY OF LABOR
Mr. Ivan LYAKH, Minister
Mr. Alexei IZUMSKI, Division Chief, Ministry Board Member
MINISTRY OF STATISTICS
Mr. Vladimir Nichiporovich, Minister
Ms. Svetlana NOVOSYELOVA, Head, Household Surveys Department
Ms. Galina GASYUK, Deputy Minister
Mr. Victor MIKHNO, Deputy Minister
Ms. Vladimir ZINOVSKY, Deputy Minister
MINISTRY OF ENTREPRENEURS AND INVESTMENT
Mr. Anatoly AKHRAMCHUK, Deputy Minister
MINISTRY OF STATE PROPERTY (PRIVATIZATION)
Mr. Vasily NEKRASHEVICH, Deputy Minister
Mr. Vyacheslav BATECHKO, Department Head
MINISTRY OF NATURAL RESOURCES AND ENVIRONMENT
Mr. Igor VOITOV, Deputy Minister



76                                      Annex E
MINISTRY OF ECONOMY
Mr. Nikolai ZAICHENKO, Deputy Minister
Mr. Victor PASHKEVICH, Head, Foreign Relations Department
MINISTRY OF ENERGY
Mr. Mikhail POLYAK, Deputy Manager, Combined Dispatch Control Administration
NATIONAL BANK
Ms. STEFANOVICH, Head, Accounting Reform and International Relations Department
SAVINGS BANK "BELARUS"
Mr. Vladimir NOVIK, Deputy Chairman
Mr. SURGANOV
FORD UNION
Mr. Igor BUTOMO, Deputy General Director, Government Affairs
MINISTRY OF FORESTRY
Mr. Egor SHARAG, Head, Project Implementation Unit
SUPREME ECONOMIC COURT
Mr. Victor KAMENKOV, Deputy Chairman
CABINET OF MINISTERS
Ms. Olga KARYAKINA, External Finance and International Cooperation Department
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AGENCY
Mr. Vasily TARASEVICH, Head, Project Implementation Agency
Ms. Irina ERMAKOVICH, Senior Disbursement Officer
Ms. Natalia MAGER, Chief Procurement Officer
PROCUREMENT ADVISORY SERVICE
Mr. Richard GARGRAVE, Head, Procurement Advisory Service
Mr. Sergei PROZOROV
Ms. Galina BOLSHAKOVA
EBRD
Mr. Ilka SULAMAA, Deputy Resident Representative



77                                      Annex E
IMF
Ms. Julia LYSKOVA, Assistant
TACIS/EU
Mr. Ivan BORISLAVLEVICH, Team Leader Co-ordinating Unit
Mr. Rolf REICHERT, Economist. Co-ordinating Unit
UNITED NATIONS
Mr. Pavel KRAL, UNDP Resident Representative
Mr. Yuri MISNIKOV, Program Officer
Ms. Svetiana BAKSHT, Program Officer






BRED 2826
26'                28-                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~30'                        32'                                  34'
ONIA\ GRUSSIAN                                                          L A  T  V  I A
' o0        LIA   l,          rFEDERATION                                                                                            T. N-B1U
S..~~~~~~~~5'                                                                                           5                                                                                          BELARUS
-     EXISTING MAIN GAS PIPEUNES
r                                                                                                                                                                                         _______X m Z  /B  r  ; A /  EXISTING SECONDARY GAS PIPEUNES
POLAND  2    BELARUS                                                                                                                                       ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  -  -  GAS PIPEUNES UNDER CONSTRUCTiON
S'     _----*\                                                                                                                   P oIoR__,I / ,>Xk                  ?EX EXISTING E                                      OIL REFINERIES
-~~~~                                                                                                                                          ________    EXISTING GIL PIPELINES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~XITNGOI IPLIE
'>             ~~~~UKRAINE                                                                                                                                                                               -        HIGHWAYS
REP                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MAIe^tr ----\ 4 S F ,< N ROADS
HUNGARY       ROMANIA  \                                                                          zz_ __SELECTED LOCAL ROADS
T.24- _   b Vdlni..                            V kg ~ ~  A   / I T Eot 5 \    \       8 \      \                                                RAILROADS
c ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-RIVERS
RUSSIAN                                                                                                             I                                                                                              0        SELECTED CITIES
FED .                                                                                                                                  Lu ,                                                                             DISTRICT CAPITALS
NATIONAL CAPITAL
_   _   _   ,9)>  VRus                '  -jf     J  ; 7 ;,Crs   . \   _._  OBLAST BOUNDARIES
--  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
5A'                                      T. A'/                                                                                                                                                                                                        I                 54-
t >'\9nal > _; , Turov MotySrgi                                                                                                                                              ; 5 0 15KtMT.
Ch,m    Vokoy                    Clni                *uc    ,J>                                                                 2>   %                                                         FED_oilsn  oipl,-hoEoR ATIrdEON&G
T.U  K  R  A  I N   E                                                                                                                  <<7                                   any /udgmt on the bgni seh of nny brrltOry. or any dors Ko
'N'o 24-  Reo-                             28-                                       S-       S7 I;2-                                                                   A      EPfEMRR N
j")~ ~~~~~N
O~~~~~~~~~ipc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ic~~~~~~5
ToSoony'                                                                            U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e'1   TU.iKTMPlE
-52'  T. 8'.1.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 52-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UK A N   n,,d~"o n  eeol5.0,o 0 MrIry ran  oo,5no
4'          26'                                       SB'                                                                                32'                                        34'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'gi,
50   loo             150 KILOMESRTEMRSR19









iMAGING
R eport No.:         16586
T ype:     ICR



