Documt of
The World Bank
FOR OMICLAL USE ONLY
Repot No. P-6093-BY
MEMORANDUMt AND RECOMMENDATION
OF TEE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNTONL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVEILOP T
TO Til
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT E3QUIVALENT TO US$8.3 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BELAIUS
FOR AN
INSTITTOIION BUILDING PROJECT
JULY 14, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: P- 6093 BY
Type: PR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Ruble (R)
EXCHANGE, RATZS: RUBLES PER $
(End of Period)
December    1991         169.2
June         1992        144.0
December    1992         400.0
January      1993        528.0
April        1993        850.0
G    AND MRASURES
Metric system
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMC   -    Ani-Monopoly Committee
AMU   -    Aid M gem             Unit
CG      -    Consultative Group
FSR     -    Former Soviet Republic
FSU     -    Former Soviet Union
GKI    -    Commime for the Mnagement of State Property
ICB     -    Internaional Competitive Bidding
ILO     -    Intenational Labt,r Organization
MOF   -    Ministry of Finance
NBB    -    National Bank of Belarus
PMU    -    Project Managemem Unit
SOE    -    Stae-Owned Enterprise
STI    -    State Tax Inspectorate
TIN     -    Taxpayer Identification Number
BE^A.RUSSIAN FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
-3 -
REII[C OX BEIARUS
DINTITJlON lBMUDlAlN  ERQIE
I-an and BMWJiot S==ar
Borrower:                  Government of the Republic of Belarus
Loan Amou:                 US$8,300,000
Ten$:                       Fifteen years, including a five year grace period, at the IBRD standad
variable interest rate
Proie clQwewves:           Assist the Govenment of Belarus to stengthen the insitutional basis
for economic reform through institudon building programs in four
finctional areas: (a) resource mobilization and econo   mc,
(b) enterprise reform, (c) banking sector reform, and (d) social sector
reform
-mming Pi":                       Local                Foreign               ot
-(-US lJSS '000) -(US$
Government                  2,145                 -                   2,145
IBRD                         -                    8,300               8,300
Parallel fin.                -                    7,588               7,588
TOTAL:                     $2,145               $15,888              $18,033
Efonmic Rate of Rdurq:   Not applicable
over  Cateo:               Not applicable
staff AopraSl Reod rt:     Not applicable
Nao:                       I1RD No. 24768
This document has a restricted distribudon and may be used by recipients only in the performance
o of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-5-
MEMORANDUM OF RECOMMENDATION OF TH PRESDENT
OF THE INTRNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSRUCION AND DEVELPMENT
TO TME EXIICUIE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE RIBLIC OF BELARUS
POR M MMMMUIG 
1.           I submit for your approval the followig memoraum and recom ndation on a
proposed loan to the Republic of Bdams for the equivalent of US$8 300,000 to help fiance instition
building acdvities. Thb is the Bank's first lending operation in Belas. The loan would be at the
IBRD's standard variable interest rate repayable over 15 yea including a grace perid of five years.
2.             a o      . Formal cont    between the World Bank and the Republic of Belarus
(hereinafter referred to as Belarus) begnm in February 1992, and the countryjoined the IBRD, IFC, and
MIGA  in July 1992.  An economic report entied "Republic of Bdaru: Country Economic
Memorandum" (Report No. 11349-BY) was distributed to the Board on May 14, 1993.
3.           In the days of dt former Soviet Union (PSU), Bdars ejoyed a trade surplus, a budget
surplus, and a relatdvy high standard of living. Wih a rativly ho n     populon of about 10.3
mllion (a       y  78 pct ethnic Belanrsa ), one of the highet  DPs per capita among hmr
Soviet Republics (FSRs) (estimated at US$3,110 in 1991), and a highly educad population (close to
100 percent litacy), Belas has also so far been spared etmic tensions and social diruptons.
4.           Prior to the breakup of the Soviet Union, the economy of Belarus was considered tho
"assembly line of the Soviet Union." Although Bas   had few natural resources of its own, the
economy was orented toward industry, which accounted for 40 percet of GDP in 1990.    n
industry mported 90 pecnt of its prmuy enrg ad 70 prcent of its raw materials from odter PSFs
and exported to them about 40 prcen of its iusti out
5.           Bearus delared its indepedence in August 1991 altough it has not been eager to sever
its economic and culurl links with Russia. Owing to the high degree of Intradon, the dissoluton of
the Soviet Union was a major shock to the economy of Belam. Begnning in 1991, the demad by the
other FSRs for Belarus' main exports of mility and ote industrial goods was sharply curailed, as was
the supply of enery and raw materials from other FSRs. Also, durig ths time the import prices of
hese commoditi were considerably increased, although they remaned well below world levels. After
contracting only slightiy in 1991, GDP declined more sharply in 1992, by some 10 percent At the same
tme, ifion measured by the Retail Price Index, mostly imported from Russia in the first half of 19
and sbsequently fed domesticaily by credit expansion to sowned enterprises, averaged over 1,000
6.           In 1992 the Govemment started to implement some measures of structura reform and
macroenomic stabilization to make a transitionto a market-based economy. Its stated strateW has been
to move graduaily: in that way, the Government believes, the transition would take place with the least
amount of dismption and hardship for the population. The Supreme Soviet (Parliament) has already
approved a number of market-oriented measures, including a privatization law, an anti-monopoly law,
a company law, and a bankruptcy law. For 1993, the Government's reform program envisages the



-6-
introduction of land reform (the law is slated for discussion in the current session of the Supreme Soviet)
as well as full price liberalization - with the exception of prices for bread and milk products, energy,
housing, public utilities, and public transporIion. Even though in a number of cases futher enabling
regulations are required to implent the changes in the legislative strucure, these actions demonstate
te Governmen's commitment to imlement the reforms.
7.          Tme   Stitional Sttig  d Govenment Sttey  for Imttional Devlopmmt.
The Government has embarked on policy and institutional reforms to establish a market econory.
Notwitstnm ding the high skill levels in Belarus, the Government has limited capacity within the public
*  administration to design, implement, and monitor these refoxs. At the sam time, the enterprse sector
is pimarily stae owned, the baking sector is dominated by state-controlled speciad ban, aconti
md aditint pracdies are iadequt by itrnationa standads, sociad sector policies are not suitable for
a market economy, and enernal trade remains highly state controlled.
8.           Belarus' transition to a narket eonomy will require depxmed stntctural change in the
enterpnse sector, the stengthening of econowic management, and improved resource mobilizadon. To
assist in this effort, the Govenment has iequested the World Ban's support in terms of program
developn  and financial resources, and for assistance in securing grant resoues. The proposed
lnstiution Building Project is in response to that request.
9.           Thi operaton focuses on those sectors that are essential to building the foundation for
furter reforms - those that directly affect Govermet f c  an those that are neceary to structal
reforms. The project would focus on the following four prority areas: (i) resource mobilization and
economic  _)t,    t eauprise reform, (iii) banking sector refom  and (iv) social sector refom
10.         Resource Moza4on and Economic Managment. Ta Ad sion: Under the
fmer centrally planned system, tax administion was relatively predictable in that state enteprises and
other stat agencies fonned the bulk of the tax base both directly and through provding stae
employment to the majority of indvidua taxpay. Forms of tatn   also were fily simple in the
demand on tax       _    , and chagd infruenty. Tis envionment is begining to chag
rapidly, as new pvate and cooperatve enteprie come into beig, ste enterprs  are prhvatd or
restuctured, and the rate of self-employme  by individuals grows -  . The Govement
recognizes that it will have to adopt taxation and tax administrm on policies appropria to a much more
diversified, market-oriented economy, in which ownership rghts, commercial activides, and tpsm
individual income are far more dfferntated than in the pat.   r nq: In the fimer centrally pl
systm, budget execution and ihe management of Govenm    expenditur took place through multiple
bank accounts in the ceral bank, with the budget being largely a financial appendix of the plan. Not
only did this arrangemernt make budget management cumbersome, it also deprved Governmet of the
budget as a tool of macroeconomic management. Most important, it gave Government very litle
effective oversight of day-to-day budget operations, while leaving large balances of Government money
unused and uncompensatd in the multiple bank accounts. The Government has decided to establish a
modern Treasury for Belarus which will consolidate currendy idle Government balances with the banks
into a single Treasury account with the National Bank and will provide integrated management of the
expenditure of all budget-dependent agencies and extrabudgetary funds.  Aid Mag=M: Mm
Government of Belarus is expecting considerable inflows of extenal grants and loans to support the
economic reforms and the restructuring of the economy. The mobilization and effective utilization of
these resources will depend upon the domestic ability to coordinate the various extrnal resources, to



-7-
match them with the priority needs of the Republic, and to maintain an in-depth knowledge of the
administrative, financial, and procurement procedures of the various aid agencies.
11.          Emewprise Reform. At present state-owned enterprises (SOEs) account for over 80
percent of industrial output in Belarus. The Private sector is little developed, and faces obstacles in the
areas of regulation, facilities, and expeience, as well as a highly integrated and monopoly-douiinated
business environment inherited from the past. The Governmets intenon is to broaden the scope foi
private sector developmt through a combination of liberalization, continuing privazation, and selective
action to break up state monopolies which most severely inhibit private entprise growth. A privatization
agency (GKI) has been in existence since Januay 1991 and an Anti-Monopoly Commite (AMC) since
the summer of 1992. Basic pratizion and anti-monopoly legiation was approved by the Parliament
in November 1992. However, the legislative, methodological, and regulatory framework needs to be
developed for privatization and demonopolization to be efectively implemented. About 40 medium-size
enrprises were privatized in 1992 under the authority of a temporay decree, and there are plans to
privatize approxaely 150 more in 1993. Small-scale priatzation has effectively not begun owing to
lack of detailed methodology and unclear propety and ownership rights. The Governnmnt ne-'s
assistace to prove facilitis and entry conditions for new private enteies and to review the cure
laws and develop further legislation for eficive privatzation and deopolizi ion, to develop methods
for imp         small-scale pnvatizadon in selected cities; and to design and implement a mass
prvatizaon pro.  I anti-mopoly policy the Govenment's objective is to pl  partiua
emphasis on trading monopolies, to  sure that non-natural monopoly enterprises are not privaized with
their monopolies intact, and to ensur that a legal and institutional framework is in place to contr anti-
competiive behavior. The AMC staff needs training m these areas, as well assistance in setting up
infonnaion systems and in developing a mediodology for demonopolization.
12.         Banlang Sector R*nn. Currently, the banking system in Belarus comprises the National
Bank of Belarus NBB), the state-owned Savings Bank (Sberbank), with over 3,000 branches and some
16,000 employee, and a totl of 28 other banking indsuti  as well as one staewned insua
compay. Newly established private commercW bnk have a limited network and a naow but r
eMteprise deposi base. Sbrbak is the largest mobilizer of financial resources in. tbe ecoomy.
Financial insdtuions in Belarus, as in other cerally plarned economies, played a passive role in the
execution of a credit plan that supported implemenion of the national development plan  As marka-
oriend reforms are introduced, the financial system becomes more decentralized and financial
institudons and enterprises take on a more autnomous and fnacially accountable role. The fiancial
isuions of the Republic of Bdarw, including the NBB, are ill-prepared for this new enviromnent, as
they are financially weak and have inadequate capacity. The adoption of a macroecnomic stabilization
program in the country would fiurer reduce the present level of NBB support to commercil banks,
exposing serious solvency problems in the state enteprise sector. As a result, banks could well &fce
insolvency with practically no loan loss provisions and a small equity base. Although institduonal
refbrms in the financial sector are likely to be ineffective without long-term macroeconomic stability, they
need to be initiated with some urgency, particularly to improve the basis of financial accounting standards
and practices, to improve banking supervision capacity, and to train Belarus bankers and accountants in
a new system compatible with international practices.
13.         Social Sector Reform. In 1992 public expenditures for education, health, social security
and welfare, employment programs, and consumer price subsidies amounted to 79 percent of total public
spending and 39 percent of GDP - high by international standards. About one-third of this total
corresponds to social security and welfare - that is, to the payment of cash benefits to a large proportion



-8-
of the population. Beneficiaries include 2.5 million pensioners (elderly, invalids, disabled) and about 2.9
million children. Their total number is approximaely equal to the size of the labor force.
14.          Since the breakup of the Soviet Union, and as the country has initiated its slow economic
transition, the difficulties of financing social programs have increased. These difficulties stem from the
shrinking reveume base and the fc that susuiablity and efficiency have not been taken into account in
the design of some of the fiscal programs, in pardcular social security and welfare. Also, the emergence
of unemployment, though stfll limited, has led to new finncig requirements to pay for unemployment
benefits and employment progrms. In short, the existing system of social protection no longer
coresponds to the needs of an economy in transition, and there is now incas   concern about the
eergenc of povrty groups and about the socia costs .,f labor reallocation.
1S.          Refoming the social proection sysm  is esential to ru-establish balance in the fiscal
accounts and to respond to the needs of an economy in transition, though the sequence of changes wil
need to be carefully atuned to the Govemet's fiscal posion and to the packge of economic change.
Given financi constraints, resources will have to be focused on those who suffer most during the
transition. the umployed, low income fwiiies, elderly persons, and marginal groups. ITh  ni
system needs to be reformed to make it fiscally sound, insuace and assistae finctc  will have to
be separated, and eligibility and benefit levels will need to be tailorod to fical capacity. As the economic
restctn  akes ple, it wfll be esential to crae a labor maket   en       improves  fi
in the labor market a4 facitates the development of privae sector acvities.
16.          Banks Rol and Shrat. Ie World Bank's priority is to assist Belarus in its
trnsition to a moden market-baed economy through a three-rged approach: (i) support *-  policy
reforms aimed at accelerati  te transition to a market economy; (ii) support for ional
dwlopment appropriate to enmrgng market conditions and the chan    role of the state; and (ii)
support for the reform of the economy's structur to enable entpises and housebolds to respond
efciely to the new eT Ihe proposed operation fits into that stratW. The ptoject wou
stngthen the G omes abilit to desig and implement neoded refm, would stegthn  th
constuDey for refoms with the Republic, and would serve to engag the  a o    in a conre@t
relainhip with the Bank on prority actvites. During the projec prepation, the Bank staff worked
with the Govemet to identify priority technic  asitne actvts needed in the nea tm for th
design and impltion of market refoms, and to begin the process of secuing and coordinating the
ncessay donor support. For this purpose, a donors' meeting wa3 sponsored by the Bank on May 24,
1993, to help identify fincing for priority technical assistance acdvides.
17.          Project Description. The following are the priority areas on which the project would
focus.
(1)          Resource Mob,alon and Economnc Magement (US$4.4 million).
(a) Tax Admmioion. Technical assistance is needed to help the Governent design the
moderization program, the computerzation of tax offices, software development, and the
training of State Tax Inspectorate (STI) staff. The project is proceeding in tn 3 phases. A pilot
project for the modenization and computerization of the STI and Minsk City Inspectorate is
under way and is due to be completed by the end of 1993. The second phase, extending to the
second quarter of 1995, will introduce computerization, training, and associated services to all
six oblasts of Belarus. The tax administration is currently receiving assistamce from both the Be



-9-
and the European Community: the IMF is providing a tax adviser to help design the program and
it implementson details and the European Community is providing funding for the first stage
of the computerization program and the trainig of tax inspectorate officias. The propo
World Bank projet will support the com rion in both phases.
O) reaswy. Te Goverment has decided to establish a modern Treasury for Beaus which
will establish better expendure managemen, consolidate curty idle Goverment blanes
with the banks into a single Treasury account with the NBB, and ultimately put in place a modern
and inegated system of Govemment expenditure and debt mageom. The Miisty of
Finan  has received consierable emhnical assitn  from the IMP for th undeang, nd the
Fund has made avaiable both resid  and short-tem experts to over  the inidal work. I
Bank project will finace the first two of three phases of the coMPurization of the Tresory.
In th first phase, through calendar year 1993, the main feu   of the nw system will be put
in plce and cetral compurIton will be completed. In the second phs, operational by
1995, the Treasury Divisions at oblast levels wiUl be established. TIe IMP will contimie tso
provide advisory assistae, traing, and ancillary equipment. Subsequenty, in the third phare,
the oblast level aies will be intgted into a computezed national system.
(c) Aid  awmm. The Govenmn has vrey limitetd  p n  in dedaig with exmtal aid
agencies. Ter are practcally no projec prepaion and evaluat  skils and no prewib
exposure to          procurement procedures among the Government staff. Only a limited
number of the Governmt stiff have foreign languas  skill. In order to mobilize and
effecively utilize external ad resources the Government has fonned a new departmen under the
Council of Minsters, called the Departaent for Relation  with Iternatona  7mincial
io       s  herft  reerred to as Aid Mana t Unit or AMU), charteed to provide
the aid coordinadon fiction. This project component would strengthen the cacity of this
department, throug  tainig and equpme  for project prepaion, thugh evalution and
ffici  allocaton of extenal aid rources, and for complianc with donors' p nt and
reporgtingeuiem. he staff of the Del  visit similar u    in odter countrie to
learn from their experince, in-country trag will. be conducted in various aid m
reated topics, and data bases wil be set up to asist the Goverment staff In monhoriag extra
aid.
(11)         Enteqrnp*e Refonn (JS$6.9 milion).
(d) Supportfor Priwizaton. This componen will provide support to the GKI in the design of
privatization regulations, methodologies, and procedures, in the inition of the privaizatin
process, and in the building of capacity for impleme Tion. The project will finnce (i) lawyers,
accountants, and corporate finance specialists to assist the GKI in the preparation of action
programs for privaization and in the initW stages of implemention; (ii) experts to design and
implement small-scale privatization in selected cities; (ii) eperts to design a mass privatization
program for medium and large enterprises; (iv) experts in invtment fun managemen and
securities markets to prepare for the creation and operation of investment funds; (v) equipment
and training for GKI staff; and (vi) the development of a public a.wareness campaign in the mass
media to secure widespread public understanding of and support for the privatization process, and
for private sector development in a broader sense. The project includes provision for the World
Bank to review and discuss the draft frameworks before the final enactment of the legal and
regulatory framework.



- 10-
(e) Spportfor And-Monopoly Measures. This component will build the capacity of the AMC to
implement anti-monopoly and pro-competition measures in order to enlarge the opportunities for
small and medium-size private businesses to become established. The project will finance experts
to work with the AMC to (i) identify existing monopolies which are priority candidates for pro-
competition action; (ii) develop action plans and inidate the breakup, leasing, and/or sale of asset
cf selected monopolies; (iii) train AMC staff, including the provision of twinninv arn
and study tours with similar agencies in other countries; (iv) provide computers and other office
equipment for AMC staff; and (v) assist the AMC in seig up a data base on monopoly
entrprises. The project includes provision for the World Bank to review and discuss draft action
plans before implementtion.
(t) Pivuae Sector Dewlopmen. This component will support meaS    to encourage the
development of the newly emerging privat sector in Belarus by simplifyig the reguatory
framework govarning the creation and operaion of private businesses, and by hel*ing to promote
access for small busineses to some basic infrstructre which at present is difficult to obtain.
The project will support the use of experts to develop specific measures to simplify registtion
and licensing procedures and other measures direly related to small-scale private business such
as stadard lease         and tLe creation of formal consultation mechm     between the
private sector and the Government. In additimi, the compone  will support the creation of offie
parks or businss centers which can act as incubators for smal busies. Ibis component
would involve nasce private sector organizations, such as the Union of Entpreneurs, in
operation with the AMC and local authorities.
,)           Ba    Sector Refowm (US$5.2 million).
(g) Strengthening of the BanAing Sector. The NBB and the banking sector generally are in need
of substanti assistace to cope with the new demands on the financial system  The proposed
project will focus on building human capital trugh training courses and twinning a
with European bank, to provide a basis for the more extnsive reforms which will ultiely be
required. This compon    wdil provide training, equipment, and ote assistance for the
development of modern accounting practices and will sbtengthen bankn supervisio  in the NBB,
and the financial planning, risk assessment, and the introduction of new savings   stumens in
the commercial banks. High priority wiUl be given to the rapid adoption by all fiacial
instiutions of the Broadly Adapted Financial Stement and, at a later stage, a new and improved
"Chbart of Accounts." The project will be coordinated with the EC-TACIS program and will also
fuiance diagnostic studies, equipment, and twinning arrangements in the Savings Bank, and in
one commercial bank with the objective of improving all areas of banking operations.
(IV)          SociaS Sector Refonr (US$0.9 million). This project will focus on selected urgent
needs with the objective of laying the groundwork for more extensive reforms which could subsequently
be supported by other Bank operations and external ;ources.
(h) Socal Safety Net. This component would provide expert assistace to (i) review alternative
methods for identifying the most vulnerable groups; (ii) assess the quality of existing data sources
and recommend modifications; (iii) train Government staff to monitor poverty and to improve
organizational structure, administrative procedures, and effective delivery methods; and (iv) assist
in the prparation of legislation and implementation norms for social assistance programs which
focus social assistance on the highest priority groups consistently with sound fiscal management.



- 11 -
(i) Pension System Refobrm This project component will (i) provide training in social security
policy and  ministraonto a team of about 10 staff who would constitute a policy advisory unit
under the Ministry of Social Security; (ii) support this team in the preparation of a pension
reform plan; and (iii) provide advice on redesigning procedures and modernizing the pension
admiistration with a view to developing a personalized system of social insuance and conducting
pilot implementation.
0) Labar Leslaion. 'he Government has inidated several measures, as yet incomplete, to
revise labor legislation and ntroduce greater flexibility in the functioning of the labor madtL
The project will provide tecnical assiste to improve awaens and knowledge of labor
legislaon in differe  coumis and of the impact, implementalon, and enfrcment of labor
codes; to complete the revision of exisng Belrus laws; and to prepare a draft new Labor Code
and  g     .
Qk) Stregnng ofLabor Offlces. The registration of unemployed, the listing of job vacacies,
the calculation of benefit entitements, notification to banks of unemployment and other payments
to be made, and other such functions are caried out through Gove     labor offices. ibis
range of fimctions is in addition to the placement of most job-seeks (who are mainly stmi
moving among state entepis  ratber thwa to te small private sector). The Government has
lready inated               of its labor offices, to imptove labor marelt monuoring and
unemployment sevices.  Th  projec componn will (1) review the status of exst
on; Ci) prepare psans for the development of a communicaidons system between the
cetral and local labor offices and between labor offices and the social security administration;
and Oii) provide computes and computer-related training to staff in sdected labor/socia offices
in major industrial center.
18.                   nA Project implementation would extend over a threyear peiod.
Because each of the Rrr wn empoumb is Xt resosiblity of a difhe   Gnt      m inistry or
agecy, and because the Gover:mw  at luag is unddfir with enal aid ageWies, a strong cena
coorinatio unt is requred to poxsd an overvw and      _         of the overal project. For ths
purpose, the Govement has estblished a Project M   e        Unit (PMU) under the Minstry of
Finance to coordinate and oversee all the activties of the project Its responsibilities would include
mani  project finaning, including the specal acount, and donor loan and/or grant accounts. It
would ensure that loan and grant funds are dibursed for the purposes intended, that appropriate
proceme  procedures are followed, and that accouns, audits, and implemeaon statu reports are
prepared in accordance with an agreed timetable.
19.          Terms of reference for the PMU were agreed upon durmg project preparation, and were
confirmed at negotiations. The Head of the PMU, acceptable to the Bank, has been appointed and
staffing of its thee key staff (Procurement, Disbursement, and Accounting Experts) would be a condkion
for the effectiveness of the loan. To ensure close monitoring by eacn beneficiary agency of its
component(s), a working group for each component has been establisLed in the respective beneficay
agency. In addition, an internationally recruited procurement and disbursement agent would be retained
by the PMU, initially resident in Minsk for a three-month period on a fill-time basis, and then available
on call over the life of the project.



-12 -
20.          A Steering Committee, headed by the First Deputy Minister of Finance and including
senior officials from beneficiary agencies, has been appointed by the Government to function as the policy
and advisory committee for the project.
21.          To the extem possible, the administive burden on Government staff, both in managing
and in implemeting this project, has been minimized. First, only priority activities are included.
Second, through the frmework provided by this project, the Government has already strengthened its
insdmtions and proceses for mobilizing supo  for its priorty insdttution building acvities. lbird,
coordination vis-i-vis donor agencies and international experts would be improved. The IMP and the
European Commwtty (EC) have aleady  ree to support a number of the Intiution building actvie
with finanid and/or tical asdsa, whRie the EBlD and several bilateral donors have idicted
ntest in supportng the project's activities. Also, organizations such as the Ameican Bar Assocation
are considering providiAg support under the auspices of this project. Fourth, the operation would be
packaged Into as few conrac  as possible, and help would be given to the PMU in equipmgn
specificaions, contacdng, procuement, and disbursement. This transfer of tecunicd and admin e
know-how would also imcrease the Govenme's capacity to ary out these activities on a more
peranet basis.
22.          The project will be cari  out at a tota cost of $18 million equivalen  The proposed
loan, toehe with grn  frm other donor, would finance 100 peret of the foreig excag cos.
A breakdown of costs and the fiacing plan is shown in Schedule A. Amous and methods of
procurement and of disbu _ ae shown in Schedule B. A dmetable of key project processing even
is given in Schedule C. More diled informato on the project is provided in the Technical Annex
A summary of key project actvites and more deiled project cost esties are given in tables and
anachments to the Technical Annex. A map is also atached.
23.          Lesw   from Prvm Book IwoVeneLt. There is no past project experienc in
Belarus. Te proposed loan incoporates the exprience gained from institutional development projct
in other outies, which points to two main pre-conditions for succesa_   implfoni   the
Govenment's           at the highe level to fte overall project objectives; and th involvemat of
tX affcted Governme  agencies In the projeat deign. These lesons hve bee incorporated io this
project during project preaion    _      vas reaced with te Govement at the highest levels on
the project's concept and the choice of components. In addition, the components themselves wer
prepared in close coopeaion with the beneficiary agencies.  To reiforce the Governent's
implementation arrangements for the project, a project launh workshop will be conducted soon after loan
effectiveness, targeted toward designated senior staff of the bemficiary agencies and ministres.
24.          Favironmeal Aspects. As this project is not expected to have any significan negative
environmental impacts, it has been placed in category C for the purposes of OD 4.01 on Environmeal
Assessment and does not require an emnironmental assessment. Special environmental problems will be
highlighted in the review of enterprise reforms, and in the preparation of large-scale enueprises for
privatization. In recognition of the importance of clarifying environmental liability in the process of large
privaization, assistance will be provided to help the Government design a strategy for addressing this
issue.
25.          Program Objectives. The project is under Public Sector Management (PB) category of
the program objective table.



13 -
26.          Actions Agreed. The Governmt confirmed its agreeme  with the project specifics and
implementation arrangements during the preparatiun mission and reconfirmed it during the pre-CG
meeting. During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following: (i) a detailed financing plan
including parallel finacing from other multilateral and bilateral sources; (Hi) terms of referec for
project activities; (iii) terms of refece for the PMU; and (d) that the PMU staffing will be completed
prior to the loan effectiveness; (iv) that the Governmen will provide the late audit repouts of two loca
banks for the World Bank to consider for opening the Specia Account; and (v) that th Special Account
will be established before Stptember 1, 1993.
27.          Benefis and Riks. The proposed project would: (i) strngthen the adminisve
capacity of the Goverment to design and implement successfud reform measures; (Ii) establish a concret
relationship between the Bank and the Government thd would serve as a vehicle for finrher dialogue for
future operaiows; (il) assist the Goverment in identifyng prioritis and estblishing a frmework for
coordiating financial and tenical assisnce to Belarus; and (iv) through twining arangemen between
the local insitutions and foreign expert, transfr technical knowhow rapidly and efficiendy.
28.    h main risks in the project are possible implem atn  difficultes becase of the Gcvernm
agncien' unfamiliarity with the inteational institutions. In order to minimize this risk, substantial
supervision, 47 SW for the duration of the project and lind resident assignments by World Bank staff,
is planmed for this operaion. Also, the Government staff wiUl undergo extensive project implemation
traning including on-site assistae from an innationl pmemm  age   Credworhness is not a
major concern because of the currently low external debt of Belarus and is furher reduced by keeping
the loan small, aacting paralel fiacing on a grant basis, and ensuring Ihat the project direcdy
supportspriority activities,includingtheGovernment'sresourceemobilizationefforts. Absorptivecapacity
questons are being addressed through training and twimi ng arrangements for a number of components.
29.                    datio. I am satisfied that the proposed loan wou- i comply with the Artiles
of Agreem      of the Bank and re ndthae the Executive Directrs approve it.
Lewis T. Pston
President
by Ernest Stern
Atachments
Washington, D.C.
July 14, 1993



-14-
SchedEl A
REU, BOF -BQILARIUS
_doaedQoo C P
1. Reole  obizton
Tax Aditsin630                                       1,928         2SS8
Es MbisMe of Treasury                   175        1,300         1,475
Aid Cooriaion                              30          38S           415
2. eaurs Rd==r
Support for  Ptwizd                       Sf0        4,190         4,740
ADti-ft wplOOy Refom                                 1,340         1,340
Private Sector Dovdopmen                  20X00g
3. Banking Sector lRefor                         560        4,675        5,235
4. SGa See   eor                                               0            0
Govenmam                                 2,145                     2,145
IBRD                                                 8,300         8,300
D"                                      ~~~~~~~640     640
EC                                                   3,308         3,308
EBRD                                                   780           780
Bi-lateral Donors                                    2,860         2,860
TOTAL I5NANCING PLAN                     2,145      15,888        18,033



- 15 -
Schedule B
page 1 of 3
BERUN OFUILA511S
Catqr7                     XCI    Other         NIS       Totai
($'000)
1.     Computers and other
equiPM                       1,870    1,075b       540       3,485
2.     Consulta  and
other Technical
Assistane
2.1 Expert                             4,735      3,468      8,203
2.2 Training                            620       3,585      4,205
Totl                         1,870     6,430      7,593    15,893
Non-Bak financed (cofinancim and Gov_nn.it)
b ITntoati  ouhpping ($1,010,000), local shopping ($6S,0M0)



- 16-
page 2 of 3
!NSlTl7FlONM ISULlING LOAN
MD Didb4oi
Ctegory                                 Amnt   % of  q          _edie to be   r
Consultants, studies,                      4,850   100% of foreign expenditres
tWainig, and other
Technical Assistanc
Computers, software,                       2,880   100% of fin  expaenitur  and
and mateials                           ex-fictory costs of local
expenditres, & 75% of otr local
expenditure
Unallocated                                  570
Total                                     $,0
-US$'000~
Annual                     2,550        3,100         2,500          150
Cumulative                 2,550        5,650         8,150        8,300



- 17-
page 3 of 3
|C[,Zx
s eAnal C     _ukactuu and Othe Payna
(US$18,033,000)
Prject Year
Total
Project Element                 1         2         3       4   Panmi           Rmarks
Signing and Effetivee        Aug.93
closing                      Aug. 96
s&ocurm=t (US$ '000)
1. Consuiny & Training
a. Reso,e Mobizaton           400        600      303    50      1,353      Bank Guide
and Eonmic Magemet
b. Entpi Refomt              2,780     2,150      750    50      5,730
c. Banking Reform            2,050     1,300     1,460    40     4,850
d. Social SectorReform        350        120        0              470
2. Computers & Other         2,525      9,60        0            3,485         ICB/IS/LS
Equipment
700      1000      435    10      2,145
Local Cost Contribution
Totals                       8,805     6,130    2,948   150    18,033
a Procurmet under parallel fancing wll use donor aecies' procurement procedures.



-18-
&cheSe C
JNION IBUILIG (A
(a)    limo tes to par:                             6
(b)    Prepaed by:                                  Gavanment wit World Bank
assistanc
(c)    FirstBD mssion                               Februay 8, 1993
(d)    Appaial:                                    JTue 30, 1993
(e)    Noeowo                                      Jutly 6, 1993
(f)    Schduled Board datl:                         Augst 3, 1993
(g)    Planed date of ef fctiveaiea                 August 30, 1993
(h)    list of rolvant PCRs and PPARs:              Not applicable.



- 19 -
Schdo" P
RUEBU ZO&FKIRUS
INSruON IMUMlG LA
SMUUJOf as& ft= gdffBAInI teimblcOf mmnn
A.XN  OF BANK6 LOAS
As of July 1, 1993, Baok leaig to Xt Republic of BDela  had not yet commenced
B A STAToy OF D e abE
As of My 1, 1993, t=had i not been ally IFC investm ill th Repubfic of BdJa



BIBB" OF BELARUS
INSTrTZON-BU           QJE PROJICT
Tedmcal An=e
(A) PROJECT DESCITON
1.           hbis Insition Building Project would help the Belams Govemen in four critical areas
for its fitre dvelopm : (a) rource mobizaion and econoiuc mmangmet; (b) enepr  refm;
(c) bai  sector reform; and (d) scia so" reform   he projet would pride for advisory sees,
stdies, tg, and equiment to stengthen th public sector cacity to design and impleime  maket
reforms.  Imple tatioD  woud be spread over a three-year period.  The total project cost is
$18,033,000, of which the IBRD loan would be $8,300,000.
PART ONE: RESOC MOLATION AND ECONOMIC MANAGKNT
1.    Tax               (US$2,558.00
2.           Th  Govemmnt recogniz  the need to modify the curet tax polie  and ta
Aministraion appropriate to a diversified, markt-oriented economy, in which own i rihts,
commercl actives, and tpes of  dil income are much more dthan in the pat
Steps have already been aken toward modenizing the ta  sytem, with respect t the composion of
te  (e.g., the inoduction of a value-added tax) and the beginig of the modernation and
< _    of Bdagos' Sta  Tax  Inqxx o (ST1).  The intention is to comple  the
_11.  o£ta    a      _ab       dBears withn the nox two to thre ya  to proid
a flexible and atcm base for the  _t of fiscal policy. This Wi  include tho 
a Tapa   Id      aon Number (IN) to each tpayer ad the auomato of h bsic pmce    Of
tax    s       -d coll To his         1     program is desged to proceed para    with the
establshment of a Treasry system for the expenditur side of stae finac.
3.            Is componen of the project is proceed    in two phase.  A pflot project for
modernization and   nnp o  of the STI and the Minsk City Inspectorate, supported by the IP
and the EC as specified below, is under way, and is due to be completed by the end of 1993. This stage
will provide the BeJa authoriies with a modenid central base of taxpayer infonation and
computerized procsing as the foundation for a flexible nationwide tax administration. It will also
provide a pilot expeden  in the City of Minsk of what is required to extnd modern tax adminIstration
to the local level, and will inegra this with the fmnctions of the STI. In a second phase, ext     at
least to the second quarter of 1995, computrizaton, traiing, and associated services would be ende
to all six oblast of Belarus.
4.           Technical assistance is required to Lelp the Govenmen design the moIion
program, including assignment of TINs, computerization of tax offices, software development, and the
training of STI staff. The tax adminstration project is currently receiving assistance from the BE and
the European Community. The IMF (Fixcal Affairs Department) is providing a tax adviser, periodically



-21 -
resident in Minsk, to help desig the Imple on program and specifications for the project. The
IMF is also providing short-term experts for software development esseal to the implementation of the
pilot project, and a residet long-tm expert to improve the tax adminiation services. The Europea
Community is providing approxinly $550,000 for the fr stage of the computerizaion program,
including exetse in the pwcurtem  of hardware and software, the computer equipment, and the
traing of STI officias. Te Goverment of Belarus is financing approxim-'Iy $630,000 worth of
computer aqu on, insa on services,                       , and ancillary servics frm is ow
resources. Th Wodd Bank project will provide computs   andaiy equipment of a
$1.2 million for the second phase of the meniatio program,  ending coputat  beyond the
piot phase to all oblast of Belarus and establisig the basi  work for an intgrated system. It was
agree during the negoton ta if the funig fom the EC goe ddayed for the fis phase, he Bank
fimds  ill be used to hitiate the   o    m the pilot phase. The EC fimdingwll sub_y
be used durig the second phao.
2.                 .f d  the Tresuy (JS$1,475,000)
5.           le Ministry of Finance has been workng closely with the IMP on the concepion and
dailed design of the Treasury system, and has received a considerable amount of  W  tecnial
assist    for that purpose. Th SW Intends to extend tat t  mainly in the form of shoct-tnm
and resident advi, alo  with staff vist fom IP               ho         the  c    of
Treasury projecL   ie Bak project wil finc the                which is at the heat of the
implementatn of the Trary, in two stages. In the fist stg,  tough the end of 1993, the
managementsstuctur, legal basis, and work plan of the centra (national levd) Treasu    wil be
establibed and controa        *on will be comple.In tis phase, the system would proe   hs
transfr of fimds of the Republic budget from a unfed Treasury account to minitries and to the main
extrudgetay funds, and the subseque  tanse of finds from these enies to the spending unis
subordiated to dtm   Alongsde the cntal Treuy     ishmt in stae 1, a rgoal tre y would
also be set up oa a pilot bads for the City of binsk, widdn the sam tme fram. Stage 2 of dieproject
would involve more extemive msoftware delopment, and traini, to st up
regioa treuries to cover the enot  country. A tird phas, wt curnly suppord by th Bak
project, will setup computer alin between the regional trearies to the central Treauy sysm
3.    Aid              (US$415,000)
6.           The Govenmt has no experience in dealing with inmationa agencies. In order to
mobilize and effectively utflize extenal aid resources the Goverment has decided to the sutge its
capacity tO evalua  extena aid proposals, to match them with the needs of the country, to coordinate
withb various Govemnt agecies in preparing projects for eral aid, and to ensure compliance with
reporig and other requirments of donor agencies. A new depatment has bee created under the
Council of Ministers to perform the aid management fimction, called the Departm  for Reltions with
Inteational Financial Organizations hereiaft  referred to as Aid Management Unit or AMU). The
head of the former Searia for International Economic and Financial Organizations has been promoted
to deputy minister level and will Chair this department. He will bs assisted by five senior level staff,
two junior level staff, and two secraies. Currenty, this department has two staff, besides the Head,
who are proficient in the English language and in dealing with international organizations. Further hiring
is in progress.



-22 -
7.           This project component would stgthen the capacity of the Government staff from this
deparument and from other beneficiary agencies. One in-country training course    international
procurement and disbursemen procedus  will be targetd to representatives of all benficiary agencies
of the technical assistance program to create awareness of the issues involved in this area. This course
will be followed by a two-to-the week intensive hands-on training program for selected staff who would
be responsble for implemeng the Instkiuon Building Program in each beneficiary agen. Staff of
the AMU will also attend short-term courses in aid  _      project preparaton, i- evaluain
methodology. The pr-icureent expert of the AMU wfll participate in a course internatonl
pr ment in Turin, Italy, coducted by the ILO. The project wil finance visits of the AMU staff to
other counti wih simla units for hads-on training. Durng the inia  ages of the prujcst (the to
six months), one Itnatonal            consulta  wil assi the staff of the A"'U (and otr
bencuary Agencies) in conducting the fcdtion while simultaeously buiding local .ascity, and Wi
be available on-call thefter for a period of one yea. Assistae will be promided in seng up
hardware and software for the aid maagement function.
PART TWO:   T P           REFORM (US$M,i)O
8.           At pset the indusa seor of Belarus is dominad by staeowned nterprises (SOBs).
A small bult emerging pzva sector F    obstadorgari  reuatbios And acaem to fciit  and has
no experiene in surviving in a highly  and monoply-dominated busienhd
fom the past. TMe Govenmens Intention is to supot the ddeopment of th privatf sector throg
a combination of liberalization, continuing privataon of SOEs, and seeti  action to break up state
mopolies which mos severdy inhibit priva  enterp     growth.  Th  basic piadzo   and
demonopolization laws have been passed by the Parliament but there is a need to develop fiher enabling
legiation, to prepare and implement a pro-competion action plan to support the emergig privat
sector, to initiate small-scale pratDzation, and to ini   the breakup of non-natura monopolies. As
market reforms am ip enthed kwil also be a need to keep the general puic iormed onIhe
Govenment plns thu  mass media capi. Te project will sor the foowig actvit.
1.     pd           (US$4,740,000)
9.           The Committee for th Management of State Property (GKI) was set up in 1991 as the
isttution responsible for undaking prdfaation in the Republic of Belars.  At present, the
Committee has a staff of about 80, mostly located in headquarts in Mmslc it plans to open its regiona
offices in 1993. To date the GKI has undtaken the development of the privatzaton law and its
implementing regulations (not yet completed), and has assisted the Ministry of Economy in privatizin&
under a temporary dee, 40 medium-size enteprises in 1992. The GKI plans to privatize about 150
more medium-size enterprises in 1993. Privatization of large-scale enterrises has not yet begun
10.          The project will provide support to the GKI and to local city and oblast levels
administations in the design of privasization regulations, medtdologies, and procedures, in the iniation
of he privatization process itself, and in the building of implemention capacity. It will focus on the
following eight areas. (a) There will be three long-term advisers, for one year each, in privatization law
and methodology including a lawyer, an accountant, and a corporate finance specialist, supplemented by
one person-year of short-term specialists as required. (b) A small-scale privadzation coordinator and two
teams of consultants will work on the preparation and implementation of small enterprise auctions in four
cities over a period of 18 months. Using public auctions, these small-scale enterprise privatization



23 -
programs will be implemented at the city level. (c) Three specialists will work for a period of six months
each on the detailed design and initation of the mass privatization program for medium-scale and large-
scale enterprises. A method for widesptead and rapid distribution of shares to the general population will
be incorporated into a bottom-up program. (d) A specialist in investment fund management and a
specalist in securities market wil work for six month each on the design of legislation and methodolo-
gies for the creaion and operation of inm  funds which wvil hold large blocks of shares in the
privatized entprises, and on the creation of a egislative basis and system  for the tradi  of shaes on
the secondary markeL (e) Small teams of cotpora  resucring speciists will work for six peson-
months per team on the pilot privatization of four modiwu- or agscal e enterprises. Tepris
wil be selected to provide . goo de   n    nd  ng of the methodologies seleced for mass
prvatiato  (t) Taining will be prvd for GKI and municipality staff In privratiaon teniqes.
Smnars will lo  be aanged for pariame ians and senor governnt officials. Twnng
arrangements with prton agencies in Eastern European or Russian agencies will be adopted.
Wherever possible, tas of Belassian peonnel will undertae study tous in other countries
implemenng mass and mall-scale privatization programs. (g) A public awareness campaign in the mm
media will be supported to secure widespread public _   of and support for the prWtization
process and to pemit feedback frm the public to ma  an impact on the desig of th progran. (h) Th
program wil provide computers and othr equipment to the  KI heaand ronal offi  and
as to the m    pitis imp nt   pilot smal-cae ent    auctions. A privaizatin da base
will be creed by the   I. Th Govermn h  agreed for the World Bank to reiew draft firamo
befire final enac of th legal and regulatory framework.
2.    Ant-Monopol e          (JS$1,340.000)
11.          Ihe Anti-Monopoly Committe (AMC) was formed in the summet of 1992. Currently
it has a small staff of about 25, all located in Minsk. The AMC intends to open its regional branches
in the near future. Ther is a need to sutengte the capacity of the AMC to develop and implemnnt ni-
12.         Mhe project wfll support the completon of st legislave, regulatory, and
frmework govering the limitation of monopolistic and n ompeti  pe  bdwior. Itl
support the taget  of specific monopolisdtc state  in the trade, trasport, and distribution
sectors for priority breakup. Support will be provided in the following main areas: (a) long-term and
shorterm advisers for a total of two pesson-yea  to help in completing the legal framework*  ,d to
develop the AMCs work program including development of th definition of what constue a T aDJpoly
in the Belaussian context, a list of monopoly entprises conforming to the deition, and theo .elines
on the role of the AMC in the privatizadon process; (b) short-term consultants for a total of 18 person-
months to develop pro-competition action plans and help implement the breakup of selected monopoly
eterprises; (c) training of AMC staff including possible winning aranemens and stdy tours in simila
agencies in other countries; and (d) computers and other office equipment for the AMC and its regional
offices and assistance in the preparation of a data base on monopoly entrprises. The Government has
agreed for the World Bank to review and discuss draft legislative framework and draft action plans before
final enactment and implemention.
3.    Privat Se&or Developmnt (US$800,000)
13.          An important Government objective is to accompany privatization with measures that will
speed up the growth of the private sector. The support will provide a total of 15 months of technical



-24 -
assisae to the AMC and to selected municipalities covering the development and implementation of
specific measures directly aimed at facilitatng small-scale private businesses. Thes measures could
include fiscal measure, the development of standard leases which can act as collateral for credit pending
real estate prvauzaion, and the creation of formal consultation mechanims between the private sector
and the Govement. In additon, the project will support the creation and equipping of business ceters
which can act as incubators for smal busihn . This component will be-implemented by the AMC and,
for ciy level work, by selected municipalities. A steering commitee including rep  of t
Union of        D   and other private sector advocacy organizations will be ceatd to oversee the
activities of this cmp t.
PART TJ IBANKING SECOR REFORM (U5,2000)
14.         lbe banking system in Belar comprises the Natdonal Bank of Belarus (NBB), the state-
owned Saings Bank (Sbebank), with over 3,000 brmches and some 16,000 employees, and a total of
28 other banking institutions as well as one state-owned insurane company. The banking institutions,
other than the NBB and Sberbank, are primarily jointstock banks. Sberbank is the largest mobilizer of
financi resources in the economy. The banking sytem in Beldaus is ill prepared for a market economy
as these   ru     e finaef cail weak and hav limtd cqpacwt o ope ateiyAdo
of a mc _roeconomic stabitionprogram  would firher reduce the presen level of NBB support to these
bab. Ther is an urgent need to im     the, baos of fiani aount  standards and pracic, to
mpov   bakig supevi    capacity, and to tran Ba bankers and acuant in a new system
compatble with in    dond prctdces.
15.          Th project would focus  eneng of the banking setor, including the NIB's
ccountng practi, prdel relaons, and supervisry capacity,1 as well as the overl accounting
standards ad practces of the baoking sector. The prposed assistance will aim to improve the banking
setor's capaciy in financ  planing, risk assessment, savings mobilizaion (tbrough, for exampl, a
wider variety of savin   _     ), development of bst pacc, and developmes of its hum
cIt. Immediate training and sho!rtt   asistan  wi be undertaken to chang accounti  standr
in the bani  scor. Te poject wil focu on the following two broad actve: hih pioriy is gv
to the rapid adoption by all fiaci  nsitut    of e Broadly Adapte Finil Stteme  (BAS)
and, at a later ste, a new and improved "Cbart of Acco" ; and specific asistoae wil be provided
to two categories of banks, each in a differ  segmen of fte finacial markeL (a) Sangs BaS  th
project will finne a diagnostic study, equipmet, and twinnig arangeme  for the Sberbank with the
objective of imprvg all areas of the banking operations and resource mobilization efforts of that bank
(b) One commercial bak a digostic study will be conducted and "twinning" will be arranged for one
commerciWly oriented bank  The objective of this component would be to assist the development of
credible compettors to the large state banks, which would become the most importa pressure for change
and increased efficiency in the provision of financial services in Belarus. Criteria for selection of one
such bank was developed with the Government during the project preparation and agreed upon during
the negotiations.
'I ese activities are being undertken by the IMP.



- 25-
PART FOUR: SOCIAL SECTOR REFORM (US$900,000)
16.          In 1992 public expendirs on education, health, social security and welfare, employment
programs, and consumer price subsidies amounted to 79 percent of total public spending and 39 perceu
of GDP - high by intenional stdards. About one-third of this tal corresponds to social security
and welfare - that is, to the paymnt of cash beneft  to a large proportion of the populaon.
Benefidaies include 2.5 million pensioers (elderly, invalids, disabled) and about 2.9 million children
The financig of these social progra  is uns i      in the long run as market reform  are
implemented, becase of a shrinking revenue base and the fact tha sustainability and efficicy have wot
been taeino account in the desig of some of theso programs. There is an urget need to reform the
soci protection systm so as to re-establish bale inhe fiscal acwcor, and to respond to the needs
of an economy in taition, though the sequenc of changes wfll need to be carefully atned to the
Goverment fial positon and to the packge of economic change. The project will focus on the
following acvities.
1.    Devpm    oTatTdg   fed mSfor odl Asso    Proais (1$90,Ea)
17.          In the face of increan financW constran  and, at the sme time, given the soca
tensions t  further dps in red icme could creae, the Govenmt is now ddemied to drft p
an imcome support policy targeted toward the population gups that would be likely to suffer most ding
the transition. Technical assistance wvll be provided to: (a) review and as    altnativ  methods for
identfying the most vulnerable groups; (b) review and assess the quality of exiting data sources (mainly
the Family Budget Survey, and othe administrativ statistics) and make rsecomm ions fr reqired
changes; (c) develop the insdtutional expertise required for monioring poverty and its causes, and for
cost-evaluaion of altenative programs; (d) advise and train on or onal stnture, administrativ
procedures, and effectiv delivery medhods; and (e) assist in the preparaion of relevant legislation and
implementi on norms for sociW ali o programs.
2.            System PReom (US$250,000)
18.          Pensions and family beneft represent about one-fourth of total socia spending and are
mosly financed by a 40.8 percent payroll tax. Since 1990, spending has been grwing rapidly and the
fincial susainability of the Pension Fund - an        fund used to fiace those benfit - is
in jeopardy (a defcit of about 2 percent of GDP is expected in 1993). In addion, the imple mnad
of the new Pension Law and of numerus piecemeal changes complicated the administration of the
system and put a heavy burden on local offices. Monhly recalculations of befts  owing to indexation
rules are curreny jeopardizing the functioning of exitig strucures. Urgent reforms are thus required
to correct financial disequilibria, to adapt the pesion system to the new marke enviroment, and to
improve administative efficiency. Staff at the Ministry of Social Security have little experdse in social
secuity adnmison in market economies and have limited knowledge of management thniques and
practical admiistrative problems. Technical assistance is required to build up this capacity.
19.          The project will provide the following technal assistance: (a) at the central level, it will
provide training in social security policy and administration to a team of about 10 staff which would
constitute a policy advising unit under the Minister of Social Security; (b) it will support this unit in the
preparation of a pension reform plan; and (c) at the administrative level, it will advise on redesigning



- 26 -
procedures and modernizing the pension administration with a view to developing a personalized system
of social insurance. Assistae would also be provided for a pilot stage of implementation.
3.    Labor Leglation (US$100,000)
20.          Over the last year, the Government of Belarus has iniated a revision of its labor
legislation, intoducing a number of modifications regading hiring and firing practices and thberey
brnging increased flexibility to the functiong of the labor madret.  Wble he  effor are
commendable, several featurmes remain that comespond to the lega structure that prvailed in the past.
Furthermore, several aspects of the legsation, in partcula regarding the role of trade unions, collective
agraemen, labor dispute, labor ispection, and safety regutiod   stil need to be elaorated. 
Government has now decided to prepare a thorough revision of its labor legislation to provide an adequte
framework for the establishment of labor reations in the context of a market economy. Aistn  from
foreign legal xers would be directed to improving awareness and knowledge of labor regulations and
laws in differe  countries and of the impact, Ilemeon, and enforcement of labor codes, and to
completing the rvision of eistig Belarus laws and preparing a draft Labor Code and regulations.
4.                 of Labo Offic  (US$360,000)
21.          Registration of the unemployed, listing of job vacancies, calculaton of benefit
entitements,  tfiion to savings banks of payments to be made, records of employers, workers, and
payroll should all be computerd to improve labor market monitormg and efficiency in services
provided to the unemployed. Social assistance operations might also be covered, sutject to later decisions
regarding the imple  io of such prograM. The systems of penis and other beefit delired
by the social securit offices are also candidat  for computeriion. Close links between the two
systems will be needed both to pass infmation and to avoid duplication of records. The design of both
systems should take this into account The Goverment of Belarus has already initiated the
* tKizadcm of its labor offices. Technl assistance would be given to review the eodsting stas
Of c r      iat, recommend technical   pro s, and establish plans for the developamt of
communications systems beee central and local offices, and between labor offices and the social
se      admi         Support would also be provided to expand the exisg stock of eqipment,
giving priority to idustia centrs in which unmployment is expected to ri  more rapidly in the nea
future. Assistance would also be provided for traiing staff in newly equipped centers.
(IB)  P3ROJlECT ADMqrRATION AND 1w14METAION
22.          Project implemention would extend over a three-year period. Because each of the four
main components is the responsibility of a different Govermment ministry or agency, a strong central
coordination umit is being established to provide an overview and to manage the overall project. The
Government has decided to srengthen the existing Secretariat for International Economic Relations by
upgrading its status to a Deparment for Relations with International Financial Organizations, still under
direct supervision of the Council of Ministers. This Department will be headed by a person with the rank
of a Deputy Minister and will comprise five senior level staff and two junior level staff. The Deparment
will be responsible for overall aid management in the country and will serve as the focal point for
coordination with the external aid agencies including the World Bank. The Head of this Department will
provide policy level guidance to the proposed project. The day-to-day management of the project will
be in the hands of a Project Managemew. Unit (PMU) which has been established under the Ministry of



-27 -
Finance. The PMU wil comprise one manager and thee senior staff, one each on procurement,
disbursement, and accounting. The PMU wIll coordinat and oversee all the activities of the project
including management of project financing. It would ensure that loan and grant finds are disbursed for
the purposes intended, that appropriate procurmemet procedures are followed, and that accounts, audits,
and iwle      ion sa   reports are prepared In accordance with the agreed tmetable. Tem  of
Referec for the PMU were devoloped during the project preparation and agreed upon during the
negoations. The Govermt has already appointed the Head of the PMU and the rest of the stffing
will be completd befor the effcdven  of the loan.
23.          The administav burden placed on Govement staff has been minimzed to the exte
possible by packagn the operaton into as few contas as possible. The Tax and Trasury component
will be coordited with the IBE and small scal privzation with the IFC, which will fiuther reduce
the adminisuative burden oan Bank staff as well as on the Goverment.
24.          Te Govermen will contribute US$2.1 million equivalen to this program. Parallel
fiaing is likely to be made available by the EC, the IMP, the EBRD, the British Knowhow Fund, and
the Amec  Bar Assocation for seval componeats. There is strong indication of intest from the
Goverment of Italy to support Social Sctor Refoms.
25.          The preparation of thi project ha recognized t  question of th Governmens c
to absorb the as    po posod, To address this is, prisons have bee made in the project to
provide a few long-tem epet in the bndeiary agencies to fi specific skill shortge. This assisac
would last for a limited period and would Iniude the stengt    of insDutona capacities as a primay
objecdve. The exsting inaucture is adequa  to host these long-em experts. In other areas, the
mstutional stucues are adequaw to host short-term consultants.  hor is sufficient Govem t
commitment to review and implement the recomm      of external consultaots. Particular attention
will be paid to these    during supevision.
26.            is likely ta new neds will aise dring the projec :impl  petiod whia would
be supported by this loanL The Government bas agreed to realocat project fwx  among i
projec compoet as well as for now needs, with       with the World Bank, If such new needs
arie or if sufficient gran resourc  do not become available for spific project componen.
(C) PROJECT COMO, FfINANC1NG PROC, DT                                AND REPOING
AND AUDING
27.         ?mnject Costs. The total project costs (shown in Schedule A) are estimated at US$18.0
million equivalent. Details of the cost estmates are included in Schedule A.
28.          All emated local costs have been cored to U.S. dollars at an exchange rate of
Ruble 850 / US$1. Costs under the loan have been subjected to physical and price contingencies in
accordance with the World Bank guidelines. The estmates for studies, consultancy assignmens, and
training are based on typical current costs for such assignments. There would be a substantl
involvement of internationally recuited consultants in all the project components. The project will
provide iar a limited amount of equipment.



- 28 -
29.          FInning. A summary of the project financing plan is shown in Schedule A. The
foreign exchange cost requirements are estimated at US$15.9 million. The local currency requiremen
(US$2.1 million) would be met by the borrower from its own resources and would be used to hire local
consultants, cover local trining expenditure, and purchase equipment from local suppliers.
30.          Di.  Dburse                   would be adminiterd by the PMU. The prceeds of
the World Bank loan would finance 100 percent of the foreig costs of consultant services, fellowships,
andtrain g, 100 prcntof foreexpedxitur for computes, software, equipment, and maerials, and
100 pecent of local enditures (ex-factory) for computers, equime, and other goods and materiils
mamtfiwuuvd locally, and 75 peret of local expendiue for other item proaured locally. Withdrawal
applications would be fiuly documented, except for enitr  against conacs valued at less thn
US$50,000 equivalent which would be made on the basis of cerified    _     of  pendiur detailng
the individual transactions. Do e     to support thes expendiur would be retaed by the PMU
for at least one year after receipt by the World Bank of the audit report for the yea in which the las
disbursement was made. This exumentation would be made available for review by the audit (see
section below on "Reportng and Auditing") and the World Bank upon request.
31.          The estimvtd disusemt schedule for the proposed loan is given in Schedule B. The
project is expected to be completed by August 30, 1996, and the dco    dat would be Deber 30,
1996. Retoactve finangin of up to US$800,000 would be provided to cover expenditue, primary
for the arly appoin   of avisers, incrred after July 1, 1993.
32.          Spel Acomunt. To faciitate project impletion, the borrower would estblish a
special account in U.S. dollars in a commeria bank on tm  and condiions saisfory to the World
Bank to cover the World Bank's share of eligible expendis. ITe audiorized allocation of this acount
would be US$500,000 equivalent, reprenting about tee months of averag expenditures under the
loan. At the request of the borrower, and based on project needs, the World Bank would make an initial
deposit or deposis into the special account, up to the amoun of the authodzed alocation. Applicatio
for repleihmet of the special account would be submited mntly, or when one4hird of th amount
depositedhas be withdrawn, whihever occus eier. Da               _     fw repl-
allocations would follow the -  procedue as tht descibed in the above section on Disbu
in addtion, mondtly bank s _  of the special acco  which have been reconciled by the borower
should accompany all replenishnt reqss.
33.          Repog and Audi_tg. During negodations, it was agreed th  the speca account,
all project accounts, and staements of expenditure would be audited at the end of each fiscl year by
idependent auditors acceptable to the World Bank. Such audits would be caid out in accordance with
international standards undetae  by audors qualified for this task. Audit reot for the preceding
calendar year would be made available to the World Bank no later than by the end of June of each year.
34.         It was agreed during negoiations that the PMU will furnish the World Bank with a series
of reports on a regula basis. These reports would include: (a) quarterly progress reports on
implementation in a format and degree of detail acceptable to the Bank; (b) audited financial statements
within six months after the close of each Belarussian fiscal year; and (c) records, financial staments,
and other progress reports or other types of information that the Bank may request from time to time.
On the basis of the information provided by the various beneficiary agencies, the PMU will prepare its
contribution to the Project Completion Report within six months of the closing date, covering all related
activities during project implementation.



-29 -
(D)   PROCUREMET
35.          Procurement would be the responsibility of the PMU. The project elemens and their
estimated costs, and the procurement arrangements for the components to be financed by the World Bank,
are summarized in Schedule B. Recurrent and other local costs financed by the Governmn and the
components financed by the cofinancier are shown as non-Bank financed (NBE).
36.          Goods and Equipmnt. All equipment and materials to be fmanced from the World
Bank loan would be procred in accordance with the Ba's Guidlnesfor Procuree  (May 1992).
Goods, equipment, and materials to be financed by the World Bank will consist of computer systems and
peripherals, software systems, telecommunications, and office equipment.  Computers and other
equipment with a contract value of US$300,000 or greater, with a total estmated value of US$1.9
million, would be procured through Inmernational Competitive Bidding (ICB) using the Bank's SanWdrd
Bidding Docunentsfor Goods and Standard Bidding Documents for Computers, with such modificatis
thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the project. Belarssin
manuacture  competing under ICB would receive a preference in bid evaluation of 15 percent of the
CIF price or the prevailing customs duty applicable to non-emempt imports, whichever is less, provided
that the value added to the product in Belarus exceeds 20 percent of the ex-fictory bid price. 'aere are
a few computer fims in the Republic of Belarus which have joint ventures with reputod
intenaional co-puter companies and are likely to compete under ICB. Procement under the paralle
financing will follow procedures of the donor agency.
37.          The remainng contacts for equipment estimated to cost more than US$20,000 but less
than US$300,000 would be procured throug inemational shopping, to a totl aggregate of US$1.2
million, requiring price quotations from a minimum of three vendors from three different counties.
Contracts estmated to cost less than US$20,000 may be procured in accordance with local shopping, to
a total aggregate of US$100,000, on the basis of a comparison of price quotations from at least three
eligible local suppliers.
38.          Con _lan Sweces. The spcialists for tchnical assistance to be financed from the
proceeds of dte loan would be recruited by the Governent from among individual consultns or
consulting fims in accordance with the Bank's Gudeesfor the Use of Consulants (August 1981).
There will be approximately 14 assignments ranging between 4 and 25 staff months. For complex, dme-
based assignments, the Bank's standard form of contract for consultants' services will be used, with such
modifications as agreed with the Bank. Wherever applicable, foreign consultants would employ local
experts for field and analysis work in order to build the local capacity and strengthen the local consulting
industry. Individual consultants will be selected on the basis of comparison of at least three CVs.
39.          Bank Review. Owing to the centralization of procurement in the FSU, the kmowledce
of the Belarussian project imple ion agencies regarding international commercial practices and the
Bank's procurement procedures is almost nonexistent. Therefore, all procurement activities under the
project will be coordinated by the PMU, which will be assisted by external procurment consultants. To
ensure compliance with Bank procurement guidelines, all contracts awarded through ICB, as well as the
first two contracts under international shopping, will be subject to prior World Bank review. The terms
of reference for all foreign consultant assignments and all conas for consultant services valued at more
than US$100,000 will be subject to the Bank's prior review and approval. This limit would result in the
prior review of about 90 percent of all consultant contracts. All other contracts will be subject to
selective ex-post review by the World Bank.



- 30 -
40.          PR curement                Since this is the first World Bank project in the country,
the PMU staff and staff of the beneficiary agencies would be given trainiAg in procurement through
courses conducted by the ILO and through other in-country aining. Consultants would be retained by
the borrower to provide assistance in preparing and evaluating bids. The PMU would be assisted by an
extral p      =curem5t consultant agen compete  to assist with routine prorem    adminiraon
actvies including bid ppraon and evaluation. The Government is expecting grant funding fom the
Bdritsh Know-how Fund for this acdvity, and this is included as part of the project finacing. Ihe World
Bank misions would be called upon to ssist in reviwing procurenmeon as part of thi
regular supervision activities. Supevision is planned for the duration of this project
41.                   t lhforado. Tis willinclude           of contract award informaton
by the borrower and comprehensive quarterly reports to the Bank by the borower, indicating, inter alia,
revised timing of procm      acton, including adversing, bidding, contra award, and completon
tim for individual conract.
42.          CotL. During the negotiations it was agreed that the Government will complete
the staffing of the PMU, i.e., its thee key staff p, dibureme   and accounting), with
experien  and qualificaions aeptable to the Bank, prior to loan effectiveness.



TABLEB   I
BELARUS
WNSTITTON BUELDING PROGRAM
Sunnnary Plnadng Tabe
TOTAL       FINANCING                     LOCAL   |
COMPONENT                SUB-COMPONENT             NEEDS         AGREED       IBRD LOAN    SOURCES
(US$)
1. Resource Mobilization    Tax Administration         $2,558,000      $708,000    $1,220,000     $630,000
and Economic Management
Establishment of the Treasury   $1,475,000  $480,000     $820,000     $175,000
Aid Coordination            $415,000      $285,000      $100,000       $30,000
II. Enterprise Reform       Privatization Support      $4,740,000    $2,755,000    $1,435,000     $550,000
Anti-Monopoly Refbrm       $1,340,000                  $1,340,000    _
Private Sector Developmest  $800,000                    $600,000      $200,000
I[. Banking Sector Refonm                              $5,235,000    $2,875,000    $1,800,000     $560,000
IV. Social Sector Reform                                 $900,000      $485,000      $415,000    _
Unallocated                                              $570,000            -       $570,000
TOTAL                                              $18,033,000    $7,58,8,000    $8,3,00    sz,145,000



BELARUS
INSTITUnTON BUILDING PROGRAM MATRIX
Out of which (U5$)
MAIN GOVERNMENT   PROJECT COMPONENT                       RETED RESULT    TOTAL                                              Gnat
OBJECTIVE                   ACTIVITIES                   IIMPACT                COST         Lcai         [ORD         Ahadty        TIMING
ISom                           Loan        AgraSd  .
PART ONE: RESOURCE MDUATION AND ECONOMJC MANAGEMEWI
1. TA  ADMINISTRATION                                 ....._. ,                              _ . . :___...
Strengthen government                                   Ovei i  es6ig sx
capacity to adnister a                                   rev      sa tax _ y
market-oiented tax                                      by   o         of modem
coectdon ystem                                          inequitblotax
Prvision of shot-term        Adopton of a ssem which        $18,000                             $18,000       Febnary 93-
external experts fr selection   is i                                                            (EC)          April 93
of software and hardwau to      ro         in pric and
suit the cojmpuizato needs   qulit, and compabble with
of the pilot project for te  loal compatizaon meds
State Tax Inpectrat   TI)    i _cin wih the couter
and Minsk City Inspectorate,  yaem of dhe Treasury
recommended, reommended    donrust
by the IMF, including
seloeton of suppliers and
.____      ._____        prcemn
Provision of short-term      Acquisidon by tax             $60,000                              $60,000       March 93-
external expetse and an g    inspecterate officials of                                          (IMP)         June 93
of tax inspectte for          kllsecssay for usage of
establishment of compuer     compu  networks, creadion
network and implemnt        of  of Inmation databa  and
the software development     ue of basic network
program for the pilot projet    sowe
Provision of equipment and   Modernaton and               $23S,000   $15,000                    $220,000      August 93-
basic computer softwae for   co---tedzai-on of the tax                                          (EC)          December 93
the pilot project             _      prog mm  &nF
A the 87 and City of .Mk



out of Whc mm)
MAIN (OVERNMENT   PROJECT COMPONENT    EXPECD RESULT    TOTAL                                                              Gra_.
OBJECTIVE                  ACTIVITIES                   JIMPACT                COST         Loa          IBRD        Aleady        TIMING
Training of officias for ta  Mod4e oizaion and            $38S,000   $85,000                   $30,00
inspetmecnto                 _C)
.          ~~~~and awenzton              pv _os tax
die Repubi of Beau
Provision of co_uer          Mod     erazoo and         $1,750,000    $530,000    $1S220,000                December 93-
equimen and auIzaoy                          dfApril 95
equipment for tie project of  govtmets tax progam
sate tax modernhaion an      for th Reblic of Bdem
compuwniaio for the six
obts in Belaus
Provisio of longtem tax                                   $100,000                             $100,000     May 93-
.____________ adminisraton asite       __    MF)                                                                       May 94
Training of officis for tax  Moderation and                $10,000                             $10,000
C0nqY4dedZ&fio0 _d- qui mization of k                                               M(EC)
and owaWtO            _      swu       otxx
ad4rfaog romof
ie Reblic of Bems
Total Cost: $2,558,000



I                                      ~~~~~~~~~~out of Whmc (US$)
MAIN GOVERNMENT   PROJECT COMPONENT    EXPECTED RESULT                                TOTAL                                     .rant
OBJECTIVE                   ACTIVIMES                      fIMPACT                COST          L1A          IllD         Already        TIMING
_ _  _    &~smr    La    AV*
II. E ALISHMEN  OF THE .:EASY                         __                 _ B. : :  -  ' .'i____',
Transfoum budget into      Stant 1: Establish Treasusy   Wbhe competely                $170,000                 $170,000                    Oct 93-
active instruMent for       dqin Minsy of                                      i_ abJo December 93
manxagig market economy;  Pinrce linked to main          g.p_men to maag
improve effciency and      spending agence, NBB and      budg  ad govenmet debt
timeins of budget          STI, involving:               in a modwm, maukt-
execution and expenditure   (a) Equimet and basic    _    rimad mane, wilh
management                 software for pilot project (for    ausoed efficees and
Cenal Treamy and din*         ins saving  Wto
municip branh of Tresay)   hundred Of milons Of
rbehi wnuDly.
b) Exerld consutng            St   1: Improve
assistan_ :                   inf_rmaion to Prodhce         $420,000                               $420,000
** for softwae adaptain and   be_e bos for expenditr                                               (IMF)
development and on-de-job     poiy dcions; icease
taiing of Belanssian           fi    by  fezving
software special   6 man      buetlcs managemeat
mh&s short-ten sofWNW         cona levd out of cotol
expet;                        of banking sysm to
**   instalit on of sytma     aconteTreasy.
an   trodialo of Teamy
__ _l  n_b_ ts  bho-tm expat
** for f_wAcialWFWf
and assciafd uiig, 6 on
tJ*89 dxwt  expr



I 
Eu           lll
; gE iRr li
t~~~~ .1,1 i!lt!   
Ftt   Cj}i
A~ii.l.t}  ,~
t<1



I                     Ott of Wb"                     _.
MAIN GOVERNMENT   PROJECT COMPONENT    EXPECTED R.LT    TOTAL 
ODJECTIVE                  ACTIVITES                    /IPACT                COS                       BA                        TIMING
Ill. MD C_O     .
Buid Govarnmen capac4t
Fo optimie extenal
fiance adaid sow, and
to enmoe effdict
ailocaon and utiliza   of
aid resor 
Conduct for dnsot     y        I y capay bulg             S80,00                              $80000       October 93-
baing comse to a  staff   in Sud _mgoneu                                                      (UK)         December 93
of aid-uing minsies in
project preparaio aNd
Exera traing ad             Calat buing in aid            $25,000                             $2S,000      December 93 -
ulniliarizatioa of Council of    coordon andW                                                (UK)          March 94
Midstero stafrqna   o        rreQOC*
aid codna ,di¢ R    g at 
dhe ILO trainig center, taly,
on intennaona   cAaent
ShIortCm eVesise in                                                                          $6 br  $180,000  St0 mb0er 93-
intoonl  ad  Ipvem_w  sta(UK)                                                                   December 93
d_ Is,-enprocedresso         _. iidomf  eoit
assit die Govmanet in inita   proeus for uling
proects and tran goveanmet   fg  ransb and loans
Short viis to odier outies               $Staff                S100,000
_____ _____ _____ ____ for   coora din t 4..    and   training  __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _   _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Provide ai1 memwat unit   Strgthning aid                   $30,000  $30,000                                Ocober 93-
with additional egohmuo for    mansSessent unit                                                            December93
additiona staff
Totl Cst:$415,000



Out of Whill (US$)
MAIN GOVERNMENT           PROJECT COMPONENT              EXPECTED RESULT            TOTAL                 f                                            .a
OBJlCTIVE                   ACTIVITIES                    /IMPACT               COST         Logo         1311)D                      TIMING
Sors          L1          Agreed
PRST TWO: E:NlE]PIUm IRIBlORM
1. SUPPORT FOR FRI VATIZAITON________                                          __     ______________
Completioo of die legal
and mehodological bais
for lag and sw   scale
enepiep riataio.
Rapid initiation of small
scale privaization in cities
throughout Beam.
Desig ad imnplemetation
of a mass privaization
progm.                                        _
Long aN  shot trm legal      Co           of dt leg  and  $960,000                 $S,000       $235,000      Septmber 93-
advisors and specialist in    _amy basi for pria-                                                             December95
pmivatizaton medhodolo       izain imcluding
including an accountat and   hanmlation Of all
corpora_ e finance speoSia  .Y  's, prep
of _8-mod  gudlns
_of 4I rdaofdele sons
of_pwiamfomti
1041 A62,donto bko placein
Coordinator and cons_ant      niliso of Oman se          $1,5400,000                            $1,500,000   August 93-
tams to design ad imVlemen     I Idi privaizao_ by                                              (PCIUS        April 94
sall-cale piation in         ama  of pubhi auctons,                                             AID)
four seected cides           de _o*Ztioa efbot
Bpin at of methdologi
and modification of eal
fawork                         _
Specialss in mass            D$bBed _ on and              bi0,0                    S360,000                   October 93-
privization to desigo and    _:hiag of tbo m                                                                  December 93
iniX a prom fil dV   p_hfiW pWam
bottom-p privatizstion of
medium and hrg saWle



MAIN GOVERNMENT            PROJECT COMPONENT              IXIECTED RESULT           TOTAL                                    Grant
OBJECTIVE                   ACTIVITIES                   AIMPACT                COST          Loal        IBRD         Aly           TlbIING
Soorces       oA           Agreed
Small teams of specialiss to  Initaon of the process of    $480,000                             $480,000      Janualy 93-
work on the pilot pvtzation    medim and large scale                                            (EBRDIEC)   Jurne 94
of sdeletd medium and lage    pvtiatn at enterpse
scae enterprses.             el, demontton effect
and ateg and refining of
Speciaists in creaon oOf$ invesbalt                         .2. _0S240,000                                    January 94 -
invesdment fiuds and socurits   inb  to provide corporat                                        (UK)          June 94
trding                        1>_1           a
stbjed od  mass
I  I 2pxi-pograw;
Ielooatoo in securities
Training of GKIC head office  Devoping and maiaining       $5,000                  $200,000     $300,000      January 94-
and regional staff as wef as  the    s necessay to sus-                                         (EBRDIEC)   April 95
municipal level staff in     tain and complee the
pawatizationehodology and   prWaftstion proces
technupres. Seminar for
parliamenaians ad senior
gov vrmet offiial
Public awaren   canpaign for   Bng the awaes             $200000    $150,000    $50,000                      December 93-
privazation  rough the mm    among te genera pubi                                                             Apri 95
mei                          nsoesaa for th success of
the pdrvaxion program
aod get   feedbik on
pubi perpdou as te
I __ _                                                  progr                                    _______
Compute  aNd ofie            Prvidn the weesay             $500,000    $400,000    $100,000                   October 93-
equipment for the G}tl HQ.   lstia basi for the GKI                                                           April 94
Creadion of a pmiatzaton dda  to desig and impmen
base                         to prvaizao prgam
Total Cost - $4,740,0



out of wh    (US$)
MAIN GOVERNMENT   PROJECT COMPONENT    EXPECTED RESULT    TOTAL                                                              Grant
OBJECTIVE                   ACTIVMIES                     /IMPACT               COST          LOCA      IB             AbIady        TIMING
H. SUPPORT FOR  TMOLY  'QR                                                                   ____ ,  ",___'';
To ensue that the largest
non-nwaral moniopolies are
broken as soon as possble,
that larpg ste monopoly
entepes are not
privatzed with their
monopoles intact and to
provide a fill legidative
basis for measures to break
existing monpolies and
prevent future anti-
coVetiive enterprise
behavior
Long and short term advorn    Leg v fameot for             $480,000                $480,000          .Ocober 93-
to work on the completion of    actdv break-p of nion-                                                        Apri 95
tbe anti-monopoly legiative  nadt  monopolies,
Nad regultory frmework and   prewing priva_zaion of
on the work program of the   monoeoitc enteeptises in
Anti-monopoly Commtee        dKir prsent date and
(AMC)                        P          a nd
coetitive behavior among
puic ad  privato
anteqriles; Definition of
-eo e,
praradon of a li of
-A- entepse and
peng guideines for die
AMC eqecinily widh
repeot to its role in die
privatizrAon  processm_ _ _ _                         _  _  _ _     _  _ _  _    _  _  _ _  _
Short tem assisac to tgut       Cread competitio and       S360,000                $360,000                   December 94-
specific monopoly enterpries  icieny in secto  such as                                                        April 95
fer priority break-up, and    raot, tading and
implement _rn               ediion; edback ito
cton                         di, anti-monopoly pre
of th leb       of cierion Io



Out of wbk    8
MAIN GOVERNMENT   PROJECT COMONENT    EUCTED RESULT    TOTAL                                                               Grant
OBJECTIVE                  ACTIVITIES                    IMPACT                COST         Lam          IBRD        Aleady         TIMING
Surae        Loan         Agred
Training of staff of the AMC    De roM t of the skos      $300,000                $300,000                   January 94-
uoecy to desin sad                                                             April 95
Inykaot anti-monopoly
and pro-comapeWiio policy               _ _ ____                                 _ _ _
Provision of computer and    Provision of the necesmy     $200,000                $200,000                  Januaty 94 -
office equipmen for the AMC    logisca basis for the AMC                                                    April 94
HQ  ndits regional offices  to do it job
Total Cost - $1,340,000



_              ____Out of wbich (S$
NIAIN (;WVKNNIENT         PROJECT COMPONENT              EXPECTED RESULT            TOTAL                                   Grant
OBJECTIVE                   ACTIVITIES                    IIMPACT               COST           1          IBtD                       TIMING
Ill. PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT                     __                                       _     _ m__.'.._           .__.
To provide an enabling
legislative and incentive
environmetnt that
encorges the growth of
the privato sector
Long erm and skort erm              $$ of bus             sm00300,00l)                                        December93-
adviors to woik with dte                                          and  g                                      April 95
AMC and in sewcted           pro_ee, iscal incentives
municipalities to design and  sad direct action to ake
help unplement progmm for    oftice pce sd oater stt-
prate setew dveopment        owed ae available to
(PSD)                        piva% busin, br
cotwcb betwee privte
buunessnae and
governt by the creaon
of forma con _dation
medalsms, provision of
tandard lase pendin read
-to p_vatzatlon to
provid ofAtera for bank
aredlit to pivate busnses_______    ___    ____
Creation of and prvision of  Dedicated busin  cens         $50,000   $200,000    $300,00                      June 94-
some equipmnt for offike     to aatae the etmergeny,                                                          June 95
parks as incubators for sml    and gow  of snanll pvate
scae entrpise development    _teapze ($20,000
ID; em to be finance
Total Cost: $800000



'I~~~~~4
-             1l-1-1             m
.~~          ~          I



I        I                          I               ____~~~~~~~~~~Out d whldh OMSS
MAIN (GOVERNMENT   PROJECT COMPONENT                          CED RESULT             TOTAL                          .         GaA
OBJECTIVE                   ACTIVIIES                    fiMPACT                 COST         LoaI         IBDR         Ahrndy        TIMIING
._ _ _ _ _ '_ _ _ _ _ _                              _ _ _ _ _ _j_ _ _                         Soures  1ja               Ag_eed
I___________                                        PAT FOUR: SOCUAL SeCOR REM 
Develop better capsaty to
protect vulnre groups
during transitional period
and improve dh
fiunctining of the labor
market
Review and develop  rgetig    BePtr prci  of dhe  oat    $190,000                  $190,000                    Augst 93-
crierias fir th deign of cost-   vu_aeable groups and                                                          Apr 95
effective and financiafy     contro of Governmen
s8t_al social asssace        Oipet  m for socia
~~~~~~~~~~~~nprog;P_vo
progams. delop                asdstanompov
organzationa stiucWt5        effeivnes and equity
admi     ve procedures Nd
deliwy methods for proam
_   _    _   _    _   _     i    on l m aain                .__      _   _    _   _   _   _   _               _    __         _    _    _   _   _   _   _
Upgrade the sklls of a polcy    FIancialy gahle and        $250,O0                 $70,000       $180,00       March 94-
advising unit; asds  in do ie Smys n     pension                                                 (ItaJW)       April 95
proparon of a p              syes deveop   of
reform plan; and initib ie  h    otul capacity for
wantion to a pesonal_zd      poic3y desi  nd evauaion
system of socia infsre
Assance in deelopmet of    Impw    defciecy of             S360,000                 S155,000     $205,000      March 94-
communatos system               i _     of                                                       (Itay)        December 94
(eween labo offie and   ;      mplayment beneSt;
soeW medty administration,   improved efficiency of job
betwen centr and local           -        sevice; sd
offices); elective           upg        fr socia sector
co"Wmbmp      of labor and    stff
sci protecon offic; aNd
dslff tdngB
Review exising labor laws and   ln ed efiency in Ibe       $100,000                              $100,000      December 93-
assist in prepaton of a drft   faadsis g of he labor                                             (ARA)         November 94
_ _ _  _   _   _     la~~~bor   codeoa h t__                                                                  ____
Tobl Cost: $900,000
TOTAL COST FO1tR POGRA                                  St,0
,                 .                 !    , -                                                                          {A}~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~v



Coad Estaes by Maor Cotact and
Schedb of Cullua Prcweent Steps Undw Th Wadd Bank Loan
C ponent                               Contac        am                Procuremend Method                W4 i
Type       Cost                                              of Sldbnl   vtaons          of
_________Docmamuets    to Bd  Contrilt
ONE:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
SOREMOSIUZAIOt AND ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT
. Tax Admintataon
Contrac I                                                      Equipment
Cmpuer, softwar and   r eqipmen dt for STw and sk obas9s                     1.=  ics at                                       10/3/93      109  5 309 4
L Lstablidument of Treasury
Contrac 2                                                      Equipnent 
- Computer. softwae and ohr equpet for plot prect                               170 endeloaShonpIng                             131393       112m3       12115/93
- Compdu. swre and odher eqpent for ablst vel                                   650 ICe                                         131193       11a293    03109594
*Aid Managemntd
- Trab*iS                                                       Tabn                                                            150/1593     12r/093    02115f94
10       Conlg Cnact
ART WO. ENTERPRIE REFORM
Pdvatato
ContractS                                                       Senkes          24
- Lea adIsor (12 M-m)                                                          240 Shod td of 3/6 thirs, selection bed          0tO3        01593    092093
kdm" medt bi
Contract 4                                                      Services        du
- Expert in accounri  (12 m-r)                                                 240 Shad Ost o3/6 kms. secn      d               0915/3      t1015193    ll1tlO93
- Expert in corporate fraa maltts (12 man-monlhs)                              240  ichi nwert
Contract                                                        S
- Eptb (3) on mass praftaion (18 m-rn)                                         360 Sholt do 38 finms. seection based            0201/94     030094    04130194
JExped hi Puvthization Camxegn Design (2.5 n-rm)                                 i       inc e t
Contract 6                                                      Traig          2no
Traig of GIG staff                                                            200 Short Isld o33 firns, selection based        02/01/94    03/30/94    04/30/94
ndv"ce iner
Conrat                                                         Eqimn            S4
- Conputer, software ad otherepm    for GlK HO                                  100  Itmrnto  ShoppIg                           10/1393      11/20W3     12I5193
Total (e  1_                                      3.576 _      =     =_ _=__
Ncte: Procurement wil be packaged Into as few conras as poss.
a l equlpent wll bh procured accery  to one or two stg lddhO depedg an th co_xdty d (w herwm and software.
bi Selctm based on tec   l me, primes od onlys fim  dbe   pedwho has  Id    a te edO seer            o     ou taf oel 100).



Table 2
Cod stUrlnates; by Majow Contract and
Sciwdule otCf Cas Proc.newn Step Unde The Wodd Bankc LO=n
Co_tract                                        Servies     Co                                                                      S
.        . . ....  .      _          _          _                                                    _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ocnef  t Nid  CWnl#d
.An"oropoly ReoXmB
- Expedt for specfi entpri  arging (24  4n0) SWBI                                        t b of 1 3   rn, selclbn bused         10115193     W115193    01105194
- Expert for Ant_rnapoly egaidn (818 rnwhn)                                     360# bebr   medt
Contract 9                                                     Equ pmm          m
. Coe. so,re and oher eqipme  for AUAInC raff                                     1Shopping                                     1311J93      1 1/20s    12V15t93
Contactt Is                                                     Ta11
- Traiid of AMC daff                                                           320 Short I of   lms, Sfl.ecmn  sed              021194       0330W94    04130/94
Private Sect  Devlopme  (PSD)
Contrad 11                                                      Sevcs           ji
Expt in desinn and knplemenf  PSD (15 rn0) Short Ed of 306 Amns. seleton bused                                                 031llS94     043094    0530/94
-Eqrts hI desnn office pafs (10 nm)                                            201 ll mett                                     040 84       05/30/94    06X94
Contract 12                                                      _ _nMe         MZ
- Corpter, software and oher equpe  for OMce Past             . ms                            Shopp"g                           0420/94      06/68       07/30/94
ART ThREE: BANIN  SECTOR REFORM
sFancia Sectwr Ifrasdrctre
Contract 13                                                     Seve        
Exert to do a dbgnosI study of Sbesbn (20 mr-n)                                400 1     et of 36  tshMs seedion bused          10/393       111/93     01/05/94
- Twin    arrmngemert for Sbedel (25 n-rm)                           .00   II   nt
-Expet to doadngnoslc sdudyofta c_bonu abank (20m-m)                           400
-Twinning arrngement for  ommrcal bank (15n)                                   S
Contract 14.                                                      Mpe           2ff  e h  Shoppg                                10/31193     11/20/3    o0593
- Compters and software for Sherbab                                             10O
. Compter and software fr comea  banks                                          100
Tdol (Pag 2)                                      4v310
2



TabbaS
Cod Estite by Mapr Contac and
Schedule   Cr        P   _rmt Steps _Undr Th Wileo  Banik Loan
..-   .. S_,_- -m
Component                              Contract    Base                Procument Mthod 
Te    Cost                                                   olNg              t         of
D      _CWAt  to Bid     contract
.~~ -                                                             .. .R._ .  
ART FOUR: SOCIAL SECTOR REFORM
Social Safety Net Employmel Sevkes
Contract 15                                                     svIkes          1
- Expefis to develop targeig culleda & dee  nmetho d9 (in-)                     18S   lidt eof   m, selcton based               Q1W3013      1 130193    01A05194
Contract16 lesevC                                                                IK
- Expert In mpuar & soWare for bba offic (4 n-n)                                 60 rldMm cmulog cont2act                      11/93        1   193    12W619
Contract 17                                                     Tdinbg          21
- Trairdng In use of compters and appklions for labor ofices                    20   Muiidcinsng conmbad 1t01/93                               11/ 3    13
Contract l_ goomm                                                              1
- CompUtS, software & equpmnt for social _mnltatm                               15 Locd dthppift lg3                                        11rg         tS193
- Computrs, softwre & equint for bbor doies                                     50 Loal shppmig                                 101313      11/2m       121119
- Com ers, soft e & equipmet fa pen    amnktratIon                              70 Intemrntoion ppShg                           1193        112013    12tt5193
Tota (Page 3)                                      416
GRAND TOTAL                                             ____
,.-



Table 3
&                                     8~~~~~~~~~ELARUS
INSTTTJON 8UILDING PROJECT
FOREIGN COST 8STIMATE IN UIS000
CornpanentlSub-Componem                                                              -
_ _ _ _    _     _     _     _     _                        _       -    m      -         i  i _ _
PON  RESOURCE MO=ATON&
EXPUNfUE MANA.EMT
Tax Amltatlan
Prcremet Eipu* for pilt comwptr p.oed (1 tM)                     18                            1       0     1
sofwo4vl1a7  arpefwtfoPMl  projei(3 .m                        60                                    0
- Comps softe and owr equlp    o pod pled                                       220                     0
-T iaon hcon*uw ut  MMd e   b fr am otkfs                               310                   31        0    31
- Comuteso           & other euImnt for 811 and S  obix    t                  1. 220         1220  1 ,220
-Experfortaxadn utrtl(5 m-m)                                     100                          1a        0    1
EstMblIhmentof Treaur
- Coufter, sotwe & other h     n fr pot prodet                                  17O            1      170
- Software-eveomnt crpew frlot prod ect (6 r-)                   120                          1         0
-0 8 t In adenoand Nsta m (9)                                    1                            1 
- ERt In fan    programmIng (6 nmanmont)                         120                           1        0    1
- Compws so     r & eqpmtor chelsb2"                                           6am                    60
- foxafo In hut.m *d W e_m  6010110*0 at OhSel
WM (3Sm-m)                                                       sO                                    0
AId CooidrdInatn
- IrmtooWytmlnb  on p- prap p  _ma                                       80                    80       0
-EAtema traInIn on aid-conordInatn                                       26                            0
*Expewt n prcuromenwdlbsnnw  (t m-m)                             180                          18        0
-Tran    and TrWel to  her oueo  with smlar Mnits t                      100                  100    100
Su*tooa (P  Onea)                     U      818  2X25            3.63  2,1140  1
ARTTW ENRPRERE
MwVuzatlim
* Lega adI   (12r)                                               245                          2      24
- Expet in ccountI (12 rn-n)                                     240                          24      240
- Exprt in oport financial mtrts (12 rnr)                        240                          24      240
- Eer I enterpls refommas need (12 rnr)                          240                          240       0    2
- Expwert in mai scale pravabtam    & tc teas to work
In 4 sectd   cit (75 Mr-n)                                     1,500                        1,501      0  1,
- Three eet on mass praUnt   (18 m-rm)                           360                          380    360
- Expefs for pil prataon of htw medim or lW
sale erprIe                                                     480                          48        0 O
- Expet in ecItInes (6 m-M)                                      120                          120       0    1
- Expe in kwemnt funds (6 M-M)                                   120                          120       0    1
- Tranng of GIG staff                                                   500.                  S      200
- Pubic Inomaon CampIgn                                           50                           50     50
- Compuers, software & equiment for GIG HQ                                      100           100    100
Subtotal (4)                        W3O91   500    100        0  4,1    1.436 23



BELARUS
INSTIMUTION BUILDING PROJECT
FOREIGN COST ESTIMATE IN USWOOO
_______IT __I}  ,  
__.                                                 . _ _    ,.                    __c- __
AntIMaronpoly Reform
- Expertst n la 6vnswoc devlPmt (24 rn)                        480                                 480
- Est for sepfe eterrie a 0Ig (19 rnr)                         360                          3S     30
TrarInn of AMC st 3t                                                            300    300
.; Com         seolfk & *eInt for AMC stf                                      200           20     200
Pkbstor DwkmhpnM
-      in desging and {     Xiwf oIk P50 (15 m.m)              300                          30     30
- Epete in t'U offime pbe, (10 rrn)                            200                                 200
- Eqlrut for o me a                                                           270                  270
1340    300   470            2,11   211       0
Subtot (4. 56)                     4,60     se0    67O          6,306     S  27M
TH,    BANcSBoRr              a
-Trnig in nowiChaodAoous                                               90                    so      0
- CaWpsm& seofe  for  NuM _WNS U   Mmfti Sa                             0      26            2       0 a
- Expefts to do a dbodcstls s    ot S1brbo* (20 rn.m)          400                                 400
-Twnn arnmwnt for SbWherbn  (25  0r)                                         700                   700
U    Coaqximu &s  efarSbu8*                                                   100           100    100
- Expetto doe degn01tlst       comercnIal bank (20 rn-r)       400                             40 0 40
- Thnnig arnment for commdal bnk (15 rn-m)                     500                          50     500
-C CmpAtrs&wf*anffrthsco _me       ban                                        100           100    100
- TraIni  for df o NOBad V hr COW rIe 2I760                                               276        02
Subto  (Part Thre)                 2.00023         22S                 2200 
_-~ -_.
FOURT  SOOL" SECTOR RWM
Social Safoty Nd M  ymew~   SwMkee
- Eeb   s to devop targeIng crIer & devey mtds (m-nm)          180                         180    180
- Cmputes  softwaree&uIet for oledm InIstra                                   10             10     10
* Expes to &devW potnaioeftm plan (4 m-m)                       so80                       8so
* ComAOra & sowov for Pendbn AftWoo0m                                        160            160     70
- T r bf in Penon  _&Wddmdon and use of cmpAom                         10                    10
- Expert h oomputw & software for lirffc (4 m-m)                80     20                   10     100
* Compues & soware for bor offes                                             260           28       55    20
- Expets to reviow  bor W  (4.5 rn-m)                           90                           9       0
- Trabnn of govermt   on abor lws                                      10                    1 0           1
SubloW (Part Four)                   430           430      0   900    416
GRAN TOTAL                          8.203  4,205  3,486      0 15,883  8,300  T76
-              _   _       m _  _



I.cD 24768
N
SWEDEN                                RUSSAN                  LATVIA
\ . TA X ~~~~~~~~~FEDEPATION                                                                           To Ni  jfBE L AR 
RUSSIAIJF2D, UTH UNAi                                                                                                                                      RILA R U S
3 \ <u\ / u ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RKRS
GERMANYl   PO\ND   2                         >                    /                           '                     4           W                                      ROADS
RAILROADS
UKRAINE                  I   E B S                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 SELECTED CMES
(@  DISTRICT CAPITALS
S/ o\ensk             *    NATIONAL CAPITAL
RUSSIAKI  To, Voinius                                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OBLAST BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL
7o Alyfusx                                   0   noJ                                                                                       \(l W BOUNDARIES
POLAND                                                                      I                                                M  OG  I        EV
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o dost _opl so th pt of Th Wud BakGoj.ayjdm
To                                                                     0                                                                               FEDERAn 10  schbsodote
)  9/   IISoligorsk    \)&<         <        \ 0AP
w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r X  >= rlinw y
S~ ~      ~ T
To Koe'                              TO Sm                               Jf         ;
\   KSLOMETElt<i  °   510   100           ~   ~~~~~~UKRAIN E     rOo ,uk  Gm p  Th                                       'oiokuue   n   tek ud fsso   n N
t  MILES O        SO              ~~~~~~~~~100                                                              aa ecu-ob,o ny tnitory o,my nebxsemet or amtrhnceof
APRIL 1993



