Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3640 BY
Loan Agreement
(Institution Building Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BELARUS
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated August 13, 1993
LOAN NUMBER 3640 BY
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 13, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF BELARUS (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the  financing of the Project;
(B)
to assist the financing of the Project, the Borrower intends to obtain 
grants and technical assistance from various donors in amounts equivalent to seven 
million five hundred eighty
eight thousand dollars ($7,588,000) on the terms and conditions set forth in 
agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and every of the donors;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph (l) 
and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
"(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions 
of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"PMU" means the Project Management Unit established by the Borrower to 
coordinate and oversee all the activities of the Project.
(b)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of eight million three hundred 
thousand dollars ($8,300,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the 
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a bank acceptable to the Bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
Page  3
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of 
this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the 
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest 
Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on 
February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial 
and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
Page  4
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Bank shall review the final drafts of the proposed 
privatization implementation framework and anti-monopoly regulations and discuss them 
with the Borrower before final enactment.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that:
(a)
subject to paragraph (b) of this Section:
 
(i)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any loan or 
grant made to the Borrower for the financing of the Project shall 
have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms thereof, or
(ii)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
(b)
Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the Borrower establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (i) such suspension, cancellation, termination 
or prematuring is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with 
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Termination; Effective Date
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely that three key staff of the PMU referred to in Section 1.02 
(a) of Article I of this Agreement, the Procurement, Disbursement, and Accounting 
Officers, with experience and qualifications acceptable to the Bank have been 
appointed. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The First Deputy Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
House of the Government
Minsk, Belarus
Telex:
252 125 GKVES
Page  5
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF BELARUS
By /s/ Vladimir I. Gontcharenok
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Paul Siegelbaum
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)   Consultants'               4,850,000      100% of foreign
      services,                                 expenditures
      fellowships and
      training
(2)   Computers, equip-          2,880,000      100% of foreign
      ment and other                            expenditures,
      materials                                 100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 75%
                                                of local expen-
                                                ditures for other
                                                items procured
                                                locally
Page  6
(3)   Unallocated                  570,000
      TOTAL                      8,300,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which the goods and services are supplied, expenditures 
in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign 
expenditures".
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $800,000, may be made in 
respect of Categories (1) and (2) on account of payments made for expenditures before 
that date but after July 1, 1993.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Republic of Belarus to 
strengthen the institutional basis for economic reform through institution building 
projects in four functional areas: (a) resource mobilization and economic management, 
(b) enterprise reform, (c) banking sector reform, and (d) social sector reform.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Resource Mobilization and Economic Management
 
(1)
Tax administration: Development and improvement of tax administration and 
collection, through provision of equipment to extend the computerization of the State 
Tax Inspectorate and the six oblasts in Belarus.
(2)
Treasury:  Provision of equipment and technical assistance for the phased 
installation of a treasury system centered within the Ministry of Finance and 
expansion of its function at the oblast
level.
(3)
Aid management:  Equipment and technical assistance to build government capacity 
to utilize external finance and aid flows, and ensure efficient allocation of aid 
resources.
Part B:
Enterprise Reform
 
(1)
Assistance to the Committee for the Management of State Property (GKI) for:
 
(a)
the completion of the necessary legal and regulatory framework to 
implement the Privatization law once enacted;
(b)
the training and equipment of the staff of GKI and officials implementing 
the reform program;
(c)
the preparation of detailed operating methodologies for a multi-track 
privatization program including mass privatization;
(d)
the initiation of the privatization of medium and large enterprises at 
the national level;
(e)
the initiation of small scale enterprise auctions in four selected 
cities;
(f)
the creation of investment funds and securities trading; and
Page  7
(g)
the development of public awareness campaign for privatization through 
the mass media.
(2)
Assistance to the Anti-Monopoly Committee (AMC) for:
 
(a)
the completion of the necessary changes to the legal framework to 
implement the Anti-monopoly law once enacted;
(b)
the preparation of operating guidelines for the AMC;
 
(c)
the initiation of the break-up of selected monopoly enterprises;
 
(d)
the training and equipment of the staff of the AMC; and
 
(e)
conducting training programs for the Borrower's officials at national, 
regional and municipal levels.
(3)
Private Sector Development:
 
(a)
Development of measures to promote private sector including the 
simplification of registration and licensing procedures; and
(b)
supporting the creation and equipping of office parks which can work as 
incubators for small businesses.
Part C:
Banking Sector Reform
 
(1)
Introduction of new "Chart of Accounts" and Broadly Adapted Financial 
Statements.
(2)
Conducting a diagnostic study and provide equipment to restructure the 
operations of the Sberbank and provide twinning arrangements with European savings 
institutions.
(3)
Conducting a diagnostic study and provide equipment and twinning arrangements to 
strengthen operations of at least one commercial bank.
(4)
Conducting training programs for managers, accountants, auditors, National Bank 
supervisors, and commercial bankers.
Part D:
Social Sector Reform
 
(1)
Provision of expert assistance to: (i) review alternative methods for 
identifying the most vulnerable groups; (ii) assess the quality of existing data 
sources and recommend modifications; (iii) monitor poverty and improve organizational 
structure, administrative procedures, and effective delivery methods; and (iv) assist 
in the preparation of legislation and implementation norms for social assistance 
programs which focus social assistance on the highest priority groups consistently 
with sound fiscal management.
(2)
Provision of expert assistance and training for the preparation of a pension 
reform plan, redesigning procedures and modernizing the pension administration.
(3)
Review of labor laws and recommendation of modifications.
 
(4)
Computerization of labor/social protection offices to improve labor market 
monitoring and unemployment services, and delivery of social benefits.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by August 30, 1996.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each February 15 and August 15
Page  8
beginning February 15, 1999
through February 15, 2008
415,000
 
and on August 15, 2008
415,000
 
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
