RESTRICTED
Report No. P-388
FILE COPY
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO KENYA
FOR A
SMALLHOLDER TEA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
July 13, 1964



REPORT AND REC ONDATIONS OF TIM P¶=SRI3NT TO
THE EXECUPTE ETECTORS ON A ROPOSED DEVEIAFMPMT
CREDIT TO KENA FOR A SKATILUOLDER TEA DBVELOJI4EfT PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and reconendations on a proposed
development credit of $2.8 million to Kenya for a smallholder tea development
project.
PART I - INTRODUCTION
2.       In July 1963, the Kenya Government requested assistance by IDA in
financing the second stage of a program for the development of tea cultivation
by African smallholder faxmers0  This programi which was started in the
nineteen fifties, is organized and supervised by the Kenya Tea. Eevelopment
Authority (KTDA), a statutory corporation. Thle first stage, financed in part
by the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) and the Federal Republic of
Germany (Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau), will soon be completed. The Kenya
Governrent has also approached CDC for assistance in the financing of the
second stage.
3.       An IDA mission visited Kerrya in September and reported that KTDA's
program was sound and would be suitable for lerding by IDA.  Discussions were
hold in Washington in January 1964 with representatives of the Kenya Govern-
ment, KTDA and COC on the program and the proposed financing9 It wass agreed
that IDA funds would be lent for developing tea cultivation, while the greater
part of the 0C lending would be for tea factories. Simultaneous negotiations
were held in London in April with the Kenya Government and KTDA, representati-es
on the proposed IDA credit and CDC lending.
4        The proposed credit would be IDA's first operation in Kenya. A Bank
loan of $5.6 million, which was made in 1960 to help finance an African agri-
culture and road project, is now fully disbursed0  A second loan of $B.4
million was made in 1961 for land settlement. Because of changed conditions,
a supplemental loan agreement had to be negotiated this year; it is expected to
become effective shortly.  Kenya is 2 guarantor of the 1955 Bank loan of 4,24
million to the East Africa High'a Commission (notw the East African Commion
Services Organization) for rail!rays; this loan is fully disbursed.
PART II  - DESCRIPTION OF Tf'f PROPOSED DEbVELOPNET CREDIT
5.       The main characteristics of the proposed credit would be as follows:
Borrower:                         Kenya.
Amount:                           The equivalent in various currencies of
$2,8 million.



P'rpose:                          To help finiance development of tea rultivatai
by smaiTholder farmers; the Kenya Governmont
to relend the proceeds of the credit to KTDA
which maintains tea nurseries, supervises tea
planting by smallholder farmers, collects
green leaf for de!ivery at factories, arid
makes arrangements for setting up additional
tea factories.
Termn and Amortization:           50 years with no amortization for the first
10 years; repayment to be in 80 instalmrents,
1/2 of 1% of the principal amount to be re-
paid semi-annually beginnin.g Juno 1, 1274,
and ending Decenber I, 1982, and 1-1/2' semi-
annuallyr thereafter to Decaxbeaor 1, 2013e
Service Charge:                   3/h of 1% per ann-um on the principcal amount
of the credit eisbursed and outstanding.
Payment Dates:                    June 1 and Decembor l -
PAST I1I     APPRAISAL OF TC CREDIT
The Econonr,r of Kena
6.       A report enititled "The Economy of Kenya", iNo. AF-22, is attached
(N4o. l).
7        XeKnya's poDulation is concentrated in the highlands wlhere good scils
and a temperate climate make inter.siv3 agriculture pos:bie   Of t'he re .y9
million inhabitants, 8Oi million or 57% are Africaans .ith an anual rote of
population increase of close to 3,. The majoritAy ar-e subsistence fartrers with
varying degrees of particiPatL on in the market economy., mostly t,h:r,ovgh cash
crops of coffee, sisal, cotton, pyrothrum and tea, and thOe tarketin  of Eve-
stock. The remnalning 3% of the population, wiho ere European and Asian, control
most of the country's monetary econorry which produces three-fourths of tle
gross domestic product. European larae-scale farming produces 80% of exports,
while European and Asian manufactiuring and service industri,s supply consumner
goods and services a11 over East Africa. Nearly aD llighlly skilled imanpower
in the private and public sectors is prov-Jded by non-Africans.
During the period from 195Z to 1960, the monetary sector of the ecuno-
my grew ouite rapidly; this growth also invol.ved the African population, part-
ly through a niumber of highly successful schemnes designed to increase their
participation in cash agriculture. A set-back followed in l961/629 Iiniy duo
to bad weather and political uncertainties. In 1963, a return to no::ral weatter,
together with a partial restoration of confidence foliooing the attainmer.t of
internal self-go':ernment and subsequenit independence, made further econoroic
advances possi ble.



9.       Kenya's farming lands are suitable for a lide range of products for
hor.e consumption and exports and an efficient marketing machinery has been
established. The infrastructure is already fairly well developed. The new
Government has shown itself capable of handling the many difficult problems
which have arisen over the last year. The development program for 1964/70,
largely based on the Bankts Genera-l Survey Nission report, appears soundly
concaived and will be launched against a background of an improving balance
of foreign payments and the absence of domestic inflation.  While resource
mobilization for development could be further improved, the Government has
shown its readiness to strengthen the fiscal position.
10.      Cn the other hand, many political and economic uncertainties cloud
Kenya's future6  Internal tribal tensions and the border dispute with Somalia
may prove a costly drain on resources.  Development of the country's potential
may be severely hampered by a lack of capital and skilled manpower. If the
process of transition from expatriate to African management becomes too fast,
the economic structure may prove too complex and costly to operate efficient-
lye Sotne of the country's mTain export crops confront problems: Kenya coffee
may be lheading for a crisis of overproduction, the future of pyrethrum is un-
certain and sisalts present strength may prove shortlived0 The prospects for
tea, on the other hand, appear reasonably good0 A run-doiTn of farms now in
the European farraing sector would limit seriously Kenya's export capacity.
While further industrialization may provide additional income and employment,
the scope for industrial expansion is dependent on the maintenance of the
East African Common Market. Meanwhile, the problem of structural and temporary
unemnloyment is pressing.
11l      Moreover, while Kenyats economic performance so far has been satis-
factory, the country is in a difficult period of transition and it is not at
all certain how successfully it will emerge. Present external debt service
reouirements armount to some 10% of 'Kenya's annual export receipts, and the
country will have to rely for a long time ahead on additional borrowings from.
abroad to finance economic development. Any remaining margin for carrying
conventional debt is likely to be needed to support borroTings by the East
African Co-.on Services Organization, which provides much of the needed economic.
infrastructure for Kenya and the neighboring East African countries. I consider
it appropriate, therefore, to rezonmend access by Kenya to IDA resources.
The Project
12.      An appraisal report (TO 418-a) on the srallholder tea development
project is attached (Noo 2).
13.      The first stage of KTDA's program provides for the cultivation of tea
over a total area of 11,100 acres and 7 tea factories. The second stage, the
project for which the proposed IDA credit wiould be made, will provide for the
planting of tea over an area of about 14,400 acres and 10 additional tea
factories. About 15,000 smallholder African farrersr, including some farmers



- 4 -
-who planted tea during the first stage, are expected to participate in the
project. The planting would be spread over a 7-year period, 1963/64-l969t0.
It is estimated tlhat, when the tea bushes are mature, the proJect would con-
tribute annually 12-15 million pounds of tea to Kenyal s total tea output.
14.      The principal responsibility for the execution of the project swould
rest with KTDA, Urnder its constitution, KTDA has adequate powers to organize
tea planting by smallholder fanrers.  It is efficiently managed and has com-
petent personnel. KTDA sells from its nurseries planting material to small-
holder farmers, supervises their plantings through a staff of instructors,
operates buying centers for tea leaf and delivers leaf to factories for process-
ing. KTDA contributes both equity and loan capital for tea factories which,
in most cases, are set up as separate companies. Commercial tea companies
are expected to participate in the financing and management of the factories
to be built under the project.  COC has expressed to IDA its w.illingness,
subject to certain canditions, to contribute towards the financing of these
factories (ŽJo. 3). The Government of Kenya provides to KTDA, on a secondment
basis, tea instructors and other staff. The Government has undertaken to
IDA to construct and mainltain roads adequate to enable KML 13rries to carry
tea leaf to factories.
15e      The total cost of the project is estimated at £3.2 million (nearly
$9 million equivalent), including uJ4 million ($339 million equivalent) for
10 tea factories. The following is a summary of the proposcd financial
arrange ment :
Field Sector       Factories         Total
(in 7 thousands)
IDA credit                        1,000                            1,000
CDC loans                           245               720            965
Commercial company loans
(through KTDA)                    -                480             ho
Kenya Government loan               -                 240            240
Total loans                  1,245             1,440          2,685
K,TDA revenues                      515                              515
Total                        16,7o             1,440          3,9200
The Kenya Government would relend the proceeds of the IDA credit to KTDA to
help finance its field sector development costs incurred after June 30, 196L.
It has been agreed during the credit negotiations that KTDA would repay its
loan to the Governnient over a period of 8 years, starting on June 30, 1973,



wTith interest at 5-1/2% per annum. The proposed CDC lending for the field
sector would consist of the undisbursed portion of the earlier CDC loan of
i900,000 made to KTDA. The repayment period of this portion of the CDC loan
would be similar to the repayment period of the Government. loan. The Kenya
Government would, in addition to its contribution of P24hO,000 for factorvy
costs, be responsible for covering any shortfall in the financing of the
project,
16.      The KTDA smallholder tea program has already resulted in substantial
economic benefits by improving the standard of living of a large number of
African subsistence farmers and by contributing appreciably to KenyaTs export
incone. These benefits should multiply as the execution of the program is
advanced. It is estimated tha.t the gross value of the annual production from
the completed program would amount to 12.7 million, of which about U2 million
can be considered as a net contribution to Kenya's annual foreign exchiangffe
earni.ngs. The quality of tea produced under the program is good and efforts
are being made by KTDA to improve it further.
PART IV - IEGAL IISTRUEI'IETS AND AUTHORITY
17.      Attached are drafts of the Development Credit Agreement between Kenya
and the Association (No. 4) and of the Project Agreement between the Associa-
tion and KIDA (No, 5).
18.      The form of the draft Development Credit Agreement conforms generally
to the pattern of IDA credits with a project agreement. The following special
provisions should be noted:
(a) IWithdrawals of the credit are to be made against amounts e;c-
pended on the field sector of the project and such withdrawals, plus with-
drawals fro, CD, are not to exceed KTDA's cash deficit for the field sector
of the program (Section 20O3 (a) and (b)). The draft Agreement also contains
cumulative linits on withdrawals during certain periods and limits on with-
drawals until stated amounts of the CDC loan are withdrawn (Section 2.03 (b)
and (d));
(b) The Borrower agrees to make available to KTDAl, promptly as
needed, all funds and other resources required for the carrying out of the
program and in particular to provide processing facilities for tea and the
necessary funds therefor as and when required (Secticn 4.02 (c));
(e) The Borrower agrees to construct as required and to maintain
all roads necessary to enable KTDA to collect leaf from growers producing it
under the nrogram and to deliver such leaf to the factories wihich are to
process it (Section 4006);



- 6 -
(d) The Borrower agrees to cause KTDA to collect levies on green
leaf delivered for processing under the program on the basis which presently
exists (Section 4,.09);
(e) The Association's Agreement will not become effective until
I'DA has entered into an agreemrent or agreements with the Government of Kenya
and CDC for the relending of the IDA credit and the providing of the CDO loan
(Section 6.01 (b) and (c)); and
(f) The Agreement provides for the termination of the Borrower's
obligations with respect to the project on termination of the Project Agree-
ment (Section 6.04h
19.      The draft Project Agreement contains provisions normally included in
the Associationts project agreements and in addition provides, among other
bhings, for the furnishing of audited financial statements (Section 2,0l (d)),
for a limritation on long-tern indebtedness (Section 2.C5), for consultation
about appointnents to KTD'D s senior management positions (Section 2.09) anrd
for a limitation on the undertaking by KTDA of responsibilities outside the
program (Secticn 2.10), The draft Protect Agreement also provides for its
termnination on the date of termination of the agreement between the Governient
of Kenya and KTO. for relonding the proceeds of the Associationts credit, or
the scheduled date of the final repayment of the proceeds of the relending of
the credit, whic,ever is later (Section 3.02).
20.      The recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V,
Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association is attached (uO.6\
PART V - COMPIAINTCE P?ITHT ARTICIES OF AGREENEYLT
21.      I am satisfied that the proposed developpment credit would comply with
the Articles of Aggreement of the Association.
PART VI - REC0MI    NATMI0'S
22.      I recommend that the Association make available a development credit to
Kenya in an amount in ;various currencies equivalent to $2.8 rmillion for a total
term of 50 years, with service charge of 3/h of 1% per annum, and on such other
terms as are specified in the attached draft Development Credit Agreement, and
that the Executive Directors adopt a Resolution to that effect in the form
attached (No. 7).
Geoffrey WI. Wilson
Vice President
for
George D. Woods
Attachments                                     President
Xxe 9lihugtonl, D.C.
ti-mTy 13, 1064



