CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 64o uv
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Second Rural Development Fund Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 21, 1976


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 21, 1976, between REPUBLIC OF UPPER
VOLTA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVEL-
OPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) The Borrower intends to contract from the Arab Bank for
Economic Development in Africa (hereinafter called BADEA) a loan
(hereinafter called the BADEA Loan) in an amount of $4,500,000 to
assist in financing Parts A.4, A.5 and C of the said Project, on
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called
the BADEA Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower
and BADEA;
(C) The French Republic through its Fonds d'Aide et de
Coopefation, the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the United Nations
Development Programme have agreed in principle to assist in the ex-
ecution of the Project through the provision of technical experts;
and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "First Credit Agreement" means the Development Credit
Agreement (Rural Development Fund Project) between the Borrower
and the Association dated June 26, 19T2;
(b) "First Project" means the project described in Schedule
2 to the First Credit Agreement;
(c) "BND" means the 3anjue Nationale de Developpement of
the Borrower, established pursuant to Law No. 6/61/AN of Janu-
ary 23, 1961, and includes any successor thereto;


﻿-3-
(d) "RDF" means the Rural Development Fund established
pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of the First Credit Agreement and
referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
(e) "HAER" means the Direction de l'Hydraulique et de
l'Am'ena&ent de l'Espace Rural of the Borrower's Ministry in
Charge of Rural Development;
(f) "ORD" means an Organisme Rggional de D6veloppement, an
organisme d'intgrtt public established under the laws of the Bor-
rower pursuant to Law No. 20/65/AN of July 28, 1965;
(g) "Interdepartmental Technical Committee" means the Com-
mittee referred to in Section 3.15 of this Agreement; and
(h) "AVV" means Autorite des Am4nagements des Vallees des
Volta, established by Ordonnance No. 74-61 PRES. PL. DR. E.T. du
5 September 1974; and
(i) "CCDR" means Comite de Coordination du Developpement
Rural established by Decree No. 76/119/PRES/DR of April 16, 1976.


﻿-(1-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equi-
valent to nine million four hundred thousand dollars ($9,400,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services re-
quired for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the goods for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1980, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4


﻿-5-
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each April 1
and October 1 commencing October 1, 1986 and ending April 1, 2026,
each installment to and Including the installment payable on
April 1, 1996 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the Republic of France is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts A, C, D
and E (1) of the Project through RDF, Part B of the Project through
BND and RDF, Part E (2) of the Project through its Ministry of
Rural Development and Part F or the Project through CCDR, with
Committee referred to under Section 3.12 of this Agreement, with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, agricultural, engineering and financial practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, ser-
vices and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without limitation or restriction on its obligations
under paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall ensure that
all necessary assistance be provided, in accordance with Schedule
4 to this Agreement, by HAER with respect to Parts A (3), A (4)
and A (5) of the Project and by ORDs with respect to Parts A (1),
A (2) and A (6) of the Project. The responsibilities of HAER with
respect to Part A (3) may be transferred to any other competent
agency of the Borrower satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.02. (a) For the purposes of carrying out the Proj-
ect, the Borrower shall cause BND to maintain within its organi-
zation the Rural Development Fund.
(b) The Borrower shall cause to be employed and continue to
be employed within RDF, during the Project period, a Project


﻿-7-
Manager, an Accountant and two Evaluation Officers whose qualifica-
tions and experience are acceptable to the Association, under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(c) The Borrower shall ensure that RDF undertakcs no proj-
ect or responsibility other than the First Project and this Proj-
ect without the prior agreement of the Association.
Section 3.03. In order to enable RDF to carry out its func-
tion as the financing mechanism under the Project, the Borrower
shall:
(i) cause RDF to prepare half-yearly budgets and
to submit such budgets to the Interministerial
Technical Committee for approval and to furnish
such budgets to the Association for its informa-
tion; and
(ii) credit to the RDF quarterly in advance the amounts
estimated by the Project Manager on the basis of
such budget to be the requirements for the execu-
tion of the Project for the following quarter.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall ensure that amonUg the tasks
of the two evaluation officers to be employed in accordance with
Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement, priority shall be given to
an evaluation in accordance with a timetable satisfactory to the
Association of the financing programs having been carried out
by RDF.


﻿-8-
Section 3,05. In order to assist HAER to discharge its respon-
sibilities, the Borrower shall (i) employ and maintain in position
a coordinator assigned to the Director of HAER whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association, to be charged with the coordination of
all operations under the Project for which HAER shall be respon-
sible; (ii) employ, not later than December 31, 1976 or such other
date as the Association shall agree, an assistant to said coordi-
nator with suitable qualifications and experience to provide, in
carrying out Part A (4) of the Project, liaison between HAER and
well construction brigades.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall ensure that except for Parts
A.4 and A.5 of the Project, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree: (i) not more than 10% of the amount of the Credit
disbursed to finance expenditures under Part A, B and D of the
Project shall be disbursed to finance expenditures for works exe-
cuted outside the area of the ORDs of Ouagadougou, Koudougou,
Koupela, Kaya and Yatenga; and (ii) no amount of the Credit shall
be disbursed to finance works in the areas falling under the respon-
sibility of AVV.
Section 3.07. In carrying out Part A (3) of the Project, the
Borrower shall cause: (i) RDF to appraise annual programs for
works included in such Part; and (ii) implement such annual pro-
grams through its HAER only after the Association shall have
approved them.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall furnish to the Association
for its approval promptly after appraisal of a sub-project under


﻿-9-
Part A.7 of the Project, a copy of the appraisal report for such
sub-project and all such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request on such appraisal and sub-project.
Section 3.09. With respect to the credit for farmers under
Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall cause:
(i) BND and RDF to provide such credit in accordance
with the terms and procedures set forth in Sched-
ule 4 to this Agreement;
(ii) BND to appoint, not later than December 31, 1976
or such other date as the Association may agree,
a qualified credit officer to be responsible for
supervising the said credit; and
(iii) BND and RDF to furnish to the Association not
later than December 31, 1976 a proforma form
of medium-term credit agreement for the Associ-
ation's approval, and thereafter use such form
as approved by the Association in granting credit
under the said Part B of the Project.
Section 3.10. The qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment of consultants which may be employed by the
Borrower in order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts E
(2) and F of the Project, shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall complete the study under Part
E (2) of the Project not later than June 30, 1977 or such other date
as the Association shall agree.


﻿- 10 -
Section 3.12. In carrying out Part F of the Project in ac-
cordance with Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain CCDR to supervise the execution of the
said Part F; and
(ii) appoint, not later than December 31, 1976 or such
other date as the Association may agree, a senior
advisor to the Ministry of Planning to assist the
Borrower in the execution of the said Part F, whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.13. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards inci-
dent to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any in-
demnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Bor-
rower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.14. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or addi-
tions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.


﻿- 11 -
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records adequate to record the progress of the Project (including
the cost thereof) and to identify the goods, works and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the
use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's
accredited representatives to visit the facilities and construction
sites included in the Project and to examine the goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and
documents; (iii) shall furnish to the Association on January 31,
and July 31 in each year progress reports and summaries of expendi-
tures under the Project and of the use of the proceeds of the Credit,
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iv) shall furnish to the Association all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods, works
and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.15. The Borrower shall, not later than Sentember 30,
1976 or such other date as the Association may agree, establish
an Inteldepartmental Technical Committee to supervise RDF, with
composition, powers and responsibilities acceptable to the Asso-
ciation.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section t.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained sound accounting practices the operations and
financial condition, in resnect of the Project, of the departments
or agencies of the Borrower resnonsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall cause RDF to: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Asso-
ciation as soon as available, but in any case not later than four
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning
the accounts and financial statements of RDF and the audit thereof
as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause to be taken out and
maintained with responsible insurers, or to be made other provi-
sion satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts ,s shall be consistent with appropriate
Dractice.


﻿w                            -13 -
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause the works con-
structed under the Project to be maintained in accordance with
sound engineering practices.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction on the Borrower's
obligations under paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall
ensure that maintenance of tubewells included under Part A (5) of
the Project and under the Project provided for in Schedule 2 to
the Credit Agreement (Drought Relief Project), dated December 7,
1973, between the Borrower and the Association shall after comple-
tion of the Project, be carried out by the Beneficiary ORD or any
other agency of the Borrower satisfactory to the Association.
(c) The Borrower shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
services and facilities to ORDs in order to ensure the continued
and efficient operation and maintenance of the works constructed
under the Project.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall submit to the Association,
not later than March 31, 1977 or such other date as the Association
shall agree, its proposals with respect to the detailed tasks and
the specific responsibilities of the agencies of the Borrower which
have or shall have responsibility for the execution of development
projects in the areas freed from onchocerciasis.


﻿- 14-                                     MW
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) Law No. 6/61/AN of January 23, 1961 of the Borrower shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such
a way as to materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the
Project.
(b) Law No. 20/65/AN of July 28, 1965 of the Borrower shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in
such a way as to materially and adversely affect the carrying out
of the Project.
(c) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant or loan made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
to the terms of the agreement providing
therefor, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.


﻿-15 -
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the satis-
faction of the Association that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination
or prematuring is not caused by the failure
of the Borrower to perform any of its obli-
gations under such agreement, and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligation
of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraDh (d) thereof namely:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph C (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 16 -w
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the menaing of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
BADEA Loan Agreement except for the effectiveness of this Agree-
ment, have been fulfilled; and
(b) the coordinator assigned to the director of HAER shall
have been appointed pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.05 (i)
of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date September 20, 1976, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement and the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section
5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall
be the earlier.


﻿- -17 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time respon-
sible for Finances of the Borrower is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the Durposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances
Ouagadougou, Upper Volta
Cable address:
MINIFINANCE
OUAGADOUGOU
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿-18 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA
By /s/ Telesphore Yaguibou
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿-19-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Catepories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           7 of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Catego              Dollar Eauivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Construction, equip-         200,000         89%
ment, materials, sup-
plies and operating
costs under Parts
A(4), A(5) and C
of the Project
(2) Construction, equip-
ment, materials, sup-
plies and operating
costs under Parts A(l),
A(2), A (3), A(6),
A(7) and D of the
Project; farmers'
equipment and animal
traction under Part B
of the Project; and
fellowships and con-
sultants' services
under Part E of the
ProJect.:


﻿- 20 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           $ of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(a) Directly              1,200,000         100% of foreign
imported goods                         expenditures
and foreign
consultants'
services
(b) Other elikible        5,000,000         89%
exoenditures
(3) Studies under Part
F of the Project:
(a) foreign staff           160,000         100%
(b) consultants'          1,140,000        100% of foreign
services                               expenditures
(c) vehicles, op            100,000         50%
erating costs
and counter-
part staff
(14) Unallocated              1,600,000
TOTAL      9,40o,000


﻿- 21 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of the Bor-
rower is also that of another country from the territory of which
goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for
such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures";
and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in res-
pect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the Bor-
rower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then ap-
plicable to such item as required to be consistent with the afore-
mentioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made: (i) in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the edate' f this Agreement, except that withdrawals,


﻿in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $350,000,
may be made in respect of Categories (1) and (2) on account of
payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
March 1, 1976; and (ii) in respect of payments made for expenditures
in respect of Category (1) after the date on which the BADEA Loan
Agreement shall have been entered into.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallo-
cate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to an-
other Category and whith in the opinion of the Association are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that fur-
ther withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expen-
ditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association inder


﻿the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, can-
cel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds
of the Credit.


﻿SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
Construction of the following works, or such other works
as may be agreed between the Borrower and the Association:
(1) works to develop about 2,700 ha of bottomland;
(2) erosion control works on about 9,200 ha;
(3) small-scale irrigation and flood protection works in
bottomland areas on about 500 ha;
(4) about 520 wells;
(5) about 180 tubewells;
(6) about 400 village warehouses and 20 village centers; and
(7) such other small-scale works as shall be appraised by
RDF and approved by the Association.
Part B:
The provision of medium-term credit to farmers for the pur-
chase of agricultural equipment and anima, tr   4Lcion.


﻿-25 -
Part C:
Establishment and equipment of a small tubevell maintenance
brigade.
Part D:
Provision of support services, staff and equipment to RDF,
HAER and ORDs.
Part E:
(1) Training and fellowships for project staff.
(2) A study of the training requirements of agricultural
extension services.
Part F:
Studies to prepare the economic development of areas freed
from onchocerciasis.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1980.


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competi-tivy Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, the goods shall be
procured under contracts to be award3d in accordance with pro-
cedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of the "Guide-
lines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" pub-
lished by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guidelines),
on the basis of international competitive bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts expected to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or more
but less than the equivalent of $50,000 shall be let on the basis
of competitive bidding in accordance with local procedures accept-
able to the Association.
2.   Contracts expected to cost less than the equivalent of $10,000
shall be let by comparative shopping under the Borrower's normal
procurement procedures for such contracts.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance with lo-
cal procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their


﻿bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) cus-
toms duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be ex-
cluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and
other expenditures incidental tu the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Upper Volta may be granted a margin
of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Upper
Volta if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Upper Volta equal to at least 20%
of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufac-
tured in Upper Volta.


﻿-28-
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall
be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A
after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods offered
in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison
only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the
importation of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15%
of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs duties and
taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in such further
comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if
not, the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison under
paragraph (c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts.


﻿-29
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent
of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably re-
quest. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and com-
parison of the bids received, together with the recommendations
for award and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably reque:st. The Association shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification invited.


﻿- 30 -
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Association of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and
such other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
The Association shall, if it determines that the award of the con-
tract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such deter-
mination.


﻿- 31 -
SCHEDULE 4
Operating Policies and Procedures
for the carrying out of
Parts A, B and F of the Project
Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the following operating policies and procedures for the
carrying out of the Project, with the indicated responsibilities,
shall apply:
(1) With respect to Part A of the Project
-    The preparation of the works to be executed under
Parts A (1), A (2) and A (6) of the Project will
be carried out by ORDs, of the works to be executed
under Parts A (3), A (4) and A (5) of the Project
by HAER, and of the works to be executed under
Part A (7) of the Project by ORDs, HAER or such
other department of the Borrower as may be appro-
priate.
-    Appraisal of the works, to the extent necessary,
will be carried out by RDF.
All sub-project proposals would be grouped into a
development program to be submitted each year by
RDF to the "Interdepartmental Technical Committee"
for anDroval.


﻿- 32-
-    The works under Parts A (1), A (2), and A (6) of
the Project will be carried out by ORDs, the works
under Parts A (3), A (4) and A (5) of the Project
by HAER, and the works under Part A (7) of the
Project by ORDs, HAER or such other department of
the Borrower as may be appropriate.
-    HAER shall provide to ORDs guidelines for engineer-
ing and design of the works to be carried out by
the ORDs and ORDs shall carry out works in accor-
dance with such standards.
-    HAER, together with RDF, shall carry out the tech-
nical insiection upon completion of the works.
-    Monitoring and evaluation of said works will be
undertaken by RDF, assisted as required by ORDs.
(2) With respect to Part B of the Project
The equivalent of approximately USt500,OOO to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit will be made available to
BND to be used as a revolving fund for medium-term agricul-
tural credit to be provided to farmers in kind. Funds will
initially be channeled through RDF, but once medium-term
credits have been made, subsequent administration will be
the responsibility of BND or any other agency satisfactory
to the Association. Funds repaid would again be used for
medium-term credit and the revolving fund would be admin-
istered under conditions to be determined between the
Borrower and BND in agreement with the Association.


﻿- 33 -
The medium-term credit will be granted at an annual in-
terest rate of eight per cent (8%) with a repayment period
of five years with one year of grace.
Farmers in the five ORDs on the Mossi plateau will be
eligible for medium-term credit on the following conditions:
(a) a minimum down payment in cash of ten per cent (10%)
would have to be made if the farmer does not own
one draught animal or agricultural traction equip-
ment;
(b) the farmer must be known to follow advice on agri-
cultural techniques given by the ORD extension
service;
(c) the farmer must have a good repayment performance
on earlier loans; and
(d) the farmer must have a cash income from his agri-
cultural activities (either from cash crops, sales
of livestock or from sale of surplus subsistence
crops) estimated to be sufficient to cover more
than his repayment obligations.
Procedures in channeling medium-term credit to farmers
will be as follows:
(a) farmer would make applications for medium-term
credit to ORDs;
01)


﻿-34-
(b) ORDs, using the criteria laid down by RDF and BND,
would screen and initially approve applications;
(c) BND's medium-term credit officer would visit each
of the ORDs to assist with initial approval of
applications;
(d) applications would be forwarded to RDF;
(e) RDF would give final approval for credit applica-
tions, consulting BND's medium-term credit officer;
(f) RDF would notify ORDs of approvals, and credit
agreements between farmers and BND would be signed;
(g) RDF would arrange for the necessary purchases, dis-
tributing them to the farmers through ORDs;
(h) following disbursement, RDF would hand a list with
credit amounts per farmer to BND; the total amount
would be charged to a special BND revolving account
for project medium-term credit; and
(i) BIND would thereafter be responsible for managing
the revolving fund, including collection of repay-
ment.
(3) With respect to Part F of the Project
In carrying out Part F of the Project:


﻿- 35 -
(a) the Ministry of Rural Development will be responsi-
ble for making an inventory of natural resources;
(b) the Ministry of Planning will be responsible for
the establishment of a broad ten-year development
plan for priority zones; and
(c) the Ministry of Rural Development will be respon-
sible for the preparation of investment projects
to be executed during the first four years of the
abovementioned development plan, and may delegate,
as appropriate, such responsibility to AVV, ORDs
or any other agency of the Borrower satisfactory
to the Association.


