CREDIT NUMBER 64 KE
Project Agreement
(Kenya Tea Development Authority Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
KENYA TEA DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
DATED AUGUST 17, 1964


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 64 KE
Project Agreement
(Kenya Tea Development Authority Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
KENYA TEA DEVELOPMENT AUTHORI:Y
DATED AUGUST 17, 1964


﻿fraert Agreement
AGREEMENT, dated August 17, 1964, between INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssocIATIoN (hereinafter called the
Association) and KENYA TEA DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
(hereinafter called KTDA), a statutory body established
by the Kenya Tea Development Authority Order, 1964 of
Kenya.
WHEREAS by an agreement of even date herewith (herein-
after called the Development Credit Agreement) between
Kenya (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Associ-
ation, the Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
two million eight hundred thousand dollars ($2,800,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development
Credit Agreement, but only on condition that KTDA agree
to undertake certain obligations to the Association as here-
inafter provided; and
WHEREAS KTDA, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the
Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations herein-
after set forth;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
Deftnitions
SECTION 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless
the context shall otherwise require, the several terms de-
fined in the Development Credit Agreement and in the Reg-
ulations (as so defined) shall have the respective meanings
therein set forth.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants of KTDA
SECTION 2.01. (a) KTDA shall carry out and complete,
or cause to be carried out and completed, the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound
agricultural, engineering and financial standards and
practices.
(b) KTDA shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans and work schedules for
the Project and any material modifications subsequently
made therein, in such detail as the Association shall from
time to time request.
(c) KTDA shall maintain records adequate to show the
expenditures of the proceeds of the Credit and to record
the progress of the Project and the Program (including the
costs thereof) ; shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained sound account-
ing practices the operations and financial condition of
KTDA; shall enable the Association's representatives to
inspect the Project and the Program and any relevant
records and documents; and shall furnish to the Associ-
ation all such information as the Association shall reason-
ably request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Credit, the Project, the Program and the operations
and financial condition of KTDA.
(d) KTDA shall have its financial statements (balance
sheet and related statement of earnings and expenses)
certified semi-annually by an independent accountant or
accounting firm acceptable to the Association and shall
promptly after their preparation and not later than three
months after the close of the .accounting period to which
they apply transmit to the Association certified copies of
such statements and a signed copy of the accountant's or
accounting firm's report.


﻿5
SECTION 2.02. (a) The Association and KTDA shall
cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the Credit
will be accomplished. To that end, each of them shall fur-
nish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Association and KTDA shall from time to time
exchange views through their representatives with regard
to matters relating to the purposes of the Credit. KTDA
shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit or the per-
formance by KTDA of its obligations under this Agree-
ment, or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, or which shall
increase or threaten to increase materially the estimated
cost of the Project.
SECTION 2.03. KTDA shall operate and maintain its
factories, equipment and property, and from time to time
make all necessary renewals and repairs thereof, all in
accordance with sound engineering standards; and shall
at all times manage its affairs, field operations and factories
and maintain its financial position in accordance with sound
agricultural, commercial and financial practices.
SECTION 2.04. KTDA shall duly perform all its obliga-
tions under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the
Association and KTDA shall otherwise agree, KTDA shall
not take or concur in any action which would have the effect
of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving any pro-
vision of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
SECTION 2.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, after the date of this Agreement KTDA shall incur
no indebtedness maturing more than twelve months from
the date originally incurred other than the indebtedness
referred to in the Recitals of the Development Credit
Agreement.


﻿6
SECTION 2.06. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, in scheduling or rescheduling the planting of the
approximately 14,400 acres of tea to be planted under the
Project KTDA shall not vary by more than ten per cent in
any financial year of KTDA the number of acres of tea to
be planted in that year as set out in the Schedule to the
Development Credit Agreement.
SECTION 2.07. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, KTDA shall not sell or approve the sale of shares
in tea factories constructed as part of the Program to per-
sons other than tea growers participating in the Program,
CDC or private tea companies managing such factories.
SECTION 2.08. KTDA shall consult the Association on
the uses of any surplus funds arising from the Program.
SECTIOx 2.09. KTDA shall consult the Association about
any proposed appointment to any of KTDA's senior
management positions sufficiently in advance of such ap-
pointment for the Association to have adequate opportunity
to comment on it.
SECTION 2.10. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, KTDA shall not, prior to the completion of the
planting program set out in the Schedule to the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement, undertake responsibilities for
supervising, managing or financing the planting of any tea
not included in the Program or undertake responsibilities
for the recurrent provision of technical assistance with
respect to such planting.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 3.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the Effective Date. If, pursuant to Section 8.04 of
the Regulationg, the Association shall terminate the


﻿7
Development Credit Agreement, the Association shall
promptly notify KTDA thereof and upon the giving of such
notice, this Agreement and all obligations of the parties
hereunder shall forthwith cease and determine.
SECTIOx 3.02. This Agreement and all obligations of
KTDA and of the Association hereunAer shall terminate
on the later of
(i) the date when the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms or
(ii) June 30, 1980.
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
SECTION 4.01. Any notice, demand or request required
or permitted to be given or made under this Agreement and
any agreement between the parties contemplated by this
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall
be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall
be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable or radio-
gram to the party to which it is required or permitted to
be given or made at its address hereinafter specified, or at
such other address as such party shall have designated by
notice to the party giving such notice or making such dp-
mand or request. The addresses so specified are:
For KTDA:
Kenya Tea Development Authority
P.O. Box 30213
Nairobi
Kenya
Alternative address for cablegrams and radiograms:
Crops
Nairobi


﻿8
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washinglon, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cablegrams and radiograms:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
SECTION 4.02. Any action required or permitted to be
taken, and any documents required or permitted to be
executed, under this Agreement on behalf of KTDA may
be taken or executed by the Chairman of KTDA or such
other person or persons as KTDA shall designate in
writing.
SECTION 4.03. KTDA shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of KTDA, take any action or execute
any documents required or permitted to be taken or exe-
cuted by KTDA pursuant to any of the provisions of this
Agreement and the authenticated specimen signature of
each such person.
SECTION 4.04. This Agreement may be executed in sev-
eral counterparts, each of which shall be an original and
all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESSWHEREOF, the parties hereto, have caused this
Agreement to be executed in their respective names by their
representatives thereunto duly authorized and deliveree.,


﻿9
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of
the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President
KENYA TEA DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
[Seal]         By BURUM NABWERA
Authorized Representative


