E-390
ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS
FONDO APOIO SOCIAL PROJECT- SECOND PHASE
GOVERNMENT OF ANGOLA
Final Report
September, 2000
Prepared for:
FONDO APOIO SOCLAL (FAS II)
LUANDA, ANGOLA
Prepared by:
WESA
(Water and Earth Science Associates Ltd.)
Box 430, 3108 Carp Rd.
Carp, Ontario, Canada KOA 1 LO
Web Site: www.wesa.ca
File No. 4201
September, 2000
Ref.-420ISptemher-OOFinalRept. doc/ds7O






EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
The Social Action Fund (Fondo de Apoio Social or FAS) is a demand driven funding mechanism
intended to help the process of poverty alleviation and human resource development. Specifically, the
fund is intended to improve access to basic services and to generate temporary employment for the poor
in rural and peri-urban areas through rehabilitating and re-equipping community infrastructure in health,
education, and sanitation. The first FAS program currently being completed and a second Social Action
Program (FAS II) is presently being planned for Angola for implementation in late 2000.
This report presents the results of an environmental mission, which was carried out in June, 2000 to
evaluate the need for environmental assessment in this project and establish a mechanism to carry it out.
The mission was carried out in conjunction with the staff at the Central FAS office in Luanda, Angola
under the supervision of Mr. Victor-Hugo Guilherme, Executive Director of FAS Angola.
* The mission was tasked with assessing the environmental capabilities of Government of Angola, the
status of environmental education and training in-the country and the abilities of FAS staff to conduct
environmental assessments. The mission found a strong need for institutional strengthening and
environmental capacity building in all three areas.
A total of 34 FAS I subprojects were visited during the mission and screened for environmental impacts.
They included schools, health centers, women's centers, latrines, water standpoints, wells, laundries,
markets, chimpacas (small surface water reservoirs), livestock watering and livestock vaccination
facilities, and local employment centers. The projects that were visited cost an average of $34,291 to
build and benefited approximately 1203 people per project.
The key technical and scientific and environmental factors relating to the environmental screening of each
project types are summarized in this document. The mission concluded that:
-  None of the projects which were conducted during the FAS I program in Angola are of a scope or
have impacts of a magnitude that they require Category A assessment.
*  Chimpaca projects will require Category B environmental assessment.
*  The latrine, buildings infrastructure, and small-scale water projects (water standpoints, bathhouses,
and laundries) that were assessed during this mission can all be considered C level projects and are
exempt from environmental assessment.
World Bank environmental staff have recommended that all FAS II projects be screened for
environmental compliance with World Bank regulations. This is especially relevant if small road or
bridge construction projects, or new project types which have not been carried out during FAS 1, are put
forward as the FAS II program develops. To carry out the required environmental screening procedures:



* Environmental Guidelines for Infrastructure Sub-Projects have been prepared to help FAS staff
deternine whether an Environmental Assessment is required for a given sub-project. These
guidelines will be followed during the identification and preparation process of each sub-project;
*  An Environmental Assessment Method including a computerized checklist has been included in this
report;
*  It is suggested that an Environmental and Health Science Training Program be carried out for FAS
directors and technical assistants. Ideas about the composition of the course and the need for on-going
supervision are included in this report.



TABLE OF CONTENTS
1.0     INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND ..................................................................1
2.0     WORK COMPLETED ..................................................................2
2.1     Types of Social Action Projects ..................................... ............................. 2
2.2     World Bank Environmental Safeguard Procedures .................................................. 2
3.0     IDENTIFICATION OF KEY ENVERONMENTAL ISSUES .........................................                3
4.0  ANGOLA'S NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL LEGISLATION                                           ..    3
4.1     The Status of Environmental Education in Angola .................................................. 4
4.2     FAS Staff Capabilities ..................................................................5
5.0  ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS OF FAS I - PROJECTS
5.1  Environmental Impacts of FAS I - projects.                                                    6
5.2  Summary of FAS I Environmental Assessment Levels .11
6.0  ENVIRONMENTAL SCREENING PROCESS FAS II - PROJECTS
6.1     Environmental Guidelines for FAS II - projects ...........................................  12
6.2     Environmental Assessment Method for FAS II - projects ..............................  13
6.3     Environmental and Health Education ......................................................  13
6.4     Institutional Arrangements for Carrying our Environmental Assessments .............   14
7.0     CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ............................................................   14
8.0     BIBLIOGRAPHY                  .................................................................   16
LIST OF TABLES
Table 1: List of Sub-Projects Evaluated during Mission
Table 2: Environmental Assessment Analysis, FAS I Projects, Angola
Table 2a: Proposed New Economic Project Types, FAS II
LIST OF ANNEX
Annex 1: Project Photos
Annex 2: A Case Study of the Environmental Impacts of the Hango Chimpaca Project
Annex 3: Environmental Guidelines for Infrastructure Projects NOT Required Environmental
Assessment
Annex 4: Environmental Screening Method and Checklist
Page i






1.0   INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND
The Social Action Fund (Fondo de Apoio Social or FAS) is a demand driven funding mechanism
intended to help the process of poverty alleviation and human resource development. Specifically, the
fund is intended to improve access to basic services and to generate temporary employment for the poor
in rural and peri-urban areas through rehabilitating and re-equipping community infrastructure in health,
education, and sanitation.
An initial Social Action project (FAS I) was established in Angola in 1993. The project included a wide
range of subprojects, which were focussed primarily on the reconstruction and re-establishment of
essential social services. Based on a review of FAS I and Social Fund projects being carried out in other
countries, the possibility that some types of sub-projects were causing adverse environmental impacts was
raised by World Bank staff. These subprojects were not subject to the normal Bank Environmental
Assessment procedures due to the fact that these programs were administered through a Financial
Intermediary (FI). The FI environmental assessment category was created in 1999 to address this
distinction.
A second Social Action Program (FAS II) is presently being planned for Angola for implementation in
late 2000. The objective of the environmental mission was to evaluate the need for environmental
assessment in this project and establish a mechanism to carry it out. The Terms of Reference for the
mission were as follows:
(a) The consultant will review the national environmental legislation, regulations and administrative
procedures in conjunction with the World Bank's safeguard policies, and identify possible gaps.
(b) The consultant will describe the environment of the project area, assess the potential environmental
and social impacts of the expected sub-projects, and recommend appropriately costed mitigation
measures for inclusion in the proposed project. Particular attention should be paid to the potential
need for hygiene education as well as wastewater and waste disposal.
(c) The consultant will develop (a) environmental guidelines for sub-projects not requiring environmental
analysis, and (b) a screening process for sub-projects requiring environmental analysis.
(d) The consultant will assess the capacity of the provincial offices of FAS II to conduct environmental
analyses and to implement environmental mitigation measures, and make appropriate
recommendations regarding training needs and costs for inclusion in the proposed project.
(e) The consultant will develop a monitoring plan to track the potential environmental impacts of the
expected investments.
(f) Based on his findings, the consultant will recommend appropriate institutional arrangements for FAS
II regarding environmental management and assessment.
Page I



This assessment was conducted by Derek P Smith, Environmental Consultant (WESA Ltd. Canada), in
Angola from June 9-22 2000.
2.0    WORK COMPLETED
This mission was carried out in conjunction with the staff at the Central FAS office in Luanda, Angola
under the supervision of Mr. Victor Hugo Guilherme, Executive Director of FAS Angola.
Interviews were conducted with staff from the Ministry of Fisheries and Environment in Luanda, the
Director of Juventude Ecological Angola (JEA, the primary NGO involved in environmental education in
Angola) and ADRA (the primary NGO working in environmental and health issues in rural Angola).
Field visits were made to the FAS offices operating in Luanda Province (Towns of Viana and Cacuaco),
Bengo (City of Caxito), Namibe (City of Namibe) and Huila (City of Lubango).
Detailed discussions were held in each FAS office relating to the components of FAS I, and the proposed
content and scope of FAS II. This work forms the basis for the following comments and
recommendations.
During August, 2000 this document was reviewed by staff of the World Bank (Environment-Africa
Region) in Washington and detailed written comments were produced. This final report considers and
incorporates these comments.
2.1   TYPES OF SOCIAL ACTION PROJECTS
The 34 FAS projects visited during this mission are listed in Table I (following page). They include
schools, health centers, women's centers, latrines, water standpoints, wells, laundries, markets,
chimpacas, livestock watering and livestock vaccination facilities, and local employment centers. The
projects that were visited cost an average of $34,291 to build and benefited approximately 1203 people
per project.
2.2    WORLD BANK ENVIRONMENTAL SAFEGUARD CRITERIA
The original environmental and social data sheet, which was completed by World Bank staff for the FAS
II project included the following assessment:
* The World Bank policies for environmental assessment and pest management apply to the project.
* The issues of involuntary resettlement dam safety, international waterways and disputed territories do
not apply to the project.
Page 2



Table 1: List of Subprojects Evaluated During Mission
[Project Location               |Type of Project            I Total Cost  Number ofBeneficiariesl
I~ ~                I
Province of Bengo
Mifuma                          Daycare Centre                  $58,000               193
Kijoao Mendes                   Latrine Project                 $8,700                157
ijoao Mendes                   School                         $58,500               430
Kudimuena                       First Aid Station               $12,000              1470
Kijoao Mendes                   Medical Centre                  $45,000              1520
Kijoao Mendes                   Foundation (Base sala)         $114,000               730
Province of Namibe
Praia Amelia                    School                          $53,000              570
Praia Amelia                    Medical Post                    $13,500              1500
Complexo Jose Operio            School rehabilitation          $41,000               1700
Centro de Farmacao Feminina     Training                       $66,000               720
Postos Do San Pedreo            Medical Centre                  $33,000              1300
Namibe Pic Pec                  Daycare Centre                 $14,500               300
Forte Sanata Ana                School                         $75,000               650
Manuais Da Aidi                 School + water supply           $39,000              290
Saco Mar                        School                         $55,000               330
Valododia                        Latrines                       $4,200                185
Saco Mar                        Laundry and well                $9,500               3000
olanta                         Well + water post               $4,300              2650
Pic Pec h 6                     Daycare Centre                 $52,000               850
Namibe                          North Latrines                  $3,500               122
rovince of Huila
Figueira                        Medical Centre                  S49,000              3548
Zone B                          Laundry and bath house         $24,500               1500
Figueira                        Laundry                         $4,500               2550
Hango                           Chimpaca                       $52,700               4300
Tchavola                        Water Standpoint and pump       $14,000              800
Figueira 2                      Water Standpoint and pump       $14,000              800
Tchavola                        School (3 rooms)                $67,500              330
Province of Luanda
Viana                           School                          $50,000       data on beneficiaries
Cacuaco                         School                          $50,000           not available
Viana                           Water stands and laundry        $8,000
Cacuaco                         Water stands and laundry        $8,000
Medical Centre                 $14,000
Market Building                $44,000
Latrine                        $6,000
Average Cost of Project:       $34,291
Average Number of Beneficiaries:                    1204



* A number of issues were listed as "to be determnined" by the project. These included the safeguard
policies regarding natural habitat, forestry, tropical forests, and agro-chemicals, cultural property and
indigenous people.
It is the opinion of the consultant that only the issue of environmental assessment applies to the project.
The issue of internal resettlement of indigenous people due to the civil war is an issue of major
significance in Angola. However, resettlement is a voluntary process and is not an involuntary issue
caused or altered by the FAS process. Field study has shown that pest management is not a safeguard
issue related to FAS I or FAS II subprojects as originally mentioned.
3.0   IDENTIFICATION OF KEY ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES
Each person interviewed in Angola was asked to list the most important environmental issues facing the
country. It is of interest that nobody could do it. The Director of JEA explained that "there is inadequate
information and study of environmental issues to permit them to be identified and prioritized". The issues
raised in the international literature about Angola include:
*  deforestation of tropical rain forest in response to both international demand for tropical timber and
the loss of natural habitat associated with this process,
-  the overuse of pastures and subsequent soil erosion attributable to population pressures,
v  desertification, partly due to the domestic use of trees and brush as fuel,
*  socio-economic impacts due to the internal displacement of people within Angola due to the civil
war,
*  the lack of potable water supplies and human health effects due to water contamination, specifically
due to the lack of adequate sanitation facilities,
*  the building of dams, increased irrigation and the lack of watershed management practices in arid and
sub-arid areas,
*  the construction of new roads in ecologically sensitive areas, and
*  environmental issues related to destruction caused by civil war activities, including the issues related
to land mine removal and reclamation of war zones.
4.0    ANGOLA'S NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL LEGISLATION AND CAPACITIES
The Government of Angola includes a Ministry of Fisheries and Environment (MFE), which is lead by
Minister Maria de Fatima Fonteiro Jardin. The Government gives strong emphasis to the Fisheries part of
the portfolio, with the environmental portfolio being added only in January, 1999.
Page 3



The MFE has produced two environmental position papers:
1) the environmental "law" of June 19, 1998 which ratified four international conventions (The law of
the Sea, The Treaty on Desertification, the Treaty on Climate Change and the Montreal Protocol on
Ozone Emissions), and
2) a draft environmental "strategy" which was released in June 2000. This document identifies, in a
general way, the need for environmental assessment, new legislation, compliance with international
standards, environmental education and environmentally acceptable sustainable development. The
environmental strategy is under discussion in the Government at the present time and no date for
adoption or implementation has been announced.
The Ministry:
* has not legally defined their regulatory powers as yet and has almost no institutional capacity
(including financing mechanisms, institutional structure, or human resource capacity).
D reports to a justice system that is not ready for'environmental regulation.
*  has adopted no environmental discharge standards and has no enforcement capability.
The first Angolan National forum on the environment was held in Luanda on December 6, 1999. The
conference identified three key issues of importance to the country:
* the need for urban planning controls,
* the need to protect and manage the countries forest resources, and
* the careful utilization of water resources.
The conference was hosted by the Department of Fisheries and Environment.
4.1    THE STATUS OF ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION IN ANGOLA
JEA (the primary NGO working in environmental education in Angola) report that the government is
building three training centres where environmental studies will be taught. However, they do not have
qualified teachers and there is no curriculum planned to date. The schools are intended to start the process
of teaching environmental education throughout the country. At present, there are no courses taught in
environmental sciences or environmental engineering anywhere in Angola at any level. The public
university in Luanda (Angostino Nato University) has 5 faculties (engineering, science, economics,
medicine and architecture). Some environmental studies are taught as part of the biology courses, but this
is a very small part of the overall curriculum. The university is the public university in Angola, has
20,000 students at present and has regional hubs in some of the provinces.
Page 4



The NGO community has very limited training in environmental sciences and few resources available to
carry out environmental projects JEA and ADRA have one person organizing environmental projects in
each organization. Neither person has a degree in environmental studies.
4.2    FAS STAFF CAPABILITIES
The FAS process is a respected, community based program which has improved the lives of thousands of
people in Angola through the construction of schools, secure water supplies, laundries, medical centres,
markets, women's centers and day care centers. The success of the program is impressive. The
competence and dedication of FAS staff in each of the 4 provinces visited is also impressive. However,
FAS staff have limited experience with environmental and health sciences, in part because there is
literally no education in the environrmental field in the Angolan school system. During the mission FAS
employees expressed a keen interest in receiving environmental training, especially related to water and
health issues.
Due to this lack of education and training, FAS staff do not presently have the capacity to conduct
Category B environmental assessments. Proposed training and a recommended screening and assessment
process for FAS II is discussed under Section 6 of this document.
5.0    ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS OF FAS I PROJECTS
Each of the FAS I projects listed was screened for possible negative impacts. Information was collected
on the project type, size, location and construction material and methods. A terrain analysis was
conducted at each of the 34 locations visited, and observations were recorded and photographs taken. This
permitted an analysis of impacts to be made and an assessment category assigned to each type of project.
This analysis was done by the FAS director, technical assistant and the Consultant.
Table 2 summarizes this information by grouping the FAS sub-projects into the following groups:
* the construction of buildings,
* latrine/sanitation projects,
* water standpoints, laundry stations and bathhouses which require water sources, and
* surface water/watershed projects.
The term environment impact is used in a broad sense, and includes the negative and positive impacts that
will occur during and after the implementation of the project. The "environment" includes the physical,
socio-economic and human characteristics of the area in which the project will function.
The scope of possible environmental impacts from FAS subprojects in Angola was considered in light of
a series of historical and regional factors. FAS projects are predominantly located in peri-urban or rural
Page 5



areas that have been very heavily impacted by the social and ecological damage caused by 25 years of
civil war. These areas;
*  show severe levels of terrain disruption due to human activities,
* almost entirely lack vegetation, partly due to the natural arid nature of these zones and partly due to
the deforestation of the sparse tree and brush cover for use as fuel,
* are densely populated, in part due to the internal displacement of people from rural war zones into
the fringe areas around major cities.
The people in these areas are squatters who live in horrendous conditions of overpopulation, poverty and
suffering, and have no access to basic infrastructure. The only available materials for housing
construction is waste, scavenged from local dumping areas, and sun-dried adobe blocks, made from the
fine grained lateritic soils upon which the squatter settlements are located. In addition, there is a severe
lack of potable water and heavily contaminated surface water is used for human consumption in many
rural areas.
Annex 1 of this document includes a series of photos, illustrating project types and the terrain conditions
in which they are located.
5.1 . ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS OF FAS I - PROJECTS
Some of the key factors relating to the environmental screening of each project types are outlined in this
section of the document.
Latrines
Latrine projects are carried out in existing areas of housing where sanitary facilities are unavailable.
Ditches and open spaces in these zones are soiled with human excrement. Approximately 15 households
build latrines under each project. FAS provides the construction plans, cement, lime whitewash, paint
materials and supervises the project. The homeowner provides his own labour and the latrines are built
immediately adjacent to the owners home. A 1.5 to 2 metre pit is dug in the ground and lined with blocks,
with holes provided in the structure for exfiltration of liquids. The pit is covered with a cement plate,
through which there is a hole and upon which are foot guides. The soil from the pit is used to make
unfired adobe blocks and a small block building is built over the pit. Two bags of cement and as little as
1.5 cubic metres of soil are required to make the blocks. The cost per latrines may be as low as $50. If an
inadequate soil volume is excavated from the pit, the adobe blocks are made from soil which is taken
from the ground surface within a few metres of the pit. The latrine is completed by painting or
whitewashing. Typically as many as 10 people live in each two-room house, and as many as 125 people
are given sanitation facilities by each latrine project.
Page 6



A number of pit latrines and water standpoint projects were inspected in the field to determine how they
were located and constructed, and to determine the potential for aquifer contamination from the
subsurface migration of human effluents. In all cases, pit latrines were completed in fine grained, low
permeability, unsaturated soils above the groundwater table. The disposal of effluents under these
conditions permits several important processes to take place; the slow decomposition of feces, the release
of gases (the pits are vented to the ground surface) and the very slow movement of liquids into the
unsaturated soil vadose zone. Pit latrines typically function for 4-5 years, at which time the inert material
in the pit can be encapsulated and a new latrine built in an area adjacent to the existing pit.
There were no cases observed where the contamination of confined or unconfined aquifers was possible
for the following reasons:
*  latrines are not built upgradient (in a groundwater flow sense as well as a topographic sense) from
well locations, which prohibits contaminant movement between latrines and wells,
*  non near surface groundwater flux between source and receptors,
*  the wells at each water standpoint are drilled and cement grouted wells, constructed by air-rotary
water well techniques and tap deep aquifers that are hydraulic. isolated from pit privies by deep
thickness of surficial sediments,
*  in several cases the natural groundwater quality is saline, and is not used for human consumption as a
result.
Where water standpoints are serviced by piped water from city supplies (such as the zones near Luanda),
pit latrines cannot cause migration of contaminants into depressurized pipes, because the supply pipes are
new and properly constructed, and there is no near surface groundwater table to act as a transmissive
medium.
In places, such as Bengo, which is located within 50 km of a ceramic plant, fired bricks are imported by
truck and used in the construction of the latrines walls. This provides more reliable and stronger wall
structure in the long term. The brick factory uses borrow pits and quarries adjacent to the plant site as its
supply of raw materials. The Luanda cement plant, which is located north on the coast several kilometers
north of the city center, is the main source of cement within Northern Angola. The cement plant derives
its calcareous material from several quarries located on near the plant. In some cases, river sand is used
for latrine construction. This is removed from river flood planes during low flow periods.
Latrine projects have a highly positive impact. They improve sanitary facilities and remove the health
risk of human excrement in public areas. Negative environmental impact related to the making of adobe
blocks are very localized. Soil disruption occurs on ground which is already highly disturbed, is without
vegetation, is not used for gardening, and is without conflicting land uses or water/drainage impacts.
Latrines were not located close to groundwater supplies in any of the areas visited during the field
mission. The importation of small quantities of sand from local river beds is not a significant impact. The
Page 7



rivers consist of dry channels filled with sandy sediment during at least 10 months of the year and the
sedimentological or hydrological characteristics of the river are not affected by this process.
FAS Construction Projects (schools, training centers, markets, medical posts, first aid stations, day-care
centers)
FAS buildings are constructed in similar manner using similar techniques and building methods The final
use (women's training center or school or medical post etc.) and the size of the buildings being the main
difference between the types of construction projects.
FAS buildings are constructed using a cement slab-on-grade construction method. The development sites
have been chosen carefully by the community. Cut and fill activities are not necessary on most sites (only
minor site leveling) because the terrain is flat is all cases. None of the FAS project sites visited by the
mission involved the clearing and grubbing of vegetation. Vegetation either never existed due to the
arid/desert nature of the terrain or was removed long ago. FAS buildings are designed to incorporate
proper drainage features in the site design.
The buildings are built with fired blocks or bricks, with the use of some steel framing to improve roof
support in the larger structures. Materials are imported from the most cost-effective source. In the Bengo
or Viana areas, the ceramic plants in Luanda are the source of these materials. In Huila and Namibe
materials are often imported from Namibia, where they can be procured at a cheaper price. Cement fibre
roofing materials are used on all structures. The buildings are painted when completed.
Many FAS projects, especially schools and medical posts, include the construction of on-site latrines and
water standpoints. Water supplies come from a piped extension of the water supply network, if the project
was close to urban centers, or from drilled or dug wells. Hydrogeolgical observations were made at each
of the site visited. No cases were identified where there was a chance of groundwater contamination from
the latrines. (i.e. the latrines had been situated upgradient from dug wells).
All of the sites visited had been cleaned after construction and no waste material or refuse piles are
present. Trees and flowers were planted around most of the completed buildings, in some case being the
only living vegetation within view.
FAS construction projects are being carried out so that they are not producing negative environmental
impacts related to site location or construction methods. Building construction activities are of short
duration and are very localized. Building sites are remediated to a condition which is far superior to the
conditions present before construction was initiated and far superior to the ambient environment in the
surrounding neighborhood. FAS buildings provide a variety of essential services to the community
relating to education and public health, and the overall impacts of the projects are highly positive.
Page 8



The use of ceramic bricks, paint, whitewash, cement, roofing materials and structural steel on FAS
building projects does not produce negative environmental impact. However, the production of some of
these materials in Angola undoubtedly produces negative environmental impacts, due to the unregulated
nature of the industries within the country. The Luanda cement plant, for example, emits qualities of
particulate matter and ash from its stack which would contravene emission regulations in North America
or Europe. The mitigation of this type of impact is beyond the scope of this screening process. Two facts
are important to consider in this discussion;
*  there are no other types of building materials (wood, for example) which are available in Angola
which could replace the materials being used at present in FAS projects.
*  FAS usage of these materials is a minute percentage of their total use in the country. For example,
most of the homes in the city of Luanda, except for the downtown core, are constructed using similar
types of materials.
This discussion supports the need for institutional and regulatory strengthening within the Ministry of
Fisheries and Environment.
Water Projects (Water standpoints, laundry station and bathhouses)
Water supplies are obtained for FAS projects in two ways; by extending small diameter pipes from
existing water supply distribution networks when projects are located close to these services, and by
drilling or digging wells.
Pipe extensions were observed at several project sites. They consist of digging a 0.3 metre deep trench
with a width of 20 cm in the sandy soil and extending the pipes. A typical trench length is 200-300
metres. This process occurs along road and pathways in areas which are heavily disturbed by human and
vehicular traffic. This process does not disturb vegetation because it is not present in these areas.
Inspections at completed projects showed that trench rehabilitation had been competed satisfactorily and
the location of the trenches could not be identified in most a cases. In some cases, revegetation of the
areas had been started after the FAS project has been completed.
Drilled wells are constructed by private contractor using rotary drilling equipment. Dug wells were only
observed in the Bengo area. They have been completed to the water table by hand where they encountered
a saline water table. These wells are used for washing purposes only and are unfit for human
consumption. All wells were completed with adequate wellhead protection and drainage features. All
drilled wells were outfitted with manual pumps that permit yields of only 30-40 litres per minute. This is
not a high enough rate to cause groundwater interference or drawdown problems.
Page 9



Laundry facilities in all cases were located 5-9 metres from the water source and were outfitted with
greywater sumps and drainage features to prohibit the contamination of the wellhead with contaminated
surface drainage. Water is moved to the washstands from the taps manually. Several wellheads have
adjacent bathhouses that include four to five shower stalls and provide important public sanitation
facilities.
Several water standpoints have been equipped with drainage/overflow channels which permit any spilt of
excess water to move into garden plots, where tomatoes and other vegetable crops flourish.
All water sources were inspected for possible sources of groundwater contamination and were found to be
situated and constructed in a way that this problem will not occur.
The results of the availability of improved and secure water sources, bathing facility and washing areas
are highly positive. Each facility visited was being used intensely. The positive impact of clean water is
most important to women, who are predominately responsible for the provision of water and for family
health in Angolan households. The reduced distance that women need to travel to obtain water and the
reliability of the water quality are strong positive impacts on women's lives. Clean water has a strongly
positive impact on the use and resources of community health systems. The construction of wells,
laundries and bathhouses have very localized and very short term construction impacts associated with
them.
There is a need for education in basic health and hygiene practices at a community level, to insure that
clean water is not contaminated by human activities after the water has been drawn from the standpoints.
Chimpaca Projects
A chimpaca is a water reservoir the size of a football field that is constructed to store rainwater runoff for
use during periods of low precipitation. Chimpaca's are usually located in rural areas along existing
watercourses. The Hango chimpaca project was studied in the field. A case study of this project, including
a discussion of impacts and mitigative measures, is appended in Annex 2 of this document.
The Hango project produced the following negative environmental impacts:
1 ) The project did not meet its objectives of supplying increased amounts of water during dry season
conditions for agricultural use and a secure potable water supply to the local communities on a
sustainable basis.
2) The project increased the risk of health related diseases by permitting and encouraging the
consumption of contaminated water in the local community.
3) The project wasted local labour time, wasted the investment made in it and caused a decrease in
confidence in the local community. The project was expensive to build.
Page 10



4) Other impacts may include increased risk of malaria due to the increased habitat provided for
mosquito reproduction.
No positive impacts could be identified in relationship to the Hango chimpaca project. Chimpaca projects
produce serious negative environmental and social impacts and these projects require environmental
impact assessment.
5.2   SUMMARY OF ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENTS LEVELS OF FAS I - PROJECTS
(refer to table 2 on the following pages)
Category A:
None of the projects which were conducted during the FAS I program in Angola are of a scope or have
impacts of a magnitude that they require Category A assessment.
Category B:
Chimpaca projects require Category B environmental assessment.
Category C:
The latrine, building, and small scale water projects (water standpoints, bath houses, and laundries)
assessed during the environmental mission can all be considered C level projects and are exempt from
environmental assessment for the following reasons:
*  they are small scale construction and rehabilitation projects,
*  are very limited in geographic scope and area of impact,
*  are located in arid desert areas without natural vegetation, and do not impact terrestrial or aquatic
ecosystems, agricultural production areas,
*  do not produce air, water or soil contamination in any form,
*  do not produce long term maintenance-related impacts,
*  do not produce impacts of regional or national significance,
*  include minimal and very localized, small scale utilization of natural resources and building
materials,
*  they are built in areas which have already been highly impacted by anthropogenic activities,
*  and they produce strongly positive social, economic and community level impacts.
6.0    ENVIRONMENTAL SCREENING OF FAS II - PROJECTS
The mission was informned that the scope and variety of projects proposed for completion under FAS II is
unlikely to vary greatly from FAS I. However, the May, 2000 Project Approval Document (PAD)
produced by the World Bank mentions that communities will be encouraged to focus on their needs
Page I I



Table 2:       Environmental Assessment Analysis, FAS 1, Angola
Page IA
Construction of    Average project size is less   All buildings located in existing   Fired Ceramic blocks and brick, trucked to
Buildings           than $50,000 U.S.          urban and peri-urban          site from closest ceramic factories
communities; mostly in densely  (sometimes as much as 60 km away)
Two to five room    The footprint of a typical  overpopulated marginal slum
schools             building ranges from       areas.                        Adobe bricks made using local silty soils
approximately 40 square                                  and cement
One room first aid   'metres for a one- room first   All buildings located in areas of
posts               aid post to 500 square    intense existing human         Cement from cement plants in Luanda or
metres for the largest five-   settlement and disruption due to  elsewhere, depending on price
Three to five room    room school. All of the  high population density and
medical centres     buildings have one stoiy   human activities              Cement fibre tiling as roofing materials
only.
Two to three room                             Buildings located on sites that    Larger buildings include support structures
daycare centres                               are flat and do not require    of structural steel
drainage alterations, grubbing,
Women's centres                               cutting or filling activities  Paint and lime whitewash
Open market                                   No sites are covered with      Sand from local dry stream channels.
buildings with                                vegetation due to natural desert
vendors stalls                                terrain, and intense human
activity
Construction of
building foundations                          No tree removal required at any
site visited; all sites are located
in desert areas where tree cover
is lacking naturally or in areas
where mature trees were
removed long ago for human use
All buildings located by
community consensus near
existing dwellings and facilities



PagelB
Very limited or no    No disruption of ground surface, excavations,   Category C:   FAS building projects are wel-
site preparation    disruption of local drainage. Deforestation is either  No         constructed facilities that have
required at any site   natural due to desert conditions or has already occurred  environmental  strong positive benefits to the
due to intense human activity                     assessment or  local community. Building
Slab on grade                                                         screening      construction does not cause
foundation slabs    Adobe blocks fabrication causes near surface      required       negative environmental impacts.
poured using        topography variations due to soil excavations on a very          FAS buildings provide essential
shallow footings    limited scale. This does not disrupt surface drainage            services to a very high number
and no vegetative cover existed before building                  of people. The high quality of
Block wall and      construction.                                                    the construction work and the
mortar construction                                                                  cleanliness and vegetation
Waste and excess building materials routinely removed            growth around the buildings has
Steel frameworks    from site after construction;                                    a strong positive impact, and
used on larger                                                                       generates pride in the local
building (medical   Site vegetation plans competed in all cases with                 community. All buildings
centres and 5 room    flowers, hedges, and trees planted.                            represent a strongly positive
schools)                                                                             upgrade in the land use and
environmental conditions of the
No clearing                                                                          sites on which they are built.
grubbing or filling                                                                  FAS buildings are jewels in a
required on any                                                                      sea of slums and intense human
sites;                                                                               suffering.
Adobe blocks made
on site from on-site
soil materials or
materials within
several hundred
metres of the site;
soil, cement content
with sun drying;
Cement Fibre
roofing materials
with storm gutters
emptying onto
permeable natural
soil surfaces
Liming of lower
walls, and painting
of upper walls and
interiors;



Page 24
Latrine Projects  A typical project involves    Adjacent to existing homes.  Adobe/cement bricks made on site,
the construction of a 2-  Most homes are made of adobe   usually from soils located on an
metre high pit privy and  brick construction and are    individual property owners land within 10
building, without running    several room, one-story    metres of the latrines location.
;water, with a footprint of 4-  dwellings. Homes may house as
6 square metres. A pit    many as 10 people.            Cement blocks made at local production
latrine costs as little as $50                          sites are purchased and used in some
(average $300) in materials                             projects. These latrines are more
and construction is carried                             expensive. This type of latrine is
out by the homeowner.                                   preferred for schools and public buildings
that receive higher volume public use.
Latrine projects are
organized in groups of 15
family units. The average
total cost of a latrine project
is in the $5000 to $8000
range including supervision,
administration and purchase
of materials.



Page 2B
A 2.5 metre deep pit  The provision of sanitary services to densely populated   Category C:    The large population movements
is dug by hand and    dwellings is an extremely positive benefit to human  Environmental  within Angola which took place
is lined with stones    health and the aesthetics and smell of individual  impacts are   in the war displaced large
or adobe blocks.     households and the community. The cessation of      highly positive  numbers of people from rural to
Spaces are left on   defecation activities in public areas, as is the case in  and       pen-urban environments around
the sides of the pit to  many areas of Angola that do not have sanitation  environmental  large cities. These areas are
permit the outflow   services, is a highly positive community impact.    assessment is   intensely populated and are
of liquids into the                                                      not required.    essentially without sanitation
near surface         Pit privies do not pollute local water supplies in any of           facilities. The FAS latrine project
unsaturated soil     the areas visited.                                                 is a highly successful solution to
zone. A removable                                                                        part of this problem. There is an
cement slab with a    Pit latrines do not cause -construction impacts. Pit               urgent need for an expansion of
hole in it is placed    latrines are constructed by individual homeowners.               the program. The pride of the
over the pit. The pit   This experience gives pride and dignity to the family            homeowner, which is evident
is ventilated to the    and an opportunity for basic sanitation education.               when they show the results of
ground surface. A 2-                                                                     their labours, and the
metre adobe block                                                                        opportunities for health education
building is built                                                                        through the program are
around the pit for                                                                       important social aspects of the
privacy reasons. A                                                                       project.
corrugated iron or
thatched roof
typically competes
the structure. The
lower metre of the
block building is
typically
whitewashed with
lime. Occasionally
the upper part of the
building is painted
or stained.



Page 3A
Water               A typical well includes a  All projects are located by the  Well drilling services are subcontracted
Standpoints,        drilled well completed with   community in community center  to local drilling firms. Wells are
Laundry             a manual pump. The well    areas which permit access on a    constructed using casing and standard
Stations, and       head is finished with a    reasonably equal basis. In some   well construction methods.
Bathhouses          concrete wellhead structure   cases, locations are on Catholic
with one to four taps where   Church property or are adjacent   Urban water systems are extended using
water buckets are filled. A    to schools or other FAS   metal PVC piping through shallow
water standpoint wellhead is  buildings where space is   trenches dug to a depth of .5 metres by
2.5 metre long and I metre   available and there is a focus of   hand or by a small bucket backhoe.
high. Provisions are      human activities.              Trenches are filled in with the excavated
included for the drainage of                             soil materials upon completion of the
excess/spilled water through  It is typical that well, laundries    project, and quickly become revegetated
troughs by gravity into   and bathhouse facilities are   or compacted and do not form a
small vegetable plots in  located together, obviously    noticeable or distinct features after
most locations.           because of the location of the  construction is complete.
water source.
Water is manually                                I       All laundry and water standpoint
transported to laundry    In some locations, water       structures are made of concrete. Sand for
stations. These are concrete  standpoints are attached to urban  the concrete is often obtained from local
structures with corrugated    piped water systems.       streams. Corrugated iron and cement
cement washboards in                                     fibre roofing materials are used in all
cement tubs. Usually 8 to 12                             cases. Bathhouses are constructed of
tubs are provided. The                                   cement blocks which are purchased form
structure                                                local sources.
may include a corrugated
iron roof to provide some
basic shelter in times of
poor weather. Wastewater is
directed into seepage pits.
Where piped water is
available, as in parts of the
Luanda district, bathing
facilities have been
constructed adjacent to
some but not all of the water
_  standpoint projects.



Page 3B
Standard            In all cases, wells were located where they are and  Category C: No   The mitigative measures relating
construction        would not be effected by contamination from pit   impact          to location, design and operation
methods as          privies or laundry wastewater. In all cases laundry  assessment is    of these facilities is well
described under     wastewater was being directed away from well heads   required.    understood by the FAS teams
section 1 of this   into dry wells through properly designed drainage                 and have already been
table are used      channels. Specific hydrogeological observations were              incorporated into the
consistently in all    made at all locations visited to determine these facts.        implementation of these
areas.              At all locations the water being used for human                   projects. The FAS teams would
consumption was clear, colorless, and odorless and                benefit from basic water.testing
considered to be fit for human consumption.                       equipment so they could adopt a
monitoring function at their
The effects of providing locally available sources of             water facilities. There is also a
potable water for communities is well documented.                 need and a strong desire for
The positive benefits include better human health, a              increased training on water,
reduction in waterbome disease, and a decreased                   health and environmental issues
burden on the health system and an increased quality of           in each of the FAS teams that
human life. One of the most important impacts is the              were visited.
extremely positive impact clean water has on effect on
women's lives who are responsible for water
procurement and family health across Angola.
The use of sand that is derived from local river
channels has the potential to have a negative impact on
the river banks and beds from which the sand is
derived. This impact is extremely small, given the fact
that most Angolan rivers are dry sand choked rivers in
the dry season( i.e for 8 months of the year). This
impact is minimal given the abundance of sandy soils
and desert conditions throughout the country.



Page 4A
P                   .Project Sizies,,       Location& Of P            rjc 
Surface water        The construction of a     Chimpacas are resoirs that    All construction materials are on site
Watershed            chimpaca costs an average   are constructed along small  materials. Cement is imported from local
projects             of $50,000. This cost could  streams or rivers in an attempt to  sources by truck and local sources of sand
be much higher depending   capture rainfall and surface  are used in the making of concrete at
on the hydrological and  water runoff during the rainy  outlet structures.
terrain conditions at thea    season and store it for use during
proposed site. An average   dry periods of the year. The
chimpaca is a reservoir 1 to  water in a chimpaca is intended
1.5 metres deep,         for three uses; irrigation, cattle
constructed into native  watering and human use
materials, without a natural  including a source of potable
or artificial impermeable    drinking water.
liner. The reservoir is
located along an existing    Some but not all of the FAS
watercourse.             provincial offices have chimpaca
projects. Of the 4 regional
An earthwork dam is      offices that were visited during
located at the outlet end  this project, only the Huila
and the reservoir is     district has constructed or is
provided with an overflow   planning to construct watershed
channel and outlet       reservoir projects. In Huila, two
structure to handle times of  chimpacas were constructed
excessive rainfall.      under FAS 1. The Hango project
was visited. It is located in a
A chimpaca is usually the   rural area 53 km from Lubango.
size of a football pitch (i.e   Access to the site is by 4-wheel
30-45 metres or more in    drive vehicle, even in the dry
length and 25-25 metres in  season. In the rainy season the
width.                   site is inaccessible.



Page 4B
:Co                         3WU_
Locally available    Chimpacas are usually constructed without        Category B: Chimpaca   Several FAS directors
excavation equipment  engineering designs or hydraulic and hydrological  developments have the   expressed the opinion
such as backhoes or    calculations. They may or may not provide the  potential to cause     that chimpaca projects
bulldozers is used to   quantity of water for which they are being    serious local          should be eliminated
construct the        constructed.                                     environmental impact   from FAS 2 because they
reservoir by                                                          and effects on human    are rural projects, are not
scrapping out the    The communities that ask for their construction are  health. All proposed  cost effective in
river channel. Part of  unaware of the complicated series of engineering,  chimpaca/reservoir or   relationship to other FAS
the excavated        social and environmental variables that must be  other projects which   projects and have a poor
material is used to  considered in the design of a multiple use reservoir  might be proposed in    success record.
build walls around   facility.                                       the future which effect
the reservoir and                                                    river watersheds in a
build an earthwork   Chimpacas cause intense local alteration to river  significant way require
dam at the           channels and the habitat adjacent to the reservoir.  environmental
downstream end of                                                     assessment before they
the chimpaca.        Chimpacas cause water to pond and to stagnate during  can be implemented.
the dry season. They deprive downstream riparian
A pump or overflow    users, (people, wildlife and ecosystems) of water due
structure is added to   to their damming action for some part of the year.
the center of the
earthwork dam, to    Chimpacas permit cattle watering by direct access of
permit water         cattle into the reservoirs. The addition of cattle
extraction when      manure, plus the high natural rate of
required and water    evapotranspiration in the interior arid regions of
overflow during high   Angola, cause the impounded water to become
flow conditions.     eutrophic, mineralized and highly contaminated with
bacteria. Bacteria from cattle manure is a prime
source of a variety of human diseases.
Chimpaca structures often fail due to water capacity
loss due to high sedimentation rates with the reservoir.
Chimpaca developments are expensive. Groundwater
use may be a safe, cost effective and sustainable
alternative to their construction.
The Hango chimpaca project used a charcoal filter
technology that requires sophisticated maintenance,
including carbon replacement and backwashing. The
technology was not appropriate for the rural
conditions in which it was applied.
The Hango project did not have a public information
component that would have perrnitted people to use
the system in an appropriate manner. Furthermore, the
local Water Ministry representatives, who were
responsible for pump maintenance lack capacity and
did not carry out their job. The project failed
mechanically as a consequence.
The failure of chimpaca projects, as in the case of the
Hango reservoir, has a negative effect on the
community that asked for the project, and that had
input into the project location and planning and
provided labour during the construction of the project.



related to economic recovery during FAS II. As a consequence the following project types may be
included:
*  the repair and upgrading of roads into communities, or the development of new localized community
access points.
*  the construction of small bridges to permit the movement of people and perhaps livestock over
ephemeral watercourses.
*  market buildings, silos, small-scale irrigation, water trough for cattle and reforestation projects.
As an example, a summary of the possible impacts from road and bridge project types has been included
in Table 2a (see next page). These projects will require environmental screening, including a detailed
consideration of the location, design, land use implications and possible impacts on river hydrology.
Possible negative environmental impacts will be site specific and detailed mitigative measures can only
be identified once project specific details are known. A few of the typical types of mitigative measures for
small bridge and road projects are listed as part of Table 2a. It is not possible to estimate the cost of these
mitigative measure, if and when they are required, until the details on an individual project are known.
6.1    ENVIRONMENTAL GUIDELINES FOR FAS II - PROJECTS
Environmental Guidelines for Infrastructure Sub-Projects have been prepared to help FAS staff
determine whether an Environmental Assessment is required for a given sub-project (ATTACHED IN
Annex 3). These guidelines will be followed during the identification and preparation process of each
sub-project. Relevant regional FAS staff will be trained to ensure that the preparation of each sub-project
will be carried out according to those guidelines. On the basis of this environmental screening process
(see Section 6.2), FAS staff will determine whether an Environmental Assessment is required for the sub-
project under consideration. The Environmental Guidelines will be included in the FAS II Operations
Manual.
Guidelines for latrine, building construction and small scale water projects are included as Annex 3 of this
dccument. Two facts should be highlighted in this regard.
* Field investigations showed that the FAS I category C projects which were visited have been
constructed and completed within these guidelines.
* The guidelines in Annex 3 will be expanded and reinforced during the staff environmental staff
training sessions recommended by the consultant.
6.2    ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT METHOD FOR FAS II - PROJECTS
An environmental assessment method and checklist (Annex 4) has been prepared as a tool for use in FAS
II offices. The purpose of a checklist is to allow FAS staff members, who are trained in environmental
Page 12



Table 2a: Proposed New Economic Project Types, FAS II
Page 2a-1
Roads
Road surface         Project size less than     Along existing roadways in Peri-  Locally derived fill materials, road
upgrades to permit    $100,000 U.S.             urban areas                    surface materials (asphalt use) to be
vehicle traffic,                                                               defined.
construction of small
access roads to
communities
Bridges
Small bridges for    Project site less than    Over ephemeral drainage         Materials to be defined
human travel, over   S100,000 U.S.            channels, streams and small river
small water sources.                           tributaries.



Page 2a-2
Use of mechanized
excavation /
compaction
equipment
Increased use of hollow pits, possible land use  Possible Category B  Impacts and degree of
conflicts                                      irnpacts; need for     assessment will vary
environmental         with site-specific
Positive social impacts related to improved transport   screening     characteristics of each
of people and goods. Etc.                                             project; mitigative
measures may be
required. They might
To be defined                                                                              include road and bridge
relocations and changes
to the proposed design
and construction
scheduling.



and health education, to collect and analyze pertinent project data in a routine, comparative and
reproduceable way.
The checklist is specific, detailed and is based on all types of FAS I projects. It is not considered
necessary at this time to customize spreadsheets for each type of project. Projects will vary in location,
scope and possible environmental impacts on a site specific basis. A generic spreadsheet, containing as
much detail as possible is recommended for use at the start of the project. It is intended that the checklist
be modified as required during the environmental training to make it more or less detailed, or more
culturally sensitive sessions with the full participation on the FAS staff.
The checklist is included in two forrnats: a printed version and an electronic version on disk. The
checklist has been written in HTML format to facilitate data entry by using flexible data boxes and permnit
their transmission electronically. The intent of producing an electronic spreadsheet is to permit results to
be reviewed by e-mail, thereby minimizing field visits. It should be noted that each FAS unit includes a
computer expert and all FAS offices, including Provincial offices, have access to electronic mail.
The specific roles and responsibilities of provincial and national level staff in the application and
monitoring of the subproject environmental screening process will be finalized as part of the
environmental training scheduled for the first quarter of project effectiveness (see next section).
6.3 . ENVIRONMENTAL AND HEALTH EDUCATION
It is recommended that soon after the FAS II project becomes Effective, an environmental and health
education workshop will be organized. The objective of the training workshop would be to ensure that
the participants have sufficient knowledge and experience to carry out the required environmental
screening procedures. Through the training workshop relevant FAS staff would be able to: (i) apply the
Environmental Guidelines for Infrastructure Sub-Projects and determine whether an Environmental
Assessment is required for a given sub-project; and (ii) to adapt the Environmental Assessment Method
for those sub-projects that require environmnental assessments. FAS management agreed that the training
workshop could be financed through the FAS II Capacity Building component.
There is a strong need and strong interest amongst FAS staff for more education in environmental and
health sciences. It is proposed that a training course be conducted with the Director and Technical
Assistant in each regional FAS unit. A four-day course would be required, including classroom sessions
and field visits to typical projects. The environmental guidelines and the environmental assessment
method/ checklist would be used as the basis for the field screenings. The checklist can be expanded and
refined to incorporate the ideas of the course participants. The topics to be covered would include but not
be limited to;
* the basic principles of environmental geology including the hydrologic cycle, erosion and
desertification,
* the fundamentals of surface and groundwater water supply,
Page 13



* water chemistry, water contamination and public health,
* human waste disposal and alternate latrine designs,
* basic sanitation and hygiene practices,
* the need for solid waste management in Angolan cities and rural solutions to waste disposal,
* environmental screening using the computerized checklist,
* the use of cost effective, environmentally appropriate technologies to solve environmental problems,
* the design and implementation of public environmental education programs.
6.4   INSTITuTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS FOR CARRYING OUT ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENTS
FAS staff will be trained to apply the Environmental Guidelines and the Environmental Assessment
Method as described in annexes 3 and 4. FAS staff do not have the capacity at this time to conduct
Category B environmental assessments, if and when the screening process indicates that an assessment is
required. It will be possible to develop this capability within the FAS team by providing extra training to
one of the individuals in the FAS head office in Luanda. The contracting of Category B level assessments
to private consultants will most likely not be cost effective, given the small size and budgets of the
projects involved in the program. However, a foreign consultant could supervise screening activities
effectively using e-mail techniques and annual visits. FAS management agreed to explore the
possibilities of hiring an African - Portuguese speaking - environmental specialist for this position.
7.0   CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
1) Four FAS regional units were visited in the field and 34 typical FAS I projects were screened for
environmental compliance with World Bank regulations. No Category A projects were identified. The
building of chimpaca reservoir projects requires Category B assessment. The other project types
identified are Category C projects.
2) World Banks staff recommend that all projects in the FAS II program, especially new project types
such as small scale roads or bridges, reforestation or irrigation projects, should be subjected to an
environmental screening process to determine their assessment category.
3) The following program is recommended for FAS II:
*  The environmental guidelines need to followed for each individual infrastructure sub-project. A
draft copy of the guidelines has been included in this report;
*  An environmental assessment method including a computerized checklist will be provided to the
directors and technical assistants in each project unit. A draft copy of the method and checklist
has been included in this report;
Page 14



* An Environmental and Health Science training program should be designed for FAS directors and
technical assistants. The course will be based on an assemblage of appropriate documents from
the World Bank literature on water, sanitation hygiene, health and the environment. The course
should be given in Angola, and would require five days of field and classroom training. The
degree to which public education will be included as a part of the FAS II process has not been
identified at this time. A public environmental education process could be designed as part of this
training program.
* There will be need for on-going monitoring, especially during the initiation of the project. A
routine review process will be set up by Internet. The FAS regional directors should be asked to
submit brief reports of activities every 3 months. This would include copies of their completed
environmental checklists. In addition, annual field visits should be carried out by a qualified
consultant to permit project supervision and reporting as well as an on-going education and
exchange of information process to take place. During such monitoring, a set of performance
indicators should be developed to gauge the success of the screening and education process.
Performance indicators would include natural resource, construction, health and social parameters
and would be developed jointly with FAS staff during the staff training period. The performance
indicators will be developed during the environmental and health education workshop. Keeping
track of these indicators will be part of the comprehensive monitoring and evaluation system that
is being developed under the monitoring and evaluation component of FAS II.
Page 15



8.0    BIBLIOGRAPHY
Documents Reviewed in Washington
Staff Appraisal Report, Republic of Angola, Social Action Project, November 1995
World Bank Report Number 14822-ANG.
Project Appraisal Document on a proposed credit to the Government of Angola for a Second Action
Funds Project-Second Phase (FAS II), April 2000
Douglas J. Graham, Kenneth M. Green and Karla McEvoy, Environmental Guidelines for Social Funds,
October, 1998
Environmental Assessment at the World Bank, CD-Rom Version 1.0, EA Knowledge Team, 1999
Government of Angola and related World Wide Web sites.
Documents Reviewed in Angola
Fundo de Apoio Social (FAS) Mid term Evaluation, technical Aspects of the Social, Economic and
Productive Infrastructure, Castors Consultants, March 1998.
Amigo: Jornal do Fondo de Apoio Social (FAS) Ano 4, No 6, Novembro/Decembro 1999 y Ano 5
Janeiro/Fevereiro 2000.
Ministerio das Pescas e Ambiente, Seminario sobre a lagislacao do Ambiente em Angola, Novembro de
1999.
Ministerio das Pescas e Ambiente, Estrategia National do Ambiente (Draft) Abril 2000.
Ministerio das Pescas e Ambiente y Juventude Ecologica Angolana, Livro sobre datas ambientais para o
ano 2000.
Documents from the Juventude Ecologica Angolana, Centro der Documentacao, Luanda, Angola.
Page 16






Annexes:
Annex 1:    Project Photos (not included in current version)
Annex 2:    A case Study of the Environmental Impacts of the Hango Chimpaca Project
Annex 3:     Environmental Guidelines for Infrastructure Projects not requiring environmental
assessment
Annex 4:    Environmental Screening Method and Checklist
Page 17






ANNEX 2
A Case Study of the Environmental Impacts of the Hango Chimpaca Project
Page 18






A Case Study of the Environmental Impacts of the Hango Chimpaca Project
The following discussion is based on a field visit to the Hango chimpaca in Huila province. It is included
as an example of the issues related to a project that produces negative environmental impacts.
A chimpaca is water reservoir that has been constructed to capture and retain rainfall in times of abundant
precipitation for use in low precipitation periods. The Hango chimpaca was built in the early 1990's
within a lower section of a small river watershed, and thereby has a stream channel that enters it and a
stream channel leaving it. The chimpaca is about 100 metres wide at its largest point and 200 metres long.
An earthwork dam about 50 metres long and 3 metres high provides water retention at the outlet end of
the reservoir.
Rainfall in the Huila area is concentrated in a 4-month rainy season. Rainfall events are of high intensity,
and short duration and sediment loads in the stream under these conditions are high. The presence of a
heavily eroded, one metre deep dry channel, which acts as an overflow out of the reservoir during heavy
rains, is further evidence of the intensity of the local storms.
The land around the reservoir is flat and scrubby savanna land which is used to pasture cattle and to grow
corn and manioc in places. A mature tree cover does not exist near the reservoir, although a few Acacia
and other mature trees are present. It is probable that the tree cover has been negatively impacted in the
area.due to the production of charcoal and for domestic use.
The Hango chimpaca is located about 50 km from Lubango, in an area of low-density population. People
live in traditional adobe homes and use surface water sources as their only available water supply. The
nearest home to the reservoir is over 300 metres from the dam and no homes are located in the stream
floodway.
The Hango chimpaca was visited during the dry season. The reservoir contains very shallow water and
there is abundant evidence of heavy siltation and grass and reed growth not only along the its edges but
across the deepest section of the pond. A maximum water depth of 1.5 metres was estimated visually
during the site visit. Cattle have access to the chimpaca on all sides and there is abundant evidence of
cattle tracks leading into the water in many places. The water in the reservoir is severely degraded,
eutrophic and stagnant. The water is a light green colour due to high algal growth and is extremely turbid.
The reservoir water is highly contaminated with manure, is warm in correspondence to the ambient
temperature of the air (220 C during the day and 100 C at night and is likely to contain very high bacterial
levels).
The Hango reservoir represents a major local source of drinking and wash water for the community living
near the site. The actual number of users of the chimpaca is not know, nor are there statistics on levels and
types of water borne diseases in the area. There are no data on water quality in the area. It is likely that the
water would contain very high levels of bacterial contamination. (Note that bacteria from cattle can
Page 19



produce severe sickness and death in the human population. Symptoms can include fever, nausea,
vomiting, diarrhea and dehydration and kidney failure).
There are no meteorological or hydrometric data and the chimpaca was designed without any basic
engineering or hydrological concepts. It was simply excavated into the sandy soil.
The local area does not include a health post. There has been no public education in the area relating to
water, health and sanitation and no signs or indicators in the area telling people that water is unfit for
human consumption and to suggest that the water should be boiled or otherwise treated before it is
consumed.
In 1997, FAS I funded and supervised the construction of the following structures in order to remediate
this situation. They included:
1) a manual pump and storage structure at the dam outlet in order to remove water from the chimpaca on
an annual basis
2) a fence structure to eliminate the access of cattle to the reservoir
3) a charcoal filter in a concrete tank slightly downgradient from the dam with 2 taps to permit human
only access to the purified water
4) a livestock watering trough fed both from the pump and the overflow from the taps.
The projects also included the removal of sediment from the reservoir to increase its storage capacity. The
project cost $52,000 (with $10,000 being funded through the local communities, primarily in labour).
The project failed by 1998 and was totally inoperative during a site visit in June 2000. The fence has been
removed and the community and their cattle had access to the reservoir with the full environmental health
and social consequences mentioned above.
The problems involved in the project included the following:
*  Pump maintenance is the responsibility of the local office of the Ministry of Water. No maintenance
was carried out on the pump.
*  The project team did not understand of the degree of maintenance associated with charcoal filters.
There is a strong need for charcoal replacement, backwashing, and constant problems with bio-
fouling in these systems. Other designs should have been considered.
*  There was inadequate education of the local community relating to the operation of the system and
the health risks related to the consumption of contaminated water.
* The methods of keeping cattle from direct access to the reservoir were inadequate.
* There was an inadequate scientific understanding of the hydrological balance and water chemistry
variations of the stream and a lack of adequate engineering design.
* High siltation rates in the stream has caused a severe drop in reservoir capacity.
Page 20



* The project has been a very poor return on investment and has caused a decrease in respect in the
local community.
Summary of Environmental Impacts:
Negative Impacts
1) The project did not meet its objectives of supplying increased amounts of water during dry season
conditions for agricultural use and a secure potable water supply to the local communities on a
sustainable basis.
2) The project increased the risk of health related diseases due to contaminated water consumption in the
local community.
3) The project wasted local labour time, wasted the investment made in it and caused a decrease in
confidence in the local community.
4) Other impacts may include increased risk of malaria due to the increased habitat provided for
mosquito reproduction.
Positive Impacts
There were no positive environmental benefits associated with this project.
Mitigative Measures
The following mitigative measures should have been included in the planning of the project:
-  The Lubango region receives abundant annual rainfall and has excellent groundwater resources. A
properly designed well system should have been built to meet the human consumption needs of the
local population. A well project could have been completed at less cost than the surface water
scheme.
*  Basic information on the use of the site and the sources and results of drinking contaminated water
should have been provided to the users of the site through the local participants in the FAS process.
*  There is a strong need for capacity building within the local water department. Someone should have
taken ownership for the pump maintenance and an appropriate level of monitoring and reporting
should be established with the FAS team and the local community.
*  There is a need for capacity building and training of FAS staff in the areas of health, sanitation, the
use of appropriate environmental technologies and environmental assessment.
Ref 420 1Annex2. doc/ds69
Page 21






Annex 3: Environmental Guidelines for Infrastructure Sub-projects
ANGOLA
SOCIAL FUND II
OPERATIONAL MANUAL
A. Potential Infrastructure Sub-Projects:
FAS II will continue to support a wide range of small and medium scale social and
economic infrastructure. Sub-projects will be identified by the poor communities and
implemented with the assistance of Implementing Agencies such as NGOs and Churches,
in coordination with local governments and sectoral agencies/line ministries. Sub-projects
eligible for financing will have to meet technical, financial, economic, social, and
environmental criteria set out in the Operational Manual. In the coming three years, FAS
II is expected to finance over 1,200 sub-projects of which at least 750 will be in the social
sectors, thereby expanding the access to basic social services to 1.5 million beneficiaries
living in rural and peri-urban areas. The demand for sub-projects is expected to be related
to:
D  education (elementary schools, kindergarten, children centers);
  health (health stations, posts);
v  water and sanitation (water supply systems, latrines, combined services);
economic infrastructure (rehabilitation of small feeder roads, culverts, small bridges
small scale irrigation, water troughs for cattle, and chimpacas);
* small-scale community/municipal infrastructure (including markets, silos,); and
* environmental infrastructure (mainly watershed protection and reforestation)
B. Environmental Screening Procedures
The criteria listed below will be used to determine whether a sub-project requires an
environmental analysis (EA) or not. More specifically, if 50% or more of the potential
environmental impacts are rated to be high, an EA will be conducted. Otherwise, the
environmental guidelines for sub-projects will be used to mitigate potential
environmental impacts.
1. Impacts on soils                  High         Low
2. Impacts on surface water          High         Low
3. Impacts on ground water           High         Low
4. Impacts on public health          High         Low
5. Impacts on biodiversity           High         Low
6. Impacts on air quality            High         Low
Page 22



C. Environmental Guidelines for Infrastructure Projects NOT requiring EA:
Construction and rehabilitation of buildings
To prevent environmental impacts due to the construction or rehabilitation of elementary
schools, kindergarten, children centers, health stations and posts, markets and silos,
take the following steps:
> Protect soil surfaces during construction;
> Select construction materials sustainably, particularly wood;
> Control and clean the construction site daily;
> During construction, control dust by water or other means;
> Provide adequate waste disposal services;
> For health care centers and public markets ensure that appropriate waste disposal
facilities are provided;
> Provide sanitation for schools;
> Ensure proper drainage;
> Dispose of oil and solid waste materials appropriately.
Rehabilitation of economic infrastructure
Smallfeeder roads, culverts, small bridges
To prevent soil erosion, water pollution or siltation, runoff, and flooding, take the
following steps:
> Rehabilitate infrastructure during the dry season;
> During rehabilitation, control dust by water or other means;
> Protect soil surfaces during rehabilitation and revegetate or physically siabilize
erodible surfaces;
> Ensure proper drainage;
> Dispose of oil and solid waste materials appropriately;
> Preserve natural habitats along streams, steep slopes, and ecologically sensitive areas;
> Develop maintenance and reclamation plans and restore vegetation and habitat.
Small scale irrigation
Depending on the scope of development and/or rehabilitation of small scale irrigation
schemes, external technical advice and assistance might have to be sought. To prevent
potential environmental impacts, the following should be taken into account:
(a) Obtain information concerning:
> Water quality and hydrology, including depth of the water table;
> Rainfall data for the area (when and how much);
Page 23



> The area to be irrigated (dimensions and topography);
> Soil types and pH;
> Percolation (the rate at which water is absorbed and travels through the soil);
> The capacity of the soil to retain water;
> The amount of water needed by crops;
>  The amount of evaporation which will take place.
(b) To build in soil conservation measures take the following steps:
> To reduce evaporation and seepage, keep canals narrow and deep, and cover canals
and pipes where necessary;
> To slow runoff, use appropriate techniques such as terracing, contour ploughing, and
mulching;
> To improve soil and water retention, replant trees and vegetation of the watershed;
> Select crops appropriate for soil, water, and climate conditions; and
> Reach agreement on water use rates to avoid overuse.
(c) To build a drainage system to prevent waterlogged or "salty" soils and to ensure good
crops, ascertain the following:
> depth of crop roots;
> land contours;
> rate of absorption and percolation of soil;
> the presence of hard or laterite soil layers that can prevent good drainage;
> existing natural drainage patterns on/below the surface, natural water table depth
during the wet season.
(d) When using ground water for irrigation purposes, ascertain whether this will lead to a
lowering of the water table which could affect:
> other dug and drilled wells in the area;
> the survival of crops and natural vegetation;
> the volume of water in streams, rivers, lakes, and woodlands; and
> could contribute to salt water contamination of fresh water wells.
(e) If a project involves diverting streams or rivers, ascertain whether the reduced water
flow in the stream could:
> reduce food sources and habitat for aquatic life;
> reduce food sources for people downstream;
> prevent or reduce the use of water for irrigation, drinking, livestock etc. downstream;
> result in seawater moving up the mouth of the river.
(f) When using fertilizers, consider potential impacts on
> local water resources or downstream;
> aquatic life.
(g) To reduce risks of disease from mosquitoes, snails etc., take the following steps:
> line canals and ditches;
> cover or pipe water where possible;
Page 24



> improve drainage;
> apply water to avoid pools of standing water for extended periods;
> keep canals and ditches free of sediment, weeds, and snails; and
> use natural means of disease control (i.e. ducks, fish etc. which eat snails, mosquitoes,
and flies).
(h) Consider the likelihood of attracting an increased population to the project area and
ascertain whether
>  the water supply can support the increased demand;
> there will be increased pressure on other local resources (housing, schools, health
care);
>  there will be increased pressure on local natural resources (trees, grazing land, soils
etc.); and
>  the politics of water user rights and priorities have been addressed.
(i) Other considerations:
>  Community participation in planning, construction, monitoring, water allocation,
operation and maintenance;
>  Possible flood and drought cycles;
>  Ensure that water quality is appropriate for irrigation purposes;
>  Upstream activities (i.e. factories, other irrigation, forestry) that could affect water
quantity and quality in the project area;
> Consider local low-cost alternatives to chemical fertilizers and pesticides;
Chimpacas
In light of the poor experience with the construction and use of chimpacas, it might be
preferable not to consider the development of chimpacas in the future. However, if
additional chimpacas should be required, technical specialists should be hired for this
task. Furthermore, this task would definitely require an environmental assessment.
Water Supply and Sanitation
Prior to preparing a sub-project, information - as necessary - should be acquired with
regard to the following:
>  Determination of a safe yield of water at the site;
> A community's pre-project preferences regarding water resources;
> Location of important wildlife habitats that the activity can affect;
>  Assessment of the site's environmental carrying capacity;
>  The community's institutional capacity to participate in the project; and
>  Determination of policy reforms and training needed for the project's sustainability.
Below please find environmental guidelines for water supply and sanitation sub-projects.
Page 25



Water supply systems
Locate wells at a minimum distance of:
> 50 m from pit latrines, septic tanks, sewers;
> 100 m from borehole latrines, soak pits, trenches and sub-surface sewage disposal;
> 150 m from cesspools, sanitary land field areas, and graves.
These criteria are partly based on the rate of movement of bacteria and viruses through
soils and on their survival period. Although bacteria and viruses are largely retained by
the first meter of soil around the sanitary and other installations listed, there have been
actual recordings of them travelling the distances mentioned as a minimum. In cases of
doubt, it is up to the water or health authorities concerned to decide whether or not an
intake site should be abandoned.
The well should:
> have a slab large enough to collect spill water;
> have a proper spill water outlet;
> have a connecting drainage ditch that carries water about 5 m away from the slab;
> have a soak-away of at least 75 cm depth which is back filled with gravel and stones
if the water is not used in an adjacent garden;
> be protected by low vegetation with shallow roots.
Additional measures to prevent contamination of wells:
> Livestock must be kept away from the intake by fencing the area (minimum radius of
50 m);
> Defecation and urination in the area must be prohibited by law;
> Soil erosion should be prevented;
> The well should be safe from flooding;
> Bore holes should not be drilled too close to a well;
> Crossing of open water in order to reach the well should be avoided;
> The well should preferably be installed in a confined aquifer, protected by an
overlying impermeable layer;
>  Periodic testing of water quality, particularly ground water.
Latrines
The following environmental factors need to be considered and addressed appropriately:
>  Availability of open space at the end of the latrines' design life (1-2 square meters for
simple pit latrines; more than 12 square meters plus access space for twin pour-flush
latrines;
> Long-term capacity of latrines to dispose of all household liquid wastes;
> Safe ground infiltration rates (ranging from 50 liters/cubic meter/day for
gravel/coarse and medium sand to 8 liters/cubic meter/day for silty clay loam and
clay loam; clay is considered unsuitable for soak pits. Most soils will dispose of
Page 26



human wastes safely when water consumption levels are low. However, as water use
rises, infiltration rates increase and many soils, particularly those with a high clay and
silt content will block up;
> Ground water pollution is preventable if the pit is more than 2 m above the water
table;
> Surface water pollution can result from polluted ground water that drains into a
nearby river, lake or lagoon as well as from the disposal of sullage from homes into a
surface drainage system;
> Reliability of latrine emptying service
> Willingness of people to handle stabilized humus and opportunities for safe disposal
(ideally in a vegetable patch or under fruit trees).
Wastewater collection, disposal, and management
Although this aspect may not always be relevant in rural areas, potential wastewater
issues should be reviewed and addressed as appropriate:
> Appropriate collection/removal methods (i.e. the use of trucks, carts etc.);
> Identification of disposal sites (existing or new ones);
> Appropriate management methods (i.e. use of wetlands, ponds, treatment facilities,
out falls);
> As appropriate, consider technologies and management strategies designed to reuse
wastewater in rural agriculture which in turn can reduce environmental pollution.
Hygiene Education
To ensure that the water supply and sanitation sub-projects benefit the population, a
training program should focus on the following topics:
> Health and hygiene measures necessary for the protection of water supplies;
> Selection and design of sanitation facilities;
> Proper siting of facilities with respect to water supplies;
> Design of facilities with respect to operation and maintenance; and
> Operation and maintenance of water systems.
Page 27



D. Procedures for Infrastructure Sub-Projects requiring EA
Step I.Screening
To determine the depth of EA required, potential impacts in the following areas need to
be considered:
v  Population density and possible implications for resettlement;
V  Health issues;
Protected areas;
V Cultural heritage, archaeological sites;
V Existing natural resources such as forests, soils, natural swamps, water resources;
wildlife or endangered species habitats;
Step 2: Scoping
To identify the relevant environmental issues, this step determines:
V The level of detail required for the EA;
/ The extent of the area to be covered in light of the potential impact zones;
- The timeframe for the EA based on the potential impact zones;
/ Sequencing and scheduling of the various EA tasks; and
V Preliminary budgets.
Step 3: Preparation of Terms of Reference for the Sub-Project EA
Based on the screening and scoping results, EA terms of reference will be prepared. The
EA will be conducted by a consultant, and the report should have the following format:
-/ Description of the study area;
V  Description of the infrastructure sub-projects;
- Description of the environment;
Legislative and regulatory considerations;
/  Determination of the potential impacts of the proposed infrastructure sub-project;
f Development of a mitigation plan, including cost estimates.
Step 4: Review and Clearance of the Sub-Project EA
The executing agency will (a) review and clear the sub-project EA, and (b) inform the
public about the EA results. The executing agency will furthermore be responsible for
overseeing the implementation of the sub-project EAs.
Page 28






ANNEX 4
Environmental Screening Method and Checklist
Fondo Apoio Social Projects (FAS II)
Angola, 2000
Page 29






Environmental Screening Method and Checklist
Fondo Apoio Social Projects (FAS H)
Angola, 2000
What Is FAS?
The Fondo de Apoio Social (FAS) is intended to help the process of poverty alleviation and human
resource development in countries that are recovering from military and economic crises. Specifically, the
fund is intended to improve access to basic services and to generate temporary employment for the poor
in rural and peri-urban areas through rehabilitating and re-equipping community infrastructure in health,
education, water and sanitation.
What is Environmental Assessment?
The World Bank requires that all of the projects that they fund be subjected to an Environmental Impact
Assessment (EIA) process to insure that they can be carried out without unacceptable negative
environmental impacts. "Environment" is defined as the physical, biological, social and economic nature
of the area in which the project is to take place. The purpose of Environmental Assessment is to identify
negative environmental impacts, and mitigative measures to minimize them as part of the planning
process before a project is carried out.
What are the most important environmental issues in Angola?
Some of the most important environmental issues in Angola at the present time include:
* deforestation of tropical rain forest in response to both international demand for tropical timber and
associated loss of natural habitat
*  the overuse of pastures and subsequent soil erosion attributable to population pressures
*  desertification, in part due to tree cutting for domestic use as fuel
*  socio-economic impacts due to resettlement of displaced people
*  the lack of potable water supplies and human health effects due to water contamination, specifically
due to the lack of adequate sanitation facilities
* the building of dams, increased irrigation and the lack of watershed management practices in arid and
sub-arid areas,
*  the construction of new roads in ecologically sensitive areas
*  environmental issues related to destruction caused by civil war activities, including the issues related
to land mine removal and reclamation of war zones.
Page 30



World Bank EIA Categories
The World Bank has identified three types of environmental assessments. Category A assessments are
detailed studies for large projects which very likely will produce large-scale negative environmental
impacts. Category B assessments are required for smaller projects which may produce some
environmental impacts at a local scale. Category C projects do not produce strong environmental impacts
and do not require environmental assessments as a consequence.
It is important to note that projects can produce positive environmental impacts as well as negative
environmental impacts, and it is important to identify both during an environmental assessment process.
What types of projects need Category A and B Environmental Assessments:
Category A and B Environmental Impact Assessment might be required if the following types of projects
are included as FAS sub-projects.
* the construction of new roads or corridors (hydroelectric, pipelines etc), especially if ecologically or
culturally sensitive land areas are involved
* large scale natural resource developments (for example, in the oil, forestry, or mining sectors)
* water supply developments especially using surface water supplies or large scale groundwater
developments
- irrigation projects with watershed management implications at a large scale
* projects that might involve the production of large point sources of contamination (slaughterhouses,
new industries, large urban subdivisions, etc.)
- projects that might produce wide area sources of contamination such as the use of pesticides for pest
control or the agro/industrial use of herbicides and pesticides
* urban solid, biomedical or hazardous waste management-projects.
The construction of chimpacas is one project type which requires Category B environmental assessment.
The construction of roads and bridges are project types that were not included in FAS I but may be
included in FAS II. They may also cause Category B impacts.
What are Category C Projects?
The following types of projects are usually exempt from environmental assessment because they are
reconstruction and rehabilitation projects, are of a localized nature, and produce strongly positive social
and environmental impacts.
* construction, reconstruction or rehabilitation of schools, health posts, latrines, and wells
* local road rehabilitation projects
Page 31



* the construction of new small-scale infrastructure facilities such as laundries, markets, storage
facilities, health centers, day care centres, women's centres, and small bridges.
Most FAS projects are of limited extent geographically (and hence will produce localized adverse
impacts). The projects have small budgets, which are on the order of $10,000 to $100,000. It is very
unlikely that any FAS projects will require Category A assessments due to their scope and character.
Some project types, such as those identified in the list above, might require B level consideration. The
majority of FAS projects are Category C (no impact) projects.
How to screen a new project using a checklist
Checklists are used as a method of making the environmental screening of projects logical and
comparable. A checklist that could be used for FAS II projects is included with this document in two
forms; as a hard copy and on a computer disc. This checklist is in HTML format so that checklist files can
be discussed and reviewed by e-mail between Bank staff and FAS field workers and a database of project
types and impacts can be made.
The checklist is in a draft form. There may be parameters and ideas that FAS staff will want to add to this
checklist based on their knowledge of Angola and the experience they have gained during FAS I.
It is -important to note that environmental assessment requires knowledge, experience and common sense
Enviromnental Assessments are often carried out by a team of experts (a water expert, a sociologist, an
ecologist, a financial analyst and an engineer). Quantitative methods, whereby numbers are assigned to
natural parameters and impacts are determined mathematically, do not give logical results.
What are mitigative measures?
Mitigative measures are procedures and changes that can be made in the way a project is carried out
which minimize or eliminate the negative impacts that the project will produce. Some mitigative
measures that might apply to FAS projects include:
*  the use of wells instead of surface water as a source of water supply sources, thereby insuring better
drinking water quality
* changes in construction methods or changes in the types of construction materials
* relocation of projects (such as road locations) to avoid unnecessary ecological or human disruption
* the location of projects (such as latrines) with a knowledge of the processes of septic tank design, and
groundwater contamination
* the inclusion of a sustainable technology in a project (such as an appropriate water treatment or
effluent treatmnent method)
* the development of effective cost recovery or public education programs.
Page 32



Screening Procedure
1) Fill in the checklist as completely as possible. The more information, the better the assessment.
2) Ask other specialists in the FAS team (NGO's, University etc) for their inputs and ideas.
3) Conduct a field visit to the site. An environmental assessment cannot be carried out in an office.
4) Discuss the information as a group and decide which impacts are of importance and which impacts
are acceptable. List them and be sure to identify positive and negative impacts.
5) Decide what mitigative measures should be implemented to minimize the negative impacts of the
project
6) Be confident in your opinions. Review them with World Bank environmental staff.
Page 33



Environmental Screening Checklist (hard copy and computer disk)
Environmental Assessment Manual
Fondo Apoio Social Projects (FAS II)
Angola, 2000
Environmental Screening Checklist
An environmental screening checklist must be based on field observations, consultations and strong local
knowledge to be useful. Each question in the checklist should be answered in detail using full sentences.
Environmental Impacts can be positive (i.e. such as increased availability of hospital and sanitary services
or increased access to education for children) or negative (such as deforestation or an activity that causes
water contamination). The purpose of environmental screening is to identify both types of impacts and
summarize their importance in a logical way so that the worth of the project can be evaluated. Screening
permits negative impacts to be identified and rated as to their importance. Negative impacts can often be
mitigated through the use of appropriate measures (such as the use of different materials or construction
techniques, use of improved designs, or through public education) to produce a more cost effective,
socially and environmentally sustainable project.
This checklist will be completed as a computer document to permit the formation of a sub-project
database and for distribution and review by electronic mail. The checklist contains expandable fields so
that the amount of detail that can be included will not be limited.
Please note that the following listing should be considered to be preliminary in nature. An environmental
training program has been recommended for FAS staff. An important exercise in that training session will
be the modification of the following listing to include the knowledge and opinions of FAS staff.
Page 34



General
Project number
Name of province
Name of the community
Exact location of project            ___
Expected date of start of construction
Expected date of completion of project
Project supervisor
Page 35



Description of Project
Name of project
roject type
Detailed description of the components of
the project
What is the size and geographic extent of
the project
What quantities and types of construction
aterials will be used (cement, ceramic
ricks, adobe, cement fibre tiles, structural
teel, paint, lime, others) -
Origin of materials (imported from, local
abrication)
Source of proposed water supply
Quantity of water which will be required
during construction
Quantity of water which will be required
uring operations
Proposed sanitation facilities for project
Cost of project                           _       _       __               _
Page 36



Location and Siting of Project
Who decided where the site should be ?
Size of the property in question                ,_._,
Who owns the property 9
Present land use and use for agricultural
purposes
Is tree cutting, cut and fill or engineered
emediation of the site necessary before
construction can start
Is the site located on a floodplain, rock
lopes or other hazards
What is the proximity to existing domestic
wellings and structures (churches, schools,
stores, training centers, others)
Proximity of roadways and their description
and traffic volumes
Is the site located near features of historical
r community importance
Does the use of the site cause displacement
of people
Does the use of the site alter community
iving patterns (transportation, recreation,
others)
Do any land use conflicts exist over the use
of the site
Degree of alteration of site from natural
state due to human activity
Page 37



Physical Description of Project Location
Physical description of the site            ___
Physiography of the site                    _     __             _      _       _
Drainage of site
Location in watershed in relationship to
watercourses
Are there concerns related to the rainy
season (site flooding, restricted site access,
availability of building materials, others)    ___
Proximity to existing wells    -
Soil types and depth
Presence of nearsurface bedrock
Presence and type of vegetation
Presence and type of tree cover
Features of ecological significancee__________________________________               Pg 3
Page 3 8



Social Environment and Community Participation
Description of local community:(population,
number and type of dwellings, type and
amount of employment, economic
indicators, presence of war immigrants etc)
Existing sanitation facilities
Existing water supply facilities, baths and
aundries
Other types of infrastructure and facilities
day care, schools, medical centres, stores,
training centers, others) -
Local solid waste disposal methods
Local sanitation or health problems at
community level
ocal project co-ordinator:
Pertinent details of local project
administration:
Amount of local participation to the project
finances:
Type of contribution from local community:
Willingness to pay
Scope of existing public consultation
processes
Participation of organizations in the
community (NGO's, church, others)
Local cultural, historical or religious
sensitivities:
Page 39



Assessment of the Physical and Ecological Impacts of the Project
Changes in surface water or groundwater
use and volume of water affected
Possible degradation in quality of water
resources
Intent to dam rivers or cause river channel
alterations or related hydrological impacts
Intent to clear, fill or level land (area and
ocation of area to be effected)
Amount and expected effects of
deforestation or vegetation removal
Possible effluent emissions to air or water
odies
Amount and type of solid waste to be
produced
Effects on presence of wildlife and wildlife
habitat
Effects on ecologically sensitive areas
ossible effects on coastal marine
enviromnents and/or fisheries
Pelationship to national parks40
Page 40



Assessment of the Social Impacts of the Project
Number of people who will be effected by
the project
Demographic description of the people
ffected (men, women, children,
ommunities, farmers, pastoralists, war
eterans, others)
Employment created by project              :
Effects on individual and/or community
ealth
ffects for war handicapped or other
minority groups
ffects on women's lives
ffects on farming activities such as crop
lanting and cattle grazing
Opportunities for health and environmental
education
Page 41



Summary of Environmental Issues related to Project
Land use impacts:
Possibility of soil contamination
Possibility of water contamination
Possibility of air contamination
Possibility of ecological/biological impacts:  ___
Types of social impacts expected
ositive or negative economic benefits of
he project
Oters site specific impacts
Page 42



Environmental Assessment Requirements
Summary of positive and negative impacts  -__
Rating of impacts and listing of impacts
which require mitigation
ssessment of the viability and suitability of
roject
Need for further assessment or consultations
vith specialists:
Need to change or alter proposed project
esign _
Overall opinion and general comments from
e Environmental Assessor:
Page 43



Mitigative Measures
List and description of mitigative measures
proposed
Site rehabilitation planning (including site
revegetation plan, garbage and excess
building material removal and disposal
plan)
Degree of impact mitigation expected
Residual Impacts which will remain after
mitigation                                    ._._.
Page 44



Requirements for Community Participation and Public Education
Capability of community to implement
project
Capability of community to implement
itigative measures
ommendations for public education
eeded
Page 45



ate of screening
Date of screening updates             ~~                        - -    _ 0
ate submitted to World Bank Advisor
Page 46



