Report No. PID6605
Project Name                     Angola-Second Social Action Fund...
Project (FAS II)
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Social Funds & Social Assistance
Project ID                       AOPE56393
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF ANGOLA
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF PLANNING
FAS National Coordination Unit
Largo de Palazio
Caixa Postal 1205
Luanda, Angola
Contact Person: Victor Hugo Guilherme
Tel: 244 2 330191
Fax: 244 2 333835
Email: vhugo@fas.ebonet.net
Environment Category             F
Date PID Prepared                June 1, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         May 4, 2000
Projected Board Date             June 27, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
Increasing the Coverage and Improving Quality of Basic Social Services:
Government expenditures in the social sectors have been traditionally low,
and they declined sharply after 1991 as military expenditures grew to
absorb a large part of the budget. The reduction of allocations for
education and health resulted in a serious deterioration of the service
delivery systems. There is increasing awareness of the gravity of the
problem and of the negative impact that it has had on the population. The
real expansion of the budget allocation to the social sectors in budget
years 1998 and 1999 was extremely limited and cannot be considered
sufficient. Under the recently agreed IMF Staff Monitored program, the
budget allocations to the social sectors are expected to be increased
substantially. The Government intends to finance operating and recurrent
costs through these increased allocations, particularly within the health
and education sectors.Economic Reintegration:    More than 40 percent of
the population in Angola is internally displaced and living in precarious
conditions, mostly in the outskirts of Luanda and other major cities. The
recent Poverty Note concluded that the poverty incidence among migrants in
urban and peri-urban areas is 50 percent higher than that of non-migrants,
and analyses carried out by governmental and non-governmental institutions
indicated a high correlation between displacement, poverty, and increased
crime rate. The GOA is trying to address these very critical issues
through the implementation of policies and programs such as: (i) the
establishment of a Ministry for Women and Family whose mandate includes
activities aimed at facilitating the reunification of families displaced
as a result of the war; (ii) the financing of vocational training and
income-generating programs that target internally-displaced people and



returnees (in collaboration with UN agencies and NGOs); and (iii) the
financing of a Post-Conflict Social Recovery Project (PCSRP) facilitating
the reintegration of displaced persons into communities of origin (in
collaboration with the World Bank). With a labor force growth rate of 2.8
percent (1990-95) of whom 58 percent is illiterate, and very high rates of
unemployment and underemployment (Luanda has a 25 percent rate of
unemployment), there is an urgent need to create conditions for broad
based economic growth and for the development of labor-intensive
income-generating economic activities. Social Reintegration and
Reconstruction of Social Capital:    Twenty five years of civil conflict in
Angola had a devastating effect on the country's social capital. The
impact of the lengthy conflict is profound and resentments run deep. The
costs of the conflict are very high in terms of damage to institutions of
governance and civil society and such basic attitudes and behaviors as
trust and participation. The conflict has militarized life in Angola and
disrupted existing social organizations. Social networks have either
broken up or individuals/households have lost their connections to these
networks. The accessibility to additional resources through these
connections is constrained. The poor, who usually only have access to
very scant resources, are particularly at risk when conflict depletes
their social capital. At the community level, the lack of social cohesion
and connectedness prevents collaboration and more equitable resource
distribution among individuals and social groups. The capacity of
communities and individual community members to organize themselves and
solve their problems dwindles under these circumstances. The GOA is
trying to address the social reintegration issue through: (i) FAS, which
is linked to the Ministry of Planning; and (ii) a Reintegration Strategy
to be developed by the Ministry of Social Assistance and Reintegration
(supported by the Bank through the PCSRP). This strategy provides a
framework across sectors and provinces for planning and implementing the
rehabilitation and reintegration needs of war affected segments of the
society. In its transition from war to peace, Angola, however, continues
to face a major challenge to rebuild its capacities and strengthen the
social fabric of its society. There is an urgent need to increase the
efforts to empower communities and to rebuild governance and civil society
institutions.
2. Objectives
The project development objective is to increase the sustainable
utilization of basic social and economic services by target populations.
To reach that development objective, the Second Social Action Fund (FAS
II) will focus on: (i) the provision or rehabilitation of social and
economic (productive) infrastructure at the community level; (ii) capacity
building at the level of communities, partners, local government and FAS;
and (iii) strengthening the monitoring and evaluation system.     The
preparation of the second phase of FAS started in the beginning of 1998.
In December 1998, the Project was ready for appraisal. However, due to a
deterioration of the security situation and unfavorable macro-economic
conditions, the Bank decided to suspend work on any new lending activities
in Angola. Since the beginning of this year, the Bank has been noticing
signs of greater commitment to economic reforms. An agreement between the
Government of Angola (GOA) and the IMF on a Staff Monitored Program (SMP,
April - December, 2000) has been signed on April 3, 2000. Though there
remain economic imbalances and high inflation, for the first time, there
seems to be a concerted effort on economic reforms, backed up by important
-2 -



steps taken to date and the SMP. Government advances against UNITA have
led to cautious optimism on the evolution of the political and security
situation. While the political and security situation remains somehow
uncertain, there has been serious weakening of UNITA, which coupled with
intensified application of sanctions and the planned elections in 2001,
bodes on the optimistic side that while guerrilla attacks will undoubtedly
continue, big war may not. In this situation, GOA's budget for this year
foresees a major reduction in military expenditures and increased
opportunities for financing of social/poverty oriented programs. Under
these more conducive circumstances, the Bank proposed to re-open the
portfolio dialogue with the Government of Angola through the resumption of
the preparation process of the second phase of FAS. To enable a smooth
transition between FAS I and FAS II in the second half of 2000, it was
suggested to fast track the preparation process of FAS II. Assuming a
continuation of the more conducive circumstances, it is expected that the
Project can become effective in September, 2000. The overall objective for
the second phase of FAS remains largely within the framework that was
designed for the first phase, approved in 1995. The implementation of the
project will continue along the successful path developed for FAS I, and
build upon existing institutional capacity and infrastructure.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank will bring its experience of Social Funds in more than 30
countries, as well as country-specific knowledge gained through the
implementation of the Angola portfolio (including Phase I of FAS). The
Bank team benefited tremendously from the cross-fertilization of ideas
that has taken place between the two teams during the implementation of
Phase I of FAS and the preparation of Phase II. The Bank team is
particularly grateful to FAS management and staff for broadening the
debate from project-specific issues to the overall theme of poverty
alleviation in Angola, and for providing access to information and
experiences which allowed a better understanding of the context in which
the project will operate.
4. Description
FAS II will continue the same range of activities as in the previous phase
in terms of social and economic infrastructure. Additional resources will
be allocated to capacity building, monitoring and evaluation, and the
operating costs for the project.Social and Economic Infrastructure:     FAS
II will support a wide range of small and medium scale social and economic
infrastructure. Subprojects will be identified by poor communities and
implemented with the assistance of Implementing Partners, such as NGOs and
Churches, in co-ordination and collaboration with local governments and
sectoral agencies/Line Ministries. Subprojects eligible for financing
would have to meet technical, financial, economic, social and
environmental criteria set out in the Operational Manual. The demand for
subprojects is expected to be related to education (elementary schools,
kindergarten, children centers), health (health stations and posts), water
and sanitation (water supply systems, latrines, combined services),
economic infrastructure (rehabilitation of small feeder roads, culverts,
small bridges) small-scale community/municipal infrastructure (including
markets, silos, chimpacas) and environmental infrastructure (mainly
watershed protection and reforestation). Because of the experience gained
during the first phase and the good track record, FAS is expected to be
ready to move into the implementation of the next phase quite rapidly. No
- 3 -



major constraints are foreseen as most institutional mechanisms and human
resources capacities are already in place, including: (i) the large
experience of the FAS technical and managerial staff gained during the
first phase; (ii) the adoption of national standards whenever these are
available, and the introduction of prototype designs for those facilities
for which national standards are not available (this activity is already
on-going and is expected to be completed within six months from
Effectiveness); (iii) the adoption of common and consistent construction
technologies applied to all sub-projects which have been proven to be
effective and sound; (iv) the preference for turn-key procurement for
relatively larger and technically more complex projects implemented by
contractors of proven experience; and (v) the development of partnerships
with experienced NGOs to act as an Implementing Partners both for the
construction of infrastructure and for the training of
beneficiaries.Capacity Building: Since FAS' inception, its operations
have been guided by a strong vision of community empowerment. FAS II will
maintain its focus on building capacity at the community, implementing
partners and local government officials levels, as well as on FAS staff
itself. The ultimate objective of the capacity building component in FAS
II will be to better organize communities and to empower community
members. The capacity building component intends to transfer skills and
improve methods for stakeholders at all levels involved. Capacity
building will be carried out through two basic channels: (i) learning by
doing through the process of project formulation and execution; and (ii)
training programs designed to strengthen the institutional and managerial
capacity of communities and organizations.A Human Resources Development
(HRD) Plan to facilitate the implementation of FAS II has been discussed
during the Appraisal mission. With regards to the staffing requirements
for FAS II, an agreement was reached: (i) to include organizational charts
for the central and the provincial offices, and the terms of reference and
job profiles for each position as an annex to the revised Operational
Manual before Effectiveness of the Project; (ii) terms of reference for a
capacity building coordinator at the central level have been formulated
and the expert is expected to start his/her activities for FAS in early
July 2000; and (iii) a technical assistance mission will be organized in
early July 2000, to finalize the capacity building program for FAS
staff.   Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E):    A more comprehensive yet
streamlined M&E system will be critical for FAS II. During project
preparation, the MIS experience of FAS I was reviewed and it became
apparent that although it provides relevant data for FAS at both central
and regional levels, the information is not widely used by FAS managers.
The current MIS system has, in addition, a strong emphasis on the earlier
phases of the subproject cycle (design and implementation), and focuses
less on the outputs and impacts of the interventions. In preparation for
FAS II, it was agreed to modify the current MIS system and design and
implement a more comprehensive M&E system, which will include the more
regular use of beneficiary assessments and qualitative evaluations.In FAS
II, monitoring will be seen as a continuous activity. The M&E system will
focus on measuring and controlling performance in project execution, as
well as on systematically collecting data on the impact of project
activities on the direct beneficiaries. It will be used for ongoing
decision-making, re-planning and adjusting, and forward planning. The
monitoring process will be complemented by evaluation activities, which
will be ad hoc decided. The focus for evaluation will be on the cause to
effect linkages, unplanned changes, and the link from output to both
- 4 -



immediate and long-term objectives. The main focus of this section of the
M&E system will be a determination of the effectiveness and sustainability
of the projects.
(i) Community subprojects (including social and economic infrastructure;
and improved natural resources management).
(ii) Capacity building
(including social mobilization; capacity building for communities,
implementing partners and FAS staff; training; TA; equipment).
(iii) Monitoring and evaluation (including performance monitoring,
qualitative appraisal and impact assessments, and interim/final
evaluations).
(iv) FAS institutional support (including administration and operating
costs, audit).
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT 5
IBRD
IDA 33
COMMUNITIES 4
OTHER 5
Total Project Cost 47
6. Implementation
FAS will retain its main institutional and implementation arrangements, as
described in the revised Operational Manual. During project preparation,
the document has been revised and some of the project's main features
modified to maximize efficiency and effectiveness in implementation.
Implementation Period:    Three years.Executing Agency and its Structure:
FAS is an autonomous institution created by the GOA with Presidential
Decree n. 44/94 to support the government in fighting poverty. It is
under the umbrella of the Ministry of Planning and has been granted a high
degree of autonomy concerning administrative, financial and management
procedures. It consists of a central management unit and of 9 provincial
offices. The fund operates in a fully decentralized way, with each
provincial office responsible for selection and implementation of
activities within its geographical area, and with resources allocated from
the center directly to provincial accounts. Procurement activities are
also carried out at the provincial level. FAS has a National Board of
Overseers, which includes representatives from governmental, as well as
non-governmental institutions and civil society. The Board ensures that
the activities financed by the fund respond to the objectives for which it
was created. Another Board, similar in structure and composition,
operates at each province level to ensure that FAS priorities are
consistent with provincial priorities, and to guarantee the involvement of
line-ministries in the fund's activities. Detailed information on the FAS
structure is provided in the revised Operational Manual.Main
Implementation Arrangements:    The FAS project cycle is described in
detail in the Operational Manual. The main implementation features are
the following: (i) to be eligible for FAS financing each community needs
to establish a Project Committee (nucleo comunitario) with legal status
responsible for the actual implementation of subprojects; (ii) each
community needs to contribute at least 10 percent of the total project
cost, in cash or in kind; (iii) a menu of eligible subprojects, mainly
social and economic infrastructure, is provided in the Operational Manual
- 5 -



- the list is supposed to be exhaustive, but not exclusive; (iv)
subproject proposals are appraised on the basis of general, institutional,
social, economic, technical, environmental, gender and legal criteria
detailed in the Operational Manual; (v) subprojects whose total value of
FAS financing is below US$70,000 are approved directly at the provincial
level - projects exceeding that value are submitted to the National
Coordination Unit for review and approval/rejection; (vi) detailed
procurement and disbursement procedures are provided in the Operational
Manual - they have been agreed upon with the Bank and can be modified only
with Bank's approval; and (vii) semi-annual reports are provided to the
Bank and other co-financing donors.Financial Management: During
appraisal, the Bank mission has ascertained that the financial management
system in place at the ongoing FAS I does not provide the National
Coordination Unit and IDA with accurate and timely information regarding
resources and expenditures because the new accounting software is still
under establishment and has not yet been fully tested. Before
Effectiveness: (i) the FAS' National Board of Overseers will formally
adopt the revised Operational Manual; (ii) the financial management system
will be assessed again; and (iii) an external auditor acceptable to IDA
will be recruited. The financial management system will include
accounting, financial reporting and audit arrangements.Accounting: FAS
will maintain the accounting records for the entire project. It will also
be responsible for the effective and timely production of the annual
financial statements as well as the Project Management Reports (PMRs).
The configuration of the accounting software will ensure that the system
is capable of not only producing the standard financial statements, but
also the PMRs in compliance with LACI. Before project Effectiveness, an
IDA Financial Management Specialist will carry out a second assessment of
the project financial management system (adequacy and competence of the
accounting and financial staff, relevance of the operational and
administrative manuals, completeness of the accounting system) to
determine its soundness and capability to provide accurate and timely
information regarding project resources and expenditures. The
satisfactory outcome of the assessment of the financial management system
is a condition of Credit Effectiveness.Financial Reporting:     Since the
new accounting system is still under establishment and has not yet been
fully tested, it was agreed not to start immediately with PMR-based
disbursements method. It was also agreed however, to design the financial
management system so that it can produce, in addition to the basic
financial statements and any other relevant financial report, the PMR as
required under LACI. Adequate provisions will be made to train the
accounting and financial staff to that end during the first 18 months of
project implementation. PMR reports will start toward the end of the
second year of implementation and continue till completion as stated in
the time-bound action plan of Appendix 2 in Annex 15. This will require
that IDA carry out at the end of the first year of implementation, a
comprehensive and detailed assessment of the project financial management
to determine its full readiness for PMR. A second assessment will be
carried out at the beginning of the first quarter of Year 2002 to evaluate
the effectiveness of the transition to full PMR. Before moving to PMR
however, the project will still be required to submit, in addition to its
annual financial statements, three quarterly reports: financial, progress
and procurement reports. All procurement documents, contracts, and
invoices would be maintained separately at central and provincial levels
and be made accessible to supervision missions and auditors.Audit
- 6 -



Arrangements:    During negotiations, the government provided assurance
that: (a) project accounts will be audited in accordance with
International Standards on Auditing standards by an experienced and
internationally recognized auditing firm acceptable to IDA; the audit
reports and related project accounts will be submitted to IDA within 6
months after the end of the Project fiscal year; (b) in addition to the
standard short form report with their opinion, the auditors will be
required to: (i) carry out a comprehensive review of all the SOEs as well
as the internal control procedures governing their preparation for the
relevant period under audit, and express a separate opinion thereon; and
(ii) review the management and utilization of the special account and
express a separate opinion thereon as well; and (c) the auditors will also
carry out an in-depth review of the internal control system of the project
with a view to identify the major weaknesses and shortcomings and
proposing practical recommendations for improvement. The results of this
review would be documented in a Management Letter to be submitted along
with the audit reports. Supervision:    IDA will undertake full supervision
missions semi-annually, and interim reviews will be undertaken every
second quarter. The Mid-Term Review of the project is scheduled to be
conducted 6 months after Effectiveness.
7. Sustainability
There is general concern that political conditions could become
unfavorable again in view of an escalation of hostilities and the
potential outbreak of war. The project has been operating for the last
five years under semi-war circumstances and the team feels confident that
it will be possible to continue the implementation of the second phase in
the same conditions, ensuring that benefits continue to be delivered to
communities being affected by the war. Nevertheless, the situation will
be carefully monitored and if conditions deteriorate to an extent
precluding satisfactory project implementation, the decision to proceed
with the project would accordingly be reconsidered.During the preparation
of the project, four main factors have been identified which contribute to
the sustainability of activities financed by FAS. To strengthen the
prospects for sustainability, FAS II will address these factors in a more
systematic way. These factors include: (i) technical quality and
comprehensiveness of subproject appraisal and design; (ii) maintenance of
the social and economic infrastructure installed; (iii) timely financing
of recurrent costs and operational inputs; and (iv) community
participation. Regarding the technical quality of appraisal and design,
FAS II will:incorporate sustainability plans at appraisal of each
subproject; introduce certain modifications in the Operations Manual to
address the constrains that were identified in the project cycle of FAS I
(this includes, inter alia, a revision of the subproject eligibility
criteria and technical checklists for appraisal); revise the project
appraisal reports (see Operations Manual).Regarding maintenance of the
social and economic infrastructure installed, FAS II will:ensure that
communities contribute to routine maintenance of facilities;will make
special efforts to mobilize other agencies and donors who might assist
with the operation and maintenance of financed facilities;provide the
community with skills and tools to maintain the infrastructures,
beneficiaries will be trained in construction and maintenance skills and
technical manuals will be provided;ensure that each beneficiary community
provides a maintenance plan and appoints a maintenance committee for each
subproject;develop simple maintenance handbooks. Regarding timely
- 7 -



financing of recurrent costs and operational inputs, FAS II will:include
signed agreements with implementing partners (GOA, NGOs, Churches, firms
etc.) to ensure the financing of recurrent costs and operational inputs in
the subproject approval process, as a condition for appraisal;appraise all
subprojects for financial sustainability;build capacity among implementing
partners and communities to manage and operate the infrastructure
facilities installed;expect beneficiaries to contribute at least 10
percent of total costs;give special consideration to subprojects for which
there is commitment on the part of a Church or NGO for operational
support; Regarding community participation, FAS II will:assess the level
of priority attached by the beneficiary community to the proposed
subproject as part of project appraisal;continuously monitor and evaluate
the progress in implementation of the sub-projects and assess the level of
satisfaction and participation of the beneficiary communities.On-going
strategies to strengthen the capacity of communities to finance and manage
appropriate levels of operations and maintenance of facilities will be
continued. During Negotiations agreements have been reached with the GOA
to help ensure line ministry compliance with the required agreements with
FAS. Adequate criteria for the review and selection of economic
infrastructure will be incorporated into the revised Operations Manual,
before Effectiveness of the Project. Technical Handbooks that detail the
appropriate techniques for specific subproject implementation, operation
and maintenance will be developed within 6 months of Effectiveness of the
Project.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
FAS performance and impact on beneficiary communities has been analyzed
and evaluated at various stages during the past years, through independent
management and financial audits, beneficiary impact assessment studies,
and joint GOA/WB exercises, such as the project mid-term review. All
these exercises seem to come to similar conclusions: (i) FAS has been
successful in reaching a significant number of beneficiaries (over 1
million); (ii) FAS has been able to diversify its menu to respond to
beneficiary demand and has completed quite a large number of subprojects
over 5 years (670 with an annual average of more than 130); (iii) FAS has
been successful in building social capital in the communities where it has
been active, as demonstrated by the large number of CBOs established and
still active, the liveliness of the network of "friends of FAS"
associations, and the large number of non-project activities that each
provincial office has been able to organize during the past five years;
and (iv) FAS has been cost-effective in the delivery of services to
beneficiary communities, if compared to other implementing agencies. Some
areas for improvement emerge equally clearly from the evaluations: (i)
technical quality; (ii) a more integrated approach to sustainability;
(iii) using Monitoring and Evaluation as a management tool; and (iv)
internal efficiency in management. All four problem-areas have been
addressed in the preparation for the proposed new phase, as detailed in
the relevant sections of this PAD. Annex 4 provides quantitative
information on FAS performance and achievements. Annex 14 provides a
summary of the Beneficiary Impact Assessment Study. The paragraphs below
provide a summary of the main lessons learned which have immediate
relevance on key choices on project strategy and design:(i)
Two-thirds of Angola's population is below the poverty line, and the
country's unemployment and underemployment rates are extremely high. The
need to increase the employment and income of the poor population is one
- 8 -



of Angola's most pressing economic and social issues. FAS I attempted to
address the problem by incorporating an Income-Generating Activities
Support component in the project. However, the pilot subproject did not
yield positive results, evidencing the need for a broader approach to the
problem. FAS II is expected to contribute to stimulating economic growth
at the community level by: (i) financing the implementation of economic
and productive subprojects (rehabilitation of rural roads, market
buildings, etc.); and (ii) strengthening the use of appropriate
labor-intensive techniques in the execution of infrastructure
projects.(ii) Communities, however poor, are generally willing to
contribute a share of the costs of a project, if they are convinced of its
importance and that it will be completed. FAS requires active community
participation in the prioritization, design and implementation of
projects. The experience gained during Phase I of FAS has been very
positive, and communities have generally contributed at least 10 percent
of the project costs (mostly, in terms of basic materials and unskilled
labor). Moreover, communities have so far shown a great sense of
responsibility in handling the day-to-day maintenance of the facilities
built with FAS financing (see findings of a technical review carried out
in preparation of the FAS Mid-Term Review, available in the project
files).(iii) Continued monitoring of project impact is necessary to learn
from operational experience and modify procedures accordingly. In Phase
I, FAS used a mix of qualitative and quantitative instruments to assess
the impact of the projects and the efficiency and effectiveness of
procedures adopted. An MIS system is in place, with decentralized
responsibilities at each provincial level. FAS II will give priority to
establishing a more comprehensive, yet streamlined Monitoring and
Evaluation system based on an expanded and more focused MIS.(iv) In terms
of administrative and management procedures, FAS complies with Social
Funds' best practices, as shown in several reviews: (a) well-paid,
qualified staff with a director of proven managerial experience; (b)
political, financial, and administrative autonomy; (c) well-defined
technical and socio-economic, appraisal criteria and procedures; (d)
regular financial, managerial, and technical audits; (e) political support
and commitment to the goals and integrity of FAS; and (f) regular
Beneficiary Assessments to get feedback from beneficiaries. (v) In other
social funds, the utilization of an Annual Workplan and Budget proved to
be a useful tool enabling the project management to reduce financial
liquidity bottlenecks. The introduction of this mechanism has been
discussed and agreed with FAS management during project appraisal. The
submission of the first Annual Workplan and Budget is a Condition for
Effectiveness of the project.(vi) The FAS Coordinating Committees that
operate at the central and provincial level represent both the public and
the private sectors, as well as civil society organizations. These
Committees play a significant role in strengthening collaboration among
various ministries and stimulating awareness on the part of central and
local authorities of the need for better planning in the allocation of
recurrent and operating costs. FAS regulations prescribe the autonomy of
the Committees in decision-making with respect to approval and
implementation of subprojects.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  Terms of reference for an environmental analysis
-9-



(EA) have been prepared. The EA will: (i) assess the environmental and
social impacts of the expected subprojects (with particular focus on the
need for hygiene education, waste water and waste disposal); (ii) develop
environmental guidelines for subprojects not requiring EA, and a screening
process for subprojects requiring EA (screening, scoping, preparation of
terms of reference for EA consultants, review and clearance of
subprojects); (iii) assess the capacity of the provincial offices of FAS
II to conduct environmental mitigation measures; (iv) present a monitoring
plan to track potential environmental impacts of subprojects; and (v)
review the legislative framework and propose appropriate institutional
arrangements for FAS II regarding environmental management and assessment.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Wim H. Alberts
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending June 9, 2000.
- 10 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the
borrower prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report
is required, once it is prepared and submitted to the Bank, in
accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental Assessment, it will be
filed as an annex to the Public Information Document (PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an
EA annex; the findings and recommendations of the EA will be
reflected in the body of the PID.



