Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20474-ANG
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 24.9 MILLION
(US$33.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF ANGOLA
FOR A
SECOND SOCIAL ACTION FUND PROJECT (FAS II)
May 26, 2000
Human Development Unit, AFTH4
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 8, 2000)
Currency Unit = Kwanza
Kz 1 = US$ 0.17
US$ 1 = Kz 5.98
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 1
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGR   Income-Generating Activities                         I.N.E   Instituto National de Estatistica
BA     Beneficiary Assessment                              IP      Implementing Partner
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy                         N.B.F.  Not Bank-Financed
CBO    Community-Based Organizations                       NCB    National Competitive Bidding
CDC    Community Development Agency                        NCU    National Coordination Unit of FAS
CGP    Consultative Group to Assist the Poorest            NGO    Non-Governmental Organization
EDI    Economic Development Institute                      M&E   Monitoring and Evaluation
BA     Environmental Assessment                            MIS    Management Information System
ERR    Economic Rate of Return                             MOH    Ministry of Health
EU     European Union                                      MPP    Micro Projects Program
FAS    Fundo de Apolo Social (Social Action Fund)          MPLA   Movimento Popular pela LiberacAo de Angola
FRR    Financial Rate of Return                            MTR    Mid-Term RevieW
GMT   Grassroots Management Training                       NCU    National Coordination Unit
GOA   Government of Angola                                 PMR    Project Management Report
GTZ    German Technical Cooperation                        SA      Social Assistance
IBRD   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development  SMP    Staff Monitored Program
ICB    Intemational Competitive Bidding                    SOE    Statement of Expenditures
IDA    International Development Association               TA      Technical Assistance
IDP    Internally Displaced Population                     TOR    Terms of Reference
IEC    Information Education Communication                 UNDP  United Nations Development Program
IGA    Income Generating Activities                        UNICEF United Nations Children's Fund
ILO    International Labor Organization                    UNITA  Uniao Na9ional pela Independ Total deAngola
IMF    International Monetary Fund                         WB      World Bank
Vice President:      Mr. Callisto Madavo
Country Director:      Ms. Barbara Kafka
Sector Manager:       Mr. Arvil Van Adams
Task Team Leader:        Mr. Wim Alberts



ANGOLA
SECOND SOCUIL ACTION FUND PROJECT (FAS II)
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       8
3. Benefits and target population                                                      9
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       9
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          11
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         13
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           13
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   15
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        15
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           15
2. Financial                                                                          16
3. Technical                                                                          16
4. Institutional                                                                      17
5. Environment                                                                        18
6. Social                                                                             19
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 21
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     21
2. Critical risks                                                                     23
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     25
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            25
2. Other                                                                              26



H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         27
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        27
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         28
Annex 2: Project Description                                                            34
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        48
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary          49
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary   55
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      56
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    66
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  67
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 68
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           69
Annex 11: Preliminary Thoughts on Interim Bank Assistance Strategy                      71
Annex 12: Consolidation versus Expansion Strategy                                       81
Annex 13: Analysis of Income Generating Activities Pilot of FAS I                       83
Annex 14: Beneficiary Assessment                                                        89
Annex 15: Financial Management Systems Assessment                                       96
MAP(S)
IBRD 24288



ANGOLA
Second Social Action Fund Project (FAS II)
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTH4
Date: May 26, 2000                                Team Leader: Wim H. Alberts
Country Manager/Director: Barbara Kafka           Sector Manager/Director: Arvil Van Adams
Project ID: P056393                               Sector(s): SA - Social Funds & Social Assistance
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Poverty Reduction
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Project Financing Data
O Loan          1 Credit        O Grant         O Guarantee     I Other (Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): US$33.0
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                               Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: Not to exceed 1/2 of
1% per annum
Finan.cI-tgPlan:. --'.  te S___ '   v ;,',,  ,,,,  ',-, ;gn  -- --                           tal--
GOVERNMENT                                                      5.00           0.00           5.00
IDA                                                            29.60           3.40          33.00
COMMUNITIES                                                     4.00           0.00           4.00
OTHER                                                           5.00           0.00           5.00
Total:                                                         43.60           3.40          47.00
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF ANGOLA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF PLANNING
FAS National Coordination Unit
Address: Largo de Palazio
Caixa Postal 1205
Luanda, Angola
Contact Person: Victor Hugo Guilherne
Tel: 244 2 330191                Fax: 244 2 333835                Email: vhugo@fas.ebonet.net
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
Annual     9.0          13.0         11.0
Cumulative     9.0         22.0         33.0
Project implementation period: 3 years
Expected effectiveness date: 09/01/2000  Expected closing date:  02/29/2004
OCS PAD F- R. MR .t, 2MX



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project development objective is to increase the sustainable utilization of basic social and economic
services by target populations. To reach that development objective, the Second Social Action Fund (FAS
II) will focus on: (i) the provision or rehabilitation of social and economic (productive) infrastructure at the
community level; (ii) capacity building at the level of communities, partners, local govemnment and FAS;
and (iii) strengthening the monitoring and evaluation system.
The preparation of the second phase of FAS started in the beginning of 1998. In December 1998, the
Project was ready for appraisal. However, due to a deterioration of the security situation and unfavorable
macro-economic conditions, the Bank decided to suspend work on any new lending activities in Angola.
Since the beginning of this year, the Bank has been noticing signs of greater commitment to economic
reforms. An agreement between the Government of Angola (GOA) and the IMF on a Staff Monitored
Program (SMP, April - December, 2000) has been signed on April 3, 2000. Though there remain
economic imbalances and high inflation, for the first time, there seems to be a concerted effort on economic
reforms, backed up by important steps taken to date and the SMP.
Government advances against LNITA have led to cautious optimism on the evolution of the political and
security situation. While the political and security situation remains somehow uncertain, there has been
serious weakening of UNITA, which coupled with intensified application of sanctions and the planned
elections in 2001, bodes on the optimistic side that while guerrilla attacks will undoubtedly continue, big
war may not. In this situation, GOA's budget for this year foresees a major reduction in military
expenditures and increased opportunities for financing of social/poverty oriented programs. Under these
more conducive circumstances, the Bank proposed to re-open the portfolio dialogue with the Government of
Angola through the resumption of the preparation process of the second phase of FAS. To enable a smooth
transition between FAS I and FAS II in the second half of 2000, it was suggested to fast track the
preparation process of FAS II. Assuming a continuation of the more conducive circumstances, it is
expected that the Project can become effective in September, 2000.
The overall objective for the second phase of FAS remains largely within the framework that was designed
for the first phase, approved in 1995. The implementation of the project will continue along the successful
path developed for FAS I, and build upon existing institutional capacity and infrastructure.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
To monitor the implementation progress of FAS II and the subprojects, the indicators have been selected
and categorized into four main groups: (i) development objective (to assess the overall impact of the
project); (ii) impact (to track the outcome and sustainability of the project outputs by component); (iii)
output (to track the output of resource usage by component); and (iv) process (to track the efficiency of
administration and project processing). The following key performance indicators have been agreed:
Project Development Objective Indicators:
*   a 15 percent annual increase in the total number of beneficiaries of the social and economic
infrastructure facilities installed within the project after each year of operation;
*   a 95 percent increase in beneficiary satisfaction with services being delivered through project
infrastructure by end of project.
-2 -



Inmact Indicators (by Component)
*  95 percent of project related infrastructure functioning at acceptable standards by end of project;
*   improved performance of FAS personnel, implementing partners and local government authorities in
subproject related skills (participatory planning, proposal development, construction, maintenance,
appropriate technologies, etc.);
*   increase in number of community initiated activities aimed at rebuilding social and economic
infrastructures and organizations;
*  a 95 percent increase in the use of Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) data for project management
decisions.
Output Indicators (by Component)
*   95 percent of planned structures completed to standards established in the projects Operational
Manual;
*   increased levels of subproject related skills among FAS staff, implementing partners and local
government authorities;
*  timely production of all project related M&E reports (including interim and final evaluation).
Process Indicators (FAS Administration and Project Processing)
o  a 35 percent decrease in administrative costs for FAS by end of project;
*  number of eligible project applications by type and province, percentage approved, and average time
for review, approval and contracting.
To facilitate the collection and analysis of these key performance indicators, the Monitoring and Evaluation
team of FAS will ensure that subproject base line inforrnation is collected for each subproject by the
community and/or implementing partner. Furthermore, a mid-term and final evaluation will be carried out
that will include a counterfactual group of communities that did not receive FAS assistance during the
course of the project to try and control for any exogenous factors related to observed changes. FAS I
developed a Management Information System (MIS) based on a set of agreed monitorable indicators. FAS
II will develop a more comprehensive Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) system with greater emphasis on
specific outputs and impacts of FAS interventions. The logframe in Annex I provides a more detailed list
of indicators that will be reviewed and updated as part of finalizing the M&E system. The current
logframe will serve as a basis for discussion during the stakeholder workshops that will be organized as
part of establishing the M&E system.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: N/A              Date of latest CAS discussion: N/A
No CAS document is available for Angola because of political and economic uncertainties which have
plagued the country over the past years. With the positive recent developments, the preparation of an
Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper is under discussion with the Government, with planned
completion by the end of the year 2000, paving the way for the anticipated movement to an IMF Poverty
Reduction and Growth facility in early 2001. The underlying objective of the Bank's assistance strategy for
Angola is to assist the Government in its transition from war to peace, and to complete the transformation
- 3-



to a market oriented economy. Annex 11 discusses the Bank's past program with Angola and preliminary
thoughts on an Interim Bank Assistance Strategy for Angola.
The Bank's longer term objectives for Angola would be to help consolidate peace and foster equitable
employment generating economic growth by helping the country to: (i) restore and sustain macroeconomic
stability; (ii) implement remaining structural reforms to complete the transition to a market-oriented
economy and create the conditions for a dynamic private sector-outside of the oil sector; (iii) expand access
to and improve the quality of essential social services and reconstruct critical infrastructure on a
sustainable basis; (iv) foster the reintegration of displaced persons into their communities; (v) improve
governance; and (vi) build the capacity to make it possible to achieve all of these difficult goals.
Angola's population has endured declining living standards and reduced access to education, health and
basic economic infrastructure over the last 25 years, due mostly to a protracted civil conflict, poor
economic management, and weak governance. As a result, 61 percent of Angolan households or 67 percent
of the population now live below the poverty line (estimates based on a Poverty Note drafted by the
Government and the Bank in 1999). Furthermore, conventional poverty indicators alone are likely to
underestimate the extent of human suffering and deprivation endured by the Angolan people. When the
definition of poverty is broadened to include non-income dimensions, such as access to basic education and
health, assets, or personal security, the living standards of Angolans are likely to be amongst the lowest in
the world. Therefore and to the extent that the FAS II can contribute to empower and restore basic services
it can greatly contribute towards general economic recovery and the alleviation of poverty in particular.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Increasing the Coverage and Improving Quality of Basic Social Services: Government expenditures in
the social sectors have been traditionally low, and they declined sharply after 1991 as military expenditures
grew to absorb a large part of the budget. The reduction of allocations for education and health resulted in
a serious deterioration of the service delivery systems. There is increasing awareness of the gravity of the
problem and of the negative impact that it has had on the population. The real expansion of the budget
allocation to the social sectors in budget years 1998 and 1999 was extremely limited and cannot be
considered sufficient. Under the recently agreed IMF Staff Monitored program, the budget allocations to
the social sectors are expected to be increased substantially. The Govermment intends to finance operating
and recurrent costs through these increased allocations, particularly within the health and education sectors.
Economic Reintegration: More than 40 percent of the population in Angola is internally displaced and
living in precarious conditions, mostly in the outskirts of Luanda and other major cities. The recent
Poverty Note concluded that the poverty incidence among migrants in urban and peri-urban areas is 50
percent higher than that of non-migrants, and analyses carried out by governmental and non-governmental
institutions indicated a high correlation between displacement, poverty, and increased crime rate. The
GOA is trying to address these very critical issues through the implementation of policies and programs
such as: (i) the establishment of a Ministry for Women and Family whose mandate includes activities aimed
at facilitating the reunification of families displaced as a result of the war; (ii) the financing of vocational
training and income-generating programs that target internally-displaced people and returnees (in
collaboration with UN agencies and NGOs); and (iii) the financing of a Post-Conflict Social Recovery
Project (PCSRP) facilitating the reintegration of displaced persons into communities of origin (in
collaboration with the World Bank). With a labor force growth rate of 2.8 percent (1990-95) of whom 58
percent is illiterate, and very high rates of unemployment and underemployment (Luanda has a 25 percent
rate of unemployment), there is an urgent need to create conditions for broad based economic growth and
for the development of labor-intensive income-generating economic activities.
- 4 -



Social Reintegration and Reconstruction of Social Capital: Twenty five years of civil conflict in
Angola had a devastating effect on the country's social capital. The impact of the lengthy conflict is
profound and resentments run deep. The costs of the conflict are very high in terms of damage to
institutions of governance and civil society and such basic attitudes and behaviors as trust and
participation. The conflict has militarized life in Angola and disrupted existing social organizations.
Social networks have either broken up or individuals/households have lost their connections to these
networks. The accessibility to additional resources through these connections is constrained. The poor,
who usually only have access to very scant resources, are particularly at risk when conflict depletes their
social capital. At the community level, the lack of social cohesion and connectedness prevents
collaboration and more equitable resource distribution among individuals and social groups. The capacity
of communities and individual community members to organize themselves and solve their problems
dwindles under these circumstances.
The GOA is trying to address the social reintegration issue through: (i) FAS, which is linked to the
Ministry of Planning; and (ii) a Reintegration Strategy to be developed by the Ministry of Social Assistance
and Reintegration (supported by the Bank through the PCSRP). This strategy provides a framework across
sectors and provinces for planning and implementing the rehabilitation and reintegration needs of war
affected segments of the society. In its transition from war to peace, Angola, however, continues to face a
major challenge to rebuild its capacities and strengthen the social fabric of its society. There is an urgent
need to increase the efforts to empower communities and to rebuild governance and civil society
institutions.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Increasing the Coverage and Improving Quality of Basic Social Services: FAS supports Government
efforts to improve the quality of life and increase the sustainable utilization of basic social and economic
infrastructure. During the first phase, FAS financed about 650 basic social and economic infrastructure
subprojects, benefiting over one million people. This is by far the largest investment made by the GOA to
improve the basic social services delivery system in rural areas. FAS II will continue this line of activity,
focused on facilitating the social and economic recovery of communities and the restoration of basic social
and economic services through demand-driven, community-oriented projects that target individuals, groups
and communities affected by the conflict. FAS II will maintain the same menu of eligible subprojects as in
the previous phase (including construction or rehabilitation of social and economic infrastructure like
primary schools, pre-school facilities, health posts, rural water supply facilities, etc.). FAS II will also
develop a more systematic strategy to strengthen the prospects for sustainability of the activities financed
by FAS (see Section F of this PAD). In the coming three years, FAS is expected to finance over 1,200
subprojects, of which at least 750 will be in the social sectors, expanding the access to basic social services
to 1.5 million beneficiaries.
Economic Reintegration: FAS II will complement other development initiatives being carried out
throughout the country, by generating and financing small and medium size economic infrastructure
subprojects. During Phase I, the emphasis was more on the construction and rehabilitation of
infrastructure in support of the expansion of social services (such as schools, health posts, and water and
sanitation works). During Phase II, FAS will, in addition, encourage poor communities to identify their
priorities with regards to economic infrastructure in support of productive activities. This line of activity
includes projects such as the rehabilitation of small feeder roads and bridges, market buildings, silos, small
scale irrigation, water troughs for cattle, reforestation, etc. Appropriate use of labor intensive technologies
in the construction of economic infrastructure offers the possibility of increasing the employment
- 5 -



generation character of the FAS operation.
In its economic reintegration efforts, FAS II will not specifically target Internally-Displaced People (IDPs)
and Returnees since the project focuses on more settled communities (the PCSRP specifically targets these
displaced populations). However, it is anticipated that the project will have a positive impact on the critical
problem of reintegration of IDPs and returnees, because the rehabilitation of rural communities carried out
with FAS financing is expected to stimulate their relocation from urban to rural areas. A survey carried
out by INE among internally-displaced people indicates that the major constraint to their return to their
native communities, apart from security, is the lack of basic social and economic infrastructure.
Social Reintegration and Reconstruction of Social Capital: FAS II will contribute to the Government's
efforts to rebuild social capital in Angola through building capacity at the community level, at the level of
implementing partners and local government officials, and for FAS staff itself. FAS II intends to go
beyond pursuing community participation in its operations and has made community development a central
objective of its strategy and approach. This line of action involves supporting independent civil society
organizations that can promote and implement community initiatives. By developing and applying
solutions to their problems, communities develop managerial and operational capacity. FAS II anticipates
to promote community development not only through the project implementation process but also directly
through training programs designed to strengthen the institutional and managerial capacity of community
based organizations. This will be pursued through enhancing the capacity of local communities to
prioritize needs and manage resources in an effective way, to organize themselves and to restore their social
networks. The FAS II approach places greater emphasis on: (i) building trust among community members
and groups; (ii) achieving effective partnerships with implementing agencies and local governments; and
(iii) transforming the basic attitude and behaviors of the communities away from dependence on
government hand-outs and towards greater reliance on their own capacity to solve problems.
The capacity building component will be based on participatory techniques and methodologies. The results
of FAS I indicated that participatory approaches are most successful when interventions are compatible
with the real needs and interests of the community and when people believe that benefits are really accruing
to them. Strengthening the demand driven concept of FAS, will require lengthy investment in terms of
information dissemination and community development. In Angola, the potential and social-historical
conditions for mobilization and community-centered development are present. In the rural areas, settled
agriculturists have a long tradition of community work, inter-village co-operation and community-centered
administration. For the promotion of the active, responsible role of the communities, FAS relies on local
traditional authorities, local government cadres and field staff.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
FAS II will continue the same range of activities as in the previous phase in terms of social and economic
infrastructure. Additional resources will be allocated to capacity building, monitoring and evaluation, and
the operating costs for the project.
-6 -



Social and Economic Infrastructure: FAS II will support a wide range of small and medium scale social
and economic infrastructure. Subprojects will be identified by poor communities and implemented with the
assistance of Implementing Partners, such as NGOs and Churches, in co-ordination and collaboration with
local governments and sectoral agencies/Line Ministries. Subprojects eligible for financing would have to
meet technical, financial, economic, social and environmental criteria set out in the Operational Manual.
The demand for subprojects is expected to be related to education (elementary schools, kindergarten,
children centers), health (health stations and posts), water and sanitation (water supply systems, latrines,
combined services), economic infrastructure (rehabilitation of small feeder roads, culverts, small bridges)
small-scale community/municipal infrastructure (including markets, silos, chimpacas) and environmental
infrastructure (mainly watershed protection and reforestation).
Because of the experience gained during the first phase and the good track record, FAS is expected to be
ready to move into the implementation of the next phase quite rapidly. No major constraints are foreseen
as most institutional mechanisms and human resources capacities are already in place, including: (i) the
large experience of the FAS technical and managerial staff gained during the first phase; (ii) the adoption of
national standards whenever these are available, and the introduction of prototype designs for those
facilities for which national standards are not available (this activity is already on-going and is expected to
be completed within six months from Effectiveness); (iii) the adoption of common and consistent
construction technologies applied to all sub-projects which have been proven to be effective and sound; (iv)
the preference for turn-key procurement for relatively larger and technically more complex projects
implemented by contractors of proven experience; and (v) the development of partnerships with experienced
NGOs to act as an Implementing Partners both for the construction of infrastructure and for the training of
beneficiaries.
Capacity Building: Since FAS' inception, its operations have been guided by a strong vision of
community empowerment. FAS II will maintain its focus on building capacity at the community,
implementing partners and local government officials levels, as well as on FAS staff itself. The ultimate
objective of the capacity building component in FAS II will be to better organize communities and to
empower community members. The capacity building component intends to transfer skills and improve
methods for stakeholders at all levels involved. Capacity building will be carried out through two basic
channels: (i) learning by doing through the process of project formulation and execution; and (ii) training
programs designed to strengthen the institutional and managerial capacity of communities and
organizations.
A Human Resources Development (HRD) Plan to facilitate the implementation of FAS II has been
discussed during the Appraisal mission. With regards to the staffing requirements for FAS II, an
agreement was reached: (i) to include organizational charts for the central and the provincial offices, and
the terms of reference and job profiles for each position as an annex to the revised Operational Manual
before Effectiveness of the Project; (ii) terms of reference for a capacity building coordinator at the central
level have been formulated and the expert is expected to start his/her activities for FAS in early July 2000;
and (iii) a technical assistance mission will be organized in early July 2000, to finalize the capacity building
program for FAS staff.
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E): A more comprehensive yet streamlined M&E system will be
critical for FAS II. During project preparation, the MIS experience of FAS I was reviewed and it became
apparent that although it provides relevant data for FAS at both central and regional levels, the information
is not widely used by FAS managers. The current MIS system has, in addition, a strong emphasis on the
earlier phases of the subproject cycle (design and implementation), and focuses less on the outputs and
impacts of the interventions. In preparation for FAS II, it was agreed to modify the current MIS system
- 7 -



and design and implement a more comprehensive M&E system, which will include the more regular use of
beneficiary assessments and qualitative evaluations.
In FAS II, monitoring will be seen as a continuous activity. The M&E system will focus on measuring and
controlling performance in project execution, as well as on systematically collecting data on the impact of
project activities on the direct beneficiaries. It will be used for ongoing decision-making, re-planning and
adjusting, and forward planning. The monitoring process will be complemented by evaluation activities,
which will be ad hoc decided. The focus for evaluation will be on the cause to effect linkages, unplanned
changes, and the link from output to both immediate and long-term objectives. The main focus of this
section of the M&E system will be a determination of the effectiveness and sustainability of the projects.
(i) Community subprojects (including                   36.00      76.6      25.00      75.8
social and economic infrastructure;
and improved natural resources
management).
(ii) Capacity building                                  4.00       8.5       2.50       7.6
(including social mobilization; capacity
building for communities, implementing
partners and FAS staff; training; TA;
equipment).
(iii) Monitoring and evaluation                         2.00       4.3       1.50       4.5
(including perfornance monitoring,
qualitative appraisal and impact
assessments, and interim/fmal
evaluations).
(iv) FAS institutional support                          5.00       10.6      4.00       12.1
(including administration and operating
costs, audit).
Total Project Costs                   47.00      100.0      33.00     100.0
Total Financing Required                    47.00      100.0     33.00      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Consistency with Multi-Sectoral Government Policy for Poverty Alleviation: So far, the Government
of Angola has not developed an integrated policy/strategy to alleviate poverty. Recently, however, in the
discussions with the IMF and the World Bank regarding a Staff Monitored Program, the GOA expressed
the need for integrating, in a single strategy, all different actions being carried out in the country to alleviate
poverty by various players (donors, NGOs, governmental institutions, private sector), and highlighted the
critical role that FAS, being a leading and successful institution operating in this area, can play to support
this effort.
-8 -



Consistency with Sectoral Standards and Guidelines: In the first phase, FAS developed technical
standards for the most commonly built types of infrastructure (elementary school, health center, pic-pec,
etc.) which are either consistent with national standards whenever these are approved and available, or have
been discussed with relevant line-ministries and provincial authorities in case no national standards are
available. FAS has also ensured that technical standards take into account the varying climatic conditions
present in the different areas of the country. The Mid-Term Review highlighted that the standard cost of
FAS subprojects is much lower than the cost of similar infrastructure built by line-ministries or other
institutions. For other types of infrastructure, such as rural water supply or small feeder roads, an
agreement on technical standards is reached with provincial authorities on individual subprojects, and
representatives from line-ministries and local authorities are involved in all steps of the subproject cycle.
For FAS II the technical standards and guidelines have been reviewed and found appropriate.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits: Estimating the exact benefits generated by this type of projects is always difficult because
activities are demand-driven, thus making it difficult to anticipate the project area, the total number of
beneficiaries, and the number and mix of project type. Nevertheless, the results achieved during the first
phase with FAS reaching over one million beneficiaries over a period of four years, as well as the results of
the Beneficiary Assessment being carried out in 1998, will allow some preliminary conclusions (Annex 4
summarizes some of the main results of FAS I).
Based on experience in the first phase, the Project is expected to result in: (i) shift in the attitude of
communities from passive acceptance of transfers to increased reliance on self-help initiatives; (ii)
improved quality of social and economic services through rehabilitated and new infrastructure; (iii)
increased investment flows to poorer areas and to priority activities of poor communities in these areas; (iv)
increased partnership between local communities and other players (NGOs, local governments, private
sector, CBOs, etc.); (v) improved capacities of poor communities and households to organize themselves;
(vi) improved capacities of poor communities and households to make better use of their resources, better
manage risks, have a greater say in decision making, and apply newly acquired skills to solve upcoming
problems; and (vii) strengthened capacity of FAS management and staff, as well as of line-ministries, local
governments, and other public and private institutions involved in the implementation of FAS-financed
subprojects.
Target Population: The target population are poorer communities in rural and peri-urban areas. During
Phase I, FAS has been operating through ten offices in nine provinces (Bengo, Benguela, Cabinda,
Cacuaco, Huambo, Huila, Namibe, Viana, Cunene, and Kuanza Sul). The offices of Cacuaco and Viana
(Luanda province) have recently been merged. During the three years of Phase II, it is expected that
activities will be consolidated in all nine areas and that FAS will not expand into new provinces. FAS II
will, however, reach out to new municipalities within the provinces where it is currently operating. As part
of its overall consolidation strategy, FAS will sharpen its poverty focus by developing intra-province
targeting mechanisms which will allow an increased share of resources to reach the poorest communities.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
FAS will retain its main institutional and implementation arrangements, as described in the revised
Operational Manual. During project preparation, the document has been revised and some of the project's
main features modified to maximize efficiency and effectiveness in implementation.
Implementation Period: Three years.
-9



Executing Agency and its Structure: FAS is an autonomous institution created by the GOA with
Presidential Decree n. 44/94 to support the government in fighting poverty. It is under the umbrella of the
Ministly of Planning and has been granted a high degree of autonomy concerning administrative, financial
and management procedures. It consists of a central management unit and of 9 provincial offices. The
fund operates in a fully decentralized way, with each provincial office responsible for selection and
implementation of activities within its geographical area, and with resources allocated from the center
directly to provincial accounts. Procurement activities are also carried out at the provincial level. FAS has
a National Board of Overseers, which includes representatives from governmental, as well as
non-governmental institutions and civil society. The Board ensures that the activities financed by the fund
respond to the objectives for which it was created. Another Board, similar in structure and composition,
operates at each province level to ensure that FAS priorities are consistent with provincial priorities, and to
guarantee the involvement of line-ministries in the fund's activities. Detailed information on the FAS
structure is provided in the revised Operational Manual.
Main Implementation Arrangements: The FAS project cycle is described in detail in the Operational
Manual. The main implementation features are the following: (i) to be eligible for FAS financing each
community needs to establish a Project Committee (nucleo comunitario) with legal status responsible for
the actual implementation of subprojects; (ii) each community needs to contribute at least 10 percent of the
total project cost, in cash or in kind; (iii) a menu of eligible subprojects, mainly social and economic
infrastructure, is provided in the Operational Manual - the list is supposed to be exhaustive, but not
exclusive; (iv) subproject proposals are appraised on the basis of general, institutional, social, economic,
technical, environmental, gender and legal criteria detailed in the Operational Manual; (v) subprojects
whose total value of FAS financing is below US$70,000 are approved directly at the provincial level -
projects exceeding that value are submitted to the National Coordination Unit for review and
approval/rejection; (vi) detailed procurement and disbursement procedures are provided in the Operational
Manual - they have been agreed upon with the Bank and can be modified only with Bank's approval; and
(vii) semi-annual reports are provided to the Bank and other co-financing donors.
Financial Management: During appraisal, the Bank mission has ascertained that the financial
management system in place at the ongoing FAS I does not provide the National Coordination Unit and
IDA with accurate and timely information regarding resources and expenditures because the new
accounting software is still under establishment and has not yet been fully tested. Before Effectiveness: (i)
the FAS' National Board of Overseers will formally adopt the revised Operational Manual; (ii) the financial
management system will be assessed again; and (iii) an external auditor acceptable to IDA will be
recruited. The financial management system will include accounting, financial reporting and audit
arrangements.
Accounting: FAS will maintain the accounting records for the entire project. It will also be responsible
for the effective and timely production of the annual financial statements as well as the Project
Management Reports (PMRs). The configuration of the accounting software will ensure that the system is
capable of not only producing the standard financial statements, but also the PMRs in compliance with
LACI. Before project Effectiveness, an IDA Financial Management Specialist will carry out a second
assessment of the project financial management system (adequacy and competence of the accounting and
financial staff, relevance of the operational and administrative manuals, completeness of the accounting
system) to determine its soundness and capability to provide accurate and timely information regarding
project resources and expenditures. The satisfactory outcome of the assessment of the financial
management system is a condition of Credit Effectiveness.
-10-



Financial Reporting: Since the new accounting system is still under establishment and has not yet been
fully tested, it was agreed not to start immediately with PMR-based disbursements method. It was also
agreed however, to design the financial management system so that it can produce, in addition to the basic
financial statements and any other relevant financial report, the PMR as required under LACI. Adequate
provisions will be made to train the accounting and financial staff to that end during the first 18 months of
project implementation. PMR reports will start toward the end of the second year of implementation and
continue till completion as stated in the time-bound action plan of Appendix 2 in Annex 15. This will
require that IDA carry out at the end of the first year of implementation, a comprehensive and detailed
assessment of the project financial management to determine its full readiness for PMR. A second
assessment will be carried out at the beginning of the first quarter of Year 2002 to evaluate the
effectiveness of the transition to full PMR. Before moving to PMR however, the project will still be
required to submit, in addition to its annual financial statements, three quarterly reports: financial, progress
and procurement reports. All procurement documents, contracts, and invoices would be maintained
separately at central and provincial levels and be made accessible to supervision missions and auditors.
Audit Arrangements: During negotiations, the government provided assurance that: (a) project accounts
will be audited in accordance with International Standards on Auditing standards by an experienced and
intemationally recognized auditing firm acceptable to IDA; the audit reports and related project accounts
will be submitted to IDA within 6 months after the end of the Project fiscal year; (b) in addition to the
standard short form report with their opinion, the auditors will be required to: (i) carry out a comprehensive
review of all the SOEs as well as the internal control procedures governing their preparation for the
relevant period under audit, and express a separate opinion thereon; and (ii) review the management and
utilization of the special account and express a separate opinion thereon as well; and (c) the auditors will
also carry out an in-depth review of the internal control system of the project with a view to identify the
major weaknesses and shortcomings and proposing practical recommendations for improvement. The
results of this review would be documented in a Management Letter to be submitted along with the audit
reports.
Supervision: IDA will undertake full supervision missions semi-annually, and interim reviews will be
undertaken every second quarter. The Mid-Term Review of the project is scheduled to be conducted 6
months after Effectiveness.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
FAS has been operating successfully for over five years, as confirmed by the results of the Mid-Term
Review, annual audits, and other types of evaluations carried out during that period. The design of FAS I
builds on this positive implementation experience. The Bank's decision not to proceed with any new
lending slowed down the preparation of FAS II in 1999, but did not critically alter the basic premises
underlying the successful operations of FAS. Therefore, no real alternatives to the present one have been
considered in terms of instruments to achieve the objectives that FAS is presently pursuing. The overall
objective for the second phase of FAS remains within the framework that was designed for the first phase.
The alternatives being considered in the design of Phase II concern mainly:
Timeframe for Phase Two: It was agreed that, although the instability of the political and economic
situation of the country has lessened, a shorter timeframe (three years rather than five, as originally
planned) would be more appropriate.
- 11 -



Expansion Strategy: The GOA expressed on several occasions their willingness to see FAS become a
national program. While there is agreement in principle on this strategy, the present security situation and
major operational constraints for FAS to expand, do not make this option viable in the near future. It was
therefore agreed that FAS should focus mainly on consolidating its activities in the provinces where it is
presently operating. This does not proscribe the possibility of expanding activities to municipalities within
the provinces where FAS is currently operating. Annex 12 provides more detail on the rationale for the
consolidation strategy.
Post Conflict Social Recovery Project (PCRSP): The Bank financed PCSRP LL would test, in a limited
number of target areas, a program to support war affected rural communities in their efforts to reintegrate
displaced people and revitalize community-level economic and social activities. The PCSRP and FAS
complement each other in addressing post-conflict social and economic issues at the community level in
Angola. However, the alternative option to integrate the two projects into a single one is rejected, since: (i)
the methodologies and development objectives for both projects are very different, as FAS operates only in
more established and secure communities, while the PCSRP targets less-established communities strongly
affected by the war; and (ii) FAS and PCSRP have different geographical coverage.
Decentralization: As of today, the Government of Angola does not have a specific policy or strategy on
decentralization. In principle the administration is highly centralized, however, in practice the provinces do
ascertain a certain level of decentralized fiscal, political and administrative authority. FAS II is not well
equipped to carry the burden of broad - national - responsibilities for decentralization. Therefore, FAS is
not likely to venture into the broader domain of empowering local government in areas such as
accountability, subsidiarity, fiscal and legal reforms that are normally associated with national
decentralization policies and strategies. However, in line with the Community Driven Development
approach, the Project will emphasize local capacity building, including of local government authorities and
partners. FAS II will strengthen its partnership with local governments in terms of processing the
subproject cycle and in terms of local development planning.
Income Generating Activities: The FAS I pilot to support Income Generating Activities (IGA) will be
discontinued. Overall the experience of the support to IGA shows only very limited contributions to the
development of sustainable commercial income generating or micro-enterprise activity. Annex 13 provides
an overview of the FAS I experience with the IGA projects and includes more detailed information on the
rationale for discontinuing the IGA support component. The most important reasons for discontinuing the
support to IGA are: (i) the IGA projects absorb too much of the time of the staff of the central and
provincial FAS units, provincial directors tend to micro-manage these types of projects; (ii) the staff of
FAS does not have the expertise to manage this type of project, and it will be very difficult for them to
acquire the needed skills, their competence is largely in overseeing the execution of infrastructure projects
and empowering communities; (iii) there is little experience in micro-finance in Angola, there are only a few
NGOs working in this field (and they are largely oriented to social assistance); (iv) as of now, there is no
banking regulation to cover micro-fnance; (v) the environment for micro-credit, particularly for pure
financing operations, is not very conducive in Angola (inflation is currently about 300 percent and in
practice, it will be difficult to charge real interest rates to poor community members); (vi) the supported
IGA projects are mostly not cost-effective and have been benefiting the not-so-poor; (vii) the revolving
funds established do not seem to be sustainable, and will most likely disappear in just a few years; and
(viii) credit that is not repaid is a bad way of channeling resources to the poor (not efficient and tends to
weaken traditional values of communities).
- 12 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latet Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                 (PSR%JRatings
_________ _________ _________   ..______,.___ _._ _ . (Bank-financed  projects  only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Community Rehabilitation         Social Action Fund (FAS)          S            S
Reintegration of war-vulnerable  Post-Conflict Social Recovery    U             U
population                       Credit (April 98)
Improvement of Health Services   Health Project                    S             S
Improvement of Education Services    Education Project             S             S
Other development agencies
Community Rehabilitation          UNDP and other donors
Demobilization and Employment     GTZ, ILO/UNDP
Generation
Capacity Building for Local NGOs    Netherlands
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
FAS performance and impact on beneficiary communities has been analyzed and evaluated at various
stages during the past years, through independent management and financial audits, beneficiary impact
assessment studies, and joint GOA/WB exercises, such as the project mid-term review. All these exercises
seem to come to similar conclusions: (i) FAS has been successful in reaching a significant number of
beneficiaries (over 1 million); (ii) FAS has been able to diversify its menu to respond to beneficiary demand
and has completed quite a large number of subprojects over 5 years (670 with an annual average of more
than 130); (iii) FAS has been successful in building social capital in the communities where it has been
active, as demonstrated by the large number of CBOs established and still active, the liveliness of the
network of "friends of FAS" associations, and the large number of non-project activities that each
provincial office has been able to organize during the past five years; and (iv) FAS has been cost-effective
in the delivery of services to beneficiary communities, if compared to other implementing agencies.
Some areas for improvement emerge equally clearly from the evaluations: (i) technical quality; (ii) a more
integrated approach to sustainability; (iii) using Monitoring and Evaluation as a management tool; and (iv)
internal efficiency in management. All four problem-areas have been addressed in the preparation for the
proposed new phase, as detailed in the relevant sections of this PAD. Annex 4 provides quantitative
information on FAS performance and achievements. Annex 14 provides a summary of the Beneficiary
Impact Assessment Study. The paragraphs below provide a summary of the main lessons learned which
have immediate relevance on key choices on project strategy and design:
(i)  Two-thirds of Angola's population is below the poverty line, and the country's unemployment and
underemployment rates are extremely high. The need to increase the employment and income of the
poor population is one of Angola's most pressing economic and social issues. FAS I attempted to
address the problem by incorporating an Income-Generating Activities Support component in the
project. However, the pilot subproject did not yield positive results, evidencing the need for a
- 13 -



broader approach to the problem. FAS II is expected to contribute to stimulating economic growth at
the community level by: (i) financing the implementation of economic and productive subprojects
(rehabilitation of rural roads, market buildings, etc.); and (ii) strengthening the use of appropriate
labor-intensive techniques in the execution of infrastructure projects.
(ii)  Communities, however poor, are generally willing to contribute a share of the costs of a project, if
they are convinced of its importance and that it will be completed. FAS requires active community
participation in the prioritization, design and implementation of projects. The experience gained
during Phase I of FAS has been very positive, and communities have generally contributed at least
10 percent of the project costs (mostly, in terms of basic materials and unskilled labor). Moreover,
communities have so far shown a great sense of responsibility in handling the day-to-day
maintenance of the facilities built with FAS financing (see findings of a technical review carried out
in preparation of the FAS Mid-Term Review, available in the project files).
(iii)  Continued monitoring of project impact is necessary to learn from operational experience and modify
procedures accordingly. In Phase I, FAS used a mix of qualitative and quantitative instruments to
assess the impact of the projects and the efficiency and effectiveness of procedures adopted. An
MIS system is in place, with decentralized responsibilities at each provincial level. FAS II will give
priority to establishing a more comprehensive, yet streamlined Monitoring and Evaluation system
based on an expanded and more focused MIS.
(iv)  In terms of administrative and management procedures, FAS complies with Social Funds' best
practices, as shown in several reviews: (a) well-paid, qualified staff with a director of proven
managerial experience; (b) political, financial, and administrative autonomy; (c) well-defined
technical and socio-economic, appraisal criteria and procedures; (d) regular financial, managerial,
and technical audits; (e) political support and commitment to the goals and integrity of FAS; and (f)
regular Beneficiary Assessments to get feedback from beneficiaries.
(v)  In other social funds, the utilization of an Annual Workplan and Budget proved to be a useful tool
enabling the project management to reduce financial liquidity bottlenecks. The introduction of this
mechanism has been discussed and agreed with FAS management during project appraisal. The
submission of the first Annual Workplan and Budget is a Condition for Effectiveness of the project.
(vi)  The FAS Coordinating Committees that operate at the central and provincial level represent both the
public and the private sectors, as well as civil society organizations. These Committees play a
significant role in strengthening collaboration among various ministries and stimulating awareness
on the part of central and local authorities of the need for better planning in the allocation of
recurrent and operating costs. FAS regulations prescribe the autonomy of the Committees in
decision-making with respect to approval and implementation of subprojects.
- 14 -



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The GOA has shown a strong degree of commitment to FAS throughout the implementation of the project,
as confirmed by the consistently timely deposit of counterpart funds. The share of the Government
contribution to FAS activities will increase from 5 percent during Phase I, to 10 percent during Phase II.
On several occasions the GOA expressed their appreciation for the results achieved by FAS and their
willingness to see FAS become a nationwide program and an important component of the GOA strategy to
fight poverty. The FAS team prepared a proposal for Phase II of the project, including a revised version of
the Operational Manual. Extensive consultations with representatives of public and private institutions
have been carried out to make the design of the proposed project responsive to the country's needs and to
develop synergies with other programs with similar objectives already operating in Angola.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank will bring its experience of Social Funds in more than 30 countries, as well as country-specific
knowledge gained through the implementation of the Angola portfolio (including Phase I of FAS). The
Bank team benefited tremendously from the cross-fertilization of ideas that has taken place between the two
tearns during the implementation of Phase I of FAS and the preparation of Phase II. The Bank tean is
particularly grateful to FAS management and staff for broadening the debate from project-specific issues to
the overall theme of poverty alleviation in Angola, and for providing access to information and experiences
which allowed a better understanding of the context in which the project will operate.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
(i)    Following the procedures adopted during Phase I, FAS will continue to ensure cost-effectiveness to
guide the selection, design and implementation arrangements of individual subprojects. Experience
gained during the implementation of FAS I made it possible to revise the eligibility criteria for
subproject appraisal and evaluation to ensure that resources continue to be allocated to
cost-effective interventions that will benefit the poorer and the most vulnerable segments of the
population. The largely demand driven nature of the project and the variation in conditions in
target areas make it difficult to determine, a priori, the exact composition of the project's portfolio.
From the point of view of cost-effectiveness the project is, however, designed to minimize costs
without giving up much ground in terms of quality.
(ii)   The revised monitoring and evaluation system for FAS II, puts greater emphasis on the impact of
interventions. The system will be designed to generate relevant quantitative and qualitative project
performance and impact information. Refined indicators related to beneficiaries, costs, the use of
installed infrastructures, the capacities build and the adoption of schemes and partnerships for the
maintenance and operation of facilities, will be useful in assessing cost-effectiveness and the
communities capacity to continue to receive support from FAS.
(iii)   Eligible subprojects will continue to focus on poverty reduction in the poorest communities of
selected provinces and will be screened for their potential impact on job-creation and
income-generation in those communities. FAS has started the preparation of Technical Handbooks
- 15 -



for each of the sectors in which FAS operates to guide the appraisal of the subprojects. These
Technical Handbooks will include, among others, the eligibility criteria, the technical standards,
information on costs and the economic justification, etc. It is expected that these Technical
Handbooks will be available 6 months after Effectiveness of the Project.
(iv)    The demand driven nature of the subprojects prevents a quantitatively reliable cost-benefit analysis
of the overall project. The total costs of the project are around US$ 47 million, however, the direct
and indirect benefits can not be quantified in monetary terms.
(v)    An important economic rationale for investing in the sustainable utilization of basic social and
economic services by target populations in Angola, is the high opportunity costs in terms of growth
foregone. Not investing in social and economic services, not enabling war affected communities to
build up human capital, not laying a basis for restoring local economies would retain Angola in a
bind in which social, economic, institutional and logistical constraints would seriously hamper its
economic growth prospects.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR   %  (see Annex 4)
Fiscal Impact:
Impact on GOA Budget: Under the recently agreed IMF Staff Monitored Program, GOA's budget
allocations to the social sectors are expected to be substantially increased. From these increased social
sector budgets, GOA intends to allocate a larger share towards financing of operating and recurrent costs,
particularly of health and education facilities. It is, however, not expected that investments under FAS will
lead to significant increments in the GOA recurrent costs budget. The financing of operating and recurrent
costs (particularly within the health and education sectors) has been a problem that FAS has been watching
carefully. To address this, FAS II will, as has been the case under FAS I: (i) give preference to
rehabilitation of already operating facilities (wherever this option is available and proved to be
cost-effective) rather than construction of new ones; (ii) insist on agreements with relevant line-ministries
and provincial authorities on recurrent costs coverage as a pre-condition for subproject financing; and (iii)
seek extensive collaboration with Churches and NGOs which will eventually operate and maintain the
facilities (particularly effective in the health sector).
In the past, there have been problems concerning the availability of operational inputs for health facilities,
to the point that FAS decided to suspend the financing of these facilities unless there was a clear
commitment concerning their maintenance (and in many cases if an NGO or a church was accountable).
This remains an area of concern for the project. FAS II will try to address it by: (i) requesting a deeper
involvement from MOH senior staff at the national committee and provincial committees level; (ii)
requesting the allocation of an amount of resources sufficient to provide the operational inputs for the
facilities planned to be built at the beginning of each fiscal year; and (iii) monitoring closely the
sustainability of health facilities. Lack of provision of inputs/resources, affecting the sustainability of
health facilities will be considered a condition sufficient to suspend the financing of this type of sub-project
for that particular province.
3. Technical:
The technical quality of infrastructure financed by FAS has been extensively evaluated during the
- 16 -



preparation of FAS II, the Mid-Term Review of FAS I, other independent assessments, and found sound.
The projectfs technical design is based on the use of simple, appropriate and environmentally sound
technologies, corresponding to the needs and capabilities (for construction, as well as for operation and
maintenance) of the population. The design and standard of subprojects will be based on the norms and
standards of technical ministries. Labor intensive work will be preferred wherever proven as technically
and economically efficient and insofar as it generates employment opportunities. Innovations in technical
design of subprojects will be encouraged while keeping in mind the need for technical, financial and
implementation capability. Investment costs for the project are based on prevailing market unit costs, with
appropriate allowance for inflation, and whenever applicable, a reasonable level of physical contingencies.
4. Institutional:
The main institutional issues concerning FAS, as they emerged from the implementation experience of FAS
I and the preparation process of FAS II, are the following:
Operational Constraints of FAS: In more than five years of operation FAS has completed an average of
130 projects per year (see table 4A in Annex 4). The performance of FAS in this respect is rather high in
comparison to the average for African social funds, but rather low in relation to social funds in Latin
America. After five years of operation some provincial offices should have reached their full potential.
The following emerged as the main operational constraints encountered by the FAS team: (a) availability of
financing, and liquidity problems at the provincial level; and (b) operational problems from the supply side
(insufficient availability of intermediaries, making it difficult to delegate responsibility in the execution of
projects); and (c) availability of adequate and qualified staff at the provincial level. FAS II will address
these constraints through: (i) the provision of sufficient financing for the coming three years; (ii) increased
delegation to NGOs and other implementing partners; (iii) capacity building of these implementing
partners; and (iv) a revised salary scale to attract and retain good staff.
Efficiency in Management: Administrative costs and other non-investment expenditures are high (18-20
percent) if compared to the average level of operating costs shown by other social fund operations in
Africa, which vary between 8 and 15 percent. This is partially related to the strategy adopted by FAS,
namely: (i) to work closely with each community before and during sub-project implementation to ensure
capacity building; (ii) to keep working with the community after the sub-project is completed to ensure that
it is operating properly; and (iii) to invest in IEC campaigns, moving beyond individual activities to create a
forum for discussion and understanding. Efficiency gains are expected for FAS II, given the streamlining
of the project cycle and the fact that in many communities there will be less need for close monitoring.
While there is no doubt that there is need for a more efficient management style, the following needs to be
noted as a partial justification: (i) Angola has a war-tom economy where almost nothing is locally produced
and almost everything, even simple construction materials, are often imported; (ii) the costs of living (and
therefore salaries) are in comparison much higher than in other African countries; (iii) internal
transportation and communication networks are extremely poor in Angola, adding significantly to the
operating costs for FAS; and (iv) in the last two years, after being informed that the Bank had suspended
the preparation of the second Phase of the project, FAS reduced its pace of activities to start an exit
strategy for the project, and allowed enough resources to keep the project alive while seeking alternative
co-financing.
The following features have been built in the FAS II project design to address efficiency in management: (i)
annual management reviews will be conducted until the efficiency of management has satisfactorily
improved. These reviews will entail an analysis of the FAS management structure, its functioning, the cost
- 17 -



structure of projects and the decision-making process to approve projects. The purpose of a review would
be to provide recommendations to increase management efficiency, reduce administrative costs and narrow
the variations in operational efficiency between the provinces; and (ii) the revised M&E system includes
specific indicators to monitor management and staff perfornance, which will be reviewed in semi-annual
joint Bank/FAS supervision missions. As a result, the administrative costs are expected to be reduced to
12 percent over the lifespan of FAS II.
4.1 Executing agencies:
FAS National and Provincial Offices; Provincial and Municipal Governments; Implementing Partners such
as NGOs, CBOs, and private sector firms; and Communities.
4.2 Project management:
FAS National and Provincial Offices.
4.3 Procurement issues:
None. The Project will have an annual Procurement Review.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Before Effectiveness: (i) the FAS' National Board of Overseers will formally adopt the revised Operational
Manual; (ii) the financial management system will be assessed again; and (iii) an external auditor
acceptable to IDA will be recruited. The financial management system will include internal controls,
accounting, financial reporting and audit arrangements.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: F (Financial Intermediary Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Terms of reference for an environmental analysis (EA) have been prepared. The EA will: (i) assess the
environmental and social impacts of the expected subprojects (with particular focus on the need for hygiene
education, waste water and waste disposal); (ii) develop environmental guidelines for subprojects not
requiring EA, and a screening process for subprojects requiring EA (screening, scoping, preparation of
terms of reference for EA consultants, review and clearance of subprojects); (iii) assess the capacity of the
provincial offices of FAS II to conduct environmental mitigation measures; (iv) present a monitoring plan
to track potential environmental impacts of subprojects; and (v) review the legislative framework and
propose appropriate institutional arrangements for FAS H regarding environmental management and
assessment.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The Operational Manual will provide guidance for environmental management to FAS II staff. It will
include environmental guidelines and an EA screening process. The proposed project will fund mitigation
measures that might be necessary as a result of environmental management and assessment.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: Late June 2000
The EA will be carried out in early June 2000.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
- 18 -



report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The environmental analysis will be carried out in collaboration with FAS staff, the Ministry of Fisheries
and Environment, FAS intermediaries, and will include visits to communities in three out of nine provinces
covered by the proposed Project.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The EA will propose a monitoring plan to track the potential environmental impacts of the expected
subprojects.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
(i)    An extensive Beneficiary Assessment (BA) has been carried out by FAS as part of project
preparation with four main objectives: (i) to evaluate the impact of subprojects implemented by FAS; (ii) to
evaluate the capacity of local communities to implement FAS subprojects; (iii) to assess the sustainability
of the subprojects financed by FAS; and (iv) to develop national evaluation capacity (Annex 14 provides a
summary of the results of the BA). The results show that the FAS methodology of ensuring that
communities are involved in the selection and implementation of projects is effective and that communities,
in general, are satisfied with the subprojects. The following are some of the highlights of the Beneficiary
Assessment:
*  Most families in each community knew about FAS and were familiar with the project or projects FAS
was organizing in their community.
* The majority of households understood the unique nature of FAS: that it is not a government agency
and that the community "owns" the projects they select and implement.
* FAS's communication mechanisms - combining radio, journals and other formal communication with
the active involvement of local opinion leaders - have been successful in reaching large sectors of the
community.
*  Although there were variations between communities, the majority of community residents agreed with
the way in which projects were selected and felt that project objectives had generally been achieved.
FAS has been able to work with community leaders to achieve a satisfactory level of consensus on
prioritization of projects proposed by different sectors of the community.
*  Most families considered themselves to be beneficiaries of the projects and felt themselves to be
involved. A majority of respondents in each community had been actively involved in the project
selection and implementation.
*  A number of indicators suggest that essential elements of the social capital required to ensure effective
community participation in the selection, implementation and sustainability of projects were
strengthened through FAS interventions.
*  Many communities in Angola have very conservative views on the position of women in the household
and the community, household budgets are often controlled by men, and wives often have to ask
permission to attend community meetings or to travel outside the community. In many rural areas
women traditionally tend not to speak in public meetings, and will defer to their husband before they do
speak. In peri-urban and urban areas women feel less constrained about speaking in meetings or in
interacting with people from outside the community. Despite the symbolic role of the husband as
household head and decision-maker, in fact women frequently are the ones who participate in
- 19 -



community meetings (partly because it is often easier for them to attend community meetings), and they
appear to play an important role in FAS projects. In the projects covered by the BA, women had been
able to ensure that their priority projects were considered, and often approved by FAS. FAS II will
address the issues of women participation in subprojects through: (i) targeted Grassroots Management
Training; (ii) gender sensitization of FAS staff and intermediaries; (iii) by including gender related
eligibility criteria in the subproject cycle, as detailed in the revised Operational Manual; and (iv) a
mandatory requirement that at least 2 out of 5 members of each Nucleo Comunitario will be women
appointed by the community.
(ii)   The National Coordination Unit and the Provincial Coordinating Committees will ensure that
selected subprojects respond to social eligibility criteria as detailed in the Operational Manual, and
include: income level of beneficiaries, demonstrated improvement of living conditions, and verification of
community participation at all stages, from identification and conceptualization to ex-post evaluation.
(iii)   Poverty monitoring data will be instrumental in the selection of beneficiary communities, and the
refinement of the definition of poor/needy communities and the eligibility criteria for beneficiary groups.
FAS will benefit from the close collaboration with the National Statistics Office and from the income and
expenditure household survey planned for next year.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The project aims at rehabilitating war-damaged infrastructure and productive capacity, as well as at
helping social normalization and reviving economic activities. It is designed to operate in a demand-driven,
participatory manner in collaboration with local authorities. Community groups or sponsor-organizations
(such as NGOs or CBOs) will apply for funds for activities deemed critical for the majority.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Subprojects will be identified by poor communities and implemented, when needed, with the assistance of
an Implementing Agency in co-ordination and collaboration with local governments, NGOs and sectoral
agencies/Line Ministries.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Since FAS' inception, its operations have been guided by a strong vision of community empowerment. The
delivery of social and economic infrastructure was seen as a means to build community capacity. FAS I
has been successful in involving community members in the different phases of the project cycle. The
broadened participation aims at expanding "project ownership" by communities, thus improving the
effectiveness and sustainability of the projects. Beneficiaries' acceptance of a project has been shown to be
a major determinant of project success. The results of the Beneficiary Assessment indicated that a majority
of respondents had been actively involved in project selection and implementation, and community members
felt that project objectives had been largely achieved.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The monitoring and evaluation system of the project will be designed to capture the impact of FAS
interventions. The project design summary includes a variety of social development impact indicators.
Both qualitative and quantitative techniques will be used to collect and analyze data.
- 20 -



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
'Policy .  _~Apiaility
E Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01. BP 4.01. GP 4.01)             E Yes a No
El Natural habitats (OP 4.04. BP 4.04. GP 4.04)                    1 Yes El No
E Forestry (OP 4.36. GP 4.36)                                      1Yes LNo
El Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                         Yes 1i No
El Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   1 Yes   No
El Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.201                                    El Yes 1 No
El Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              D Yes Z No
El Safety of Dams (OP 4.37. BP 4.37)                               D1 Yes 1 No
El Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50. GP 7.5E)     l Yes Z No
EJ Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60. BP 7.60. GP 7.60)          El Yes [Z No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Detailed environmental assessments will be done for all subprojects found to have potential. negative
impacts based on the application of guidelines that will be used in the review of subproject proposals. Pest
management safeguards will be applied for all agriculture subprojects that propose to use pesticides. The
need for safeguard policies (particularly with regards to Natural Habitats, Forestry, Pest Management,
Cultural Property and Indigenous People) will be analyzed and appropriate guidelines developed as part of
the Environmental Analysis to be carried out in early June, 2000.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
There is general concern that political conditions could become unfavorable again in view of an escalation
of hostilities and the potential outbreak of war. The project has been operating for the last five years under
semi-war circumstances and the team feels confident that it will be possible to continue the implementation
of the second phase in the same conditions, ensuring that benefits continue to be delivered to communities
being affected by the war. Nevertheless, the situation will be carefully monitored and if conditions
deteriorate to an extent precluding satisfactory project itnplementation, the decision to proceed with the
project would accordingly be reconsidered.
During the preparation of the project, four main factors have been identified which contribute to the
sustainability of activities financed by FAS. To strengthen the prospects for sustainability, FAS II will
address these factors in a more systematic way. These factors include: (i) technical quality and
comprehensiveness of subproject appraisal and design; (ii) maintenance of the social and economic
infrastructure installed; (iii) timely financing of recurrent costs and operational inputs; and (iv) community
participation.
Regarding the technical quality of appraisal and design, FAS II will:
* incorporate sustainability plans at appraisal of each subproject;
* introduce certain modifications in the Operations Manual to address the constrains that were identified
in the project cycle of FAS I (this includes, inter alia, a revision of the subproject eligibility criteria and
technical checklists for appraisal);
* revise the project appraisal reports (see Operations Manual).
-21 -



Regarding maintenance of the social and economic infrastructure installed, FAS II will:
*   ensure that communities contribute to routine maintenance of facilities;
*   will make special efforts to mobilize other agencies and donors who might assist with the operation and
maintenance of financed facilities;
* provide the community with skills and tools to maintain the infrastructures, beneficiaries will be trained
in construction and maintenance skills and technical manuals will be provided;
*   ensure that each beneficiary community provides a maintenance plan and appoints a maintenance
committee for each subproject;
* develop simple maintenance handbooks.
Regarding timely financing of recurrent costs and operational inputs, FAS II will:
*   include signed agreements with implementing partners (GOA, NGOs, Churches, firms etc.) to ensure
the financing of recurrent costs and operational inputs in the subproject approval process, as a
condition for appraisal;
*   appraise all subprojects for financial sustainability;
*   build capacity among implementing partners and communities to manage and operate the infrastructure
facilities installed;
9  expect beneficiaries to contribute at least 10 percent of total costs;
*   give special consideration to subprojects for which there is commitment on the part of a Church or
NGO for operational support;
Regarding community participation, FAS H will:
*   assess the level of priority attached by the beneficiary community to the proposed subproject as part of
project appraisal;
*   continuously monitor and evaluate the progress in implementation of the sub-projects and assess the
level of satisfaction and participation of the beneficiary communities.
On-going strategies to strengthen the capacity of communities to finance and manage appropriate levels of
operations and maintenance of facilities will be continued. During Negotiations agreements have been
reached with the GOA to help ensure line ministry compliance with the required agreements with FAS.
Adequate criteria for the review and selection of economic infrastructure will be incorporated into the
revised Operations Manual, before Effectiveness of the Project. Technical Handbooks that detail the
appropriate techniques for specific subproject implementation, operation and maintenance will be
developed within 6 months of Effectiveness of the Project.
-22 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating           Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Subprojects will not be sustainable due to  S         - Emphasis on beneficiary participation,
lack of financial resources for                       cost-sharing and training of communities in
maintenance and recurrent costs                       operation and maintenance
- Close involvement of line-ministries and/or
local government agencies in the project cycle
- Preference for rehabilitation with no additional
recurrent costs implications
- Use of appropriate/local technologies that will
be more easily maintained through local
resources
- In IMF Staff Monitoring Program GOA has
committed to increase its share of the budget
going to the social sectors
Populations do not avail themselves of      N          - Community participation in the identification,
new services being provided                           implementation and maintenance of subprojects
- Community level capacity building efforts
Political and/or military instability in the  M       - Consolidation in secure areas of operation
areas of intervention                                 rather than expansion into new/insecure
provinces
- Flexible and streamlined implementation
structures that allow for rapid close-down of
areas
- Use of implementing partners and community
organizations for bulk of project work
From Components to Outputs
Political interference in the choice of     M          - Inclusion of a wide variety of agents
subprojects, in resource allocation among             representing various interest groups in the
provinces and communities, or staffing                National Board of Overseers and the Provincial
Boards
- Autonomy of FAS in decision-making
- The Operational Manual sets out clear
guidelines for social and economic eligibility and
financial viability of proposals
-23 -



- IEC campaign: provincial offices are
responsible for information dissemination
through regular community-level meetings, radio
campaigns, etc. to officials, local leaders,
NGOs, etc.
- Robust monitoring of subproject selection
process and desegregated analysis of subproject
financing through M&E/MIS
Communities, local government               N         - Information campaign and capacity building
representatives and other partners are no             component
longer available, able or interested in               - Capacity building component to respond to
participating in FAS                                  project-related skills or partners
Decentralized nature of project             M         - Training, adequate salary scale and
implementation may become                             performance incentives
counter-productive due to limited
management/technical capacity and/or
monitoring
Poor quality of infrastructure subprojects  M         - Good quality of Phase I experience, as
reduce utilization and increase                       evaluated in the Mid-Term Review
maintenance costs                                     - Resources available for technical monitoring
and supervision
- Development and application of standard
designs and prototypes for works activities
Political environment impedes existence     M         - Capacity building efforts for local government
and/or growth of civil society                        and implementing partners
organizations                                         - Information campaign targeting civil society
Overall Risk Rating                          s
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
It is evident that Angola currently represents a high-risk environment for almost any type of development
activity. The Government has not managed to consolidate the peace accords of 1994 as earlier hoped for
and many areas of the country are currently insecure and, therefore, inappropriate for project activities.
Nonetheless, FAS has been operating successfully for the past five years in those regions of the country
that are secure and proposes to continue doing so under this new project. FAS is a model that has been
tested and is operating under circumstances that are expected to continue, or improve over the next three
years. Furthermore, the project will rely on existing structures and staff with proven track-records, and be
implemented through local institutions and groups that have proven capacities for FAS activities.
-24 -



3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Risk                   Type of      Risk     Risk Minimization Measure
Risk       Rating
Political resistance to allocation of  G           M/S      - Information campaign to sensitize civil
increased resources to the social                           society to objectives and strategies of FAS
sectors or certain parts of the country                     - Application and insistence on transparent
and certain groups based on need                            processes in resource allocation
Challenges to provincial governments"  G           M/S      - Mobilization of civil society
administrative autonomy from central                        - Linkages/partnership with existing
authorities                                                 decentralization/local governance activities
- Support to central level for regulation
and monitoring
Lack of transparency and               M            S       - Computerized system of management
accountability                                              and performance indicators has been
developed to detail accounting and
implementation information on each
subproject;
- Provincial Offices to submit monthly
progress report to NCU;
- Strengthened M&E system, including
internal audits, and regular technical and
financial audits;
- NCU reports to the Bank on a
semi-annual basis;
- A Mid-Term Review to be undertaken by
the government with participation from the
NCU, the National Board of Overseers
and the Bank.
- LACI review and compliance and annual
audits
- Semi-annual supervision missions with
adequate subproject processing and
financial management expertise
Type of Risk - S (Social), E (Ecological), P (Pollution), G (Govemance), M (Management capacity), 0 (Other)
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
*  The Borrower has formally adopted the revised Operational Manual;
*  The Borrower has appointed external auditors under terms of reference and with the qualifications and
experience satisfactory to IDA for the auditing of the Project;
*  The Borrower has opened one account (FAS Project Account) in Kwanza (KZ) in a commercial bank
- 25 -



on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, and made an initial deposit of an amount in KZ equivalent
to US$300,000 into such account to finance the Government's contribution to Project expenditures;
*  The Borrower has submitted the first Annual Workplan and Budget;
*  An Environmental Impact Assessment of the Project has been completed;
*  The Borrower has established the financial management and accounting system acceptable to IDA.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Financial:
The Borrower shall:
*  maintain and deposit into the FAS Project Account each quarter (first deposit by August 15, 2000) of
each fiscal year of project implementation, such amounts as shall be required and agreed upon with
IDA for the timely replenishment of the account back to level of the initial deposit;
*  use the funds in the FAS Project Account exclusively to finance expenditures under the Project as
defined in the Credit Agreement;
*  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound accounting practices, records and
separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
=  enable IDA's representatives to examine such records;
_  have records, accounts and financial statements of project activities, and the records and accounts of
the Special Accounts for each fiscal year audited in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to
IDA, and have certified copies of the audit statement made available to IDA within six months of the
end of each fiscal year;
* furnish to IDA such other information concerning such records, accounts and financial statements, and
the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as IDA may from time to time reasonably request; and
*  ensure that all records evidencing such expenditures are retained until at least one year after IDA has
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit was made.
Implementation:
The Borrower shall:
o   carry out a time-bound action plan, as agreed to during negotiations, for the strengthening of its
financial management system to prepare semi-annual Project Management Reports (PMRs) in form
and substance acceptable to IDA;
*   upon completion of the action plan, prepare in accordance with IDA guidelines, a semi-annual Project
Management Report no later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter;
*  within three (3) months of project effectiveness, review, revise and install a streamlined project
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system for improved performance monitoring, qualitative appraisal
and impact assessments and interim/final evaluations;
*  prepare semi-annual progress reports based on PMRs and M&E data and prepare subsequent work
programs for each Project component that take into consideration the results of the progress reports;
*   carry out jointly with IDA on or about eighteen (18) months after effectiveness, or when approximately
one half (1/2) of the amount of the Credit has been disbursed, a mid-term review of the progress made
in carrying out the Project; and
*   appoint and maintain throughout Project implementation personnel possessing experience and
qualifications satisfactory to IDA to all key positions detailed in its organizational chart as set forth in
the Operational Manual.
-26 -



In relation to Subproiects:
The Borrower shall:
* apply the procedures and guidelines set out in the Operational Manual of the Project and that FAS shall
not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provision of this manual that would adversely affect
the execution of the subprojects without the prior written consent of IDA;
* ensure that the amount of the credit allocated to subprojects will be used exclusively to provide grants
to finance development subprojects in accordance with criteria and terms and conditions set forth in the
Operational Manual; and
* ensure that the amount of each grant shall not exceed 90 percent of the total cost of the subproject.
H. Readiness for Implementation
E 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
17 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Z 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
n 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
!2 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
a 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
im-H. Alberts                   Arvi Van Adarn                     Barbara Kafka
Team Leader                       Sector ManagerlDirector            Country ManagerlDirector
- 27 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
Angola: Second Social Action Fund Project (FAS II)
Hierrch                                                                               =Wey1rorane    Btrlg&Crtka
SetrrltdSco   dctt:    ;Se    /C                                     t~      fl     (fro   Goa ItoBanik 
1. Quality of life      1. reduced incidence of infant   UNICEF and Ministry of
improved                mortality, child and maternal         Health statistics
mortality
1.2 increased rates of primary   UNICEF and Ministry of
school enrollment                   Education statistics
1.3 increased family level
consumption among project         INE, HHS, ad hoc study
beneficiaries
1.4 increased levels of economic    INE, ad hoc study
activity in subproject areas
1.5 reduction in level of             Ad hoc study
environment degradation in
subproject areas
P roject                  Gto e/iiW ~                   Projc )eors                (fo    bec et
1. Increase in the      1.1 90% of the capacity of the   Implementing Partner (IP)    Political and military
sustainable utilization    standardized schools installed is   progress reports; and Sistema   stability in the project
of basic social and     used by the beneficiaries at the  Informacao do FAS (SIFAS)   areas continues
productive services by   end of the project
the target population   1.2  X% increase in the
number of users of the health                               Populations avail
services created by the project                             themselves of new
1.3 X% increase in the                                      services being provided
number of users of the health
services created by the project
1.4 90% of the specified water                              The Government and
systems installed are used by                                other partner institutions
the beneficiaries at the end of                              provide enough resources
the project                                                  for keeping social
1.5 % facilities developed                                  services in place and
within the project that provide,                            functioning
have grown, and have
introduced new services by the
end of project
1.6 X% increase in the                Ad hoc study
number of vehicles using
repaired roads
- 28 -



Hierarchy of            Key Performance              Monitoring &           Critical Assumptions
Objectives                 Indicators                 Evaluation
1.7 No. of permanent jobs      Implementing Partner
created by the project after:   progress reports and
Year 1, Year 2, Year 3 (6900 at       SIFAS
EOP)
1.8 % of the productive        Nucleos Comunitarios
services created are maintained     and SIFAS
after: Year 1, Year 2, Year 3
1.9 % increase in beneficiary  Implementing Partner
satisfaction with services being  progress reports and
provided through project              SIFAS
infrastructure by EOP
Output from  each         Output Indiators:  P. oject Reports;                   (from Outputs to
Component:                                                                       Objective)
1. Infrastructure       1.1 1232 infrastructure        Implementing Partner    Communities, local
constructed/            projects rehabilitated and/or   progress reports and   govemment representatives
rehabilitated and       constructed according to the          SIFAS            and other partners can and
ready for use           design plans by the end of the                         wish to participate
project:
education (+/- 336 projects)
health (+/- 112 projects)
water/sanit. (+/- 336 projects)
economic (+/- 336 projects)
environment (+/- 112 projects)
1.2 95% of project related         Ad hoc study       Acceptable quality of
infrastructure functioning at                          construction to encourage
acceptable standards by project                        utilization and reduce long-
close                                                  term maintenance costs
1.3 at least 15% labor costs in    Subproject budgets and
disbursements for social and    IP financial progress
economic infrastructure              reports
projects
2. Capacity building
program designed and
implemented for:
a. Communities          2.a. 1. increase in no. of      Ad hoc M&E study      Adequate political
community initiated activities                        environment allowing for the
aimed at rebuilding social                            existence and growth of civil
capital                                               society
2.a.2 number of community               *
groups created, % submitting
action plans, % plans approved
and % having received funds
2.a.3 % increase in the level of                      FAS keeps its political
participation of vulnerable                           autonomy in terms of being
groups in FAS projects and in                         free to chose for instance
decision making at community                          projects and staff
level
-29 -



Uierar~~~b  ofKe~Y; Pror M-Wt`                  "Montoriu  &                Citca
2.a.4 80% of the organizations   Ad hoc M&E study
created within the project
continue to function in the
manner designed in the project,
X # have increased their
services by Y%/o, and A# have
introduced Z# of new services
by:
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
2.a.5 increase in the number            if
of community leaders
graduating and being part of the
trainers team
2.a.6. 1500 community leaders    Quarterly progress reports,
are trained in grass roots             TA
management by midway          and Implementing Partner
through year 2 of the project (to     reports
reach 2300 by the end of the
project)
b. Partners             2.b.1 % trainingparticipants       Study ad-hoc
demonstrating skills in areas for
which they were trained
2.b.2 X% increase in the
participation of partners in all
phases of service activities at
EOP
2.b.3. 30 trainers of trainers
from the partners and local
governments are trained in
FGB during the first year (3 in
each province)
2.b.4. 6 training modules using
the FGB methodology are
designed for the management
staff of projects, and 1 for the
local governments, during year
one of the project
2.b.5. 5 workshops conducted
in each province for the
training ofjunior trainers
during year one of the project
2.b.6. 14 Junior trainers trained
in each province (2 for each
module) by the end of the
project
-30 -



Hie nraey of            Key Performance                Monitoring &                 Critical
Objectives                'Indicators                  Evaluation               Assumptions
2.b.7 30,000 copies of the
journal "Amigo" distributed per
year to donors, communities,
and partners
2.b.8 8 hours of radio
announcements in each
province per year
2.b.9 100 local representatives
trained by the end of the project
c. Local governments    2.c. 1 % satisfaction of trainees
with provided training
2.c.2 10 workshops conducted
(I in each province) for the
training of local government
representatives during the first
year of the project
d. FAS staff            2.d. 1 improvement in         Supervision mission reports
performance of FAS staff           and annual staff
following training and/or study  performance reviews
tours
2.d.2 increase in number of   Supervision mission reports
systems and processes changes
introduced in FAS following
training
2.d.3 54 exchanges of
experience completed in
various areas of poverty
reduction and social exclusion,
both within and outside the
country (two study trips abroad
per team per year)
3. Monitoring and
Evaluation System fully
operational
3.1 increased use of M&E      Supervision mission reports
data for management decisions         & SIFAS
3.2 M&E system including
project performance and
management indicators
reviewed, revised and updated
within 3 months of project
effectiveness
3.3 Publication of four (4)
quarterly reports by each
provincial team, and two (2) bi-
annual reports by the
coordination unit
3.4 semi-annual qualitative
assessment analyses carried out
(e.g.Beneficiary Assessments)
- 31 -



Rierarcy' Of            Ke   erom aeMotrig&Ctil AsAm in
3.5 Provincial teams monthly    Supervision mission reports
sending of information to the        & SIFAS
central organization according
to the indicators specified in
point (3.2)
3.6 quarterly Project           Audit reports & SIFAS
Management Reports (PMRs)
prepared and presented per
guidelines
4. FAS Administration    4.1 % decrease in FAS admin           SIFAS
and Subproject      costs by province and overall
Processing        4.2 number of project                  SIFAS
applications submitted (by
sector and province), %
approved, average time for
review, approval and
disbursement
4.3 average beneficiary         Implementing partner
contribution as percentage of     reports & SIFAS
total sub-project cost
4.4 annual project audit            Audit report
completed as per DCA
requirements without
qualifications
1. Subprojects:      1. I % of funds disbursed by           SOEs              Conditions of
component by year                                        Effectiveness met
la promotion         1.2 X person-years of FAS         SOEs, audit report
lb identification    personnel contracted                                     Agreements with co-
Ic preparation       1.3 % key management staff        Quarterly reports,     financiers finalized
Id appraisal         time covered over course of      supervision missions
le approval          Project                                                  Continued community
If execution         1.4 X person-months of TA                                interest in FAS Program
lg monitoring        contracted for
Ih completion        1.5 time required to procure                             Qualified local personnel
li evaluation        all essential project inputs    SOEs, quarterly reports,    available and identified by
Ij maintenance       (equipment, vehicles, phone    and supervision missions    Government
lines, email, etc.)
Understanding and
appropriate application of
IDA procurement
guidelines
-32 -



Hierarchy of             Key Performanee                Monitoring &            Critical Assumptions
Objectives                  Indicators                   Evaluation
2. Capacity Building
2a needs assessment     2.1 % of ftinds disbursed by             SOEs
and prioritization      component by year
2b definition of CB     2.2 X person-years of FAS           SOEs, audit report
strategies              personnel contracted
2c design of CB         2.3 % key management staff          Quarterly reports,
programs                time covered over course of       supervision missions
2d delivery/conduct of    Project
CB activities           2.4 X person-months of TA
2e evaluation of CB     contracted for
effectiveness           2.5 time required to procure     SOEs, quarterly reports,
2f assessment of impact   all essential project inputs   and supervision missions
and follow-up assistance   (equipment, vehicles, phone
lines, email, etc.)
3. Monitoring and
Evaluation
3a finalize performance   3.1 % of funds disbursed by            SOEs
indicators              component by year
3b assess MIS           3.2 X person-years of FAS           SOEs, audit report
3c design M&E system    personnel contracted
for improved decision   3.3 % key management staff          Quarterly reports,
making                  time covered over course of        Supervision missions
3d train project staff,  Project
implementing partners   3.4 X person-months of TA
and community groups    contracted for
in application of system  3.5 time required to procure
3e collect and analyze  all essential project inputs     SOEs, quarterly reports,
M&E data                (equipment, vehicles, phone      and supervision missions
3f on-going             lines, email, etc.)
adjustments to project
implementation
3g prepare and
disseminate M&E
reports
- 33 -



Annex 2: Project Description
ANGOLA: Second Social Action Fund Project (FAS 11)
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$36.00 million
I     Social and Economic Infrastructure Subprojects
This component would enable FAS II to support a wide range of small, medium and large-scale subprojects
for the expansion and improvement of basic social and economic infrastructure, as well as the provision of
training in operation and maintenance of the facilities. Subprojects will be: (i) identified by poor
communities; (ii) implemented with the assistance of an Implementing Partner (Agencia de
Encuadramento); and (iii) co-ordinated with local government representatives, NGOs and sectoral
agencies/Line Ministries. Labor intensive works will be preferred whenever proven technically and
economically efficient and insofar as they generate employment opportunities for the poor.
The majority of subproject demand is expected to be related to: (i) education (elementary schools, pic-pec/
kindergarten, children centers); (ii) health (health stations and posts); (iii) water and sanitation (water
supply systems, latrines, combined services); (iv) small-scale community/municipal infrastructure (simple
bridges, culverts, markets, chimpacas); and (v) environmental Infrastructure (mainly watershed protection,
reforestation and garbage treatment).
Efforts will be made that the most commonly selected infrastructure to be fnanced and implemented shall
follow sectoral prototypes developed by FAS. These prototypes are consistent with national standards and
guidelines and/or agreed with relevant authorities. The FAS II menu will be flexible enough to permit
consideration of non-menu items and sectors in cases where there is clearly demonstrated local public
interest. Prototypes are flexible to modifications concerning climatic conditions, local appropriate
technology and availability of building materials.
II    Eligibility Criteria for Subprojects
To be eligible for FAS financing, subproject proposals must satisfy the following criteria: general,
institutional, social, economic, technical, legal, environmental and gender. These criteria are described in
more detail in the Operational Manual.
General Criteria:
*   The subproject is located in an area where the population lacks appropriate basic, social and economic
infrastructure.
* Subprojects should be development activities, and reflect a priority genuinely expressed by the majority
of the beneficiary community.
* The community needs to be willing to participate in the implementation of subprojects.
* The subproject needs to be discussed and agreed with the relevant local government authorities before
any implementation step can be undertaken.
* There is no pre-established limit to the number of projects that can be financed in each province
- 34 -



Institutional Criteria:
*  A community needs to form a Nucleo Comunitario (Project Committee) acceptable to FAS, which is
recognized as a legitimate representative by the community.
*  The Nucleo Comunitario needs to have the capacity to develop the subproject. In case such capacity is
lacking, Implementing Agencies which do have the required technical and organizational experience,
can act on behalf of the beneficiaries as a legitimate representative (if approved by the community).
*  A formal contract needs to exist between the Nucleo Comunitario (or the Implementing Partner
representing the community) and FAS, specifying the priorities, objectives, needs and content of the
selected subproject.
*  The Nucleo Comunitario needs to prepare a management plan specifying the activities for preparation,
implementation, supervision and maintenance of the selected subproject.
*   The requirements for training and technical assistance need to be assessed within the community and
specific mechanisms need to be put in place to fulfill those skill requirements.
*  A capacity needs to exist within the community to undertake the physical and operational maintenance
of the facilities to be financed. FAS needs to ensure that such capacity can be strengthened to sustain
the subproject infrastructure.
Social Criteria:
*  The subprojects need to respond to the priorities expressed by the community.
-   The subprojects need to demonstrate a significant impact on the living conditions of the beneficiary
population.
-   The beneficiaries need to be involved in all phases of the subproject cycle (from concept phase to
impact evaluation).
*  The subproject needs to be seen as a means to develop self-reliance and build capacity among
community members.
*  The subproject creates a number of temporary jobs for community members.
*  The subproject is targeted to impact women, youth, and/or other vulnerable groups.
-   FAS and the Implementing Partner need to ensure that the subproject is urgently needed and that the
community does not have intemal resources or resources coming from alternative sources to finance the
subproject.
Economic Criteria:
*   Subprojects need to be consistent with the objective of the development plan for the province and for
the sector.
*  The subprojects need to be financially feasible, and the sub-project proposals need to include detailed
financial plans (incorporating the community contribution).
*   The subprojects need to be economically viable, and take into account realistic costs estimates for each
expenditure category.
*  A cost benefit analysis of the subproject needs to show that costs (such as cost per beneficiary, cost per
M2) are within the acceptable parameters for FAS II.
*  The capacity of the proposed infrastructure needs to be evaluated vis-A-vis the expected demand for the
social and economic services.
Technical Criteria:
*  The subproject needs to comply with the construction norms and standards adopted by FAS.
- 35 -



*   Subproject design needs to stimulate the use of local materials, simple and indigenous technologies,
and labor intensive techniques.
*  FAS and the Implementing Partner need to ensure that relevant studies are completed and that the
results and recommendations are incorporated into the subproject design and costs.
*  The Nucleo Comunitario needs to prepare a sustainability plan (as part of the subproject proposal)
specifying a budget and a schedule of activities to sustain the operation and maintenance of the
facilities.
*  Rehabilitation of existing infrastructures, if economically viable, should be preferred to construction of
new infrastructures.
Legal Criteria:
*  The community needs to demonstrate ownership of the land where the facility is going to be built.
*  FAS needs to verify that the Community Group (Nuicleo Comunitario) and/or the Implementing Partner
(Agencia de Encuadramento) are legally established as representatives of the community and each of its
members are in line with GOA requirements.
Environmental Criteria:
*   Subprojects need to be screened to identify potential adverse impacts on the environment using the
environmental checklist.
*   Subprojects will be subject to environmental analysis (EA) if potentially adverse impacts are expected.
*  Mitigation measures will be funded under the proposed project as appropriate.
* FAS staff in the provincial offices will be responsible for screening, review and clearance of subproject
EAs.
*  The Operational Manual will provide details regarding environmental management and assessment
under the proposed project.
Gender Criteria:
*   Subprojects need to have a direct beneficial impact on women and youth; if this is initially lacking in
the design, appropriate measures need to be taken to encourage participation and project benefits to
women and youth.
*  At least two out of five members of each Nucleo Comunitario will be women appointed by the
community.
III    Project Cycle
FAS II will continue to finance activities in accordance with the guidelines set out in the Operational
Manual (the project cycle has been revised based on the lessons learned during the first phase of FAS).
3. 1    Promotion (step one in the project cycle) is designed to increase awareness about the FAS
subproject menu and the availability of funds among community members, potential Implementing
Agencies and the private sector. FAS provincial staff undertake outreach activities and visit communities
to promote FAS II objectives. FAS I has established promotion campaigns that foster information sharing
through national media and through meetings with beneficiaries and local government officials.
FAS II will continue the intensive and successful Information, Education and Communication (IEC)
Campaign started during the first phase. The LEC campaign has informed community members about the
- 36 -



roles and responsibilities of FAS, and has also opened up the debate at the national level around crucial
themes such as poverty, economic development, equity and social assistance. For FAS II, the IEC
campaign will continue to operate at three levels: national, provincial, and community.
At the National Level, FAS will continue the activities started during the first phase to increase awareness
on FAS activities, as well as on broader themes related to poverty alleviation, social assistance and
capacity building. These include the publishing of the magazine Amigo, as well as radio and television
advertisements. Targets of these activities will be government agencies, NGOs, civil society institutions,
and other organizations involved in poverty reduction and grassroots development activities.
At the Provincial Level, the communication specialist operating in each regional office will replicate the
same type of activities. A series of workshops and more informal meetings will be organized to promote
FAS objectives and inform the potential beneficiaries on the procedures for participation in FAS activities.
At the Community Level, promotion will be done mainly with the support from the network of friends of
FAS (Red de Amigos), which includes community leaders, members of community based organizations and
representatives of different civil society groups who work to facilitate FAS activities at the community
level.
FAS II will enhance its promotional activities through: (i) better use of the network of Amigos; (ii) hiring
individual promoters with sound technical promotional skills; (iii) sub-contracting NGOs for specific
promotion activities; (iv) developing a brochure outlining FAS objectives, menu of projects, selection
criteria and steps to submit a proposal which will be widely disseminated (this brochure, if possible, will be
translated in local languages spoken by a large number of population); and (v) disseminating the
Operational Manual to local organizations, local government and implementing partners.
3.2   Identification (step two in the project cycle) establishes the rationale for the proposed subproject.
FAS assesses the potential within the community to prepare a subproject, to implement the (re)
construction of the facilities and to sustain their use. Once FAS has offered the menu of opportunities,
communities themselves need to react by assessing their needs and priorities. The identification process is
participatory and tries to re-orient the perspective of community members from problems to prospects.
This involves a community wide dialogue which, instead of only recording the opinions of the community
leadership, includes a broad representation of vulnerable groups.
Identification and participatory planning skills may not be present in the community. The Agencias de
Enquadramento were created to form a link between FAS and the potential beneficiaries and to increase the
capacity of the communities in the preparation, execution and maintenance of projects. At present, FAS
provincial field officers are frequently the ones helping beneficiaries to assess needs and prepare subproject
requests. During the second phase, FAS will also seek assistance from Implementing Partners to train
communities and ensure that intended beneficiaries have a "voice".
To increase its operational efficiency in terms of costs and management, FAS II has moved towards a
typology of facilities (including guidelines for materials, cost parameters, procurement procedures etc.).
FAS developed basic models and technical standards for the most commonly built infrastructures. This has
simplified the identification phase for subprojects as communities understand in more concrete terms what
type of infrastructure will be built.
FAS II will encourage that: (i) during the promotion campaigns, potential beneficiaries and Implementing
Partners are made fully aware of the roles and responsibilities that are expected during each step of the
- 37 -



project cycle, as well as the skills that are required to perform these roles; (ii) the final responsibility to
perform the tasks during the identification stage relies with Implementing Partners such as Churches,
CBOs, or NGOs. These Implementing Partners need to provide training to communities to act by
themselves or directly help beneficiaries in the identification of priorities; (iii) Grassroots Management
Training (GMT) is included in the Capacity Building Component of FAS II. GMT will be delivered when
new subproject proposals are being developed; (iv) training will be provided to FAS field staff, local
government officials and partners in community participation, participatory planning and project
management techniques.
3.3    Preparation (step three in the project cycle) refers to the actual elaboration of the subproject
proposal. The Nucleo Comunitario, mostly in collaboration with an Implementing Partner, starts the
preparation of the subproject document. The introduction of basic models will facilitate the process of
budgeting and how to determine contributions of the communities. The models describe standard practices
for communities to participate with materials which are at their disposal (stone, sand and water), and which
types of skilled and unskilled labor are required.
To complete the project cycle during FAS I involved the preparation of 35 documents. Applicants as well
as FAS staff were facing difficulties to comply with these formal requirements. Although the project
documents appear to be in simple formats, it was agreed during the preparation of FAS II that the quantity
and quality of information required will be revised to facilitate the preparation of subprojects for the
communities. The project documents include the information necessary to formulate an accurate judgement
on the feasibility of the proposal. The project documents contain: (i) information on the socio-economic
conditions of the beneficiary community; (ii) a technical description of the subproject; (iii) a legal and
administrative description; (iv) a financing plan; (v) an agreement between the Nucleo Comunitario and the
Implementing Partners, specifying the roles and responsibilities of each party involved; (vi) a detailed
description of the community contribution; and (vii) a sustainability and maintenance plan for the facility.
FAS provincial staff will be trained to provide assistance and training to the communities regarding the
technical and financial requirements for the project cycle.
3.4    Appraisal (step four in the project cycle) includes a desk screening of the proposals to ensure that
they are complete and consistent with FAS guidelines and procedures. After the desk screening, FAS
provincial field staff and representatives of the requesting agency will conduct a site visit to determine the
feasibility of the proposal (applying the eligibility criteria described in this annex). For FAS II, it was
agreed that during the appraisal phase, more attention needs to be paid to the sustainability plans for the
social and economic infrastructure. The sustainability plans need to include a budget and specific activities
to ensure technical, operational and management sustainability.
3.5    Approval (step five in the project cycle) is actually preceded by an evaluation. This evaluation
needs to be completed within a period of eight days from receipt of the subproject proposal documents.
The evaluation is carried out to verify if the subproject is consistent with the community's priorities and
needs, whether the decision making process was participatory, whether the subproject is feasible, viable
and located in an appropriate plot, and whether the community has the required technical capacity.
For each approved subproject, FAS and the Nucleo Comunitario will sign a financing agreement, which
includes a financial plan, timetable for implementation of the works and a procurement plan. When
subproject total costs are below US$70,000, they will be reviewed and approved by the Provincial Board.
Subprojects above that threshold are submitted to the National Board for review and approval. No latter
than 15 days after the Board meeting, the beneficiary community is informed about the financing decision.
In case of a rejection, the community will receive a detailed explanation or a request for additional
- 38 -



information.
For FAS II, the collaboration between community representatives, traditional authorities, municipal and
local government officials will be strengthened. FAS provincial offices will cany out more concerted
efforts to strengthen the links between government officials and implementing partners, in order to
accelerate the approval process.
3.6    Execution (step six in the project cycle). Most FAS subprojects have so far been executed by
building brigades of skilled and unskilled workers. More largely and technically complex projects have
been carried out by private contractors or building companies. The Nucleo Comunitario and/or
Implementing Partners are responsible for hiring and supervising the work done by the building brigade.
The Nucleo Comunitario and/or Implementing Partner can also procure the entire civil works and materials
as a package to a private contractor or building enterprise. The awarding is done through open tender and
requires at least three competitive bidders.
As part of the community contribution, beneficiaries mostly assemble basic materials. It is often difficult
for communities to abide by the dates stipulated in the contract, since water, stone and sand are not always
available in their immediate environment. Logistical problems often arise in case these materials need to be
transported to the building site from another location.
Delegation of tasks to specialized NGOs will help FAS II to increase the volume of subprojects.
Implementing Partners can upgrade the technical skills of the building brigades and/or other community
members to improve the efficiency and quality of the construction work.
3.6.1  Supervision, is the responsibility of the Nucleo Comunitario, the Implementing Partner and FAS
staff. The Nucleo Comunitario is charged with day to day supervision of project activities, including
supervising the contractors if any have been hired. The Nucleo Comunitario will also make sure that the
community members provide their contribution as agreed. FAS staff will also provide routine monitoring,
working in close collaboration with representatives of involved line ministries. In FAS II, the delegation of
supervision tasks to partners (local supervisors) will help decrease the pressure on FAS technical staff and
leave more time for more management oriented tasks.
FAS provincial staff will select community members with basic knowledge in construction matters and/or
laymen willing to learn to perform daily supervision activities. On-the-job training will be provided to
candidates, along with limited theoretical training by FAS engineers. Implementing Partners can enter into
agreements with independent supervisors for routine supervision of civil works contracts. These routine
supervisors will report to FAS technical staff or to the Implementing Agency. FAS technical staff will
prepare a checklist of indicators that this supervisor can monitor on a daily and weekly basis. In addition,
tri-monthly visits are to be carried out by FAS technical staff. It is expected that the supervisors work
directly with building brigades and contractors, identify problems and bring them to the attention of FAS
technical staff. The costs of the supervisors' services are to be included in the sub-project costs.
3.6.2  Building Materials. During the first phase of FAS, it became apparent that local markets can not
always supply the required building materials. In many cases these materials had to be procured from
other provinces or even bordering countries. This increased construction costs and lengthened the project
cycle. The period of time between preparation and the start of works often exceeded the stipulated 15 days
and occasionally reached two months. FAS I has had positive experiences using procurement of materials
in bulk to supply more than one provincial office. The application of the bulk mechanism reduced costs
and created material stock. However, sometimes problems occurred related to transport capacity or road
- 39 -



security when distributing the material to the neighboring provinces. FAS II will address these problems by
developing a comprehensive logistics plan.
3.6.3 Subproject Implementation and Financial Planning. During the first phase of FAS, the
implementation of subprojects has been constrained by a limited capacity in FAS provincial offices to make
adequate financial plans and a subsequent shortage of funds. This has slowed down subproject
implementation, increased the time to complete projects and delayed the start-up of new projects. For FAS
II it is critical to increase the capacity for financial planning. The FAS construction programs need to
incorporate adequate cost estimates, clear descriptions of the tasks to be carried out and appropriate
deadlines for each task to be delivered. To enable FAS II to comply with these construction programs,
technical and managerial staff will be trained to apply technical and financial planning instruments and
methodologies (such as PERT charts, cash-flow instruments, etc.).
3.7    Monitoring (step seven in the project cycle). During the first phase of FAS, the monitoring system
depended largely on the supervision visits of FAS technical staff. They provided the baseline information
for the Management Information System (SIFAS) to track the implementation progress of the FAS
portfolio. SIFAS will be revised and integrated into a more comprehensive monitoring and evaluation
system (M&E). The M&E system will provide transparency and accountability of financial flows and
generate information needed for the day-to-day management of FAS operations. The performance reports
generated by SIFAS will be an integral part of the monthly and quarterly reports. The M&E system will be
further developed with interactive and user friendly software.
3.8    Completion (step eight in the project cycle). The infrastructure facility will be handed over to the
community once the civil works are completed and the quality of the civil works is accepted. In a
hand-over ceremony, the completion form will be signed by FAS staff, the Nficleo Comunitario and the
Implementing Partner.
3.9    Evaluation (step nine of the project cycle) of the subproject is to be carried out within three
months of completion and focuses on: (i) the extent to which the project has managed to achieve its
intended objectives; (ii) effectiveness of technical support provided by the Implementing Partner and other
service providers; (iii) effectiveness of project partners. The evaluation will be carried out between the
beneficiaries and FAS. About one year after subproject completion, FAS will undertake an ex-post
evaluation to verify the sustainability of the facilities built, the community's commitment to its maintenance
and the impact on the beneficiaries.
3.10.1 Management, maintenance and sustainability (step ten of the project cycle). During the
preparation of the project, four main factors have been identified which contribute to the sustainability of
activities financed by FAS. To strengthen the prospects for sustainability, FAS II will address these
factors in a more systematic way. These factors include: (i) technical quality and comprehensiveness of
subproject appraisal and design; (ii) maintenance of the social and economic infrastructure installed; (iii)
timely financing of recurrent costs and operational inputs; and (iv) community participation.
Regarding the technical quality of appraisal and design, FAS II will:
*   incorporate sustainability plans at appraisal;
*   introduce certain modifications in the Operations Manual to address the constrains that were identified
in the project cycle of FAS I (this includes, inter alia, a revision of the subproject eligibility criteria and
technical checklists for appraisal);
*   revise the project appraisal reports (see Operations Manual);
-40 -



Regarding maintenance of the social and economic infrastructure installed, FAS II will:
*   ensure communities are expected to contribute to routine maintenance of facilities;
*   make special efforts to mobilize other agencies and donors who might assist with the operation and
maintenance of financed facilities;
*   provide the community with skills and tools to maintain the infrastructures, beneficiaries will be trained
in construction and maintenance skills and technical manuals will be provided;
*   ensure that for each beneficiary community provides a maintenance plan and appoints a maintenance
committee for each sub-project;
*   develop simple maintenance handbooks.
Regarding timely financing of recurrent costs and operational inputs, FAS II will:
*   include signed agreements with implementing partners (GOA, NGOs, Churches, firms etc.) to ensure
the financing of recurrent costs and operational inputs in the subproject approval process, as a
condition for appraisal;
*   appraise all subprojects for financial sustainability;
*   build capacity among implementing partners and communities to manage and operate the infrastructure
facilities installed;
*   expect beneficiaries to contribute at least 10 percent of total costs;
*   give special consideration to subprojects for which there is commitment on the part of a Church or
NGO for operational support;
Regarding community participation, FAS II will:
*   assess the level of priority attached by the beneficiary community to the proposed subproject as part of
project appraisal;
-   continuously monitor and evaluate the progress in implementation of the subprojects and assess the
level of satisfaction and participation of the beneficiary communities.
On-going strategies to strengthen the capacity of the community to finance and manage operational and
maintenance responsibilities will be continued. During Negotiations agreements have been reached with the
GOA to help ensure line ministry compliance with the required agreements with FAS. Adequate criteria
for the review and selection of economic infrastructure will be incorporated into the revised Operations
Manual, before Effectiveness of the Project. Technical Handbooks that detail the appropriate techniques
for specific subproject implementation, operation and maintenance will be developed within 6 months of
Effectiveness of the Project.
3.10.2  Community Contribution To maintain and sustain the installed infrastructure, FAS I has had
frequent contacts with administrative bodies and communities. During the second phase, FAS II will put
more emphasis on developing a sense of ownership of the facilities among communities, and will organize
special training programs for beneficiaries in basic skills for operating, maintaining and managing the
physical infrastructure. Simple manuals for maintenance and use of buildings and infrastructures will be
developed.
FAS expects the communities to contribute at least 10 percent in the costs of the facilities. In many cases,
communities volunteer services which are difficult to account for in financial terms (man/hours). FAS I
experience suggests that real contributions are sometimes higher than the ones stipulated in the project
-41 -



budget. In view of the minimal financial resources available to the majority of the population, intended
beneficiaries and facilitating agencies will be encouraged to contribute time to decision-making. This
would include attending training and technical workshops, volunteering to serve on subproject committees
and contributing to monitoring and evaluation exercises.
Project Component 2 - US$4.00 million
Capacity Building
Since FAS' inception, its operations have been guided by a strong vision of community empowennent. The
delivery of social and economic infrastructure was seen as a means to build community capacity. FAS has
been successful in involving community members in the different phases of the project cycle. The results of
the Beneficiary Assessment indicated that a majority of respondents had been actively involved in project
selection and implementation, and community members felt that project objectives had been largely
achieved. FAS efforts to maximize community ownership, however, can be strengthened. FAS II will
develop more effective mechanisms to empower communities.
Broadening community participation in project operations has been an avowed objective of FAS.
Communities participate in the project cycle and beneficiaries also share costs. The broadened
participation aims at expanding "project ownership" by communities, thus improving the effectiveness and
sustainability of the projects. Beneficiaries' acceptance of a project has been shown to be a major
determinant of project success. Involving the community in project selection and execution is conducive to
ensuring project maintenance and the delivery of follow-up services. The projects most likely to be
sustained are those that communities consider more relevant.
The most valuable contribution that communities can provide is their knowledge and insights into local
conditions and problems. FAS II intends to go beyond pursuing community participation in its operations
and has made community development itself a central objective. This line of action involves supporting
independent civil society organizations that can generate and carry out community initiatives. By
developing and applying solutions to their problems, communities develop managerial and operational
capacity. FAS H anticipates to promote community development not only through the project
implementation process but also directly through training programs designed to strengthen the institutional
and managerial capacity of local organizations.
The efforts in FAS II to build capacity can be defined in a more narrow sense in relation to a micro project
or in a more broad sense in relation to community empowerment. In relation to a project, to build
capacities is to improve the skills and methods of the main stakeholders to maintain the benefits from a
project and plan the expected services in a sustainable way. Building capacity entails expanding the ability
of officials and beneficiaries to develop and apply solutions, and upgrading their technical knowledge and
skills to maintain and operate social and economic facilities. There is a need to build capacities and be sure
that community organizations will be able to replicate what they have learned. In relation to community
empowerment, capacity building targets more broadly the skills and competencies of a community to
organize themselves to solve their problems and to strengthen their social capital.
To create the capacity for FAS staff, communities and local authorities to undertake their new roles and be
able to deliver the program effectively will require an integrated capacity building strategy, operating at all
levels and for all components of the program. During the mission, requirements relating to this topic have
been discussed at length in sessions with FAS staff and in individual meetings with selected technical staff.
-42 -



The capacity building will be based on participatory techniques and methodologies. Participatory
approaches can be successful when interventions are compatible with the real needs and interests of the
community and when people believe that benefits are really accruing to them. Strengthening the demand
driven concept of FAS, will require lengthy investment in tenns of information dissemination and
community development. In Angola, the potential and social-historical conditions for mobilization and
community-centered development are present. In the rural areas, settled agriculturists have a long tradition
of community work, inter-village co-operation and community-centered administration. For the promotion
of the active, responsible role of the communities, FAS relies on local traditional authorities, local
government cadres and field staff.
FAS will delegate the active promotion of the role of communities in the development and the transfer of
technical know-how to community representatives, committees and members. This task will be undertaken
by specialized partners like external consultants and/or NGOs. With the exception of local church
representatives (pastors and priests), who have been immersed in the communities for long time and have
won their fully confidence, a reduced number of national (and at present intemational) NGOs are acting as
implementing agencies in Angola. At the same time, FAS will be very selective in contacting NGOs in
order to ensure the quality of the program outputs.
One of the main challenges faced by FAS is to create and sustain the capacity for intermediaries and
communities to undertake their new responsibilities and be able to deliver the program effectively. During
its second phase, FAS will continue to focus its capacity building (CB) efforts along towards three target
groups: a) the communities, b) the many partners, within and outside the government, and c) the staff at
FAS central and regional offices. This CB framework is similar to the one adopted for FAS I, although
some of the operational procedures might change to enhance quality, sustainability and cost-effectiveness.
The main drive for the new strategy can be summarized as follows:
*   The work with communities will become more proactive in terms of mobilization and more systematic
in terms of preparing them to participate more consistently in all phases of the project cycle.
* The work with provincial and local governments will aim at preparing them to undertake new roles in
the future in terms of becoming the ones in charge of providing leadership and guidance to the
communities at every step of the project cycle.
* Churches, Community-based organizations, NGOs, individuals, and other partners within civil society
and the private sector will be assigned a clearer role and will be prepared to perform it in the most
cost-effective way, on their own or in collaboration with provincial and local governments.
* FAS regional offices will redefine the way in which they have been working with communities,
government agencies and other partners and shift the focus of their capacity building activities from
direct to indirect providers of capacity building. Instead of interacting directly with the communities,
will prepare and supervise others who will be in charge of the activities themselves.
* Staff from the FAS central office would be the orchestrators of the various players, ensuring that
resources will flow smoothly according to plans, and ensuring that results are also being obtained as
planned.
The capacity building strategy for FAS II recognizes the different players and the fact that each player
contributes to FAS in its own way, and each player requires very specific capacity building activities. The
strategy includes training - fornal and informal, local and abroad, training of trainers, stakeholder analysis,
studies, assessments, materials and systems development. Due to the variety of audiences and the diversity
of training needs, the strategy will be based on a certain level of interdependence among the actors. If the
interdependence is well played, it will increase the likelihood that the information and experiences will be
generated and shared in a cost-effective way. This will require proper planning and monitoring to create
-43 -



the right opportunities, assign proper responsibilities and ensure that the benefits of potential externalities
and multiplier effects will be realized. Before being finalized, the strategy will require further discussions
with all stakeholders to better define the scope and pace of the new procedures, and therefore the priorities
in terms of CB. FAS II will develop an integrated capacity building strategy targeted at three levels:
I     At the Community level capacity building involves upgrading skills and competencies to assess,
plan, implement and maintain FAS related projects as well as to apply the skills on new projects funded by
the community itself or other agencies. The activities will be mostly based on participatory techniques and
methodologies. In broader terms the aim will be to enable communities to make better use of their
resources, better manage risks, have a greater say in decision-making processes, and apply newly acquired
skills to solve upcoming problems. The main mechanism for capacity building at the community level will
Grassroots Management Training (GMT). In addition to activities addressing the overall community, other
activities might be designed for specific groups, e.g. financial management for those who will be in charge
of managing the community funds allocated for cost sharing, or specific maintenance techniques for those
who will be in charge of management, etc. Manuals and guidelines will be produced for all kinds of
training to be delivered to the communities.
II    At the level of Implementing Partners, including provincial, municipal and communal
governments, as well as churches, community-based organizations, NGOs, individuals, and other partners
within civil society and the private sector. They are expected to be involved in the following phases of the
project cycle: identification and promotion, implementation, monitoring and evaluation, and maintenance.
Accordingly, capacity building efforts will focus at enabling these partners to undertake some of these
activities themselves or to provide effective facilitation, technical support and some training for the
communities to perform the role expected from them. In some cases, partners will provide the same
services to other partners (e.g. NGO's assisting community based organizations, provincial governments
helping and supervising municipal governments or NGOs, etc. Although the exact form of the capacity
building activities will be tailored to the individual needs of each partner or group, it is anticipated that
most of the partners will require new skills, some training of trainers courses, guidelines and manuals,
monitoring and evaluation systems, and opportunities to interact with staff from FAS and with each other
through management workshops, etc. They will also need to be trained on the use of appropriate
technology and Grassroots Management Training (GMT).
FAS II will also provide special training for selected partners to start preparing them to lead the way on
some regional development planning activities as well as to strengthen their ability to design and manage
sectoral plans. This training will be carefully designed and gradually implemented along the general trend
of making communities and partners more involved and responsible for the whole decision making process.
Studies will be required to take stock of existing staffmg patterns and to determine what is needed in order
to advance partners' self-reliance in the planning and management arena. In addition, there will be a strong
emphasis on how these intermediaries can strengthen indigenous and community based organizations.
Im    At the level of FAS staff at the Central and Provincial offices, capacity building will focus: (i) on
upgrading skills and competencies of individual FAS staff; and (ii) on strengthening the institutional
capacity of FAS. The objective is to strengthen their skills regarding the roles they will continue to play as
well as to prepare them for the new roles envisaged under FAS II.
At the individual levet the aim is to improve staff performance and to enable staff to effectively
implement their responsibilities. The capacity building for FAS staff will focus on: (i) planning and
supervision (undertaking of national studies and assessments; preparation of technical, training and users
manuals and guidelines; the design of prototypes and other basic plans; computer and language skills; FAS
- 44 -



systems and procedures); (ii) coordination of M&E activities and reports; (iii) ensuring that results and
materials from (i) and (ii) are shared and used at all levels; (iv) planning, and in some cases organizing, the
technical and managerial training of the staff from the partner agencies; (v) assisting and supervising the
follow-on training that these partners will be in charge of providing to others, including awareness training
Grassroots Management Training; (vi) assisting and supervising other project cycle related activities that
partners will conduct; and (vii) providing opportunities for interaction among partners to ensure sharing
and exchange of best practices and lessons learned.
At the (FAS) institutional level the capacity building efforts will focus on enhancing and
sustaining the output quality. Developing processes and systems and providing training on those processes
and systems to ensure the overall effectiveness and co-ordination of all levels of the organization. FAS will
prepare a Human Resources Development (HIRD) Plan to facilitate the implementation of FAS II.
To achieve its capacity building objectives, FAS will: (i) update and prepare technical, training and user
manuals for each component; (ii) recruit new staff at the central and provincial offices to ensure that all
offices are properly staffed to perform their new roles; and (iii) provide and/or finance the required training
(local or abroad), technical assistance, and tools for all staff to enable them to improve their job
performance.
The initial action plan includes three immediate activities:
*   conduct a training needs assessment identifying the specific technical and managerial training needs for
the staff from each office;
*   propose the training and Capacity Building plan to respond to the needs and provide the required
training. It is envisaged that a large part of that training will be organized through courses organized
locally with foreign technical assistance or through courses abroad;
* bring on board a capacity building coordinator to be located in the Central Office, and three Capacity
Building officers to be located in the "hubs" each responsible for the implementation of Capacity
Building activities in 3 provinces. The coordinator would be expected to join before Effectiveness
(TOR reviewed and agreed during appraisal) while the 3 Capacity Building officers could join at a
later date once the strategy is more clear and the division of labor between the central and "hubs" are
better defined. In addition, a medium term Capacity Building advisor could be invited to spend 6 to 8
months in Angola immediately after Effectiveness, to assist the Capacity Building Coordinator with the
expanded plans, initial implementation and first report/reviews on the Capacity Building component.
Project Component 3 - US$ 2.00 million
Strengthening the Monitoring and Evaluation System
A strengthened M&E system will be critical for FAS II. During the project design discussions the MIS
experience of FAS I was reviewed and modifications were proposed. It became apparent that although the
MIS system provides many data for FAS at both central and regional levels, the information is not widely
used by FAS managers. At regional levels, generating the required information is perceived as a burden,
rather than a means to facilitate more efficient management of the operation. The MIS system in addition
focuses largely on the earlier phases of the sub-project cycle (design and implementation), and focuses less
on the impact of the interventions. For FAS II it was agreed to modify the current MIS system and design
and implement a more comprehensive M&E system that will address these shortcomings.
The overall rationale for improving the scope and depth of the M&E system contains two major elements.
The first one is to capitalize on the existing strengths of the M&E system and project cycle of FAS I. the
-45 -



second one is to address the areas for improvements and gaps that were identified at the end of FAS I. In
addition, an improved M&E system will provide an opportunity to add value which will not only contribute
to the project development objectives, but also to main sector issues.
Incorporating Strengths: the updated M&E system will build on the many strengths of the system which
was designed and implemented during FAS I. Such strengths include but are not limited to: (i) the skill
base of FAS and implementing staff in the MIS area; (ii) existing data and analytic products from the MIS
system; (iii) the nucleo comunitario structure; (iv) comparatively high levels of community participation,
satisfaction with project selection process, and self-perception of beneficiaries (as demonstrated by the
beneficiary assessment); (v) existing outreach structures and IEC materials; and (vi) existence and
utilization of soba structures and networks. The existing MIS system will be assessed in terms of data
reliability, data utility, staff capacity, and degree of fit with the modified FAS II indicators. The existing
system will be streamlined and simplified in order to assure data utility at the lowest levels of the FAS
system.
Addressing Weaknesses: the modified M&E system will focus specifically on key areas for improvements
which were identified by the BA and other consultative processes during FAS I. Such areas include but are
not limited to: (i) need for M&E data that are integrated throughout the project cycle; (ii) desire for M&E
data to serve as an appropriate management tool for efficient and effective operations; (iii) desire for M&E
data collection and analysis to supply appropriate information for decision making at provincial and local
levels; (iv) interest in creating a more comprehensive M&E approach which places more emphasis on
qualitative analysis including regular beneficiary assessments; (v) need for increased institutional capacity
building at all levels; (vi) desire to further systematize and regularize participatory methodologies to assure
continued participation at the community level; and (vii) gender imbalances and the need to sensitively
evaluate women's participation and involvement.
The responsibility for the M&E system will rest with a collaborative team. This team will include relevant
stakeholders from a variety of levels within the FAS system, including FAS staff, implementing partners'
staff, and community members. These key stakeholders will take the lead in promoting and implementing
the M&E system. Individual roles and responsibilities for each member of the team will be decided
collaboratively and spelled out in a written M&E plan. The team will conduct a detailed needs assessment
in order to further specify gaps and needs before designing, testing, and implementing the new M&E
system. A potential methodology to utilize for such an assessment is Focused Rapid Assessment of
Monitoring and Evaluation Systems (FRAMES). These needs assessments will also entail stakeholder
workshops, to increase the awareness among the stakeholders how a well-functioning M&E system can
improve the efficiency of implementing and managing the FAS portfolio.
Monitoring is seen as a continuous activity. Its focus is on: efficiency, executions, compliance, inputs, and
outputs. The M&E system will focus on measuring and controlling performance in project execution.
Feed-back will be continuous and will produce early results. It will be used for ongoing decision making,
re-planning and adjusting, and forward planning. Evaluation is a discontinuous activity. It challenges the
design of the project. Its focus is on the cause to effect linkages, unplanned changes, and the link from
output to both immediate and long-term objectives. The main focus of this section of the M&E system will
be a determination of the effectiveness and sustainability of the projects.
The design and implementation of the enhanced M&E system for FAS II should be seen as a phased
process, in which a variety of relevant stakeholders will be integrated in sequential fashion. While the
M&E process will begin well before project implementation, the full iteration of the M&E system will
evolve over the first year of project implementation. The key of the success to this enhanced and
-46 -



streamlined system will be continued involvement, "buy-in", and participation from all FAS II stakeholders.
It is critically important that the M&E team and the wider FAS community, recognize the iterative and
consultative process which this entails. Rather than rushing to implement an externally designed system,
the team should take the time to build consensus and maximize the participation of nucleo comunitarios,
local and regional governments, implementing partners, and of course FAS II staff.
It is expected that the new M&E system will become effective in January 2001. No later than eighteen
months after the date of Effectiveness, a Mid-Term Review will be carried out by independent specialists
to: (i) determine if satisfactory progress has been made towards meeting the project objectives; (ii) evaluate
the impact on the beneficiaries; (iii) assess the technical quality of construction; (iv) assess whether
arrangements for recurrent costs and the maintenance of assets built with FAS support ate being honored;
and (v) determine whether there is need to modify any practices. The mid-term evaluators will review a
representative sample of subprojects and interview community committee members and beneficiaries. An
Implementation Completion Report will be prepared jointly by FAS and IDA within six months of the end
of the project.
Reporting: Semi-Annual Reports will be the main tools for monitoring progress of FAS activities. the
essential components of the reports will be: (i) issues related to project management, administration and
staff; (ii) progress achieved since the previous report; (iii) objectives for the next semester; (iv) training,
capacity building, sensitization and promotion activities; and (v) financial and disbursement data.
Under FAS I, the experience has shown that the advances made to the provincial offices are not reconciled
on a regular basis. Therefore, this weakness will be addressed under FAS II through: (i) clear guidelines
and internal control procedures in the Operational Manual and (ii) strengthening of Monitoring &
Evaluation by recruitment of an internal auditor so that financial and technical audit be performed on a
regular basis in order to validate the information coming from the provinces and to ensure that the
procedures are followed.
-47 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ANGOLA: Second Social Action Fund Project (FAS 11)
Community Sub-projects                                  26.50         2.40        28.90
Capacity Building                                        3.00         0.30         3.30
Monitoring and Eivaluation                               1.60         0.20         1.80
Institutional Support/Operating Costs                    3.50         0.10         3.60
Total Baseline Cost                                     34.60         3.00        37.60
Physical Contingencies                                  4.50         0.20         4.70
Price Contingencies                                     4.50         0.20         4.70
Total Project Costs            43.60          3.40        47.00
Total Financing Required             43.60         3.40        47.00
Grants-Community sub-projects                             33.40          1.14        34.54
Training/TAlMonitoring & Evaluation                        5.80          0.57         6.37
Equipment and Vehicles                                     0.00          1.57         1.57
Operating Costs                                           4.40           0.12         4.52
Total Project Costs    43.60          3.40        47.00
Total Financing Required    43.60          3.40        47.00
-48 -



Annex 4
ANGOLA: Second Social Action Fund Project (FAS 11)
Economic Analysis Summary
As experience is being gained and shared by FAS management and the participating communities, it is
expected that subprojects in the areas covered by the project will become even more cost-effective than they
were during Phase I. Lack of reliable data for a full cost-effectiveness analysis suggests that, in some
cases, it is better to continue to use simple screening procedures to establish the economic justification of
subprojects.
1.    The mix of subproject types will change. It is expected that demand will shift towards
subprojects whose benefits the communities perceive as more sustainable and less dependable on
Governnent resources to maintain and operate facilities and activities. Some of that shift has already been
observed over the last two years, with requests moving from health into education subprojects, and now
shifting from education towards water, roads, etc.
2.    Subprojects will be targeted to the poor:
i)    The nine areas covered by the project are among the poorest in the country, where security
conditions allow the FAS to operate.
ii)    No earmarked allocation of resources to specific provinces, communities or types of subprojects
will be made, to ensure resources will go where there is demand and where there are communities
ready to use them cost-effectively. Table 4A in this attachment, with the distribution of FAS
resources among provinces during Phase I, shows that most of the provinces where the project is
operating now will end up receiving significant amounts of financing and that significant number of
beneficiaries are being reached in every province (see table 4B and 4C). The observed differences
arise from the length of time since FAS started operating in the province, the local costs for labor
and materials, and, to some extent, the differences in the mobilization power among the FAS
Provincial teams
iii)    Resources will continue to be allocated to subprojects which benefit the poor households and
individuals. The findings from the Beneficiary Assessment revealed that communities agree with
the criteria used in selecting subprojects, and agree with the outcomes in terms of subprojects
actually selected. The project menu will be maintained and sectoral guidelines will continue to be
adopted, including eligibility criteria, technical standards, cost information and the economic
justification; in addition, future guidelines will also include references regarding the use of installed
capacity, and the adoption of schemes and partnerships for the maintenance and operation of
facilities.
iv)   FAS will continue to be responsive to the demands from the community and will continue to work,
through participatory processes in the selection, design, implementation and monitoring of
subprojects. Through this participatory process, the project enhances the sustainability of the
results.
v)    Special efforts will continue to be made to reach more women and empower them through training
-49 -



and through the selection of subprojects, including the income-generating activities. Table C below
shows that among the one million beneficiaries in Phase I, 30 percent were women, three times
higher than men.
3.    Economically non-viable, and technically non-viable, subprojects will not be approved. Based
on the information available from Phase I, standards have been established and adopted for most subproject
types, and will be used to determine the economic and technical feasibility of subprojects.
4.    Subprojects will be cost-effective: The design and implementation of subprojects follow stringent
cost and quality conscious procedures. FAS II will attempt to minimize costs by: (i) continuing to engage
the building brigades together with the participation of the community in all possible implementation
activities; (ii) in case projects, due to complexity, must be carried out by private construction firms or
contractors, FAS applies competitive tender procedures and selects the lowest bid; (iii) applying
appropriate technology, use of local materials, indigenous technologies and production "in situ" of building
materials and construction elements; (iv) procuring building materials in bulk for more than one province
whenever justified; and (v) contributions to operating and maintenance by beneficiaries themselves. At the
same time, FAS II will try to maximize the benefits of the sub-projects by responding to the community
needs, by applying prototypes of facilities, which are modeled and adapted to local needs and for which the
technical capacities can be replicated. This will decrease the preparation time of technical documentation,
helping communities to make up their mind during the identification phase and shorten the frequency of
supervision visits. Delegation of tasks from FAS technical staff to members of the community, ea. local
supervisors and/or NGOs active in the area of the sub-project will provide them free time to release
subprojects in the pipeline or undertake relegated tasks. Unit costs of FAS II financed subprojects will be
measured during project execution and compared with those of similar projects carried out by conventional
sector programs. FAS II will further ensure cost-effectiveness of its subprojects:
(i)    average costs for each subproject type supported by FAS are and will continue to be lower than
average costs for similar subproject types supported by others sources of financing;
(ii)   average costs per beneficiary, per subproject type will continue to be closely monitored and used as
a key indicator of economic feasibility at the appraisal of individual subprojects; and
(iii)  facilities built under FAS are and will be effectively used by beneficiaries, according to the
performance indicators presented in the log-frame.
- 50 -



Table 4A: Total Disbursements per Province
Provinces   Number                     FAS                        Community
C     E          C              E              C               E
Kwanza Sul       51    15    1,105,767.76     316,628.94      146,475.25           0.00
Benguela        110    13    1,780,165.31     160,872.48      305,716.46      23,426.00
Namibe          131    14    1,861,560.67     225,344.41      505,088.66      31,018.66
Cabinda         64      5    1,518,858.39     154,162.86      203,156.14      19,328.55
Huila           67   23    1,497,781.49       375,924.42      160,392.15      31,185.54
Cunene          29    20       810,196.72     365,144.72       30,775.77       1,430.00
Luanda           62    19    1,311,034.44     280,086.95      275,655.35      56,808.89
Bengo           21      4      803,526.92      48,468.57       57,738.94       4,212.05
Huambo           12     6       52,992.77      18,965.40        9,509.08      10,180.70
Total          547   119   10,741,884.47    1,945,598.75    1,694,507.80     177,59039
C - Projects Completed
Table 4A: Total Disbursements per Province (continued)
Provinces   Num.ber                     Ot.er                          Tota.
C                                C               E               C .
Kwanza Sul    51       15       141,075.67        55,136.98   1,393,318.68   371,765.92
Benguela       110    13         87,639.98            0.00   2,173,521.75     184,298.48
Namibe         131     14       432,053.10        11,072.91   2,798,702.43   267,435.98
Cabinda        64       5        87,636.13        51,053.85   1,809,650.66   224,545.26
Huila          67      23        87,092.31            0.00   1,745,265.95    407,109.96
Cunene         29      20        34,990.44         3,882.89    875,962.93    370,457.61
Luanda         62      19         6,798.00         1,134.00   1,593,487.79   338,029.84
Bengo          21       4            0.00             0.00     861,265.86     52,680.62
Huambo          12      6         9,007.76         8,094.90     71,509.61     37,241.00
Total         547    119        886,293.39       130,375.53  13,322,685.66   2,253,564.67
E - Projects in Execution
FAS - (WB, GOA and Bilateral Donors Netherlands, Norway and Sweden)
Others - (NGOs, Provincial Government, UNICEF, etc.)
Community - Effiective Community Contributions
- 51 -



Table 4B: Beneficiaries of FAS Projects
tProvinceis Ilype o0S0f 0   ;0~     Stats i of Projects
tlt)00Beneiciiesf:0;  000 Completed< =_1 Execut i on    Wai ti00>;ng for   
Men            16,853        4,454           146
Kwanza Sul   Women          21,587        6,121            177
Children       47,930        8,149         2,037
Men            20,545        4,070          3,500
Benguela     Women           42,328        3,959         6,086
Children       34,214        3,062         15,891
Men            36,288          997          1,131
Namibe       Women           45,014        1,224         1,208
Children       77,662        4,438          2,041
Men            26,103          165          3,860
Cabinda      Women           37,090         376          4,417
Children       40,832        3,020          5,522
Men            45,725        6,280           507
Huila        Women           67,079        7,112           859
Children      118,025       14,123          2,244
Men            19,556       11,873          8,202
Cunene       Women           28,109       15,653        15,163
Children       31,280       24,625         13,232
Men            13,847        2,102          1,761
Luanda       Women           20,297        1,942         1,773
Children       37,964        5,004          6,180
Men              1,012         289           229
Bengo        Women            1,111         462            285
Children        6,197          630          2,013
Men             4,332        4,083          6,667
Huambo       Women           6,400         6,890        11,094
Children       19,562        7,239         26,864
Men           184,261       34,313         26,003
Total        Women          269,015       43,739        41,062
Children      413,666       70,290         76,024
All           866,942      148,342        143,089
- 52 -



Table 4C-1: Costs (in US$) per Project, per M2 and per Beneficiary
Infrastructure    Type of Project      Kwanza sul         Benguela         Namibe            Cabinda               Huila
.___  p___          P      M     B     P          B     P    M' B    P        M      B       P       lvMl   B
School                  35,543  158 112  36,654  181 115  31,111  137 85 45,090   229  292  71,513         169 150
Kindergarten                         _    39,970 210 123           _ _
Pic-Pec                 47,264  133   4                     18,200  95 40
Social -   Orphanage                                                  44,090  164 57,                                 _
Environmental School                      34,197 201   4           _
Education  Vocational School                          51,119  192 741
Social Center                                                                                   76,864     303  108
Training Center         31,079  232 130                    28,217  182 66 26,247   439    3   =            _
Teacher House                                               16,412 254 30              _                   _
School Canteen                                              6,873  138  4
Cemetery                                                    17,843   22 
Social - Health Health Center        100,918  245  24                    63,011  152 69 38,609   325    5  57,511        269   32
Health Post             27,064  213   7 26,899  146   4  25,765  186  8  3,805    95    4  40,976          259    5
Sanitary Post           31,836  254  13                   1 _ 1,100 241  7                      25,976     257  43
Public Fountain                            1,866 466   8
Standpipe                1,3601 340   1                     9,882 2176 
Water Catchment                            6,008 527   6                                        15,191     362   16
Social - Water Well                    7,950  578   51                     6,884  102,  5  3,620   316    5      563      35 0.31
Balneario                               I                                                       21,937     273  108
and Sanitation Latrine                 8,586  226   3   6,195  33  26   2,609  45 12 10,168   100   64
WC                                                         32,109 426 33
Laundry               ____7,958 284  37   6,087  140  311,598   450   11,  4,758                            15    3
Water Distribution Net ______16,915   82  5
Drainage              ________ 8,402    81   18
Water Tank                                                                                       8,791      73    2
Combinations         21,694.871 452   5  9,036 237  36  31,919 475 71                           23,605     100    7
Market                =_=_15,760  92  12                                                        51,056      82  375
Water Though                 _                               1,574   68  1  =       =     =                _
Production  Vacination Cage                                              4,182  46  3
Water Point for Anima   32,242  0.43 227,        _                                              37,449     529   14
Tree Planting                   =                                                                1,064       1    1
Nursey                     950  0.18   1  4,333   96   1                                         7,281      41    5
Road                                                                                            26,119   3,722    1
Economic  Zebra Crossing          _____                                  2,299   18  2
Bridge                ________91,351  9,929  136 __   _    _
Small Bridge            15,247  897  31   3,297  550 110                                        24,478     799    1
Income   Agricultural Production                      2,863       95                                     __==__
Generating  Mill                                      13,021 362   3
Activities  Service Center*                 -         41,070 304 403    =          =    -       -     -      -       -
P (Costs per Project)       Ne (Costs per m2 / mi)        B (Costs per Beneficiary)
* - Carpentry, Locksmith, Work Brigades e Handicraft
- 53 -



Table 4C-2: Costs (in US$) per Project, per M2, and per Beneficiary
Infrastructure    Type of Project           Cunene               Luanda               Bengo              Huambo
p   |      M2    B   P     M2    B        P     M     B      P    M2   B
Social -   School                   41,618    180    85 58,060   207   835  38,749  205  174 32,788  178   146
Education    Bas School 5 classess                                             114,691  310  157
Training Center          3,120          220
Social - Health  Health Post           34,418    120      7                       84,706  127   56
Sanitary Post                                14,078   168    16  12,116  239    8   =
Public Fountain           5,598    891     1  5,136  1,097     4           =    =    1,499  100       2
Social - Water  Standpipe                       =            8,285   377    16                       1,259   25      1
and Sanitation  Water Catchment        39,735  1,987    14
Latrine                _ _6,907   960   105    9,226  154   64
WC                      13,455    682      3
Laundry                                      10,902   299      7                      6,519   22      9
Combined                                      9,808   284    29                       2,325   68      4
Production    Market                                                          1 75,227   96   91
Economic    Bridge                                 I        __                                    13,817  406      1
Small Bridge                                                                          1,356   90  0.19
Income generating Dressmaking         | 16,200   242       6 
Activities    Plant Cultivation    T 13,532     39    24           =     -                   -      -      -    -
P (Costs per Project)          M' (Costsper m' / m')  =     =   B (Costs per Beneficiary)
-54-



Annex 5: Financial Summary
ANGOLA: Second Social Action Fund Project (FAS II)
Years Ending
| Year 1| Year 2  | Year 3  | Year 4  | Year 5  | Year 6  | Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
InvestmentCosts            9.0       13.0       11.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs             3.9        5.7       4.8        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs         12.9       18.7       15.8        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Financing             12.9       18.7       15.8        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                   9.0       13.0       11.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Government                 1.4        2.0        1.7       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Central                0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Co-financiers              1.4        2.0        1.7       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    1.1        1.7        1.4       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                     0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing     12.9      18.7       15.8        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
| Year I     Year2      Year3     Year 4  | Year 5      Year6  | Year7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          9.0       13.0       11.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Recurrent Costs           3.9        5.7        4.8        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Costs         12.9       18.7      15.8        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Financing             12.9       18.7      15.8        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                  9.0       13.0       11.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Government                1.4        2.0        1.7        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Central                0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers             1.4        2.0        1.7        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
User FeeslBeneficiaries   1.1        1.7        1.4        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                    0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing    12.9       18.7       15.8       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
- 55 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
ANGOLA: Second Social Action Fund Project (FAS 11)
Procurement
Overall, it is noted that the FAS II Project, as a continuation of an earlier IDA supported program, will
apply the same systems, procedures and staff to oversee and carry out procurement that operated under the
first FAS Project. The majority of the present staff were trained in IDA procurement procedures during the
first project and the systems and procedures were assessed effective in delivering project inputs by IDA
supervision missions.
Procurement for Project Preparation. As FAS II is a follow-on project, the most substantive
procurement carried out in preparation for the Project has involved studies and consultant services in the
areas of: micro-credit, beneficiary assessments, capacity building and monitoring and evaluation systems.
A Japanese PHRD facility and the on-going FAS I Project financed the relevant contracts for these
activities, which were all awarded in accordance with IDA guidelines for the use of consultants.
Procurement under the Project. The exact nature and mix of goods and services to be procured under the
FAS II Project are not fuilly known at present due to the demand driven nature of the principal FAS
implementing strategy, the social fund. The nature of the activities and procurement requirements under
subprojects financed by the credit is defined by community groups and presented to the FAS through
implementing partners (primarily NGOs, local contractors and government ministry departments) on an ad
hoc basis. For this purpose, an Operational Manual that defines in detail the procedures for reviewing and
approving contracts for subprojects has been prepared by the Borrower and will be reviewed and approved
by IDA as a condition of credit effectiveness. The revised Operational Manual also takes into
consideration the AFR Guidelines for Simplified Procurement and Disbursement for Community-Based
Investments and experiences gained in procurement under the FAS I Project.
The FAS Operational Manual relies on the Bank's Guidelines, for Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits (January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997, and January
1999) for goods and works, and Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers (January 1997; Revised September 1997; Addendum Effective January 1, 1999) for
consultant services, in particular Section 3.15, Community Participation in Procurement.
Subproiects. Based on experience gained under FAS I, it is known that the majority of subproject
resources are used for relatively small-scale (less than US$100,000) works activities. Due to the small size
and the scattered nature of these works it is not expected that they will attract international bidders.
Furthermore, due to the limited number of local contractors in provincial towns, and the high cost, and
potential risk of inter-provincial transport, national contractors based in Luanda and the larger provincial
cities tend not to bid on the FAS works. Therefore, works contracts estimated to cost less than US$70,000
(up to an aggregate amount of US$15 million, equivalent) will be contracted through community
participation arrangements whereby lump-sum, fixed priced contracts are awarded based on at least three
written bids from qualified local contractors. Standard designs, technical specifications and bills of
quantities that have been developed in collaboration with the relevant line ministries and public authorities
will be used as much as possible to facilitate these community participation procurement arrangements.
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures will only be used for works estimated to cost US$70,000
equivalent and above. Simplified NCB documents prepared in Portuguese and approved for use by IDA
during FAS I will be applied for this purpose under FAS II.
- 56 -



Goods. Individual contracts for goods valued at US$100,000 equivalent or above will be awarded on the
basis of ICB. Small value goods procurement contracts (individual contract value of less than US$100,000
equivalent) will be awarded on the basis of NCB. Simplified NCB documents approved for use by IDA
during FAS I will be applied for this purpose. Contracts for goods valued at less than US$30,000
equivalent (up to an aggregate amount of US$ 3.6 million equivalent) may be procured using shopping
procedures based on written solicitation issued to at least three qualified suppliers and the evaluation of all
written bids.
Consultants for both, advisory services and training, will be engaged in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines for Consultant services. The bulk of the consultants (individuals and firms) will be hired
utilizing Quality- and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS), in accordance with Section II, para. 2.1-2.28 of the
Guidelines. Among other services, the printing of a quarterly newsletter, grassroots management training,
FAS partner training, M&E system design, environmental assessment training and project auditing services
will be contracted for using QCBS. In addition, selection shall also be done based on Consultants'
Qualifications (CQ) for FAS staff training design, awareness training, subproject evaluation, and for the
project management review. Single-source contracting will be used on exceptional basis and with IDA's
prior agreement, including radio programming where the public radio station is the only appropriate source
of service. Shortlists for contracts estimated to cost under US$100,000 may be comprised entirely of
national consultants if a sufficient number (at least three) of qualified candidates are available at
competitive costs. However, if foreign firms have expressed interest, they will not be excluded from
bidding. Contracts less than US$100,000 each for firms, could be contracted on the basis of CQ.
Contracts for individuals valued less than US$50,000 may be awarded in accordance with part V of the
Guidelines. Contracts for both individual and frmns may be awarded on a single source basis only in
exceptional circumstances, after adequate justification and prior review by IDA.
During appraisal, discussions were held on the details of the procurement plan (including procurement
methods) for these items that can be planned for under this Project. The result of these discussions, and the
summary of the proposed procurement arrangements for the Project, are reflected in Table A.
Unit Cost Database. The FAS Offices (both provincial and national) will collect and maintain on a
monthly basis the costs and rates of 12 of the most commonly used inputs for subprojects. The unit cost
information will be drawn from a random sample of at least three suppliers and will be maintained
electronically in the computers of each office. The list will be consolidated quarterly by National
Coordination Unit and distributed to all provincial offices. The database will be used to appraise
subprojects and to monitor the approval process.
A General Procurement Notice. All anticipated goods and services will be published in the Development
Business Forum once the project is successfully negotiated, and will be updated annually thereafter.
Specific Procurement Notices for goods and requests for Expression of Interest for consultant services will
be issued in accordance with the standard Guidelines referred to above.
Procurement Planning. The Procurement Planning Schedules covering non-subproject goods and
consultancy services were finalized at the time of appraisal. These plans will be used to monitor
implementation under the project during supervision missions and as part of the annual procurement audit.
Implementation Arrangements
Subprojects are identified by community groups (nucleos comunitarios), prepared by implementing
- 57 -



partners (NGOs, etc.) and are appraised at provincial level by FAS technical staff (engineers and
architects). Contracting for subproject activities for the rehabilitation and construction of social and
economic infrastructure, and improved management of natural resources, will constitute the majority of
procurement responsibilities under the Project. The Provincial FAS Office has authority to approve
subprojects that receive FAS financing up to US$70,000 equivalent, the FAS National Coordination Unit
will approve subprojects that receive FAS financing from US$70,000 up to US$100,000 equivalent, and
the FAS National Board of Overseers will approve subprojects that receive FAS financing valued at
US$100,000 equivalent and above. IDA's prior review threshold for subprojects is also US$100,000
equivalent.
The FAS National Coordination Unit (NCU) in Luanda oversees all non-subproject related procurement of
goods and services. The Technical Assistant to the Director of the NCU is responsible for the preparation
and issuing of appropriate bid documents and ensuring that all IDA procedures are followed. In doing so,
she calls upon the assistance of the engineer, administrator and the financial officer of the NCU as
appropriate. The NCU also contracts the services of specialized consultants (such as industry specialists
or lawyers) as needed to finalize the terms of reference or technical specifications of a procurement
document. The current Technical Assistant and the National Director have both been trained in Bank
procurement procedures under FAS I. Based on the experience of FAS I and the expected increase in
central level procurement under FAS II, it has been agreed that the procurement cell of the NCU will be
strengthened. In FAS II, the Technical Assistant will carry out the responsibilities of a procurement officer
full time (used to be 50 percent) and the Deputy Director will dedicate up to 50 percent of his/her time to
procurement matters. The procurement cell will also have the responsibility to have procurement audits
conducted and to act on the recommendations of the procurement audit reports. An organigram describing
the procurement arrangements and relationships is attached in Chart 1.
Each of the nine FAS Provincial Offices assist community groups with the procurement of works, goods
and services for subprojects within their jurisdiction. However, the principal responsibility for the
procurement under subprojects will rest with the nucleos comunitdrios (NCs). Each provincial office has a
technical (engineer or architect) and an administrative officer who helps the NCs prepare the appropriate
procurement documentation, evaluate bids, and finalize contracts. In those instances when communities do
not have the requisite skills to undertake this procurement, the FAS provincial office will procure goods
and services on behalf of the communities. The use of standard approved bid documents, technical designs
and specifications developed and applied under FAS I also facilitates this process. Contracts are signed
between contractors or suppliers and the nucleo comunitdrio or FAS (if the office has undertaken direct
procurement on behalf of the community), and payments are made by the FAS provincial office based on
written payment instructions from the NCs. For any larger or unusual subproject procurement
requirements, the National Coordination Unit will provide technical assistance to the provincial offices and
staff to finalize bid documents and, if need be, issuing of bids.
Prior Review Thresholds. IDA prior review will be required for all works and goods contracts of
US$100,000 equivalent or more. Service contracts valued at more than US$100,000 for firms, and
US$50,000 for individuals will also require IDA prior review. IDA will also review all termns of reference
for service contracts regardless of value, all single source contracting of consultants, all amendments to
contracts raising the value above the prior review thresholds, and any assignment reasonably deemed
critical by IDA. Below these thresholds, IDA will carry out an ex-post review on a sample of national and
provincial contracts issued during its semi-annual supervision missions. Table B below indicates these
thresholds by expenditure category under the FAS II Project.
- 58 -



Procurement Risk Assessment. Procurement experience to date under FAS I has been average. While
there have been some errors made in the application of operational and procurement procedures, no case of
mis-procurement has been registered under FAS I. For this reason, and despite the overall risky nature of
the country and the highly decentralized nature of FAS implementation, the procurement risk environment
for FAS II is considered average. To mitigate the procurement risk environment, FAS will: (i) increase the
strength of its procurement cell and (ii) enhance its capacity for procurement further through its capacity
building component. The two central level procurement staff and the nine provincial level procurement
staff will be exposed to procurement training programs. A procurement capacity assessment will be
carried out within three months of Effectiveness of the project.
Procurement Audits. Given the large number of relatively small contracts that will not require World
Bank prior review, the need for more systematic ex-post review is high. In addition to semi-annual
supervision missions, the Government has agreed to carry out semi-annual project procurement audits in
the first year of the project and annual project procurement audits in the second and third year for FAS II.
These audits will be carried out under terms and conditions and by independent consultants whose
qualifications are acceptable to IDA. The procurement audits will be conducted for the use of FAS and for
use by the Bank, and will include an action plan to improve performance which will be submitted to the
Bank and discussed jointly. The Government has agreed that the first two subprojects in each of the
provinces will be prior reviewed, regardless of their value.
-59 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                             0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
2. Goods                             0.70            0.20           0.20            0.47           1.57
(0.70)         (0.19)          (0.19)         (0.00)         (1.08)
3. Services                          0.00            0.00           3.94            1.50           5.44
Technical Assistance and             (0.00)         (0.00)          (3.94)         (0.00)         (3.94)
training
4. Institutional                     0.00            0.00           3.14            0.85           3.99
SupportlOperating Costs
(0.00)         (0.00)          (2.98)         (0.00)         (2.98)
5. Sub-projects                      0.00            2.94           26.46           6.60           36.00
(0.00)         (2.50)         (22.50)         (0.00)         (25.00)
Total                             0.70            3.14           33.74           9.42           47.00
(0.70)         (2.69)         (29.61)         (0.00)         (33.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
21Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
The term "operating costs" means the incremental expenses incurred on account of Project Implementation,
management and monitoring, including office supplies, utilities expenses, rental expenses, vehicles and equipment
operation, transport, travel, per diem, supervision costs and local contractual staff salaries but excluding salaries of
officials of the Borrower's civil service.
-60 -



Chart 1: Organigram
Procurement Arrangements and Relationships
GOA                          BANK
F.A.S.
NCU
Procurement Cell              Administrative
1.5 person
F.A.S.
Provincial Office
Procurement Office
(Part Time)
0.5 person
Conmlmunities                      NGO
Procurement support
-61 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
X    F
A. Firms           1.80      0.00     0.00       0.00      0.15      0.05      1.00      3.00
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)
B. Individuals     0.36      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00       0.18      0.50      1.04
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)
Total   2.16     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.15      0.23      1.50      4.04
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
-62 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
~~~<i:.'o  'PC^vroot^8 ,
1. Works
2. Goods                      <30,000                   Other
<100,000                 NCB                    >100,000
>100,000                  ICB
3. Services                                             Other                 >100,000
4. Consultant Services        <100,000                  Other              >100,000 (firms)
and Training                  <50,000                CQ (firms)
CV (individuals)      >50,000 (individual)
>100,000                 QCBS
5. Subprojects                <70,000                   Other
>70,000                  NCB                   >100,000
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  2,078,000
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
IThresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
-63 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
It is estimated that the project would be implemented over a three-year period, starting on September 1,
2000. The completion date of the Project is set for August 30, 2003 and the closing date would be
February 29, 2004, to allow six months to request and process disbursements for expenditures incurred
prior to the closing date. The annual estimated disbursements are indicated in the Project Financing Data
table, on the first page of the Program Appraisal Document.
The NCU will be responsible for ensuring that financial management and reporting procedures for the
project meet Government and World Bank standards. A Financial Management Action Plan has been
developed to set forth necessary actions for systems development for sound financial management, and
incorporated in the Operational Manual.
At this stage FAS II is not ready for disbursements based on Project Management Report (PMR), as
discussed in the World Bank's Loan Administration Change Initiative handbook (LACI, September 1998).
Therefore, in the short-term, the existing disbursement procedures as outlined in the World Bank
Disbursement Handbook will be followed. Table C below sets out the categories of expenditures to be
financed by the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each category, and the percentage of
expenditures to be financed by IDA under each Category.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
1. Goods                                   1.00           100% of foreign expenditures and 95%
of local expenditures
2. Sub-Projects                            22.50                        90%
3. Consultant Services and Training        3.00                         100%
4. Operating Costs                         3.00                         95%
5. Unallocated                             3.50
Total Project Costs                        33.00          _
Total                                     33.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Statement of Expenses. Disbursement would be made on the basis of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs)
for contracts with an individual value less than those requiring IDA's prior review. Therefore, all relevant
documentation for expenditures of contracts with an estimated value of less than: (a) US$100,000 each for
works and goods in subprojects, from the FAS provincial offices to the FAS NCU in Luanda and from he
FAS NCU in Luanda to IDA; (b) US$100,000 or less for consultants' services and training provided by
firms; (c) US$50,000 or less for individual consultants; and (d) all operating costs which may be claimed
against SOEs, will be retained by the FAS National Coordination Unit (Administrative Section) and be
made available for review when requested by IDA supervision mission and project auditors. All
applications for: (a) direct payments, and (b) issuance of special commitments in guarantee of letters of
credit for payments equal to or in excess of these thresholds will be submitted directly to IDA with
appropriate documentation (copy of contract, invoice, IDA no objection to contract, etc.).
- 64 -



Special Account: A Special Account (SA) in US dollars will be opened in a commercial bank under terms
and conditions acceptable to IDA for the purposes of ensuring timely provision of funds for Project
implementation. The authorized allocation for the SA will be US$ 3.2 million, which is a level sufficient to
cover at least four months of estimated expenditures eligible for financing by IDA. However, the Special
Account will be limited to US$ 1.6 million until cumulative disbursements reach US$ 6 million equivalent.
The initial deposit of the SA will only be increased, after a SOE review is carried out during a supervision
mission, scheduled to take place by March 2001, and accumulative disbursements exceed US$ 6 million.
The NCU will be responsible for overseeing the SA and submitting periodic replenishment applications
with appropriate supporting documents for expenditures. It is expected that such replenishments
applications will be prepared and submitted at least monthly.
Disbursement Arrangements: Given the decentralized nature of FAS implementation, there is an equal
need to decentralize disbursement procedures and financial management responsibilities to improve
accountability. Therefore, provincial offices will open and maintain new separate accounts in commercial
banks (in US dollars), managed independently, for the purposes of receiving up to three months advances of
approved planned activities, related to subproject expenses and operating costs. Nine new bank accounts
will be open at the provincial level. Initial allocations to the provincial offices have been agreed upon with
IDA at: US$125,000 for Benguela, Cabinda, Huila, Kunene, Luanda, Namibe and US$85,000 for Bengo,
Huambo and Kwanza Sul. The management of the funds will be guided by procedures detailed in the
Project Operational Manual, adopted by the borrower as a Condition for Effectiveness.
Funds will be advanced to the provincial offices based on approved quarterly plans. Provincial accounts
will be replenished at least on a monthly basis by the Management Unit in Luanda upon submission by the
provincial offices of replenishment requests accompanied by appropriate supporting documents.
Replenishment application and documentation requirements for the provincial offices would follow a
simplified SOE procedure, based on the defned subproject and operating costs thresholds, that provides a
detailing of expenses by category, bank statement and reconciliation, copies of contracts and all other
original invoices or evidence of expenditures. The submission of the first Annual Workplan and Budget for
FAS I1, including the commitments for each province to carry out the planned subprojects, is a Condition
for Effectiveness of the Project.
Subprojects: Disbursement arrangements for subprojects are detailed in the Operational Manual.
Advance payments up to 20 percent of the total project costs will be permitted without bank guarantee in
the case of self-help and civil works contracts below US$70,000. All subsequent disbursements will be
made based on physical evidence of the satisfactory progress or completion of works certified by provincial
office technical staff, and on the submission of appropriate accounting reports for previously disbursed
funds. The physical evidence of the satisfactory progress with sub-project implementation will in addition
be confirmed by the Provincial Boards of Overseers and through the technical and financial audits carried
out regularly by internal auditors as part of the M&E efforts, and as part of the Mid-Term Review.
Project Accounts: Separate Project Accounts will be opened at central and provincial levels to finance the
Government's contribution to the Project. During negotiations, agreement was reached regarding the
arrangements for establishing and operating these Project Accounts. An initial deposit of an amount in KZ
equivalent to US$300,000 will be made by the Government for this purpose and subsequent quarterly
replenishments made in such amounts to return the Project Account to the level of the initial deposit.
Financial Management. The details for financial management, accounting, financial reporting and audit
arrangements are set out in Annex 15.
- 65 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
ANGOLA: Second Social Action Fund Project (FAS 11)
(At final PAD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)             09/15/98                     09/15/98
Appraisal mission departure                     05/04/2000                   05/04/2000
Negotiations                                    05/18/2000                   05/18/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   09/01/2000                   09/01/2000
Prepared by:
Prepared by: FAS (Social Action Fund)
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Wim Alberts                       Task Team Leader
Laura Frigenti                    Social Scientist
Montserrat Meiro-Lorenzo          Public Health Specialist
Elca Rosenberg                    Senior Economist
Mike Bamberger                    Senior Social Scientist
Steven Schonberger                Micro-Finance Specialist
Mirey Ovadiya                     Operations Analyst
Marguerite Monnet                 Grassroots Management Trainer
Isabella Micali Drossos           Legal Counsel
Solange Alliali                   Legal Counsel
Jose Paulo Kastrup                Legal Counsel
Subhash Dhingra                   Senior Procurement Specialist
Jose Janeiro                      Financial Management Specialist
Iraj Talai                        Senior Financial Specialist
Nathalie Lopez-Diouf              Language Program Assistant
Peer Reviewers
Jaime Biderman
Manuela Ferro
Lynne Sherbume-Benz
-66 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
ANGOLA: Second Social Action Fund Project (FAS 11)
A. Project Implementation Plan
A. Governent of Angola Documents:
1. FAS I Operational and Administrative Manuals
2. FAS II Operational Manual
3. FAS Beneficiary Assessment
4. FAS Audits
5. Angola Poverty Note (1999, draft)
B. Bank Documents:
1. Social Action Project SAR
2. Mid-Term Review Report FAS I
3. Technical Evaluation
B. Bank Staff Assessments
C. Other
*Including electronic files
-67 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
ANGOLA: Second Social Action Fund Project (FAS 11)
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions      disbursements
Project ID   FY   Borrower                    Purpose                                 IBRD      IDA      Cancel.   Undisb.     Orig  Frm Rev'd
P000044      1993 Angola                  FINANCIAL INSTITUrIO                           0.00     21.00     0.00      4.40      4.45      0.00
P000035      1992 Angola                  LOBITOIBENG.REHAB.                             0.00     45.58     0.00      4.53      1.94      0.00
P045644      1998 Angola                  POST CONFLICT SOC RE                           0.00     5.00      0.00      4.07      3.03      0.00
P0O0061      1996 Angola                  SOCIALACTION                                   0.00    24.00      0.00      1.71      0.16      0.00
P000050      1993 Angola                  TRANSPORT RECOVERY                             0.00    41.00      0.00      10.46    10.43     10.35
Total:      0.00     136.58       0.00      25.17     20.01    10.35
ANGOLA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                                Disbursed
IFC                                     IFC
FY Approval             Company                               Loan   Equity    Quasi    Partic         Loan   Equity    Quasi    Partic
1998                    AEF Flecol                            0.61       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.31      0.00       0.00      0.00
1996                    AEF Hotel Conti                       1.50       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
Total Portfolio:               2.11      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.31       0.00      0.00      0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval            Company                                   Loan      Equity        Quasi       Partic
Total Pending Commitment:                 0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00
- 68 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
ANGOLA: Second Social Action Fund Project (FAS II)
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             Saharan       Low-
Anoola      Africa   )ncom.       Development dlamond
* 998
Ponulation mid-veer tmillionsl                           17.n       f23      3.515                  Life expectancy
fPNP nor ranita (Atlas method. USI)                      340        480       .570
(t NP (Atlas method. USS billions)                        41I       30A4    1.A44
Averaae annual arowth. 1992-9a
Pontlatinn M9)                                            3 1        2t        1 7
Labor force fX)                                           3.1        2.6       1.9      GNP                                Gross
Moat recent estimate (latest vear available. 1992.981                                   per                               primary
capita                          -1rtl-nt
Povertv (% of Dooulation below nalfon*tD Ovetfv liner)
Ilrhan nonijlalinn f% of totaloooulallon)                 33         33         3t
I if*e rxnatanev at bIrth Nyears)                         46         51         63
Infant mhortalitv toer 1.000 five births)                125         91         s9
thild malniitrition t% ofchildren underS                 3S                                      Access to safe water
Acces to safe water I% Of 6oDuation)                      32         47         74
1lliteratv (% ofioaulatlon aae 15'                                   42         32
Gross orimarv enrollment (% of school-i8o oootU1ton).                77        108                  Angola
Male                                                               RA 84     1 3                  Low-income group
FAmale                                                             94        1033
KY ECONOMiC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987       1997       1598
Economic ratios*
GDP tUSS bllions)                                ..       7.4        7.6       6.6
ross domfstic. investmrnt/frllP                          1. 0       23.a      24.5
Exoorts of ooods and services/GDP                        32.6       88.8      57.1                      Trade
tMrnss domestIc av1nsfrP                         I.       A 19 3    25 7      12.
frnss national savinnsarJnlP                             13.8      -15 5     -.t3.4
Currant acorAunt hatanrAlArDP                             S 1      -11 4     .739.
IntArext navmrntslC.rnP                                   0n         44        4.1      Domestic                      Investment
Total debt/GDP                                   ..    73.8        155.6    11813       Savings                       Ie.
Totml deht sorvieolaxnorts                                7.2       21 0      34 1
Present value of debt/GDP                                          117.1
Present value of drahtlYtosrts                                     153 0
Indebtedness
1977-47  1988-9S      1997       1998   1999-03
(evermae annual orowlth
(.OP                                   3.0.    -1t1       7f        .3.g       9.S             Angola        Low-income group
IPNP nor nanita                        2 1     -R.1       l f        4.9       5.4
Exoorts of ooods and services          1.4      S.        9.2       -8.2       9.1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997       1998      Growth rates of output and Investment(%)
IX of SDP)
Anrdcilutre                                              12.9        9.S      13. 5      00
Industrv                                                 41t3        IA.9     54.1      400 t
Manuifactuirina                                         73         4.4        5.5     200
Snrvi.ex.                                                48 9       29.S      32.4        o 
Private consirmntion                                     53.0       23 2      48.3    -200            94            96   97  9s
General nnvernment consnimnlion                          27.9       51 S      39.1                                3
ImDorts of ooods and services                     ..    29.3        67.4      69.0                      GDG
(averane annual orowthtl                    1977.87  1988-98       1997       1998      Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Aoriculture                                      ..    -5.8          9.6       3.1    200
Indristrv                                         .       2.2        A.1       52      150
Manufacturina                                   ..    -6.3         8.0      -10.0    to- 
Services                                                 -5.1        S1      -24 5
Private consumotion                             0.4      -2.6       25.4      72.7
Gaeneral novemmpnt consumntinn                  8.1      -2.3       -7 5      -44.9        . L _
t.rnss domestic inveRtment                      -3.5      R.4       13 1     -24.3    -so
lmnnrts nf nnods and services                  -1.4       9.P        3.1     -20 7                    Exports      Slumports
C.rnms national nroduct                         2.2      -5 5        1.3       7.9q
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv fin bold) comoared with its income-orouo averaae. If data are missin,. the diamond will
he inromniete.
-69 -



Anaola
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                             1977    1987        1997     1998      Inflation(%)
(% change)                                                                        8,0      
Consumer prices                                ..      0.7      64.0    107.4    4,000
Implicit GDP deflator                          ..      7.7      90.9      56.9
Government finance                                                                 ,0X
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                    o
Current revenue                                ..    28.2       36.7      25.9              93   94   95    9     97   98
Current budget balance                         ..    -2.7      -14.9    -13.2                    GDP deflator   OCPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..    -8.1      -19.7    -15.7
TRADE
(US$ millions)                              1977    1987        1997     1998      Export and Import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                            ..   2,322      5,008     3,509    6,00
Crude oil                                    ..   2,059      4,507     3,038
Diamonds                                      ..      98       348       350     4000
Manufactures                                  ..      76       101        68
Total imports (cif)                            ..   1,303      2,477     1,976
Food                                         ..    193         365               2.000
Fuel and energy                               ..
Capitalgoods                                  ..    209        354         ..       0
92  93  94  95  96  97  90
ExDortodriceindex(1995=100)                           103        112       75
ImDort Drice index (1995=100)                  ..      93         90       82               * Exports    * Imports
Termsof trade (1995=100)                       ..    110         124       91
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millions)                              1977    1987       1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exportsofgoodsandservices                      ..   2,415      5,237     3,810
Imports of goods and services                  ..   1,563      2,921     2,330
Resource balance                               ..    852       2,315     1,480
Net income                                     .. -457  -3,287  -3,203    III'."
Net current transfers                          ..       .        106      134
Current account balance                        ..    447        -866    -1,589    -20
Financing items (net)                          ..   -429         683     1,500    -25
Changes in net reserves                        ..    -18         183       88    -30
Memo:
Reserves includina aold (USS millions)         ..       .,       392        0
Conversion rate {DEC. locaUUSS)                .. 2.99E-2   2.28E+5  3.94E+5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977    1987       1997     1998
(USS millions)                                                                     Compositlon of total debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           ..   5,452    11,841    12,053
IBRD                                         ..       0          0        0                G: 1,212 B: 179
IDA                                          ..       0        136      179                             _  D 1,455
Total debt service                             ..    174       1,129     1,354
IBRD                                         ..       0          0        0
IDA                                          .        0          1        1
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                  E: 3,058
Official grants                             13       65
Official creditors                            .     133        -17       -7
Private creditors                            ..    546         608      -320
Foreign direct investment                    ..    119          ..        -.         F: 6,149
Portfolio equity                             ..       0
World Bank program
Commitments                                  ..       0          0        0      A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                ..       0         28       36      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                         ..       0          0        0      ro - IMF                     r - Rhnrt-tem
Net flows                                     ..      0         28       36
Interest payments                             -       0          1        1
Net transfers                                ..       0         27       35
Development Economics                                                                                               9/17/99
- 70 -



Additional
Annex No.: 11
WORLD BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE TO ANGOLA SINCE 1990 AND
PRELIMINARY THOUGHTS ON AN INTERIM STRATEGY
L Introduction
This note provides background on the Bank's work to date with Angola and preliminary thoughts on an
Interim Strategy for the coming year, in the wake of the recent signature (April 3, 2000) of an agreement
between the Government of Angola and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) for a Staff-Monitored
Program (SMP), covering the period from April to December 2000. Because of the uncertainties created
by Angola's difficult political situation and economic instability, there has yet to be a formal discussion
with the Board of Directors on a Country Assistance Strategy. We plan to finalize an Interim Strategy for
discussion with the Board in the first half of FY 2001, and, if progress continues to be positive, revert to
the Board with a full CAS in FY2002.
The Bank's longer term objectives for Angola would be to help consolidate peace and foster equitable
growth by helping the country to: i) restore and sustain macroeconomic stability; ii) implement remaining
structural reforms to complete the transition to a market-oriented economy and create the conditions for a
dynamic private sector-outside of the oil sector; iii) expand access to, and improve the quality of, essential
social services and reconstruct critical infrastructure on a sustainable basis; iv) foster the reintegration of
displaced persons into their communities; v) improve governance; and vi) build the capacity to make it
possible to achieve all of these difficult goals. The objectives of the proposed Interim Strategy, consistent
with these longer term objectives, would be twofold: (i) to help Angola satisfactorily meet the structural
reform measures agreed as part of the SMP, and to move on to a successor arrangement with the IMF
(which may take the form of a Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility, PRGF), as well as to an enhanced
lending and assistance scenario with the World Bank; and (ii) to prepare the terrain for this possible
scenario, on condition that objective (i) is accomplished.
11. A Brief Historical Review of Post-Independence Angola
Political Aspects
Angola gained its independence from Portugal on November 11, 1975, after a long anti-colonial war that
started in 1961. The three main liberation movements - MPLA, UNITA, and FNLA - signed, in January
1975, the Alvor Agreement, in which they concurred to form a transitional government and hold elections
before formal independence in November 1975. However, the incipient coalition government collapsed
MPLA stands for the Movimento Popular para a Libertacao de Angola, and has been the Government party throughout
Angolas history. Led by Presidents Agostinho Neto and then Jose Eduardo dos Santos, MPLA had a Marxist-Leninist
orientation for much of its history until it began the move towards market in the late Eighties. Internally, the MPLA's key
support comes from the Mbundu ethno-linguistic group, particularly in Luanda and the other major urban areas. UNITA stands
for the Uniao Nacional para a Independencia Total de Angola, with Jonas Savimbi as its leader. UNITA's main basis of
domestic support is the Ovimbundu ethno-linguistic group, especially in Angola's central highlands. FNLA stands for the
Frente Nacional para a Liberta95o de Angola, headed by Holden Roberto, whose support base came mainly from the Bakongo
ethno-linguistic group in Northern Angola. FNLA suffered a major military defeat in the hands of MPLA in 1976, and
retreated to its bases in Zaire.
- 71 -



in July 1975, when fighting broke out amongst the three independence movements. After FNLA' s defeat in
1976 (see chart 1), the ciyil war continued between MPLA, which constituted the officially recognized
Government, and UNITA.
A first peace agreement between MPLA and UNITA was signed in Bicesse, Portugal, on March 15, 1991.
The Bicesse Accord contained a calendar for demobilization of the military forces of both UNITA and the
MPLA Government, as well as for Angola's first multiparty national elections, held in September 1992.
MPLA's incumbent President Jose Eduardo dos Santos won 49.6 percent of the vote to UNITA's Savimbi's
40.7 percent, in an electoral process generally perceived by the international community as fair and
transparent. Civil war resumed, with disastrous social, political and economic consequences for the
country, as UNITA refused to accept its electoral defeat, until a new peace agreement was signed in
Lusaka, Zambia, in November 1994.
The Lusaka Protocol included the formation of a Government of National Unity and Reconstruction
(known by its Portuguese acronym, GURN), with a power-sharing arrangement in which UNITA would be
responsible for a number of ministries. The peace process, however, was marred by consistent failure, on
the part of UNITA, to comply with its obligations under the Protocol, leading to additional sanctions
being imposed by the UN Security Council in 1997 and tightened again subsequently. War between
UNITA forces controlled by Mr. Savimbi and the Government broke out again in December 1998 (see
section IV). A splinter group, UNITA Renovada, has opted for peace and participation in the political
process as an opposition party.
Economic Aspects
In 1974-76, Angola's reserves of human capital were severely depleted, as more than 300,000 Portuguese
settlers fled the country, also destroying economic installations in the process. Chart 1 displays the impact
of this sudden curtailment in the supply of two major inputs - skilled labor and organizational capacity - on
Angola's real per capita GDP. Angola never recovered from this shock, which was only aggravated by the
continuance of the protracted civil war; by the nationalization of virtually all physical assets; and by the
adoption of a central planning system. Starting in the late 1980s, Angola began the move from a centrally
planned to a market economy, a process which is still ongoing. The disruptions caused by the war had
major negative impact on the performance of the productive sectors, with the exception of oil, the
production of which increased dramatically. Today, daily production is over 750,000 barrels and a
substantial increase is anticipated over the next ten years. However, the oil production increases have not
been able to compensate for the declines in other areas and Angola's per capita GDP has never recovered to
its pre-Independence level.
During the 1990s, as military expenditures soared, spending in other areas was curtailed with important
negative repercussions for the social sectors. The lack of fiscal restraint produced several bouts of hyper
inflation: the end-of-period CPI averaged more than 2000 percent in the period 1993-96. Extensive
exchange rate, trade and price controls entailed major distortions and fertile ground for corruption. And the
social dislocations caused by the fighting resulted in an exodus from the rural areas and a displaced
population that may exceed 3 million, according to Government statistics released in December 1999.
The first sanctions against UNITA (related to arms, military equipment, and fuel) were introduced by the Security Council in
1993, following UNITA's failure to accept the 1992 election results.
- 72 -



Chart 1 - Angola: Real GDP Per Capita (1960 - 1996)
Real GDP Per Capita
(1960-1996)
\-Real GOP per Capita (US$, 1985 intemational prices)
1400
| Independence |    Civil War restart after 1992
1200                                               General Election. For the 1st.
time in history oil production
1000-                                              was affected by the war.
800
19601962 1964 1966 19681970 19721974197619781980198219841986198819901992 19941996
SourceOnfine data by Robert Summers('an Heston, Penn World Tables (Mark 5): An Expanded Set of Intemational Compansons, 1950-198 1,
Quarterly Journal of Economics, 1991; 1990-1996 GDP data at 1985 international prices were calculated from data provided byAngolan aL t
)MF_ staff_calculations-
Despite the increase in oil prices over the past year (oil exports comprise approximately 90 percent of
Angola's total export revenues), the Government's overall deficit in 1999, on a commitment basis, exceeded
13 percent of GDP. The inflation rate as of end 1999 was at 329 percent. Real GDP growth in 1999
stagnated at 0.9 percent mainly due to war related contraction of the non-oil sectors.
Notwithstanding its ample resource base, decades of war and lack of maintenance have left the economy in
shambles: physical infrastructure is damaged or destroyed; access to different parts of the country is
seriously impaired due to problems of security and land mines; social services are extremely poor, yielding
among the worst social indicators in the world; and there is a large number of internally displaced persons
(IDPs) living in slums on the outskirts of urban centers.
m. Bank Activities Since 1991
Amid high expectations of a lasting peace and economic reforms, the Bank approved seven projects in the
period between the signing of the Bicesse Accords in 1991 and the re-outbreak of war in late 1992. An
eighth project was approved some six months after fighting resumed. A ninth project was approved in late
1995, after the signing of the Lusaka Protocol, and a tenth operation, a LIL, was approved in early 1998 to
support the then expected return of displaced persons to their communities. Table 1 below summarizes the
Bank operations since 1991.
As certain parts of the country were generally free from fighting throughout the period, the Bank continued
with all of the approved projects. However, several projects were restructured to relocate physical works
from insecure to secure areas, to adapt to the changing economic circumstances and/or to accommodate the
weak absorptive capacity of implementing entities. The Bank's experience with its assistance to Angola has
- 73 -



been mixed. All projects suffered from common portfolio-wide obstacles that have affected their
performance over the years:
*   Low public-sector salaries, which affected incentives in the civil service and led to poor productivity or
absenteeism as staff sought part-time work outside the Government.
*   Unstable macroeconomic environment, which threatened the sustainability of all operations.
*  Limited institutional capacity, from various standpoints: human resources, managerial, and
procurement. Many of the Bank projects have tried to address these issues directly in their own design
and implementation.
*   Counterpartfunding, which has not always been provided by the Government at the level and
timeliness as stated in credit agreements and action plans. And, when provided, these funds have often
been substantially eroded by continuing high inflation.
The portfolio-wide problems have not prevented a number of the individual projects from achieving a
satisfactory performance. Table 2 below displays the project ratings, and, in the case of projects which
have been assessed by OED, the latter's rating on outcome. As a group, the projects trained a large
number of persons; supported substantial institutional development; fostered significant progress in helping
the central bank to evolve into its changed role in a market oriented economy; fostered an understanding in
country of the need for cost-recovery in the utilities sectors; helped to develop new legislation and
regulation in a variety of different areas; helped to rehabilitate important infrastructure (roads, power,
water); and supported the empowerment of communities and small community projects. The projects will
have helped to lay a foundation for sustained development if the reform and peace momentum continues.
At the same time, in several cases, the projects did not achieve their objectives inter alia because of lack of
sustained political commitment which was reflected in, for example, legislation produced several years ago,
only being approved and enacted now, or not yet at all; and delays and slippages in maintaining agreed real
increases in utility tariffs. More generally, as long as political uncertainty remains, and a stable
macroeconomic framework has not been fully restored, the sustainability of any project will be uncertain.
- 74 -



Table 1. World Bank-Supported Projects
Status of IDA Lending Operations (As of April 30, 2000)
Sector/Project    Credit    Board      Effective     Closing      Amount of IDA Credit    Undisbursed
Number    Approval       Date         Date         (Net of cancellation)     lL (In
Date                                   (Millions of US$        millions
equivalent) I /       of US$
equivalent)
Economic
Management      2274-     6/19/91      12/18/91     12/31/98     17.1        23.0         0.0
Cap. Building    ANG
Infrastructure
Rehabilitation    2289-   7/16/91      2/20/92      03/31/99     25.5        34.0         0.0
Engineering     ANG
Lobito/Benguel
Environmental   2326-     1/7/92       4/16/93      7/31/00      33.6        45.6         1.75
Rehabilitation    ANG
Education 1     2375-     6/2/92       12/8/92      09/30/99     19.9        27.1         0.0
ANG
Power Sector    2385-     6/11/92      1/15/93      12/31/99     24.5        33.5         0.0
Rehabilitation    ANG
Financial
Institutions    2421-     9/3/92       10/6/92      10/31/01     14.8        21.0         4.30
Modernization    ANG
Transport       2420-     9/3/92       9/15/93      6/30/00      30.0        41.0         6.35
Recovery        ANG
Health          2490-     5/11/93      12/15/93     12/31/99     14.2         19.9        0.0
ANG
Social Action   2802-     12/21/95     3/21/96      12/31/00     16.1        24.0         3.00
Fund            ANG
Post-Conflict   C30590    4/15/98      9/25/98      9/30/01      3.1         5.0          4.03
Social Recov.
Includes exchange valuation gains and losses since date of commitment.
Table I does not include the trust-funded Capacity Building grant for Angola, previously managed by The World Bank
Institute, which is now with the Country Directors Office. This project has been providing training for Government officials, as
well as private sector and civil society representatives, in the areas of economic management, social policy and infrastructure
provision. Table I also does not include the activities of IFC and MIGA in Angola. To date, IFC has approved three
investments in Angola. The most recent approval is Flecol, a soap manufacturer. Two previously approved projects, the
rehabilitation of a cement factory and the refurbishment of Hotel Continental, have been canceled on account of difficulties in
reducing public-sector ownership and complying with fire safety guidelines, respectively. In FY98, MIGA has issued a US$2.3
- million guarantee for an investment in Angola's manufacturing sector. In FY99, it has issued a US$18.5 million guarantee for
an investment in the service sector. It has currently twenty-one applications pending for investments totaling US$2.1 billion in
agribusiness, finance, manufacturing, mining, oil, power and tourism sectors.
- 75 -



Table 2. Bank-Supported Project Ratings
(as of latest PSRs/OED ratings)
Project Title                                       Ratings
DO              10             Outcome
(OED rating)
Economic Management Capacity Building      U              S                 U
Infrastructure Rehabilitation Engineering  S              S                MS*
Lobito Benguela Urban Environmental        S              S
Rehabilitation
Eduation I                                 S              S                 S*
Power Sector Rehabilitation                U              U
Financial Institutions Modernization       U              S
Transport Recovery                         S              S        _
Health                                     S              S         _
Social Action Fund                         S              S        _
Post-Conflict Social Recovery              U              U
*OED reports for these projects have not gone to the Board yet.
The Bank portfolio currently consists of five active projects: Transport Recovery, Lobito-Benguela Urban
Environmental Rehabilitation, Social Fund I, Financial Institutions, and Post-Conflict Social Recovery.
The former three projects will close at various times before the end of CY 2000. The Financial Institutions
project has recently been restructured to support an oil diagnostic study, the launching of which is a key
measure under the SMP, and is expected to be upgraded to satisfactory in the near future once the agreed
action plan has been fully completed. Implementation of the Post-Conflict Social Recovery Project had to
be put on hold months after approval because of the resumption of hostilities, which rendered its goal of
fostering resettlement no longer viable. With the changed security situation, we are reevaluating whether
the project can be effectively implemented in its entirety (the component for developing a strategy for
dealing with displaced persons should be able to continue).
Given the unstable economic conditions (notwithstanding several negotiations over the years with the IMF,
programs faltered before they were finalized), the resumption of significant fighting, the shrinking portfolio
and the lack of conducive conditions for new lending, in mid-1999, the Bank reduced its Country Office to
a liaison office, recalling the Resident Representative. No new projects have been approved since the 1998
LIL.
IV. Recent Political and Economic Developments
Recent Political Developments   Hostilities between UNITA and Government forces escalated again in
late 1998. In the second half of 1999, government forces secured important gains including some of the
traditional UNITA military and political strongholds. The strategic significance of this achievement is high.
A serious blow has been inflicted on UNITA's military capability to operate as a conventional army.
However, guerrilla activities continue. In March 2000, the UN released a report which revealed
widespread violations of the sanctions against UNITA. In response, on April 18, 2000, the Security
Council adopted a resolution with a program of remedial measures, the implementation of which would be
evaluated in November 2000. Another development has been the announcement by Angola's President of
general elections to take place in late 2001.
- 76 -



Recent Economic Developments  In February 1999, President dos Santos appointed a new economic
team. Since then a number of economic reform measures have been implemented:
* Government abolished the administration of the official exchange rate allowing it to be determined
freely. Since then, the official and informal exchange rates have almost completely converged,
compared to a history of wide differentials, and consequent scope for rent-seeking.
*   The Central Bank (BNA) liberalized interest rates and eliminated the requirement for Central Bank
approval of foreign exchange allocation for imports.
*  The Council of Ministers approved a tax reform package comprised of extension of the consumption
tax to services, and reduction of the corporate income tax rate.
*  The Government has gazetted a customs reform package reducing the number of tariff rates (from 43
to 8) and the maximum tariff rate (from 110 percent to 35 percent). Import permit requirements have
been abolished. Effort is being made to enforce the new customs regulations.
*  Domestic fuel prices were raised by about 1,600 percent in February 2000, in an effort to eliminate
fuel subsidies.
* The Government has issued a Letter of Invitation for the bidding process for an oil sector diagnostic
study, a key element in the move towards transparency.
On April 3, 2000, the Government signed an agreement with the IMF for a Staff-Monitored Program
(SMP). The SMP will cover the period between April and December 2000. The SMP anticipates a fiscal
surplus (commitment basis) of 1.8 percent of GDP in 2000 taking into account the higher oil prices and
production and large forecast military expenditure reductions; a decline in the rate of inflation to 120
percent in 2000 and double digits in 2001; and a 3 % percent growth rate in real GDP in 2000. The
proposed structural measures - totaling 45 - under the programn encompass the following areas: (i) central
government operations; (ii) public enterprises; (iii) financial sector; (iv) trade reform and private sector
development; (v) social sectors; and (vi) statistics. Many of these measures had been discussed with the
authorities in previous efforts to initiate a SMP in Angola.
Out of the 45 measures that the Government of Angola agreed to implement up to December 2000, ten are
structural benchmarks, i.e., measures that will serve as "guideposts" for judging the success of the
Program. The following table contains these structural benchmarks:
- 77 -



Table 3. Angola: Structural Performance Benchmarks Agreed
with the IMF for the Staff-Monitored Program, April - December 2000
Measures                                                    Timing
Eliminate import licensing and quantitative restrictions on imports.    April 30, 2000
Review domestic petroleum prices every quarter and adjust them as  Beginning April 2000
necessary in accordance with a formula that takes into account
movements in international prices and the exchange rate.
Agree terms of reference for an independent audit of the National  June 30, 2000
Bank of Angola with the IMF's Monetary and Exchange Affairs
Department (MAE).
Initiate the diagnostic study of the oil sector.            July 31, 2000
Finalize the first report of the diagnostic study of the oil sector.  September 30, 2000
Submit tender for international auditing firm to conduct independent   August 31, 2000
audit of the National Bank of Angola
Prepare a document describing the government's policy on     September 30, 2000
privatization of state-owned enterprises and containing a list of
enterprises that the government will privatize.
Initiate an independent audit of the National Bank of Angola.  November 30, 2000
Secure approval by Cabinet of a detailed plan for the restructuring  November 30, 2000
and phased privatization of the two state-owned banks.
Complete liquidation of the assets and liabilities of the CAP bank.  December 30, 2000
V. Preliminary Interim Strategy for World Bank Assistance to Angola
As pointed out in the Introduction, the central objectives of an Interim Strategy would be twofold: (i) to
heip Angola satisfactorily meet the structural reform measures agreed as part of the SMP, and to
"graduate" to a successor arrangement with the IMF (e.g., an arrangement for a Poverty Reduction and
Growth Facility, PRGF), as well as to an enhanced lending and assistance scenario with the World Bank;
and (ii) to prepare the ground for this possible high case scenario, provided that objective (i) is
accomplished.
The preliminary components of an Interim Strategy would include the following.
First, given the satisfactory implementation of the ongoing Social Fund Project, which has almost
completed disbursements, and in recognition of the advances made over the past year, the Bank is
submitting for Board consideration a Second Social Action Fund Project in June 2000.
- 78 -



Second, a new Technical Assistance Project and/or IDF grants would be developed quickly as the
cornerstone of the Bank's assistance to Angola during the next 12 months. These would focus on the
actions necessary to support the Government in the implementation of the SMP and other reforms. The
Program of support will be developed in consultation with the Government, the IMF and other donors, in
order to ensure coordination and a "donor division of labor" compatible with each donor's comparative
advantages. Some key areas for support are likely to include:
*   All work related to the preparation of an Interim PRSP: (i) support to the National Institute of
Statistics as the main provider of macroeconomic, poverty-related, and social indicators; and (ii)
support for analytical work required for the production of an informed Poverty Reduction Strategy,
including a review of public expenditures.
*   Support for the implementation of all SMP measures concerning privatization, including of the two
state-owned banks.
*   Support for continued reform of utility pricing.
Third, the Bank would support, within the constraints of its administrative budget, Economic and Sector
Work in order to: i) prepare a PRSP; ii) lay the foundations for a possible enhanced involvement of the
Bank once triggers are reached (see below); and iii) to provide inputs for a possible future Country
Assistance Strategy for Angola (which would mirror the strategic choices to be generated throughout the
PRSP process).
Fourth, achievement of the triggers discussed below will open the way for strengthening of the Country
Office, including through the appointment of a new resident representative. Strengthening the Country
Office would be critical, because of the country's capacity constraints, to support an enhanced Bank
program.
Fifth, new lending beyond the two operations mentioned above would be feasible after the triggers have
been achieved. In the meantime, within the constraints of the administrative budget, work may be initiated
to prepare one or more operations in response to government requests for support in strengthening social
services.
The triggers referred to above for additional lending and a strengthened Country Office would include:
*   The ten IMF structural benchmarks
*   All measures related to trade liberalization
*   The continued adjustment of electricity and water tariffs in accordance with formulas agreed with the
Bank
* The preparation of an Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
They are: (i) The elimination of import licensing and other non-tariff trade barriers; (ii) the elimination of customs exemptions
not contemplated in international accords; and (iii) the simplification of customs-clearance procedures for imports. Although
due on April 30, 2000, these measures still await approval from the Council of Ministers.
- 79 -



VI. Concluding Remarks
Previous attempts at implementing sustainable economic reforms in Angola have not been successful (see
sections I and II above). Therefore, the risks of slippage are high, mainly stemming from possible sources
such as: (i) major slippage in the macroeconomic or structural reform front caused by populist
policymaking linked with the general elections announced for late 2001 or by reversal of commitment; (ii)
major (political and economic) instability caused by an intensification of the guerilla war waged by
UNITA; and (iii) major changes in oil prices, affecting in a more substantial way the Government's
financial program for the year 2000. Therefore, a gradual approach is recommended with respect to an
enhanced Bank program, as discussed above.
- 80 -



Additional
Annex No.: 12
CONSOLIDATE OR EXPAND FAS
An important issue that FAS management faces as it enters into a second stage of operations is whether to
consolidate its sphere of activities within the provinces where it is currently operating, or expand to new
provinces. A careful consideration of the pros and cons of a geographical expansion of fund operations
leads to the conclusion that FAS II should focus mainly on consolidating rather than on expanding. This
does not proscribe the possibility of expanding activities to municipalities within the provinces where FAS
is currently operating. However, "expansion for expansion sake" should also not be a policy of the
provincial units of FAS II, for conditions in some municipalities are such that establishing operations
would be prohibitive.
This conclusion responds to the major operational constraints that the country faces in terms of security
and of availability of human and fmancial resources:
(i)    Security Constraints: Above all, there are security considerations to weigh. In addition to the
binding constraints that the on-going war has created, large areas are heavily mined -- there are more than 7
million mines in the country -- and in some provinces it would be very difficult to expand operations
outside of the central municipality (for example, in Bie, Huambo, Malanje, and Kuando Kubango).
(ii)   Logistical Constraints: Land access and communication to and within some provinces is
extremely precarious (for example, in Moxico, Lunda Norte, Lunda Sul, Kwanza Norte, Uige, and Kuando
Kubango). In some cases, the commercial banking system is practically non-existent and there are no
markets for the purchase of construction goods and services.
(iii)   Human Resources Constraints: In some provinces it is very difficult to find qualified personnel
to staff the Fund's regional offices and there are few professionals who are willing to move to high risk or
very isolated areas. NGOs that qualify to become partners in fund operations are hard to find and those
that exist are involved in food distribution and in providing emergency social assistance.
(iv)   Financial Constraints: FAS II will have a small budget in comparison to the unsatisfied demand
of basic needs of Angola's poor population, and the costs of adding new provincial offices or reaching very
isolated communities within a province are quite high. For example, installation costs of setting up a new
provincial office range from US$200 to US$250 thousand (construction and rehabilitation of buildings,
electricity generator, furniture, computers, automobiles, etc.). Equally important is the time and effort that
the establishment of a new provincial operation exacts from Fund managers. In addition, the costs of
operating a provincial office (salaries and materials) amounts to about US$160 thousand per year -- and
past experience has shown that it takes nearly a year to get a provincial office fully operational.
(v)    Geographical Coverage: Clearly, it would be prohibitive for FAS II to set up offices in all of
Angola's provinces. FAS is now serving 31 of the 70 municipalities in the 9 provinces where it has
established operations (and it is covering less than half of the communities within these municipalities). It
is not serving the 52 municipalities that comprise the other 9 provinces in the rest of the country.
(vi)   Targeting: Moreover, providing basic education to a child, or medical services to a patient, can
- 81 -



cost several times more in a remote village (in terms of fixed and operational expenditures) than in a region
of easy access to a provincial office. FAS will have to face the painful tradeoffs that confront the targeting
of social budgets in very poor countries.
(vii)   Economies of Scale: There are economies of scale to carrying out packages of mutually
complementary projects within one municipality. The execution and supervision costs can be reduced, and
the impact of each operation can profit from the benefits created by the neighboring projects. More
importantly, a project can take advantage of the change of attitude that takes place in a community when it
has experienced project ownership and is participating in the project cycle.
In sum, the central objective of FAS II should be to achieve maximum impact on alleviating poverty. Fund
managers need to focus their efforts primarily on increasing the efficiency and the effectiveness of projects,
reducing the administrative overhead of the of the institution, and enlarging the share of funding that is
channeled to project execution. FAS should not dilute the impact of its operations by financing costly
scattered projects and should concentrate its activities where resources can be cost-effective. In general, its
investments should target the westem third of the country, where more than three-quarters of the population
lives.
It is well to keep in mind that FAS is only one of the instruments that the Government has to combat
poverty. The Fund does not have the technical and financial capacity to satisfy the demands of Angola's
population for basic economic and social infrastructure and services. FAS II expenditures will represent
only about a third of 1 percent of the country's total GDP, and less than US$2 per poor per year.
- 82 -



Additional
Annex No.: 13
ANALYSIS OF INCOME GENERATING ACTIVITIES (IGA) SUPPORT COMPONENT
I      Introduction
In March 1998, the Social Action Fund (FAS) launched a US$500,000 pilot income-generating activities
support component. The objective of the component was to test different methods to provide financial and
non-financial services to support income-generating activities of mainly rural poor in 10 communities in
Angola. Three approaches were tested: (i) provide funds to an NGO to manage; (ii) provide funds to the
community to manage with the assistance of an NGO; and (iii) provide funds directly to the community to
manage with limited assistance.
An evaluation of the experience was conducted in October and November 1999 by a consulting firm,
Pro-Natura. The objective of the evaluation was to determine the future of the pilot based on an
assessment of its performance, a review of the micro-finance business environment and current providers,
and a review of existing business development providers. The analysis conducted however, did not
adequately address performance and institutional sustainability issues of the pilot, and did not make
concrete recommendations to continue or suspend IGA. Further analysis was thus required to determine
the future of IGA in FAS II that is under preparation.
During the Pre-Appraisal mission a consultancy frm was contracted to assist FAS to define a strategy for
micro-enterprise development consistent with recognized and effective practices, and that would determine
the future of the IGA component. The strategy was based on an evaluation of the FAS pilot IGA, a review
of the current business environment for micro-enterprise development in Angola, and existing initiatives
designed to provide financial and non-financial support to this sector.
II    IGA Assessment
Overall the experience of the IGA shows limited contributions to the development of sustainable
commercial income generating or micro-enterprise activity.
1. Objectives and Strategy of IGA
The income-generating activities support component was created to alleviate poverty among poor
communities by fulfilling a demand for commercial income generating project support from the community
associations. The strategy to achieve this was to pilot test models of financing income-generating activities
in rural communities, which would then be replicated.
Although it was originally envisaged to introduce a micro-finance facility to support income-generating
activities, it was felt that this would not adequately address the productive needs of the communities.
Instead, a revolving fund of US$500,000 was set aside for projects with an average intended investment of
US$20,000.
The objectives of the revolving fund were to: (i) finance new productive projects, and (ii) finance the
maintenance of the social infrastructure projects funded by FAS.
Funds were channeled through Community Development Agencies (CDCs), usually formed by local church
- 83 -



organizations and community representatives. The CDCs were expected to provide support to the projects,
although it was not made clear what type of support was expected. Funds were disbursed based on
business plans drawn up by one of three individual consultants contracted by FAS. The program suffered
from a lack of clear and unified vision from the outset, and its strategy was not built on a clear
understanding of: (i) opportunities to support viable and sustainable income generating activities; (ii) the
key success factors for cost-effective and sustainable delivery of finance for income generating activities
and; (iii) the benchmarks to be used to assess the success of the piloted interventions.
The pilot project was implemented without a logical framework to support it, i.e. no clear and measurable
objectives, a strategy to achieve these objectives, indicators to monitor performance, and verification
methods and activities. It seems to have been designed and launched rather hastily as suggested by the
following findings:
*   There was a lack of consensus within FAS as to the desirability of introducing and managing such an
income generating component. This seems to have resulted in varying levels of motivation within FAS
to make the pilot a success. This also resulted in lack of leadership necessary to make the pilot work.
*   Because of the lack of commitment or understanding of the merits and rational for the program, there
was a perceived need to minimize the risk of FAS' reputation in case the IGA failed. This resulted in
delegating program responsibility to communities that were not capable of assuming that responsibility,
and who got limited assistance.
*   It was hoped that the introduction of an income-generating component would generate funds that could
be used to maintain the social infrastructure projects introduced under the FAS umbrella. The rational
then was not to support micro-enterprise activities per se, but a mechanism to support the social
infrastructure projects. This confusion between social and economic objectives stifles entrepreneurial
behavior within a community, since it puts the responsibility for maintaining social infrastructure with
the entrepreneurial minority, whilst absolving those who contribute nothing to the social and economic
development of their communities. The design acts as a disincentive for individuals to engage in
sustained income generating activities.
* The decision not to test a micro-finance model was the result of an untested assumption that it would
be insufficient to meet the production and investment needs of the community. Again this would reflect
the absence of analysis on the market, and mechanisms that could support sustained income-generating
activities by poor rural communities. Because of this, the outcome was projected with a level of
technical and management sophistication beyond the capacity of the communities. Examples of
technical sophistication are the requirement to maintain and repair engines of fishing boats, and
manufacturing equipment for building materials. Examples of management sophistication are
management accounting for a bakery project or marketing clothes.
*  Finally, since other organizations have been experimenting with income generation models very similar
to the IGA pilot, FAS missed an opportunity to introduce models that had not yet been extensively
tested in Angola. Also, since there seems to have been little or no coordination among these different
organizations, there is little benefit from lessons learned from the various experiences.
2. Outreach of IGA
Support for sustained income generating activities needs to address issues of outreach if there is to be any
impact on poverty alleviation. No targets were set on outreach, and little attention was paid to the need to
- 84 -



reach significant numbers. As a result, the outreach of the pilot program has been very small and barely
contributed to broad-based poverty alleviation. The cost associated with this limited outreach is also very
high. The pilot financed only 14 projects that touched only 214 individuals, at an average cost per person
of around US$1,550 (see Appendix 1). Table 1 on the next page provides a rough break down of the cost
of the pilot project.
Table 1: Break down ofpilot project cost
Iteim1                                     Cost in U/S$
1. CaDital Eguipment                           -225.000
2. Definition and evaluation of pilot           -70.000
3. Training                                    '-20.000
4. Feasibility studies and business plans       -20.000
Total cost                                     -335.000
Average cost per beneficiary                     -1,565
Allocating items 2-4 above equally to each project, the cost per beneficiary ranges from US$262 to
US$44,139.
It is generally unknown what levels of income are being generated by these projects. The Pro Natura
evaluation points out the "enormous difficulties encountered in assessing the impact and sustainability of
the projects". Two relatively small projects are said to have repaid their loans. In general, it is considered
unlikely that other projects will be able to repay their loans. In comparison, the completed social
infrastructure projects are estimated to have reached over 850,000 beneficiaries. At a total investment by
FAS of US$22,5 million, the average cost per project is US$2.65, i.e. the cost per beneficiary of the IGA
pilot is almost 600 times higher.
3. Sustainability of IGA
Although the pilot was designed to test mechanisms to support income generating activities, sustainability
of the program should have been incorporated as a measure to assess the success of the pilot at three levels:
the fund, the intervention or intermediary, and the income generating activity.
Fund: Sustainability objectives, if any, seem to have been set in terms of the initial rotating fund, i.e. the
US$ value of the fund was to be maintained. Since real interest rates on the loans are negative, the fund is
being slowly eroded. The transaction therefore was not designed to ensure the sustainability of the fund.
Interest rates on the US$ loans ranged from 2 - 5 percent. Grace periods range from 3 to 12 months and
repayment terms range from 3 to 36 months. Since most projects have not yet reached their repayment
deadlines, it is impossible to provide a definitive assessment of the IGA's performance.
Income generating activities: No objectives were set for sustainability of the income generating activities
per se. Given their relatively high level of sophistication, coupled with a lack of technical and management
capacity within the communities, the sustainability of most projects is at risk.
Intermediary: Finally, the dwindling motivation of the Agencias de Desenvolvimento Comunitario as a
result of their not receiving payment for their services to the IGA is another factor that compromises the
program's sustainability.
- 85 -



4. Products & Services
The products and services offered to the communities and subprojects by the IGA component of FAS are
not well defined. This is exacerbated by a very high level of decentralization, with each provincial
directorate giving its own interpretation to the IGA.
Although the role of the CDCs is said to be management of the revolving fund and project support, it does
not seem to have been clearly defined, and it is questionable whether the CDCs actually had the capacity to
effectively and efficiently fulfill its role. The apparently heavy involvement of the Provincial Directors in
the IGA would point to a lack of capacity within the CDC. The Provincial Directors also lacked the
capacity necessary for adequate support. Finally, the consultants who conducted feasibility studies and
developed the business plans on the basis of which project financing was obtained, seem to have given
insufficient attention to issues related to marketing and management capacity of the project sponsors, and
thereby project sustainability. As a result, there is a wide variety of types of projects, project cost, FAS
contributions, loan terms, etc.
5. Organizational & Institutional Structure
The organization structure of the IGA component involves many different actors with no clear divisions of
roles and responsibilities. The extensive operating manual does not shed any light in this respect.
Organizations involved in the IGA include FAS national directorate, FAS provincial directorates, Agencias
de Desenvolvimento Comunitaria, ad-hoc committees, churches and church organizations, and external
consultants. Despite the large number of actors, FAS claims that its staff invests on average ten times
more time and effort in an IGA project as compared to a social infrastructure project No capacity to deal
with the IGA component was developed within FAS. In addition, little technical assistance was provided to
the subprojects, despite their high levels of sophistication.
6. Financial Management & Operational Systems
Although impact indicators have been defined in the operating manual (improvement of working conditions,
profit improvement, improvement of sanitary conditions, community participation, improvement in wages),
no targets were set. The flow of funds to and from subprojects has not been formalized in the manual. It is
not clear what type of reporting arrangements were agreed upon and whether they have been produced.
The design of the pilot program does not allow for an accurate evaluation of the performance of loans at
this time. Repayment periods set exceed the duration of the pilot phase.
Im    Recommendations
It is recommended that FAS discontinue the IGA and define an exit strategy that aims to maximize the
benefits of the pilot to the communities in which they take place.
Almost US$350,000 has been spent on the IGA pilot. An estimated 65 percent of this sum has been
invested in fixed assets for the income generating projects, which have an estimated productive life
expectancy of five to ten years. Since the communities within which the various IGA projects take place
are the intended beneficiaries, it is recommended that the decision whether or not to continue the various
projects be taken by the communities themselves. The communities might decide to sell the assets that were
purchased for the projects and apply the proceeds towards their social infrastructure projects. In this case,
buyers would need to be identified for the fixed assets, which might prove difficult.
- 86 -



Alternatively, the communities can decide that the projects should be continued. Discussions were held
with the European Union (EU), who sponsor a Micro Projects Program (MPP) in Angola, that is managed
along lines very similar to the FAS IGA. The advantage of this option is that the EU has some experience
in supporting income generating projects. The disadvantage is that the EIUs MPP currently operates only
in Huila and Cunene provinces, and would therefore be able to provide support to a maximum of five out of
the thirteen operational IGA projects.
The Danish NGO ADPP has indicated an interest in providing on-going support to the FAS IGA. They
operate in all provinces where IGAs exist, except Kwanza Sul and Huila, and would therefore be able to
provide support to ten out of the thirteen IGAs. ADPP have indicated that these projects would provide
them with an opportunity to gain experience in the area of credit provision and management, which is an
area in which they are planning to become involved. ADPP support schools of "arte e oficios", and are
planning to introduce basic management training courses in these schools. This could benefit the various
IGA projects. The advantage of the ADPP option is that the IGA projects seem to fit with some of ADPP's
future initiatives. The disadvantage is the lack of experience of ADPP with income generating projects.
Between them, the EU and ADPP cover all provinces where AGR projects are being carried out.
Supervision of all operational projects could be transferred to these two organizations.
- 87 -



Appendix 1: Projects Financed by IGA/FAS
Project       Stage           Total Capital Amount             Beneficiaries       Cost per        Period (months)
Total  |  FAS    | Others    Total   M            W    beneficiary   Grace   Repayment
J(~~~anzL~~iil          otal      FAS        Ot___                                     r___ n
Kwanza         rovince
Moagem da      suspended     8.520,42    6.395,42    2.125,00     3       3     0        2.840,14     6           36
Capanga 
milling)       _                                                                _
Namibe       ionce
Pesca              in       17.512,42   17.112,42     400,00      4       4     0        4.378,10     6           18
artesanal       execution
(Fishery)
Costureiras do   concluded    3.881,00    3.541,00    340,00     15       0    15         258,73      3           3
Amanha
(Clothes
production)
Brigada de         in       80.463,52   67.643,52   12.820,00     2       2     0       40.231,76     6           36
Obras           execution
(Construction)
Aquisicao de       in         574,00      574,00           0     32      16   16            17,94     12          12
Sementes        execution
(Seeds
ourchase)     I
Huila Provin ce
Produ9lo           in       15.427,00   15.427,00          0     45      27    18          342,82     7            3
Agricola        execution
(Aericulture)l _           _           _           _           _                     _
Cestariae          in        4.706,00    4.706,00          0     18       0    18          261,44     8           15
Crochet         execution   _          _           _           _                     _             _         _ _ _
(Textiles)                           I           I           I         I     I     I   _I_i
Kunene
Costureiras        in       15.778,57   13.902,10    1.876.47     7       1    6         2.254,08     7           48
Santa Clara     execution
(Clothes
vroduction)    L          I          I           I_I_I_I_1_L_I
Costura e          in       23.317,92   21.247,50    2.070,42    10       0    i0        2.331,79     7           48
forma9to        execuion
(Clothes
production and
training)     I     _                                          _   _                 _____________
Produ$aolVen       in       21.165,00   17.239,00    3.926,00     8       7     1        2.645,62     7           19
da de Plantas    execution
(Plants
production and
sale)         I           I          I           I                                  _ I_I_I_I             _ I
Cabinda
Produoo e          in        8.520,42    6.395,42 f  2.125,00     4       4     0        2.130,10     3   T       36
Venda de Pao    execution
(Bakery)      IIIII                                                    I     I     I                       I
Benguela
Centro de          in        6.658,10    6.658,10          0     34      19   15           195,83     3           24
Presta9to de    execution
Servi;os
(Services
provision
centre)                                                      
Produ9to           in        2.863,28    2.863,28          0     31       8    23           92,36     3           24
Agricola        execution
(Agriculture)  |I__________
Moinho da         in        17.200,00   17.200,00          0      1       1    0        17.200,00     3           36
Mina            execution
(Maize
millinO)      I           I            _         I           I         I                           __I_I  _ I
- 88-



Additional
Annex No.: 14
FAS Beneficiary Assessment *
I      Introduction
Despite operating in a country which is still in a state of virtual civil war, the Fundo de Apoio Social (FAS)
has met with a very positive response from communities across the country and is now operating in nine
Provinces. FAS has actively promoted a policy of decentralization with a high degree of decision making
authority vested in the regional offices, and with the selection of projects reflecting regional characteristics
and priorities. FAS has received positive evaluations for the efficiency and speed with which it has
implemented its programs and the strong base of community support which has been created.
The beneficiary assessment study described in the following paragraphs was intended to provide a more
systematic assessment of the program's effectiveness in identifying and responding to community needs in
each region of the country. The findings will be used in the design of any subsequent projects.
International consultants were contracted to assist FAS in the design and implementation of a study to
evaluate the effectiveness of the project in identifying and responding to the needs of the target
communities. Following the usual social fund methodology, communities were informed that they could
submit proposals to receive financial and technical support from FAS for the provision or upgrading of
basic social and economic infrastructure. Communities were required to contribute around 15 percent of
the total cost of the project in the form of cash, labor or materials.
Almost all of the communities have maintained the traditional leadership structure in which the community
is represented by an elected or appointed leader, the Soba. He or she meets with families, individually or in
groups to discuss priority projects and then communicates these priorities to FAS and the local government
authorities. Particularly in the rural areas the Soba takes his or her position seriously, making sure that
community members are well informed and playing an active role in seeking consensus on the choice and
prioritization of projects.
The evaluation was conducted in a randomly selected sample of 40 FAS communities in 7 provinces and
comprised interviews with some 2800 households. The study covered beneficiary satisfaction, participation
in project selection and implementation, interest in income generating projects, the existence of social
capital and community visions of the future. The study did also provide some information on gender
differences and this was complemented by visits to communities and discussions with households,
community level institutions and the Soba. Interviews were conducted between October 1998 and February
1999.
II     Methodology of the Beneficiary Assessment Study
The purpose of the Beneficiary Assessment study was to assess the effectiveness of the FAS methodology
in ensuring that all sectors of the community were actively involved in the selection and implementation of
projects and to measure community satisfaction with the projects and how they were
* This Annex has been prepared by Michael Bamberger and is based on the evaluation report Fundo de Apoio Social
"AvaliaVo Social Participativa, Abril 1999".
- 89 -



implemented. The study also provided feedback on perceived needs and priorities of the communities and
the existing social capital of the communities.
Two survey instruments were developed: one for interviewing households and one for the social actors
involved in project implementation. The main areas covered by the household survey are described in the
following section. The survey was conducted in a randomly selected sample of 40 project communities
covering the 9 provinces in which FAS is currently working. Households were randomly selected in these
communities and all adults (up to a total of 6) were interviewed in each household. Each member was
interviewed independently to avoid influence by other household members. Approximately 2800 interviews
were conducted. Sample selection and replacement procedures were used to ensure that the sample
reflected as accurately as possible all sectors of the communities.
In order to avoid any possible distortion of the findings, the study was designed and coordinated by
international consultants, who contracted and trained local research teams in each Province. FAS was not
involved in the selection of communities, the sample design, or the interview process. FAS was also not
identified as the study sponsor - again to avoid contamination of findings.
III    Findings
Beneficiary satisfaction with project selection and implementation
* Communities are well informed about FAS
All of the communities were well informed about FAS and its objectives, and in most cases over 90 per
cent of households had at least a basic understanding about FAS and its projects. Information was
obtained from a number of sources. In traditional communities (rural and some peri-urban) the traditional
leader (soba) usually informed all families, either by house to house visits or in community meetings
(including church services). The Friends of FAS (Amigos do FAS) were also very active in many
communities. The FAS radio program was mentioned by others. In addition informal communication
networks work well. Once projects began they were also highly visible (schools, health posts etc.) and
given their central location, most people mentioned having seen the projects.
When FAS first entered some communities there was an initial expectation that FAS was a government
program, and that all services would be provided free of charge by the govermment and without any
community involvement. However, once the projects began FAS has been effective in explaining its goals
and structure and the surveys revealed that all communities sampled understood that FAS is not a typical
government program. For example in 3 of the communities visited by the. author 143 out of 179
respondents understood that the FAS program belongs to the local communities, and that they select the
projects to be implemented. Only 16 families believed FAS to be a normal government program.
*   Communities were generally satisfied with the projects selected and the selection process
In most communities there was a high level of agreement in naming the two or three highest priority
projects. In each of the sampled communities schools, health posts and water (for drinking or washing)
represented over 75 percent of the priority projects identified. However, in many cases there were
differences of opinion conceming which should be the first project.
The FAS methodology requires that even when there appears to be consensus, a systematic planning study
must be conducted. Meetings are held with all sectors of the community to ensure that projects have broad
- 90 -



support, that they are technically feasible and that there is sufficient demand. Surveys showed that once
projects were selected, almost everyone expressed that they were satisfied with the progress to date.
Significant proportions also indicated that the projects met community expectations.
FAS has developed mechanisms in cooperation with community leaders for reaching agreement on the
choice of projects, even when different sectors have strong preferences for different projects. In Caponte
Pequena, for example, the majority of men indicated that the construction of a school was their top priority.
However, most of the women favored a community wash-house, as women had to walk several kilometers
to the river to wash clothes. The soba called both women and men to a meeting and listened to their
arguments. He then indicated that the wash-house should be the first priority given the very considerable
time-saving to women, and the indirect benefits to men as well. The community accepted this judgment and
the lavanderia was constructed. The second project, which has now been completed, was the school.
*  In almost all communities where FAS projects were being implemented, the vast majority of
respondents considered themselves beneficiaries of the projects being implemented.
IV    Beneficiary Participation in Project Selection and Implementation
In most of the sampled communities a high proportion of respondents reported that they had been involved
in the process of project selection. Almost all responded that they felt involved in the FAS projects.
Significant proportions of respondents in each community indicated that they had been directly involved in
project implementation through attending meetings, participating in communal work days or, in a minority
of cases, contributing money.
Most families felt that they were informed about the progress of project implementation, and in most
communities regular meetings had been held to report on progress of the projects. The FAS communication
systems (newspaper, radio, friends of FAS, etc.) appear to be quite effective as normally at least 40 per
cent of families reported they received regular information on the projects.
v     Social Capital
Social capital was defined as the intemal organizational capacity of a community. The capacity to
organize and to ensure the internal flow of information is likely to be an important determinant of the
capacity of a community to ensure that projects reflect community priorities, to mobilize resources to
contribute to project implementation and to ensure that projects are sustained once they become
operational. Social capital theorists such as Putman and Fukuyama suggest that participation in social and
cultural activities, is often a good indicator of the capacity of a community to promote economic and other
development activities. A number of questions were included in the survey to estimate the numbers and
types of organization and the level of participation.
Each of the 3 communities included in the preliminary analysis reported at least 3 kinds of organization
with significant levels of community participation:
- 91 -



Table 1: Social Capital: The Proportion of Respondents in 3 Communities
Reporting Participation in Different Community Organizations
Chingo        Caponte pequena,   Calohombo, Benguela
Kwanza Sul         Benguela
% responses       % responses          % responses
Mothers club                     12.9              14.1                 18.6
Football club                   30.1               44.9                 44.3
Youth club                      25.8               20                   21.4
Music club                       19.7              0.5
Dance club                       9.7               0.5
Cultural club                    0.7                                     2.9
% respondents belonging to at    50                13.2                 15.1
least one of these clubs
Source: FAS 1999
All communities also used a number of different systems to disseminate information on community affairs.
The most important were community assemblies and mouth to mouth communication. The mission team
also observed that the traditional community leader (the soba) plays an important role in dissemination of
information about projects and other activities - in some cases through announcements in churches and in
other cases by house to house visits. Churches, both catholic and protestant, were also active in all of the
communities and very much involved in projects.
FAS made full use of all of these communication media in ensuring that the communities were well
informed about proposed projects and the progress of approved projects. While no reference data is
available in Angola against which to compare the levels of participation cited above, it would seem that all
communities appear to have a basis of social capital which could potentially prove useful in the
development and sustainability of FAS programs.
VI    Gender Issues in the Evaluation of Participation
Information on women's participation in the FAS project
Gender was not a primary focus of the evaluation, and consequently very little sex-disaggregated tables
were included in the assessment report. However, a preliminary analysis of some of the gender information
contained in the survey was conducted for the projects visited during the supervision mission in November
1998 and this was complemented by interviews and meetings with community residents and leaders, local
government agencies, NGOs, religious organizations and FAS provincial staff.
Many communities in Angola have very conservative views on the position of women in the household and
the community, household budgets are often controlled by men, and wives often have to ask permission to
attend community meetings or to travel outside the community. Of the 60 women interviewed in the 3
communities visited, 43 reported that they had to request their husband's permission to speak in community
meetings. Of these, 17 (approximately 40 per cent) said that their husband does not allow them to speak in
meetings. Nevertheless the proportion of women who were involved in project implementation (71 percent)
was only slightly lower than the proportion of men (78 percent). However, as most project activities
involved participation in work groups to help build schools or excavate drainage canals, this does not
necessarily indicate that they had a decision-making role. However, given the very restricted spheres of
extra-domestic activities for many women, even participation in work groups may lead to a greater level of
-92 -



knowledge about, and influence over, community affairs.
The issue of women's participation was discussed with the FAS project teams, the evaluation team and
community residents and leaders. Keeping in mind the limited number of projects studied, and the
significant regional and cultural differences in the factors affecting women's participation; the following
points were made:
-     In many rural areas women traditionally tend not to speak in public meetings, and will often defer
to their husband before they do speak.
-     In peri-urban and urban areas women feel less constrained about speaking in meetings or in
interacting with people from outside the community.
-     Despite the symbolic role of the husband as household head and decision-maker, in fact women
frequently are the ones who participate in community meetings (partly because it is often easier for
them to attend community meetings), and they appear to play an important role on FAS projects.
-     In the projects covered by this study, women had apparently been able to ensure that their priority
projects were considered, and often approved by FAS. An example is the selection of the
community wash-house (lavandaria) as the first project in Chingo, Kwanza Sul, despite the
preference of most men for a school.
Issues and lessons for the evaluation of gender dimensions ofparticipation
A first set of issues concem the fact that many government ministries and project implementing agencies do
not consider the analysis of gender differences to be a priority issue. This may be because they are not
aware of gender issues, because they do not believe there are significant differences between the priorities
of women and men, or because they have to face more pressing issues in getting their programs launched
(such as lack of government support for the program, the consequences of civil unrest, or the newness of
the program and the need to focus on basic operational issues (such as procurement procedures,
establishing new financial institutions to manage credit programs etc.). Many agencies, including FAS and
the Eritrean Social Fund discussed in the following section, also believe it is important to respect
community customs and to work through community leaders - both of which may substantially limit the
ability of women to participate in community decision-making.
In the case of the present study, there are also questions conceming the kinds of information which can be
obtained from survey questions. There are at least two sets of issues. First, in cultural contexts, such as
many parts of Angola, where women have a limited role in community decision making and are expected to
have limited contact with outsiders, it is difficult for them to express themselves through a formal survey
instrument. This is particularly the case when other members of the household will often be present during
the interview. Secondly, many of the questions about attitudes, knowledge and participation are too general
and it is difficult to interpret the fndings. For example:
Did you participate in decision-making on community priorities?
How did you participate in the meetings with FAS: attended the meeting, spoke in the meeting,
gave some ideas, voted?
-93 -



Table 2: Indicators of women's level of participation in FAS social fund
projects in 3 communities in Angola
Calohombo:   Caponte        Chingo:       Total
Benguela    Pequena:   Kwanza Sul
Province     Benguela    Province
Province
Do you need                    No.   %      No.  %       No.  %       No.  %
your husband's  Yes             -      -      -     -      -     -      -      -
permissiontoa                  10    40     18    58.1  20    100   28    50.0
participate in a
project?       No              15    60    13    41.9   0       0      28    50.0
Does your      Yes             20    58.8  25    73.5  13    65.0  58    65.9
husband
allow you to                                                  _
speak in       No              14    41.2   9     26.5  7       35.0  30    34.1
meetings?                         _
Did you        Men:    Yes  20    64.5  41    70.7  26    89.7  87    73.7
participate in
any of the               No   11    35.5  17    29.3   3        10.3  31    26.3
community      Women: Yes  6         35.5  18    69.2  14    66.7  38    59.3
projects?__                _   __ _ _ _ _ ___        _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _
No   11    64.5   8       30.8  7      33.3  26    40.7
Total:    Yes  26    54.0  59    70.2  40    80.0  125   68.6
Men +      -
__________  Women  No   22    46.0  25    29.8  7              20.0  54    31.4
While these questions can provide some general idea, they do not capture the intensity of participation, the
influence which women had on the selection of projects etc. The questions concerning whether women have
to ask permission from their husbands to attend meetings or to speak in the meeting are more difficult to
interpret. In many communities women are expected to say that they ask permission from their husband,
and this could give the impression that women play a very passive role. However, visits to the communities
and observation of work days suggest that women, frequently, are very well informed about the projects
and seem to be actively involved in their management. This is particularly true in communities where men
work at some distance and frequently do not have time to attend meetings.
A related issue which is even harder to evaluate concerns decision-making within the household and within
the community. In many communities decisions are not made in meetings. In Cabinda, for example, in the
extreme North of the country, community solidarity and consensus are considered important and there is
rarely any discussion or debate in public meetings. In fact if there is a potential disagreement the meeting
will often be suspended and the different groups will meet informally, often with the soba, to resolve their
differences. The meeting will then reconvene once agreement has been reached. In other cases decisions
are reached during informal meetings between the soba and individual families. In this latter case women
may be able to convince the soba of their point of view during these informal meetings, even if they assume
a very passive role in the meetings. The point is that the degree of women's participation in community
decision-making cannot be adequately assessed either through surveys (although they can provide some
- 94 -



useful numerical estimates, or through observing what happens in meetings.
This suggests that the assessment of women's participation should probably include, in addition to the
survey:
-    Informal meetings with women, ideally without the presence of their husbands. During these
meetings specific questions should be asked about women's level of authority and resource control in
different areas of household, community and economic life (such as: who controls the household
budget, who makes decisions on major purchases, who recommends to the community the types of
projects which should be organized.
-    Observation of household dynamics in which interactions between women (mothers, daughters,
mother-in-law, etc.) and other household members are observed.
-    Observation of community meetings and community workdays.
-    Organization of focus groups.
- 95 -



Additional
Annex No.: 15
Financial Management Systems Assessment
Republic of Angola: Second Social Action Fund Project (AO-PE-P056393)
I.     Background
1.     Scope of Review of Financial Management System. The scope of the work has been set out in the
"Review of the Financial Management System" as documented in the LACI Handbook, Annex 2 and in the
Statement of Mission Objectives dated April 19, 2000, outlining the requirements for conducting this
review. The objective of the review is to determine whether the project has in place a financial management
system as required by the Bank under OP/BP 10.02.
2.     Project Objectives. The Project's objective is to increase the sustainable utilization of basic social
and economic services by target populations. To reach that objective, FAS II will focus on: (i) the
provision or rehabilitation of social and economic (productive) infrastructure at the community level; (ii)
capacity building at the level of communities, partners, local government and FAS; and (iii) strengthening
the monitoring and evaluation system. Some resources will also be allocated to FAS institutional support.
The overall objective for the second phase of FAS remains within the framework that was designed for the
first phase. However, FAS II has a more specific orientation in support of productive activities, capacity
building, monitoring and evaluation.
3.     Project Status. The project is currently at Appraisal stage. Estimated dates for the remaining
project cycle are: (a) Negotiations: May 18, 2000; (b) Board June 27, 2000; (c) Signing: August 2000; (d)
Effectiveness: September 1, 2000; (e) Completion: August 31, 2003; and (f) Closing: February 29, 2004.
II.    Institutional Arrangements
4.     FAS is an autonomous institution created by the GOA with Presidential Decree n. 44/94 to support
the government in fighting poverty. It is under the umbrella of the Ministry of Planning and has been
granted a high degree of autonomy concerning administrative, financial and management procedures. It
consists of a central management unit and of 9 provincial offices. The fund operates in a fully
decentralized way, with each provincial office responsible for selection and implementation of activities
within its geographical area, and with resources allocated from the center directly to provincial accounts.
Procurement activities are also carried out at the provincial level, though, due to the complexity of the
Angolan situation, FAS is thinking of establishing regional procurement hubs to serve the needs of groups
of provinces. FAS has a National Board which includes representatives from governmental, as well as
non-governmental institutions and civil society. The Board ensures that the activities financed by the fund
respond to the objectives for which it was created. Another Board, similar in structure and composition,
operates at each province level to ensure that FAS priorities are consistent with provincial priorities, and to
guarantee the involvement of line-ministries in the fund's activities. Detailed information on FAS structure
is provided in the Operational Manual.
This report is the result of a financial management review and analysis as conducted by Magaye Gaye, Consultant (AFTQK),
in Angola, April 24 - 30, 2000.
- 96 -



5.    FAS project cycle is described in details in the Operational Manual. The main implementation
features are the following: (i) to be eligible for FAS financing each community needs to establish a Project
Committee (nucleo comunitario) with legal status responsible for the actual implementation of subprojects;
(ii) each community needs to contribute 15 percent of the total project cost; (iii) a menu of eligible
subprojects, mainly social and economic infrastructure, is provided in the Operational Manual -- the list is
supposed to be exhaustive, but not exclusive; (iv) subproject proposals are appraised on the basis of
institutional, social, economic, socio-cultural, technical and legal criteria detailed in the Operational
Manual; (v) subprojects whose total value is below US$70,000 are approved directly at the provincial level
-- projects exceeding that value are submitted to the Management Unit for review and approval/rejection;
(vi) detailed procurement and disbursement procedures are provided in the Operational Manual -- they have
been agreed upon with the Bank and can be modified only with Bank's approval; and (vii) semi-annual
reports are provided to the Bank and other co-financing donors.
IH.   Project Structure and Costing.
6.    Financing and Cost Sharing. The Project costs have been estimated at US$46 million over a
three-year period. The Bank will contribute up to US$33 million, the Government's counterpart funds
amount to US$5 million and the cofinanciers and local communities will provide respectively US$5 and
US$4 million. Communities contribution will be on nature or labor.
7.    Credit Agreement Categories. The financing of project activities will follow standard Bank
practice for similar operation and it will be developed in the Development Credit Agreement as follows:
Allocation of IDA Credit Proceeds
(in millions of US$)
Category of Expenditures      Amount    Financing %
1. Works                         n.a.
2. Goods                          1.0         100% of foreign expenditures, and 95% of local
3. Subprojects                  22.50              90% of amounts disbursed by FAS
4. Consultants' Services         3.00                          100%
and Training
5. Operating Costs               3.00                          95%
6. Refund of PPF                 n.a.
7. Unallocated                   3.5
TOTAL                             33
-97 -



8.    Project components and sub-components. The project development objective is to increase the
sustainable utilization of basic social and economic services by target populations. To reach that
development objective, FAS II will focus on the three (3) components:
Social and Economic Infrastructure: This component would enable FAS II to continue supporting a wide
range of small, medium and large-scale sub-projects for the provision and rehabilitation of basic social and
economic infrastructure. Subprojects will be identified by poor communities and implemented with the
assistance of an Implementing Agency in co-ordination and collaboration with local governments, NGOs
and sectoral agencies/Line Ministries. Subprojects eligible for financing would have to meet technical,
financial, economic, social and environmental criteria set out in the Operational Manual. The demand for
subprojects is expected to be related to education (elementary schools, pic-pec/ kindergarten, children
centers), health (health stations and posts), water and sanitation (water supply systems, latrines, combined
services), economic infrastructure (rehabilitation of rural roads, culverts, small bridges) small-scale
community municipal infrastructure (including markets, silos, chimpacas) and environmental infrastructure
(mainly watershed protection and reforestation).
Capacity building: A central strategy of FAS 11 will be to build capacity at the community level, at the
level of implementing partners and local government officials, and for the Fund staff itself. The ultimate
objective of the capacity building component in FAS II will be to better organize communities and to
empower community members. The capacity building component intends to transfer skills and improve
methods for stakeholders at all levels involved. Capacity building will be carried out through two basic
channels: (i) learning by doing through the process of project formulation and execution; and (ii) training
programs designed to strengthen the institutional and managerial capacity of communities and
organizations.
Monitoring and Evaluation (M & E): The M&E system will implement three sets of activities: (i)
performance monitoring; (ii) qualitative appraisal and impact assessments; and (iii) interim/final
evaluations and lessons learned. Performance monitoring will be largely based on the results of the FAS
operation. The qualitative appraisal will assess the immediate impact of programmed interventions through
existing performance data and periodic in depth qualitative probes at beneficiary level. The interim/final
evaluation will provide GOA and donors with an analysis of data collected through the life of the project.
9.    Procurement Budget: Contracting for subproject activities for the rehabilitation and construction
of social and economic infrastructure, and improved management of natural resources, will constitute the
majority of procurement responsibilities under the Project. The guidelines and criteria to be used to guide
this process are contained in the Project's Operational Manual that has been approved by IDA.
Subprojects are identified by community groups (nucleos comunitarios), proposals designed by
implementing partners (NGOs, etc.) and are appraised at provincial level by FAS technical staff (engineers
and architects). The Provincial FAS Office has authority to approve subproject contracts up to US$70,000
equivalent, the FAS National Coordination Unit will approve subproject contracts from US$70,000 up to
US$100,000 equivalent, and the FAS National Board of Overseers will approve subproject contracts of
US$100,000 equivalent and above. IDA's prior review threshold for subprojects is also US$100,000
equivalent.
Based on experience gained under FAS I, it is known that the majority of subproject resources are used for
relatively small-scale (less than US$100,000) civil works activities. Due to the small size and the scattered
nature of these works it is not expected that they will attract international bidders. Therefore, National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures will be used for works estimated to cost US$50,000 equivalent and
above. All works contracts valued at US$100,000 equivalent and above will require IDA prior review.
-98 -



Simplified NCB documents prepared in Portuguese and approved for use by IDA during FAS I will be
applied for this purpose under FAS II. Works contracts estimated to cost less than US$70,000 (the
aggregate amount can not be determined given the demand-driven nature of the subprojects) will be
contracted through community participation arrangements whereby lump-sum, fixed priced contracts are
awarded based on at least three written bids from qualified local contractors. Procurement management
reports would be produced under the PMR system.
IV.   Internal and Other Controls
10.   Project Financial Management Systems Manuals. At the start of FAS I, an Administrative Manual
(Manual de Gestao) and an Operational Manual or Manual of Procedures (Manual de Procedimentos) were
prepared in March 1995. The former describes the administrative, accounting, financial and budgetary
procedures to follow in the daily management of the Project and the latter the sub-projects cycle for FAS
fnancing: eligibility criteria, promotion, identification, preparation, execution, monitoring and evaluation.
The Administrative Manual needs to be updated to include the organization chart, the fixed assets
management, the format and content of the Project's financial statements, the procedure related to the
preparation of the Project Management Reports (LACI) and the chart of accounts (general, cost accounting
and budgetary). For FAS II the Operational and Administrative Manuals have been merged into one
Operational Manual. The adoption by the Borrower of the revised Operational Manual (satisfactory to
IDA) is a Condition of Effectiveness for the project. Under FAS I, the experience has shown that the
advances made to the provincial offices are not reconciled on a regular basis. This is the reason why the
auditors have issued a qualified opinion on the 1998 financial statements. Therefore, this weakness has to
be addressed under FAS II through: (i) clear guidelines and internal control procedures in the Operational
Manual, and (ii) strengthening of Monitoring & Evaluation by recruitment of an internal auditor so that
financial and technical audit be perforned on a regular basis in order to validate the information coming
from the provinces and to ensure that the procedures are followed.
V.    Accounting Standards, Financial Management Reporting
11.   Accounting Standards. A computerized accounting software based on internationally acceptable
accounting principles will be established for financial management purposes. The project accounts will be
on a modified-cash basis to ensure that revenues are recorded when received and expenditures when paid.
FAS will maintain the accounts for transactions related to each provincial delegation and will produce the
annual financial statements in accordance with intemationally accepted accounting principles. To
strengthen FAS financial management capacity, an action plan (Appendix 2) has been discussed with and
agreed to with the Borrower. It outlines the main activities and their timing to ensure the readiness of the
system before effectiveness. The system would be designed with the following features: (i) clear definition
of the project's organizational structure and responsibility assignments; (ii) update of the Operational
Manual including the design and configuration of the project's accounting system, the chart of accounts
containing sufficient detail to satisfy reporting requirement and describing type of transactions to be posted
in each account; (iii) brief description of the main accounting principles to be applied, the format, content
and periodicity of the various financial reports; and (iv) adequate budgetary procedures and process
(preparation, consolidation, monitoring) and the relevant internal controls. The Chart of Accounts would
be developed to enable accounting data to be captured, recorded, and classified by budget heads, project
components, disbursement categories, and expenditure categories. Close attention would be paid to the
Chart of Account to ensure that it matches closely the classification of expenditures and sources of funds
indicated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) and the Development Credit Agreement (DCA).
Furthermore, the Chart of Accounts would be designed in such a way that it would ensure that data is
captured in a manner that would facilitate financial reporting for the project to various stakeholders,
- 99 -



including IDA and the Government of Angola. The Chart of account would be fully documented and
detailed in the Project's Operational Manual.
12.   Project Management Reports. In accordance with Bank policy and procedures, the Project needs to
adopt a fnancial management and reporting system in compliance with the Loan Administration Change
Initiative (LACI). But given the lack of familiarity with LACI procedures of the accounting staff, the
Project will not adopt PMR-based disbursements at the beginning. It will use the traditional SOE-based
disbursements method. In this case, the Project will produce annually the basic financial statements
(Sources and Uses of Funds, Balance sheet, Special accounts and SOEs statements) but will submit on a
quarterly basis the following reports: a Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds, a Progress Report, a
Contract Expenditure Report- Goods & Works, a Contract Expenditure Report- Consultants, a
Procurement Management Report- Goods & Works and a Procurement Management Report- Consultants.
In addition, the Project would be encouraged to issue the full PMR reports on a parallel basis to get used to
the practice. The transition to a PMR-based disbursements method would be considered after 18 months of
implementation on the basis of the action plan (Annex 2). During the 18-month period, improvements as
required would be introduced and the staff adequately trained to be able to produce, with reasonable
assurance, accurate and timely information on the status of the project (PMR) as required by the
Bank/IDA. The computer-based financial information system to be installed would be configured so that it
can generate adequate information to comply with the Bank and Government of Angola financial reporting
requirements.
13.   Financial Statements and Annexes required under LACI would include and not be limited to:
(a) A Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds showing funds from IDA and Counterpart Funds
separately, a summary of expenditures analyzed under the main headings and by main
category of expenditures (consistent with the Chart of Accounts), both for the current fiscal
year and accumulated to date.
(b)  A Balance Sheet showing accumulated funds for the Project, bank balances as well as other
assets and liabilities of the Project, if any;
(c)  Notes in respect of significant accounting policies and accounting standards adopted by
management when preparing the accounts and any supplementary information or explanations
that may be deemed appropriate by management in order to enhance the presentation of a
"true andfair view";
(d)  Special Account Statement showing deposits and replenishments received, payments
substantiated by withdrawal applications, interest that may be earned on the account and the
balance at the end of the fiscal year;
(e)   Uses of Funds by Project Activity summarizing project expenditures by component and
sub-component (activities) consistent with the PAD;
(f)   Progress Report giving the status of the execution of the Project;
(g)  Procurement Management Reports, which would include: (a) procurement process
monitoring reports for goods and works, and consultants, and (b) contract expenditure reports
for goods and works; and
-100 -



(h) SOEs Statement which summarizes the disbursements through SOEs with all the pertinent
information for tracking expenditures.
These statements have been discussed with the Borrower and a copy of the French version of the LACI
Implementation Handbook has been given to the Management Unit. It is recommended that a thorough
LACI presentation be conducted at the Project launch.
14.   Automation Assessment. Under FAS I, the Project's transactions are recorded on a cash basis by
means of a software called CUBIC. This software (which is no more commercialized) was conceived for
commercial entities and therefore was not adapted to developments projects. It is used at the central and
provincial offices. Its weaknesses are: (i) incapability to record the expenditures made by categories
foreseen in the Development Credit Agreement, and (ii) non compliance with Year 2000. In July 1999,
FAS bought a new software (EURO-EAS) which is compliant with Year 2000. Like CUBIC, it is more
adapted to commercial enterprises. Some preliminary tests have been undertaken in general accounting and
that is not sufficient. Due to this situation, the transactions of the first four months of FY 2000 are not yet
posted. FAS must go beyond to ensure that the software enables a financial management comprising
general accounting in compliance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, cost accounting,
budgetary management, loan disbursement, procurement monitoring and contract management, fixed assets
management etc. are carried out in an efficient and integrated fashion. The readiness of the new software
should be a condition of Credit Effectiveness.
VI.   Special Account, Disbursements and Supporting Documentation
15.   Special Account. A Special Account (SA) in US dollars will be opened in a commercial bank
under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA for the purposes of ensuring timely provision of funds for
Project implementation. The authorized allocation for the SA will be US$ 3.2 million, which is a level
sufficient to cover at least four months of estimated expenditures eligible for financing by IDA. However,
the Special Account will be limited to US$ 1.6 million until cumulative disbursements reach US$ 9 million
equivalent. The Management Unit will be responsible for overseeing the SA and submitting periodic
replenishment applications with appropriate supporting documents for expenditures. It is expected that
such replenishments applications be prepared and submitted at least monthly.
16.   Disbursements. Under FAS I, the nine (9) provincial offices (Luanda, Cabinda, Bengo, Benguela,
Kwanza Sul, Namibe, Huila, Kunene and Huambo) have opened and maintain accounts in commercial
banks (in US dollars) for the purposes of receiving quarterly advances for subproject expenses and
operating costs. Funds are advanced from the Special Account to the provincial offices based on rolling
quarterly plans and estimates of resource needs. Provincial accounts are replenished (with a variable
periodicity) by the Management Unit in Luanda upon submission by the provincial offices of replenishment
requests accompanied by appropriate supporting documents: statement of payments made for subprojects
during the period considered, statement of salaries paid and signed by each employee, bank statement and
statement of advances reconciliation.
17.   During the review, I examined the Withdrawal Application No. 46 dated December 15, 1999, and
the Withdrawal Application No. 48 dated March 20, 2000. The respective Special Account Statements
show unexplained discrepancies amounting to $663,929.08 and $641,669.96. After deducting the balance
of the outstanding advances ($263,541.00) to the provinces as of December 31, 1999, the remaining
amount not accounted for at this date was $400,388.08. According to the Management Unit, this amount
represents ineligible expenditures not yet reimbursed to the Special Account. As a recommendation, the
- 101 -



technical and financial audit should also pay attention to the preparation of the Special Account Statements
and to ensure that any discrepancy is explained.
18.   After visiting the provincial offices of Bengo and Luanda, my fndings are the following:
(i)   the computerized accounting is up to date as of December 31, 1999;
(ii)   the fixed assets register is up to date as of December 31, 1999;
(iii)  the banks reconciliation is made on a monthly basis;
(iv)   all the supporting documents are attached to the last replenishment requests except for Luanda
where the bank statement was missing;
(v)   the discrepancies shown in the last statements of advances reconciliation are explained except for
Luanda where I could not get the explanation of a difference of $11,982.31.
19.   With FAS II, the same funding mechanism of the provincial offices will be maintained with some
improvements. The three offices which do not have in place a commercial bank acceptable to IDA are:
(Kwanza Sul, Bengo and Kunene). Therefore, Kwanza Sul and Bengo will open and maintain accounts in
commercial banks (in US dollars) located in Luanda. As to Kunene, it will open and maintain its accounts
in Huili. The management of the funds by the provincial offices will be guided by detailed procedures
prepared by the Management Unit and satisfactory to IDA. Funds will be advanced to the provincial offices
based on rolling quarterly plans and estimates of resource needs. Provincial accounts will be replenished at
least monthly by the Management Unit in Luanda upon submission by the provincial offices of
replenishment requests accompanied by appropriate supporting documents. Replenishment application and
documentation requirements for the provincial offices would follow a simplified SOE procedure that
provides a detailing of expenses by category, bank statement and reconciliation, copies of contracts and all
other original invoices or evidence of expenditures. Maximum allowable levels of disbursements from the
provincial accounts would be established by expenditure category similar to the limits IDA places on the
main Special Account. Any discrepancy shown in the reconciliation statements should be explained.
VII.  Staffing and Training
20.   Project Financial Management Staffing, Qualification and Job Description. The Chief Accountant
of the Management Unit has been filling this position since May 1996. He has relevant practical
experience and is proficient in computer applications. He has conceived and put in place the accounting
organization of the Project: chart of accounts, accounting and financial procedures. He reports directly to
the Director and works closely with the provincial directors and accountants. His workload prevents him
from recording the Projects' transactions on a daily basis and to closely supervise the information provided
by the provincial accountants. Therefore, he needs to be discharged from some duties which have to be
performed by an Accountant Assistant. This Assistant should be hired before Credit effectiveness. It is
worth mentioning that the staff includes also a Computer Analyst.
21.   Training. The Chief Accountant will need a training from the supplier of the accounting software
after installation and configuration of all modules are done. In his turn, he will train his Assistant and the
provincial accountants. Besides, Bank FMS and Disbursement Officers will ensure that FAS staff receive
adequate training on a regular basis in IDA procedures.
VIII. Audit Arrangements.
22.   Project Audit. The Borrower shall cause FAS to establish and maintain, to the satisfaction of IDA,
the accounts and records to be used exclusively for the Project. The accounts will be maintained in
- 102 -



accordance with sound and internationally accepted accounting principles. The Director will produce the
annual financial statements to be audited by independent and competent firms satisfactory to IDA. The
audit will be carried out in accordance wi+' international auditing standards and will provide separate
opinions on: i) the financial statements; ii) the use of the special account; and iii) the statement of
expenditures. The auditor will also produce a Management Letter and communicate therein, all significant
deficiencies in the design or operation of the internal control system and propose relevant recommendations
for its improvement. The audit report and the Management Letter are to be sent to the Bank within six (6)
months after the closing date of the fiscal year. The TOR for the audit have been discussed and agreed
with the Borrower. They make provision for the auditors to examine the supporting documents retained at
the provincial offices.
23.   Compliance with Audit Covenants. The percentage of compliance with audit covenants in Angola
is very low due to accounting and audit issues. At the end of April 2000, there are about 15 audit reports
(opinions) overdue pertaining to FY 1998 and the previous years. The projects concerned are:
Lobito/Beng. Rehab., Econ. Fin. Manag., Power Sector Rehab., Health and Social Action Fund. From the
accounting side there is a shortage of experienced accountants and from the audit side there are a few
auditing firms located in Luanda. As a result, most of the audits are performed by accounting firms located
abroad. Although the terms of reference of the auditors are clear, it happens very often that the separate
opinions on the Special Account and the SOEs are missing. Some improvement is needed in this area. The
auditor under this Project will be appointed before effectiveness. The TORs have been discussed with and
agreed to with the Borrower.
IX.   Budgeting and Monitoring
24.   Counterpart Funding is to be approved in line with the Government's budgetary process. The
Director and the Chief Accountant would ensure that data for their operating budget are submitted and
inputted in the National Budget during the statutory period. The Accountant would then monitor it through
the system. The subsequent quarterly replenishments following the payment of the initial deposit in the
Project Account should be payable at the beginning of each quarter.
X.    Risks
25.   Country Risks. Angola currently represents a fairly high-risk environment for most any type of
development activity. The Government has not managed to consolidate the peace accords of 1994 as
earlier hoped for and many areas of the country are currently insecure and therefore, inappropriate for
project activities. Nonetheless, FAS has been operating successfully for the past three years in those
regions of the country that are secure and proposes to continue doing so under this new project. FAS is a
model that has been tested and is operating under circumstances that are expected to continue, or irnprove
over the next three years. Furthermore, the project will rely on existing structures and staff with proven
track-records, and be implemented through local institutions and groups that have proven capacities for
FAS activities. Finally, to further reduce possible risk, project activities will be limited to the geographic
areas where the Government is in control. The following table reviews the key assumptions of the project
design that are felt to be important potential risks, and presents the specific risk minimizing measures that
the project contemplates.
26.   Project Risks. Specific project risks have been well identified in the PAD and minimization
measures have been considered. There is also a risk of getting inaccurate data from provinces. Mitigating
measure is to perform technical and financial audits on a regular basis. A risk assessment table is in Annex
1. The Project will be monitored closely and corrective action would be taken rapidly to fix major
- 103 -



problems as they could arise.
XI.   Next Steps
27.   Action Plan. The action plan in Annex 2 has been discussed with and fully agreed to with the
Borrower. PPF resources would be available to finance the critical activities and ensure a sound financial
management system is in place prior to Project effectiveness.
XII.  Conclusion.
28.   Based on assessment the Project does not fully satisfy the minimum Bank financial management
requirement as stipulated in OP/BP 10.02. Measures are being taken to secure the establishment of a
sound financial management system for effectiveness. The Project would use the traditional SOE-based
disbursement method for a period not to exceed 18 months. Full transition to a PMR-based disbursement
method would be considered after those 18 months of implementation.
-104 -



Appendix 1
Financial Management Review
Risk Assessment Table
Risk
Assessment
Risk Area                                     High    Medium            Low
Organizational Structure/Institutional Arrangements          M
Project Structure and Costing                                M
Internal Control Structure                                   M
Accounting Standards, Financial and Management                            L
Reporting
Special Accounts, Disbursements and Supporting                            L
Documentation
Staffing and Training                                                     L
Audit Arrangements                                                        L
Budgeting and Monitoring                                                  L
Country Risks (insecurity, corruption, transparency)  H
Project Risk                                               Medium
-105 -



Appendix 2
COMPLUINCE WITH FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT REOUIREMENTS
APPRAISAL TO EFFECTIVENESS: AN ACTION PLAN
The establishment of the Project financial management system (Operational Manual, Administrative
Manual, installation of the accounting software with all the necessary modules, training, system test, etc. w
ould be a condition of Credit effectiveness. It would consist of two phases: the first phase consisting of
activities preceding Credit effectiveness assumed to be September 2000, and the second phase
(1 8-month-period) from effectiveness to adoption of PMR-based disbursements. The action plan divides the
actions to be taken during each of the two phases, and the dates that they are due to be completed.
Action                                                                       Date due by    Responsible
I      Agreement on the Projects organizational structure and the job description of key
staff                                                                        May 16,2000          Govt./IDA
2       Agreement on tenns of reference for extemal audit                            May 16,2000          Govt./IDA
3       Finalization of the Operational Manual                                       June 15, 2000        Govt./IDA
4       Update of the Administrative Manual to include the following: organization chart,  June 15, 2000  Govt/IDA
fixed assets management procedures, financial statements, PMR formats and chart of
accounts
5       Recruitment of the Accountant Assistant                                      July 15, 2000        Govt./IDA
6       Recruitrnent of the Internal auditor (Monitoring & Evaluation)               July 31, 2000        Govt./IDA
7       Appointment of the extemal auditor: finalization of consultation documents, IDA's no   July 31, 2000  GovtAlDA
objection, bids evaluation, selection of the winner, IDA's no objection
8       Installation of the accounting system with all the necessary modules (general  July 31, 2000      Govt.
accounting, cost accounting, fixed assets management, budgetary management) and
training
9       Assessment of the financial management system by an IDA FMS before effectiveness    July 31, 2000  IDA
(inter-alia on the basis of the accounting records of FAS I related to the first quarter of
FY 2000)
Project Effectiveness                                                        Sept. 1, 2000        IDA
10      Local training on Bank's disbursement procedures and Project Financial Management   Oct. 2000     Govt.llDA
11      Preparation of FY 2001 Budget for FMS review                                 Dec.2000             Govt./IDA
12     First quarterly PMR prepared to be sent to IDA for review                     June 30, 2001        Govt./IDA
13      Second assessment of the financial management by an IDA FMS for transition to  January 2002       IDA
PMR-based disbursements
14      Start of PMRs-based disbursements on a quarterly period                      March 31, 2002       GovtlIDA
(18 months after effectiveness)
- 106 -



IBRD 24288
GABON                              RWAN _AKENYA
\!  _g_//  egpB              R~~WANDAt )t=R 
/^ NCONGO                     BURUNDI         S 00r0
'~~A=A          ~TANZANIA                                                                            A     G      L
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~ T-g-,;k.                                                                              ANGOLA
Lorodo                                                   , 9ivALAWI
All GOILA
oceen    i                       |   ZAMBIA                0t  )                                   SELECTED TOWNS                  +       AIRPORTS
| - -0- ;    (i)               PROVINCE CAPITALS               lj      PORTS
NAMIBIA                      ZIMBABWE       '                                     NATIONAL CAPITAL                       PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
\            | ~~~~BOTOIVANA                    GoOse -c 
BOTSWANAX                                                          . MAIN ROADS                         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
X   | o   ^sCONGO                           I 16                          l----O  RAILROADS
MILES   0                  100                  200                 300
CABNDA      +                                                                                                                                         
KILOMETERS  o           100          200           300          400          Soo
CONGO(                          Quio          _
To,boco                                                                                          20                                                       24
UIGE 
Thio -ep h-. b-pr, pporod by
a'       o       U G 9The World Bok's st*ff- eoCusi,ely
Cm,o    for the covnec   f reders 8 
ond is eool.si-ely for thre
mtnmfer ole of The World BOok
.  )  r, aKITO   9                                                         W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LCAP;(      Group.The d-nminofl-os used
WANDA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LNAti  CJAhA 
.LiA NOR,A                                                                                       \- y<;s   j.dAURI-t    tsuh. Igouna
'  '  '' I Xs     ~ NOAAvTAD    y'   oooloXt                                                                      
LUANOA~~~~~~~~~~~~~AAN                                                                                                             
ATLANTIC
:NAMIBb                         SUL                                                                                                   T. L. LuBANGi
OCEAN
ToWiodhoek      NAMI BI
T..                                                                                            C g gAND..A
1,6k                                                    CUNE        E      NO      tU                    CUANG                     ;~ \
NAMBE     t,WANG                t'Cosinrot          NAM          [ttB                                                                  A
Torubwc / /         C)                                               > C=iundoo Windhoe
.   1 2                                                  16e                                                   20u~L 4>



