Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3399 ANG
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Social Action Fund Project (FAS II))
between
REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 17, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3399 ANG
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  July 17, 2000, between  REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility 
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of 
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development 
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended 
Page  2
through October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth below (the 
General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set 
forth below, and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said 
Section are accordingly renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the 
Association determines meets the requirements set forth in 
Section 
11 of Resolution No. 194 of the Board of Governors of the 
Association, 
adopted on April 8, 1999; and ‘Participating 
Countries’ means, 
collectively, all such countries." ; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of 
expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a 
Participating Country or for goods produced in, or services 
supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment 
to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if 
such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is 
prohibited by a 
decision of the United Nations Security Council 
taken under Chapter 
VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings 
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Annual Work Plan and Budget" means the annual work plan and 
budget prepared by the Borrower for the purpose of the Project pursuant 
to paragraph 1 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(b)
"Beneficiary Community" means a community or group which 
meets the criteria specified in the Operational Manual (as hereinafter 
defined) and to which or for whose benefit a Grant (as hereinafter 
defined) is made or proposed to be made for a Subproject (as hereinafter 
defined);
(c)
"FAS" (Fundo de Apoio Social) means the Borrower’s Social 
Action Fund established by Decree No 44/94 dated October 28, 1994 (as 
amended by Decree No. 04/96 dated January 19, 1996);
(d)
 "FAS Project Account" means the account referred to in 
Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement; 
(e)
"FAS Project Subaccount" means each one of the nine bank 
accounts that shall be opened for each one of the nine provinces referred 
to in Section 3.04 (e);
(f)
 "Financing Agreement" means an agreement to be entered into 
between FAS and a Subproject Committee (as hereinafter defined) for the 
financing of a Subproject (as hereinafter defined) through the provision 
of a grant; 
(g)
"Fiscal Year" and FY mean the Borrower’s fiscal year 
commencing January 1 and ending December 31;
(h)
"Grassroot Management Training" or the acronym "GMT" means a 
training method to be used for building capacity of Beneficiary 
Communities in managing their development process; 
(i)
"Human Resource Development Plan" means a plan to be 
prepared and adopted by the board of FAS for the training, recruiting and 
managing of human resources needs regarding the implementation of the 
Project;
(j)
"Implementing Partner" means a non governmental 
organization, public institution, private sector enterprise, 
Page  3
community-based or religious organization and development agency 
providing operational support to or otherwise assisting in the carrying 
out of the Project;
(k)
"Kwanza" (Kwanza) or the acronym "KZ" means the currency of 
the Borrower;
(l)
"National Coordinating Committee" or "NCC" of FAS (Comité de 
Coordenação Nacional) means the project’s national management body which 
is coordinated by its Executive Director;
(m)
"Operational Manual" means the comprehensive manual referred 
to in subparagraphs (iii) and (v), paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, adopted by the Borrower, revised and updated for purposes of 
the implementation of this Project, and setting forth, inter alia, 
operational and administrative procedures, and eligibility criteria for 
the financing of Subprojects (as hereinafter defined) and to be used for 
the purpose of implementing the Project, as may be amended from time to 
time with the prior written consent of the Association;
(n)
"Project Management Report" or "PMR" means each report 
prepared in accordance with Sections 4.01 and 4.02 of this Agreement;
(o)
"Project Provinces" means each of the nine provinces where 
the Program will be implemented;
(p)
"Project Year" means each twelve-month period during Project 
implementation starting from the day after the Effective Date;
(q)
"Provincial Account" means each of the nine new, separately 
and independently managed advance accounts of the Special Account 
referred to in Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement;
(r)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(s)
"Subproject Committee" (Núcleo Comunitário) means the 
Committee to be established by each Beneficiary Community in accordance 
with the Operational Manual and Schedule 4 of this Agreement for the 
purpose of identifying, preparing and implementing Subprojects; and
(t)
"Subproject" means a specific development project which 
meets the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual and which is to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit under Part A of the Project. 
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development 
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
twenty-four million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
24,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so 
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in US$, a special deposit account, the FAS Special Account, in a 
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, 
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Page  4
(c)
The Borrower shall:
(i) 
open and maintain in Dollars Provincial Accounts, for 
each of the Project Provinces where commercial banks 
are available, in one commercial bank acceptable to 
the Association, on terms and conditions acceptable 
to the Association (including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure or attachment) to be used by 
such Project Provinces exclusively for the purposes 
of financing Subprojects and Operating Costs under 
the Project to be carried out by such Project 
Province, as specified in paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement; and
(ii)
withdraw from the Special Account and deposit into 
each Provincial Account and amount not exceeding 
$85,000 for Huambo, $125,000 for Benguela, $125,000 
for Cabinda, $125,000 for Luanda, $125,000 for Huila, 
$85,000 for Bengo, $85,000 for Kwanza Sul, $125,000 
for Namibe and $125,000 for Kunene, and thereafter 
replenish said Provincial Accounts in accordance with 
paragraph 7 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be February 29, 2004 or such 
later date as the Association
shall establish. The Association shall 
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a 
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn 
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of 
each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty 
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the 
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from 
the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 
30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may 
be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as 
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of 
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in 
the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be 
payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, 
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each April 1 and October 1, commencing October 1, 
2010 and ending April 1, 2040. Each installment to and including the 
installment payable on April 1, 2020 shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent 
(2%) of such principal amount. 
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national 
Page  5
product (GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for 
three consecutive years  the level established annually by the 
Association for determining eligibility to access the Association's 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval 
thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, 
modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment 
not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the 
date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set 
out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there 
shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of 
principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
the modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu 
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the 
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision 
shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to 
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's 
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, 
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through FAS with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, social and environmental practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance 
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, subprojects and consultants’ services required 
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan designed to 
Page  6
ensure the sustainability of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. Without limitation to its obligations under Section 
3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a)
open and thereafter maintain, until the completion of the 
Project, an account (the FAS Project Account) in KZ, in a commercial 
bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
promptly thereafter make an initial deposit in KZ of an 
amount equivalent to $300,000 (Initial Deposit) into such account to 
finance the Borrower’s contribution to the Project;
(c)
thereafter deposit into the Project Account by August 15, 
November 15, February 15 and May 15 in each Fiscal Year during Project 
implementation such amounts as shall be required and agreed upon with the 
Association to timely replenish the Project Account back to the amount of 
the initial deposit referred to in paragraph (b);
(d)
use the funds in the Project Account exclusively to finance 
expenditures under the Project; and
(e)
(i) open and maintain in KZ, in one or more commercial 
banks, nine FAS Project Sub-Accounts, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, in the name of each Project Province to 
be used by such Project Province as the Project Province counterpart 
contribution to the costs of the Project; and (ii) deposit into each FAS 
Project Sub-Account an initial amount sufficient to cover the counterpart 
funds contribution to the Project for each Project Province as determined 
by the Annual Work Plan and Budget. 
Section 3.05
The Borrower shall, by March 2001 and October 2001, 
and thereafter on an annual basis, furnish to the Association a 
procurement audit, in form and substance acceptable to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause FAS to maintain records 
and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, the operations and financial condition of FAS and to register 
separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project.
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause FAS to:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements 
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses 
and related statements, including those for the 
Special Account and each Provincial Account) for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but 
in any case not later than six months after the end 
of each such year: (A) certified copies of said 
financial statements reflecting the records and 
accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, for such year as so audited; and (B) the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
Page  7
and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning such records, accounts and financial 
statements and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of PMRs or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with sound accounting practices, records and separate 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures are retained until at least one year 
after the Association has received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine 
such records.
(d)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (c) (i) of this Section and those for the 
Special Account and each Provincial Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but 
in any case not later than six months after the end 
of each such year the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested, 
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the PMRs or statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit 
thereof as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 
4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action 
plan acceptable to the Association for the strengthening of its financial 
management system for the Project in order to enable the Borrower, not 
later than 18 months after the Effective Date, or such later date as the 
Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly PMRs, acceptable to the 
Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of 
funds for the Project, both cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said 
report; and (B) shows separately expenditures 
Page  8
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the 
period covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project 
implementation, both cumulatively and for the period 
covered by said report; and (B) explains variances 
between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the 
Project and expenditures under contracts financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance 
with guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the 
Association not later than 45 days after the end of each such quarter a 
PMR for such period.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause FAS:
(a)
to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance 
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with 
appropriate practice;
(b)
to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, social and environmental 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers; and
(c)
at all times to operate and to maintain its plants, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly 
as needed, to make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in 
accordance with sound engineering, financial, administrative and 
environmental practices.
ARTICLE VI 
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)
the Borrower's Decree No. 44/94 (including its amendment by 
Decree No. 04/96 dated January 19, 1996) shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of FAS to carry out the Project; and
(b)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of 
this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that FAS will be able to carry out the Project.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that any 
event specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 6.01 of this 
Page  9
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional 
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement 
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the revised Operational Manual in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association has formally been adopted by the 
Borrower;
(b)
the Borrower has appointed external auditors under terms of 
reference, and qualification and experience satisfactory to the 
Association for purposes of Section 4.01 of this Agreement;
(c)
the Borrower has opened the Project Account and deposited 
the Initial Deposit therein;
(d)
the Borrower has established a financial management and 
accounting system acceptable to the Association;
(e)
the Borrower has submitted the first Annual Work Plan and 
Budget to the Association; and
(f)
the Borrower has completed an Environmental Impact 
Assessment of the Project acceptable to the Association.
Section 7.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of Planning (Ministro do Planeamento) of 
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning
Largo do Palácio
Caixa Postal 1205
Luanda
Angola
Facsimile:
244 233 9586
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Page  10
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
By /s/ Francisco Da Cruz
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so 
to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be 
Financed
(1)
Goods,
750,000
100% of foreign
Vehicles and 
expenditures and
Equipment
95% of local
expenditures
(2)
Subprojects
   17,000,000 90%
(3)
Consultants’
    2,300,000 100% 
services and
Training
(4)
Operating
    2,300,000 95%
Costs
(5)
Unallocated 
    2,550,000
TOTAL
   24,900,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  11
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower; 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the 
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower ; and
(c)
the term "Operating Costs" means the incremental expenses 
incurred on account of Project Implementation, management and monitoring, 
including office supplies, utilities expenses, rental expenses, vehicles 
and equipment operation, transport, travel, per diem, supervision costs 
and local contractual staff salaries but excluding salaries of officials 
of the Borrower’s civil service
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the 
date of this Agreement;
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: 
(i) goods under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; 
(ii) Subprojects under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent 
each; (iii) services under contracts costing less than $100,000 
equivalent each for consulting firms and less than $50,000 equivalent 
each for individual consultants; and (iv) operating costs and training, 
all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to contribute to the Borrower’s 
effort to achieve a sustainable utilization of basic social and economic 
services by the population of the nine Project Provinces through: (a) the 
provision or rehabilitation of social and economic  infrastructure at the 
community level; (b) capacity building at the level of communities, 
partners, local government and FAS; and (c) strengthening the monitoring 
and evaluation system.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon 
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Social and Economic Infrastructure
Strengthening social and economic infrastructure in poor 
communities (as determined by the social economic indicators produced by 
the Borrower National Statistics Institute) through the financing of 
Subprojects in areas such as health, education, water and sanitation, 
feeder road rehabilitation, natural resources management, storage 
facilities and small irrigation facilities. 
Part B:
Capacity Building
Increasing the effectiveness and sustainability of community 
projects by building capacity through: (i) production and dissemination 
of technical manuals; and (ii) the provision of technical advisory 
services in support of training activities at the community level, level 
of implementing partners, local government, and level of FAS.
Part C:
Monitoring and Evaluation
Increasing the flow and quality of information on project 
Page  12
implementation through the: (i) provision of technical advisory services 
for the monitoring of project performance; (ii) carrying out of 
qualitative appraisal and impact assessments of projects; (iii) carrying 
out of reviews and analysis of interim and final evaluations and the 
lessons learned therefrom; (iv) acquisition of material and equipment for 
the carrying out of project monitoring; and (v) carrying out of training 
programs in project monitoring for the staff of FAS.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by August 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
1.
Goods shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines); and (b) 
the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to 
"Bank member countries" and "member country"  shall be deemed to be 
references, respectively, to "Participating Countries" and "Participating 
Country".
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,600,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines.
Section II.
Procurement of Subprojects
Part A:
General
1.
Goods shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines); and (b) 
Page  13
the provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to 
"Bank member countries" and "member country"  shall be deemed to be 
references, respectively, to "Participating Countries" and "Participating 
Country".
Part B:
Community Participation
Goods and works up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $22,500,000 
equivalent required for Subprojects shall be procured in accordance with 
paragraph 3.15 of the Guidelines and as specified in the Operational 
Manual.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions for 
Sections I and II
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to pre-qualify for bidding 
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project 
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply; and
(b)
with respect to the first two contracts for Subprojects per 
each of the Project Provinces, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section III.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" 
published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section III.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to 
"Bank member countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be 
references, respectively, to "Participating Countries" and "Participating 
Country".
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
Page  14
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the 
preceding paragraph.  The short list of consultant firms for services 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultant firms in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for training, estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract with firms may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms and services for training estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more and to each contract for services for 
training, as set forth in Schedule 2 (b) and paragraph 1 of Part C, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent and 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
less, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and general 
terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the 
Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Page  15
Implementation Program
1.
(a) 
The Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable 
it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in 
accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 
6, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, including any 
required revisions of the monitoring and evaluation 
systems to facilitate the carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of its objectives;
(ii)
prepare and furnish to the Association, no later than 
July 31 each year and throughout the duration of the 
Project, an Annual Work Program and Budget;
(iii)
carry out the Project in accordance with the 
Operational Manual and shall not amend the 
Operational Manual or waive any provision thereof 
which, in the opinion of the Association will 
materially and adversely affect the
implementation of 
the Project or the objectives thereof;
(iv)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association, 
semi-annually on or about March 31 and September 30, 
a report integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during 
the period preceding the date of said report, 
including specific reference to physical progress of 
each Subproject, and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of 
the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof 
during the period following such date; and
(v)
review with the Association, by April 30 and October 
31, or such later date as the Association shall 
request, the report referred to in paragraph (iii) of 
this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter. The first such exchange of views shall take 
place no later than six months after the Effective 
Date.
(b)
The progress report referred to in paragraph (a) (iv) of 
this Schedule shall cover, amongst other things:
(i) 
progress achieved in the implementation of the 
Project in the previous 6 months and comparison 
target/actual;
(ii) 
analysis of the reasons for not achieving the targets 
and plans for improving performance accordingly;
(iii) targets and activities to be carried out in the 
coming six months, including work, training and 
procurement plans and budget;
(iv) 
administration and financial operation of FAS;
(v) 
operating costs of FAS including the operating costs 
of each provincial office; and
Page  16
(vi)
the results of the most recent external audits of a 
representative sample of subprojects, a review of 
procurement, a description of monitoring activities 
of the quality and timeliness of implementation of 
Subprojects and a summary of the impact of the most 
recent Subprojects.
2.
Midterm Review
(a)
On or about the date eighteen (18) months after the 
Effective Date, or when one half (1/2) of the proceeds of the Credit have 
been disbursed, whichever is earlier, the Borrower shall carry out, 
jointly with the Association and FAS, a midterm review of the progress 
made in carrying out the Project (hereinafter referred to as the Midterm 
Review). The  Midterm Review shall cover among other things:
(i)
an assessment of: (a) work programs and budgets 
prepared to date and their status of implementation; 
(b) training provided under the Project; (c) 
procurement under the Project; and (d) the status of 
the Project monitoring indicators referred to in 
Schedule 6 to this Agreement and plans for updating 
such monitoring indicators;
(ii)
a review of the geographical, community and 
provincial indicators and of the distribution of the 
Subprojects under Part A of the Project in order to 
evaluate the performance of the FAS in implementing 
Part A of the Project;
(iii)
a review of the state of maintenance of the 
infrastructure rehabilitated and constructed under 
Part A of the Project; and
(iv)
an assessment of, among other things, whether the 
Borrower is maintaining the social and economic 
infrastructure rehabilitated and constructed under 
Part A of the Project with sufficient personnel for 
its operation.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause FAS, at least four (4) weeks prior 
to the Midterm Review, to furnish to the Association a separate report 
describing the status of implementation of Part A of the Project and a 
summary report of the other Parts of Project implementation.
(c)
The Borrower shall cause FAS, no later than four (4) weeks 
after the Midterm Review, to prepare an action program, acceptable to the 
Association, for the further implementation of Part A of the Project 
having regard to the findings of the Midterm Review, and thereafter 
implement such program.
3.
FAS Structure
The Borrower shall ensure that until Project completion, FAS will 
appoint and maintain the following personnel (including the Executive 
Director and Provincial Directors) to all key positions detailed in its 
organizational chart as set forth in the Operational Manual, all such 
personnel to possess experience and qualifications satisfactory to the 
Association.
4.
Implementation of Subprojects
(a)
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall insure that in carrying out Part A of the Project, FAS 
shall apply the procedures and guidelines set out in the Operational 
Page  17
Manual and shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any 
provision of the Operational Manual in such a way that may, in the 
opinion of the Association, materially or adversely affect the execution 
of Part A of the Project. 
(b)
Eligible Subprojects and the Beneficiary Communities must 
meet the criteria (general, institutional, social, economic, technical, 
legal, environmental and gender) and conditions specified in the 
Operational Manual.
(c)
The procedures in the Operational Manual shall be followed 
in identifying, processing and approving Subprojects under Part A of the 
Project. Subprojects estimated to receive less than $70,000 of FAS 
financing will be approved at the provincial level. The provincial 
offices of FAS shall submit all subprojects estimated to exceed $70,000 
FAS contribution to the FAS National Coordination Unit for approval. 
Subprojects estimated to exceed $100,000 FAS contribution will be 
submitted to the CCN and the Association for approval prior to the 
signing of the respective Financial Agreements.
(d)
Financing for each Subproject will not exceed 90% of the 
total costs of the Subproject.
5.
Financing Agreements
The Borrower shall ensure that FAS shall enter into a Financing 
Agreement with each Subproject Committee for the benefit of each 
Beneficiary Community. The terms of the Financing Agreement shall be 
satisfactory to the Association and shall include FAS obtaining rights 
adequate to protect the interests of the Borrower, the Association and 
FAS, through, inter alia, the following provisions:
(a)
the Subproject Committee shall carry out the Subproject with 
due diligence and efficiency in accordance with sound technical, 
financial, managerial and environmental standards and maintain adequate 
records.
(b)
The goods, works and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit for the Subproject shall be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(c)
FAS shall have the right to inspect, by itself or jointly 
with the Association and the Borrower, the goods and sites, works, plants 
and construction included in the Subproject.
(d)
FAS shall have the right to obtain all such information as 
FAS or the Association shall reasonably request regarding the goods, 
works, site, plant and construction included in the Subproject, the 
administration, operation, financial and environmental condition of the 
Subproject and the benefits to be derived from the Subproject.
(e)
FAS shall have the right to suspend or terminate the right 
of a Subproject Committee to use the proceeds of the Credit for the 
relevant Subproject upon failure by any such Subproject Committee to 
perform any of its respective obligations under the Financing Agreement.
(f)
The Subproject Committee shall have the obligation to report 
to FAS on progress in implementing the Subproject.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
Page  18
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), 
(3) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated 
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent 
to $3.2 million to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited 
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, 
provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $1.6 
million until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account 
plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $6 million.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that 
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into 
the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests 
for deposits into the Special Account at such 
intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the 
documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All 
such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association 
from the Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, 
as shall have been justified by said documents and 
other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account or 
out of any of the Provincial Accounts, the Borrower shall, at such time 
as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
Page  19
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that 
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the 
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) 
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to 
the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account or the Provincial Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the 
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to 
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal 
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that 
any payment out of the Special Account or out of any Provincial Account: 
(i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if 
the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount 
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that 
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to 
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to 
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account 
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the 
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
7.
(a) 
The Borrower shall withdraw from the Special Account and 
deposit into each Provincial Account the funds to assist the Project 
Provinces to pay for Subprojects and Operating Costs under the Project. 
Page  20
Such withdrawals or deposits shall be in amounts sufficient to assist 
each Project Province to pay for such Subprojects and Operating Cost 
provided that in no event the Borrower shall cause the amount held in any 
Provincial Account to exceed $85,000 for Huambo, $125,000 for Benguela, 
$125,000 for Cabinda, $125,000 for Luanda, $125,000 for Huila, $85,000 
for Bengo, $85,000 for Kwanza Sul, $125,000 for Namibe and $125,000 for 
Kunene;
(b) 
payments out of any Provincial Account shall only be made 
for eligible expenditures under categories 2 and 4 as set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(c) 
withdrawals from any Provincial Account may be justified by 
the Borrower on the basis of statements of expenditures for:
(i) 
Subprojects estimated to cost less than $70,000 
equivalent FAS financing; and
(ii) 
Operating Costs, all under such terms and conditions 
as the Association shall specify to the Borrower; and
(d) 
in the event the Association, after consultation with the 
Borrower, determines that any outstanding amount in any Provincial 
Account is not further required to cover payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Project Province beneficiary of such Provincial 
Account, upon notice from the Association, shall promptly refund such 
outstanding amount to the Special Account.
SCHEDULE 6
Performance Indicators
1.
Project Development Objective Indicators:
(i)
a 15 percent annual increase in the total number of 
beneficiaries of the social and economic 
infrastructure facilities installed within the 
Project after each year of operation; and
(ii)
a 95 percent increase in beneficiary satisfaction 
with services being delivered through Project 
infrastructure by end of Project.
2.
Impact Indicators (by Component):
(i)
95 percent of Project related infrastructure 
functioning at acceptable standards by end of 
Project;
(ii)
improved performance of FAS personnel, implementing 
partners and local government authorities in 
Subproject related skills (participatory planning, 
proposal development, construction, maintenance, 
appropriate technologies, etc.);
(iii)
increase in number of community initiated activities 
aimed at rebuilding social and economic 
infrastructures and organizations; and
(iv)
a 95 percent increase in the use of Monitoring and 
Evaluation (hereinafter "M&E") data for Project 
management decisions.
Page  21
3.
Output Indicators (by Component):
(i)
95% of planned structures completed to standards 
established in the Project Operational Manual;
(ii)
increased levels of Subproject related skills among 
FAS staff, implementing partners and local government 
authorities; and
(iii)
timely production of all Project related M&E reports 
(including interim and 
final evaluation).
4.
Process Indicators (FAS Administration and Project Processing)
(i)
a 35 percent decrease in administrative costs for FAS 
by end of Project; and
(ii)
number of eligible Project applications by type and 
province, percentage approved, and average time for 
review, approval and contracting.
