                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 29162

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                         (IDA-33990 TF-25628)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                                IN THE AMOUNT OF US$33 MILLION

                                         TO THE REPUBLIC OF

                                                ANGOLA

                                                 FOR A

                         SECOND SOCIAL ACTION FUND PROJECT (FAS II)




                                             August 17, 2004




Human Development 1
Country Department 2
Africa Regional Office

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                              (Exchange Rate Effective )

                             Currency Unit = Kwanza
                                      Kz 1 = US$ 0.17
                                     US$ 1 = Kz 5.98

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1   December 1

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BA       Beneficiary Assessment
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CB       Capacity Building
CDD      Community Driven Development
DCA      Development Credit Agreement
ERR      Economic Rate of Return
EU       European Union
FAS      Fundo de Apoio Social ( Social Action Fund)
FAS II   Second Social Action Fund
FRR      Financial Rate of Return
GOA      Government of Angola
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
IDA      International Development Agency
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MTR      Mid-Term Review
NGOs     Non-Governmental Organization
NPV      Net Present Value
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PES      Programa Economico Social (Socio Economic Program)
PMU      Project Management Unit
PRSP     Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSR      Project Status Report
USAID    United States Agency for International Development

                            Vice President:   Callisto E. Madavo
                          Country Director:   Michael Baxter
                           Sector Manager:    Dzingai Mutumbuka
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Wim Alberts

                                           ANGOLA
                         Second Social Action Fund Project (FAS II)


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                                  Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                11
6. Sustainability                                                                    12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     13
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   14
9. Partner Comments                                                                  14
10. Additional Information                                                           15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 23
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    24
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                25
Annex 8. Borrower's Implementation Completion Report Prepared by FAS Project Team    26
Annex 9. Persons Consulted During the ICR Mission                                    36

Project ID: P056393                                                  Project Name: Second Social Action Fund Project (FAS
                                                                     II)
Team Leader: Wim H. Alberts                                          TL Unit: AFTH1
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: August 30, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Second Social Action Fund Project (FAS II)               L/C/TF Number: IDA-33990; TF-25628
   Country/Department: ANGOLA                                                              Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: General education sector (35%); Sanitation (30%); Other social
                            services (25%); Health (10%)
                  Theme: Participation and civic engagement (P); Conflict prevention and
                            post-conflict reconstruction (P); Rural services and infrastructure
                            (P); Other social protection and risk management (P); Social risk
                            reduction (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 07/17/1998                                     Effective: 10/16/2000                10/16/2000
     Appraisal: 05/10/2000                                         MTR: 08/23/2002                  08/23/2002
      Approval: 06/30/2000                                      Closing: 02/29/2004                 02/29/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF ANGOLA/MINISTRY OF PLANNING
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Michael Baxter                                 Barbara Kafka
Sector Manager:                 Dzingai B. Mutumbuka                           Arvil Van Adams
Team Leader at ICR:             Wim Alberts                                    Wim Alberts
ICR Primary Author:             Helen C. Mbao; Sigrun Aasland


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Country Context and Bank involvement.

         At the time of project design, Angola had been in a state of protracted civil conflict for more than
three decades. The Angolan civil war was one of the most brutal full-scale wars in Africa in the 20th
century. The conflict had resulted in the destruction of infrastructure in many parts of the country, and the
displacement of more than 2 million people. This figure included about 1.5 million internally displaced
persons living in camps as well as squatter settlements in urban and peri-urban settings, 315,000 refuges in
neighboring living countries, and more than 300,000 ex-UNITA combatants and their dependents. The war
had caused a near complete breakdown of public institutions and functions, and in the provision of the most
basic social services. Poor governance and calls for better and more transparent management of natural
resource revenues coincided with enormous needs for reconstruction.
         As a result of the conflict, people living in severely war-damaged provinces had difficulties
sustaining their basic livelihoods, many were deprived of their assets, had lost their self-reliance, and
suffered from psychological trauma. Thus, in addition to the physical devastation, the war had torn
existing social fabrics, and coping mechanisms were stretched to their limits. In 1991, it was estimated that
67% of the population was living below the poverty line, and even this definition of poverty was seen as an
underestimation of the human suffering and deprivation of the Angolan people. Of the 40% of the
population that was internally displaced, some analyses pointed to a poverty incidence 50% higher for
migrants in urban and peri-urban areas than of non-migrants. Access to basic services, assets or personal
security was extremely poor, and government expenditure had mainly been directed to military spending
with low allocations to education and health. According to a study conducted under the IDA funded
Post-Conflict Social Recovery Project, lack of infrastructure was seen as a contributing factor in the
reluctance by internally displaced persons (IDPs) to return to their homes, in addition to security concerns.

         There was no CAS document available for Angola at the time of appraisal, but an agreement had
been reached with the International Monetary Fund, April 3, 2000 for a Staff Monitored Program (SMP)
for the period April-December, 2000 with successful implementation leading to a Poverty Reduction and
Growth facility (PRGF). Within this framework and based on the Bank's work in Angola, there were
preliminary thoughts on an Interim Strategy that would be finalized for discussion during the earlier half of
FY01 and depending on progress achieved, present a full CAS to the Board in FY02. The Interim Strategy
sought to: (i) help Angola to satisfactorily meet the structural reform measures agreed under the SMP and
move on to the PRGF and enhanced lending scenario with the World Bank; and (ii) lay ground for the post
SMP period. The underlying objective of the Bank's assistance strategy for Angola was broadly defined to
assist the Government in its transition from war to peace, and to complete the transformation to a market
oriented economy. The Interim Strategy was consistent with the Bank's long term objectives of
contributing to consolidate peace and foster equitable growth by helping to: (i) restore and sustain
macroeconomic stability; (ii) implement remaining structural reforms to complete the transition to a
market-oriented economy and create the conditions for a dynamic private sector outside of the oil sector;
(iii) expand access to and improve the quality of essential social services and reconstruct critical
infrastructure on a sustainable basis; (vi) foster the reintegration of displaced persons into their
communities; (v) improve governance; and (vi) build the capacity to make it possible to achieve all of these
difficult goals. The project addressed (iii) and (vi) directly, and (vi) and (v) more indirectly, the former
through general support to communities and the latter through the capacity building component addressing
municipal and provincial administrations.

         Preparation of the Second Social Action Fund for Angola (FAS II) begun in 1998 as a follow up to



                                                       - 2 -

FAS I, a project seen as the largest effort of the Government of Angola in providing social and economic
infrastructure, especially in the rural areas. The project was ready for appraisal when in December 1998
the Bank suspended new lending activities as a result of the deteriorating security and unfavorable
macroeconomic circumstances. The relapse into conflict in 1998 turned out to be one of the most brutal
intervals of the conflict. With conditions cautously pointing to a better security situation and commitment
by the Government in implementation of economic reforms in the later part of 1999, the Bank re-entered a
portfolio dialogue and the preparation of FAS II was put on a fast track in March 2000, for delivery to the
Board in June 2000. Angola was still in conflict at this time, with security constraints in many parts of the
country. In designing FAS II, the new IDA task team incorporated the lessons of FAS I by introducing two
new components into the design of FAS II (capacity building and monitoring& evalaution) and by
droppping a previous FAS I component (poverty monitoring and analysis). In effect, the project prepared
in 2000 was significantly different from the earlier design of 1998. The fast track appraisal in the spring of
2000 benefited from the initial improvements in the overall security conditions and the operating
environment. The design was responding to the need to get activities implemented on the ground in a
timely and efficient manner.

Original Objective

         The Project Development Objective was to increase the sustainable utilization of basic social and
economic services by target populations. To reach that development objective, the Second Social Action
Fund (FAS II) would focus on: (i) the provision or rehabilitation of social and economic (productive)
infrastructure at the community level; (ii) capacity building (CB) at the level of communities, partners,
local government and FAS; and (iii) strengthening the monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system. The
project objective was appropriate given pervasive poverty rates and poor access to basic services. Apart
from the physical devastation, there was also a breakdown of existing social fabrics. FAS II aimed to
improve community participation and empowerment in its operations as a contribution to the Government's
efforts to rebuild social capital.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The Objective was not revised.

3.3 Original Components:

The Second Social Action Fund consisted of four components:

Social and Economic Infrastructure (IDA Allocation US$ 25 million). This component was to support
a wide range of small and medium scale social and economic infrastructure. Sub-projects were to be
identified by poor communities, and implemented with the assistance of implementing partners, in
coordination and collaboration with local government and sectoral agencies in the provinces. The menu of
projects was expected to be related to: (i) education - elementary schools, kindergarten, children centers;
(ii) health - clinics and health posts; (iii) water and sanitation - water supply systems, latrines, combined
services; (iv) economic infrastructure - rehabilitation of small feeder roads, culverts, small bridges, small
scale community/municipal infrastructure (such as markets and silos); and (v) environmental infrastructure
(mainly water shed protection and reforestation).

Capacity Building (IDA Allocation US$ 2.5 million). Since FAS inception, its operations had been
guided by a strong vision of community empowerment. Yet, one of the main lessons of FAS I was that
FAS as an organization needed to make more concerted capacity building efforts in order to effectively
implement that vision. FAS II was to expand its focus on building capacity at the community level,



                                                        - 3 -

implementing partners and local government officials, as well as FAS staff. However, the ultimate
objective of the capacity building component, as projected in the PAD, was to better organize communities,
and to empower community members. Capacity building would be carried out through two basic channels:
(i) learning by doing through the process of project formulation and execution; and (ii) training programs
designed to strengthen the institutional and managerial capacity of communities and partner organizations.
The PAD acknowledges that strengthening the demand-driven character would be a lengthy process, to be
addressed partly through the Capacity Building component.

Monitoring and Evaluation (IDA Allocation US$ 1.5 million). FAS II would develop a more
comprehensive yet streamlined M&E system. One of the lessons from FAS I was that although the system
provided relevant data for FAS at both central and regional levels, this data was not systematically used by
FAS managers. The existing system was revised to include regular use of beneficiary assessments and
participatory evaluations, as well as a regularly updated quantitative database that provided national and
provincial management with continuous feedback and a basis for decision-making.

Institutional Support (IDA Allocation US$ 4 million). Component four supported the three other
components, in particular Capacity Building and Monitoring and Evaluation. The Implementing Agency
would further strengthen its procurement and financial management capacities, in addition to expanding its
mission from being mainly a provider of social and economic infrastructure in FAS I, into an institution
promoting social development and community empowerment.

The four components were clearly related to the Project Development Objective, and responded to lessons
from FAS I as well as the country's vast reconstruction needs. The project design drew on the Bank's
extensive experience in lending to social funds and the growing body of experience in supporting
development projects in conflict-affected areas. It drew on experiences from FAS I, and sought to address
some of the shortcomings of FAS I on the social side, by strengthening capacity building of communities
and implementing partners, including local government.

3.4 Revised Components:
No formal restructuring of the project took place, however, the focus of the capacity building component
changed after the training needs assessment carried out shortly after effectiveness of the project. The focus
shifted towards building capacity of local administrations and implementing partners.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is rated Satisfactory (S), based on the fact that the project responded to the Government's
priorities with regard to improving access to basic education, health, assets and hence, improved living
standards of the poor. The urgency of getting activities started had to be weighed against time needed for
preparation. The latter was minimized in order to be responsive to emergency needs expressed by the
government. Although this meant that some of the preparations had to be pushed into implementation, it
represented responsiveness from the Bank, and was compensated by high professionalism and adaptability
by the Project Management Unit.




                                                      - 4 -

Project Concept, Objectives and Approach
The design of the project was consistent with the framework that existed for Bank assistance to Angola.
The design did, however, underestimate some of the difficulties of operating in a severely conflict-affected
environment, particularly the very weak capacities in partner institutions and local administrations. FAS II
was designed to implement process-oriented projects based on demands from the poor. The project aimed
to sustain community based or local administration management of assets and develop partnerships
between communities, local administrations, and civil society organizations. An important FAS II
objective was to help strengthen and promote transparency, accountability and credibility in central and
local government's efforts to reduce poverty. FAS II was responsive to lessons from FAS I regarding the
need to strengthen the social side of physical infrastructure investment on all levels, through more
community involvement in the sub-project cycle and strengthened capacity at local administrations,
partners, and community level.

Institutional Capacity
The Project Management Unit, continuing as a semi-autonomous institution under the Ministry of Planning,
was strengthened through recruitment, training, and introduction of new financial and procurement
procedures. This was appropriate and necessary, given the lack of capacity at local administration levels,
the increased size of FAS II compared to FAS I, and the limited experience of FAS staff in capacity
building, monitoring and evaluation.

Readiness for Implementation
New procedures and approaches introduced in FAS II required a major mental shift from being an
institution mainly providing small scale physical infrastructure to a social institution not only embarking on
larger portfolios and more demanding procurement and financial management procedures, but also
introducing a dimension of social change to its activities. This new approach was very ambitious, and
while necessary and relevant, the capacity constraints of a country emerging from a conflict the scale of the
Angolan civil war were substantial. This implied a steep learning curve among FAS staff, as well as
flexibility in implementation. The capacity needs assessment, completed shortly after effectiveness, led the
PMU to shift the attention of the capacity building component towards partners and local administrations
rather than communities as set out in the PAD. The logframe was not finalized until the first half of 2001.
The short preparation period reflected the sense of urgency in getting activities on the ground benefitting
the population of Angola. While this impacted on the project design as some preparations had to be moved
into implementation, it ensured the responsiveness of the Bank. To compensate for the short preparation,
the project management adapted a flexible attitude to implementation and was able to make relevant
strategic decisions responding to unforeseen challenges.

Risk Assessment and Sustainability
The risk assessment was realistic, and sufficiently mitigated. Risk of lack of government commitment and
delivery of recurrent costs rated as substantial, however various measures ensured strong compliance on
recurrent costs. Some mitigation previewed in the PAD included: (i) capacity building in communities to
foster the role of community members in the maintenance of subprojects; (ii) preference given to
rehabilitation rather than new construction (where feasible); and (iii) preference given to projects with
lower operational costs, such as water and sanitation projects in preventive health rather than health posts
and centers. The realignment of the capacity building component to start with the local government and
implementing partner level in order to ensure sustainability directly mitigated this risk.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:



                                                      - 5 -

Project achievements have been significant, and are rated satisfactory. This assessment is based on a
number of factors: (i) that the project rehabilitated and constructed 95% of the target number of
sub-projects (in accordance with sector technical and environmental standards); (ii) there was a total of 1.5
million beneficiaries of the project; (iii) a significant number of beneficiaries expressed satisfaction with the
services provided through infrastructure provided by FAS II (based on evidence from two beneficiary
assessments); (iv) over 90% of the infrastructure is being fully utilized; and (v) almost 6000 permanent
jobs were created (over 80% of target). This was a remarkable achievement in light of the difficult
operating environment and the precarious security situation.

A sustainability analysis conducted at the end of the project revealed that out of the 979 subprojects
financed, 893, or 91%, were fully operating with adequate staffing, material, and the provision of recurrent
costs. Just 7% of the subprojects are experiencing some limitations in the provision of recurrent costs but
are still operative, while only 2% of the subprojects are not operative. Of the 21 non-operative subprojects,
16 were in water and sanitation, the main sustainability problem being the non-provision of water through
the existing public water supply system. For the most part, however recurrent costs for the FAS II
subprojects are being provided on a continuous basis. A total of 358 schools were constructed or
rehabilitated by the project, with all but one, fully functioning and provided with necessary staff and
materials. Out of 95 health posts, 90% are fully functioning and the rest, functioning with some limitations
with regard to the availability of drugs. For water and sanitation, about 85% of the 402 projects are fully
utilized, 12% are utilized albeit with limitations and only 3% not being utilized. Therefore, over 90% of
the infrastructure provided, is functioning and being utilized by the target population with concomitant
provision of recurrent costs. This has resulted in improved access to education through 932 new
classrooms in the assisted communities, with two shifts serving close to 100,000 pupils per year. Through
water and sanitation sub-projects, FAS II has contributed to reduced walking distances for women and girls
who fetch water as well as to improved health as a result of a reduction in the incidence of water borne
diseases and better hygiene. Overall, the project has benefitted about 1.5 million beneficiaries.

With respect to the provision of social and economic infrastructure, and in support of the objective, the
beneficiary assessments (BA) conducted (2002 and 2003) in 115 project sites noted improved access to
education, enhanced quality of education, reduced distance to health care, reduced labor in fetching water
and washing, and better household hygiene. According to the second BA, FAS is an institution recognized
for the quality and utility of the infrastructure it finances. The main conclusion of the second BA was that
in the opinion of the interviewed beneficiaries, FAS continues to be a relevant and innovative project
especially given the existing conditions in Angola. In the two BA's, 89% and 90% of the beneficiaries
approved of FAS, respectively. FAS also contributes to the idea that it is possible for the government of
Angola to address poverty and help its people resolve their problems.

With regards to the second component on capacity building, the impact of the conflict on capacities at all
levels was underestimated as was the time and effort it would take to address this. Capacities in local
government and among potential partners in civil society were much weaker than expected, after forty years
of violent conflict and rupture in all public services, with a civil society more experienced in emergency
interventions than in development projects. The project design included capacity building at a community,
implementing partners and local government levels. However, the project management team, in responding
to the weaknesses observed at both the implementing partners' and local government levels, made a bold
strategic choice to prioritize capacity building at these levels, where it became clear that the needs were
much higher than was assumed. At the municipal and provincial level, a large number of partners and local
administrations were trained in project planning, management, monitoring, evaluation, and participatory
approaches, in order to develop a pool of trainers that could be utilized to facilitate the capacity building at
community level. This narrowing down of the focus of the capacity building component reflected a


                                                        - 6 -

recognition of the local government as key partners, a principle that has been taken further in the design of
the follow-up project, FAS III. The community level training programs, originally foreseen to be part of
FAS II, had to be postponed into FAS III. The successfull capacity building efforts of FAS II at the
intermediate level form the basis for the capacity building efforts of FAS III at the community level. The
provision of recurrent costs observed above, speaks to the rationale of such prioritization.

While a justified strategic choice in the context of Angola, the postponement of the specific training
programs at the community level affected the level of community participation and ownership. The
beneficiary assessments point out weaknesses in capacity at the community level in project management, as
well as the communities' sense of responsibility for maintenance of provided infrastructure. Qualitative
data from the beneficiary assessment and project site visits suggest that the absence of capacity building
specifically targeted to communities, both Nucleus Groups and entire communities beyond
`learning-by-doing' in project implementation, affected community ownership, participation, and thus the
social impact on communities. Recognizing the necessity of prioritization of training to implementing
partners and local governments, who had low implementing capacities and also that the capacity building of
communities was carried out through learning by doing as part of the project formulation and execution,
this component is rated, satisfactory.

The third component, developing a phased comprehensive and streamlined Monitoring and Evaluation
system, providing relevant data at both provincial and national level to support management and strategies,
is considered as having achieved its objective. This assessment is based on: (i) the user-friendliness and
regular reporting of quantitative and qualitative data from the provinces; (ii) the focus on process and
output data that inform management on implementation performance; (iii) training of all staff including
provincial directors in M&E to strengthen the broader involvement of the teams in the process; (iv)
carrying out of two comprehensive beneficiary assessments; (v) post evaluation of one third of the projects
one year after hand-over to measure sustainability of interventions; and (vi) an innovative undertaking of a
sustainability survey on actual use of provided infrastructure. FAS management had limited capability at
the community level to be fully responsive to information provided by the first beneficiary assessment
regarding low community capacity and clarity on roles and responsibilities especially after hand-over of
projects to communities. The FAS III project is currently addressing this issue, as well as some of the
remaining challenges of the M&E system, such as the capacity to monitor impact data.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Social and Economic Infrastructure Component (US$34.4 million, US$27 million from IDA). The
Social and Economic Infrastructure Component is rated satisfactory. Nine hundred and seventy nine
(979) projects were approved, against 1177 projected in the revised logframe. The lower number than
projected relates to: (i) higher prices of infrastructure partly due to character of infrastructure demanded,
and partly due to price increases; and (ii) higher average subproject costs than estimated due to other than
expected composition of types of subprojects, with very few environmental subprojects, that would have
decreased average costs. Over half of the disbursements were in 2002, after the signing of the peace accord
in April. Of the 979 sub-projects implemented, 46% were in health and education, 41% in water and
sanitation, 12% in economic and productive infrastructure, and 1% were environmental sub-projects (see
Table 1). Environment projects did not meet targets because they were not regarded as a high a priority by
communities. The average community contribution was 8.6%. Communities contributed $2.7 million in
kind, labor or opportunity costs related to sub-project tasks. Seventy six (76) percent of infrastructure
projects were new facilities, while the rest were rehabilitation of existing infrastructure. Sub-projects in the
health sector, which have the highest recurrent cost, were kept low at close to 10%, in accordance with
planned targets.




                                                       - 7 -

The infrastructure provided by FAS is of high quality, and average subproject costs even though higher
than in FAS I and higher than projected in the PAD, compares favorably with those provided by the
Ministry of Public Works and are much lower than those provided by provincial governments, bilateral
partners and others (see Annex 3). The cost/benefit ratio for FAS projects tends to be better, as the
infrastructure is in general of higher quality. The second beneficiary assessment observed that the choice
of technology in infrastructure, due to its high level of technology and complexity, had a limiting impact on
community participation. This would suggest a trade-off between high quality infrastructure and a high
level of participation in the construction itself in those communities that have low skills in construction.
The lower than ideal community participation is also an effect of the prioritization made under the capacity
building component that would have helped address poor construction skills, for instance. It should be
noted that high quality infrastructure also contributed to sustainable utilization of services over a relatively
long period.

By involving civil society organizations such as churches and NGOs as intermediaries, the project was able
to leverage operational costs where these were short from the government, especially in the health sector.
This way, the project ensured a back-up for the government in these high-risk sub-projects. The
intermediaries also played the important role of being the interface between communities and FAS.

The project chose to consolidate its activities in the nine provinces of Cabinda, Luanda, Bengo, Kwanza
Sul, Benguela, Huíla, Namibe, Cunene, and Huambo, where FAS I had been operating, rather than
expanding into any of the remaining nine. FAS I only covered 50% the municipalities (districts) in those
nine provinces and expansion in FAS II focused therefore on expansion within the existing nine FAS
provinces (the remaining 50% of the municipalities). This reflected both the security situation and the low
level of human and financial resources available in the 9 non-FAS provinces. During 2002, security
improved, however accessibility and capacity still remained low and expansion represented major
challenges to FAS management. Consequently, consolidation and strengthening of capacity and quality
continued to be the priority. It is the opinion of the ICR team that this move was the right one, however, if
FAS is to remain a core development institution for the country, it is now time to expand into more
challenging areas, something that FAS III is addressing through its phased expansion scenario.

Table 1: Implemented infrastructure
Province      Education      Health        Water and      Economic/          Environment       Total
                                           Sanitation     productive
                                                          infrastructure
Kwanza        40             15            53               11               2                 121
Sul
Benguela      40             18            33               19               1                 111
Namibe        43             15            47               11               0                 116
Cabinda       47             11            59               1                0                 118
Huíla         49             9             31               23               1                 113
Cunene        37             6             32               33               8                 116
Luanda        36             8             55               3                0                 102
Bengo        37              7             41               2                0                 87
Huambo        26             8             52               9                0                 95
Total         355            97            403              112              12                979
% of          36.26          9.90          41.29            11.44            1.23              100
projects
Total         21.5           5.2           4.1              3.4              0.2               34.4
investment



                                                        - 8 -

(US$
million)
% of          62.5           15            12              10                  0.5             100
investment


Capacity Building Component (US$2.02 million, US$0.72 million from IDA). The CB component is
rated satisfactory. Preparation of this component was based on important lessons learned from FAS I ,
but the preparation was compressed and fast tracked. Therefore, implementation modalities of the
conceptual CB framework could not be worked out during the design and had to be decided upon during
implementation (after the training needs assessment). The overall conceptual design of the CB component
(as in the PAD) has actually never been questionned (as evidenced by the fact it is now implemented in
FAS III). FAS management made a pragmatic adjustment to sequence the CB component and focus first
on the creation of a pool of trainers to be able to deliver the community based CB programs at a later stage.
The change of direction on the CB component was made consciously and the change of objectives was
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank and confirmed in aide memoires. It did not require a formal
restructuring of the project.

A comprehensive training program was developed for partners, local administrations, and FAS staff, with 3
modules addressing 3 levels. Through the capacity building program, 3 national, 15 regional, 27
provincial, and 44 municipal workshops were held. In addition, FAS personnel participated in 4
international learning events. The three levels were national, provincial, and municipal, the latter with
some, albeit not systematic community participation. The three modules were Project Identification and
Planning, Participatory Approaches, and Monitoring and Evaluation, all with training manuals. In
addition, FAS staff were provided training in their respective capacities, and two visits to other social funds
in Zambia and Brazil were conducted.

At the time of project design, the capacity required at an intermediate level to implement specific training
programs at community level was underestimated. The adverse marks that four decades of war had left on
the population, the public administration, and on civil engagement in the country, had depleted the cadre
required to facilitate capacity building activities. This became clear in the capacity needs assessment that
was finalized shortly after effectiveness. As a result, and in recognition of the central role played by local
governments in ensuring the provision of recurrent costs to social infrastructure, it was the consideration of
the PMU that for sustainability purposes, training of local government and implementing partners was
required to create a pool of trainers with the necessary skills to facilitate community empowerment.
Consequently, the project was ultimately not able to provide communities with the same amount of training
that was projected in the PAD, but did provide FAS III with a wide network of promoters and trainers, that
will be at the heart of the capacity building initiatives of FAS III at the community level.

Substantial capacity building at the community level took the form of learning by doing. This approach
was consistent with the need to organize communities around subproject cycle activities. Each of the
different steps of the project cycle requires some form of community organization. Getting the
communities together and sensitize them about the FAS project, having them assess their needs, having
them prioritize their interventions and mobilize them around the actual implementation of the subproject are
initial building blocks of a process of social reintegration and reconstruction of social capital that had
disintegrated during the civil conflict. FAS staff and FAS promoters play an active role in this process of
learning by doing. The process of social mobilization of communities sometimes took as long as six
months for communities for the first time to identify and prioritize their needs. The BA's in FAS II showed
that the learning by doing affects mostly do not spill over into any further community development activity,
the main focus remains the subproject. In FAS III, the project aims to go beyond this stage and build the


                                                       - 9 -

capacity within the "Nucleo" to act as an agent for development in the community more broadly after the
handover of the subprojects. Nucleus generally tended to have more leverage vis-a-vis government
authority and communities when including traditional community leaders. More training programs at the
community level could have benefited the subprojects as well as the communities more broadly.

Monitoring and Evaluation Component (US$0.12 million, US$0.05 million from IDA). The M&E
component is rated satisfactory. A comprehensive M&E system was developed and functioned as a
managerial tool for the project management unit. During implementation, the M&E system was
continuously developed and refined, and each provincial team regularly reported on 12 indicators. The
change in the logframe after effectiveness was projected by the PAD, and was a direct result of the short
preparation period for the project. Two beneficiary assessments were conducted, and evaluations -one year
after hand-over to communities- were conducted for one third of the implemented subprojects. In addition,
a sustainability survey of all sub-projects was conducted after project closing, an innovative undertaking
not earlier projected within the M&E system. The M&E system proved very adaptable and flexible, thus
able to serve management decision making in an effective manner. Improving and adjusting in the course of
the project was part of this. The ICR team observed a weak link between the M&E system and the
logframe for the project, the latter being more of a static tool. While the indicators actually reported on
provide more managerial support as they clearly focus more on process, the logframe indicators were more
limited to outputs but helped to guide the management of the project.

Disbursements to this component are significantly lower than projected in the PAD. This is because the
actual costs incurred by M&E such as computer hardware and software, training, and M&E staff, were
actually included under institutional support.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
No NPV or ERR was calculated at project appraisal.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
No financial rate of return (FRR) or other financial indicators were calculated for the project. The focus of
the project was on community participation in identifying physical investments, and not on actual
cost-benefit analysis of infrastructure.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The Institutional Development impact of the project is rated Substantial. FAS as an institution, was
able to deliver close to 1000 subprojects and expand considerably access to services in post conflict
Angola. FAS established a solid track record and developed into a credible delivery mechanism. FAS
demonstrated that even under extremely difficult conditions, it was able to function in an accountable
manner with transparent fiduciary procedures, as evidenced by the confidence of bilateral and multilateral
partners, NGOs and private sector. In a country that was characterized by bad governance, FAS
functioned for both the public and the private sector as a transparent example of good governance. FAS
also expanded the link with local government and implementing partners and helped develop the
institutional capacity of local authorities and partner organizations. There was clear impact of training in
procurement, financial management and disbursement procedures at this intermediary level. FAS II
strengthened the partnerships with local government through provincial and municipal training for partners
and administrations, and through the Consultative Committees in each province.

On the community level, the PAD anticipated "to promote community development not only through the
project implementation process but also directly through training programs designed to strengthen the
institutional and managerial capacity of community-based organizations". Training programs, however,



                                                     - 10 -

were realigned to focus on partners and local administrations. Capacity building of communities was
centered around the project cycle activities, thereby contributing to a spirit of "working together" including
between men and women. FAS III is enhancing capacity at community level through more direct
interventions to sensitize and enable the community based organizations to play a more important and
facilitating role after project hand-over.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The exceptionally difficult environment in a country emerging from one of Africa's most brutal and
destructive civil wars undoubtedly impacted the project, and to a larger extent than initially thought during
design. The security situation continued to be unstable throughout 2001, and until the cease-fire was
signed in April 2002. Nevertheless, FAS II was fully operative in its nine regions and very successful
given the circumstances. All achievements under FAS II were made despite the environment in which it
functioned. From its inception, FAS faced immense destruction of social infrastructure, a task it filled
under abysmal conditions of capacity, enabling environment, and a traumatized population.

Material price increases and significant regional variations in prices contributed to a lower number of
sub-projects as compared to what was projected in the PAD. Finally, heavy rains in early 2001 contributed
to the slowed down process of disbursements.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The provision of recurrent costs for FAS subprojects by the government of Angola and other partners is in
general very good. Provision of recurrent costs is only lacking in a few cases, notably in the provision of
water through the public water supply system. The sustainability assessment showed that only 4% of
water and sanitation projects were not operational. The main problems encountered with this type of
subprojects originated from the dependence of the main public water supply pipes, and the problems were
encountered in cases where water infrastructure was not provided by the local government, or where supply
systems were illegally tapped.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The realignment of the training to focus on municipal and regional administrations was a strategic choice
backed with sound judgment from the PMU. However, it had an impact on the communities ability to
manage and sustain their projects. The short preparation period necessitated that some preparatory
activities be pushed into the implementation phase thereby, contributing to full disbursement of all project
funds on time and without compromising quality.

5.4 Costs and financing:
FAS II followed operations in FAS I, but preparations of FAS II were halted as a result of the deteriorated
security situation in 1998 and Bank suspension of new lending. In the interval, FAS I continued to operate
with support from bilateral donors and the remainder of the IDA credit. For FAS II, the Bank disbursed
$32.6 million of the US$33 million planned at appraisal. About 53% of all the total cost was disbursed
during 2002 alone. The government contribution totaled US$2.66 million or 6%, againt US$5 million or
10% projected in the PAD. In addition, the government contributed through the provision of facilities,
equipment and housing.

The disbursements to capacity building and M&E, components 2 and 3, were lower than anticipated.
Especially M&E was at only 6.7% of the projected amount in the PAD. This is related to the fact that
expanditure categories (as agreed in Schedule I of the DCA) cut across components. Expenditures for
consultant services, equipment, training, workshops etc., while in practice supporting the CB and M&E



                                                     - 11 -

components, fall for accounting purposes under institutional support.

Co-financing during the project was a little over what was originally estimated, with contributions from
Norway (US$3.4 million), Sweden (US$0.85 million), Italy (US$0.015 million), and USAID (US$0.25
million). FAS II also managed to draw support from the private sector, notably Shell (US$75,000) and
British Petroleum (US$97,000).

The community contribution was projected in the PAD at US$4 million. In the initial stages of FAS II
implementation, a disbursement complication occurred as FAS was only reimbursed for 90% and not the
full 100% of the incurred costs. The community contributions were not part of the invoiced costs. To
solve this impasse, the DCA was amended in May 2001, removing the community contribution from the
invoicing, while still expecting communities to contribute to the total costs. The community contribution
amounted to US$2.7 million, costed a-posteriori on the basis of standard formulas provided to the
provincial teams accounting for material, labor and opportunity costs.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Provision of recurrent costs by government to secure operation of the facilities has been very good and is
the main rationale for rating sustainability as likely. In addition, the quality of infrastructure is of very high
standard. Out of the 979 subprojects financed, 893, or 91%, are fully operating with the necessary staff,
material, and other provisions; 65 subprojects (7%) are limited in provision of recurrent costs but still
operational and functioning; while 21, or 2%, are not operational. Of the 21 non-operative subprojects, 16
were in water and sanitation. The PMU scaled down the amount of health posts built during the project, a
sector where FAS I initially encountered some sustainability problems in terms of lack of provisions of
recurrent costs. In general, the new FAS II strategy to concentrate on water and sanitation projects as a
preventive means to counter health problems, was successfull. In the 4% non-operative water and
sanitation projects, the dependence on the public water supply and the inability by local governments to
maintain or extend existing supply pipes, caused some sustanability issues.


FAS has contributed to the government, essential good practices in management of external funds and in
establishing civil society actors as potential partners. Further, maintenance was promoted through
sensitization of communities and through the provision by government, of some funding for maintenance as
part of the recurrent costs. In addition, FAS is in the process of preparing a maintenance fund for its
projects in order to enhance sustainability of its subprojects.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
FAS III was approved in June 2003, and launched shortly after the closing of FAS II. FAS III will build
on the experiences from FAS II, and will bring further those elements that FAS II was not able to fully
address to the extremely difficult circumstances caused by the conflict. FAS III will build on the pool of
trainers provided by FAS II to provide community level capacity building. Further, FAS III will address
capacity building in a more integrated approach, making sure that all actors are involved. Unlike FAS I
and II, both designed during the conflict, FAS III has started to prepare an exit strategy for FAS and the
handling over of responsibilities to the government, through a municipal strengthening component. FAS II
did not have such an exit strategy, as the conflict and the resulting minimal capacity or even presence of
local governments made this unrealistic. FAS III has also introduced a plan of action to monitor the
utilization of FAS I and II projects and is in the process of establishing a maintenance fund for subprojects.




                                                      - 12 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance in designing the project is rated as marginally satisfactory. Given the security situation
in Angola from 1998, preparations of FAS II were suspended and only taken up in early 2000. This was a
responsive strategy in a situation where it was of importance to get activities going on the ground. The task
team also demonstrated flexibility in allowing for some finalization to take place after effectiveness.
However, this fast-track preparation put significant pressure on the task team, and impacted the project
design negatively. A longer preparation period in 2000, allowing for more institutional strengthening
upfront, more in-depth analysis of the capacity needs, and a better developed logframe would have had a
positive impact on the overall quality of the project. In its approach, FAS II was responsive to the lessons
from FAS I, but underestimated the shift this responsiveness would represent, in being not only a provider
of physical infrastructure but one concerned with building social capital.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance in supervision is rated as satisfactory. The ICR mission reviewed 7 PSRs and 8 Aide
Memoires and found in all a remarkable level of detail, a clear identification of project problems. A total of
85.2 staff weeks were contributed to the project. The link between the work of supervision missions and
subsequent operationalization of recommendations is strong. The amendment of the DCA was valuable in
deblocking the impasse of disagreements over disbursements against community contributions, and
demonstrated flexibility and responsiveness from the Bank. The continued procurement support to the
PMU and the regional offices was important. Moreover, amendments that were made to the Operational
Manual after the MTR are other examples of responsiveness. The Bank also provided substantial technical
assistance during the field work, the BA's, the design of the CB training modules.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, Bank performance is rated satisfactory. The Bank exhibited responsiveness and flexibility in
the preparation of the project to the conflict context and was able to deliver the project in three months. A
new IDA Task Team was able to effectively draw the lessons of FAS I (two years later than original design
of FAS II) and also to take into account the changing country conditions in designing the operation. A
stable supervision team was also able to consistently follow up on relevant issues in order to enhance
implementation.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The government and the PMU, in particular, made positive contributions to the preparations and also to the
continued operations of FAS.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance is rated satisfactory. The government was able to implement this
project in a very difficult and unpredictable environment and provided the Project Management Unit
sufficient and necessary space within the Ministry of Planning, and allowed the project to remain
semi-autonomous. At a regional level, recurrent costs were generally provided. Government contributions
were provided to the Special Account on a regular and timely basis, a significant improvement compared to
FAS I.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing agency is rated satisfactory. In a very challenging operating
environment and under extremely difficult security conditions, FAS management made appropriate



                                                     - 13 -

strategic choices and delivered a satisfactory project. The PMU benefited from highly qualified and
committed staff, combining staff from FAS I with new resources. The PMU proved responsive to a
changing environment and was committed to continiuous learning throughout the project.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Based on the above, borrower performance is rated satisfactory, overall.

8. Lessons Learned

The project has contributed to a number of lessons as follows:

For the Bank to be effective in a conflict/post conflict context, a quick and flexible response is
required. In designing FAS II, the task team was able to respond quickly to the needs of the Borrower
and thereby able to expand access to social and economic services that had been in a dismal state during the
war lasting more than forty (40) years.

The demonstration effect of a transparent and accountable institution in an environment where
nothing seems to work has a tremendously positive impact on institutional development. FAS evolved
into a credible institution through its ability to function with transparent fiduciary procedures. It
set an example of good governance for both the public and the private sector. It was therefore able to
attract significant resources from its development partners (donors and private sector).

Continuity of staffing in a conflict/post conflict context helps to deliver goods and services. Continuity
of staffing on both the Borrower's and Bank's side, helped to incorporate lessons learned consistently as
well as respond quickly to changing needs on the ground.

Provide capacity building for partners. Developing partnerships and enhancing capacity of partners
such as churches and NGOs who provide the interface with communities, contributes to identification of
innovative sub-projects and leveraging of operational costs. Training of such partners can ensure
consistency in community participation tools.

Monitoring gender inclusion. The requirement of having two women out of five community nucleus
members has helped to increase female representation, however, the reality of this participation needs to be
closely monitored and supported with training programs.

Define social impact indicators upfront. To be able to monitor and measure the impact of a project on
social capital, a clear definition of practical indicators (including an appropriate baseline) is required.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
   The Borrower has indicated to be in agreement with the overall ratings, conclusions and lessons learned
   from the ICR of FAS II, as indicated in a communication from the FAS Executive Director on August
   25, 2004.

"Dear Wim,
I rewiew the new ICR version, and there are not comments.
Its ok for us because in this version you give new rate for capacity
building, and in paragraph 8 Lessons Learned you choose the most important 6
lessons.
Thanks



                                                       - 14 -

Victor Hugo Guilherme
Director Executivo
Fundo de Apoio Social-FAS
Telf.(244)2 333835-330191
Luanda - Angola"

(b) Cofinanciers:
Through meetings held with Norway and USAID it was emphasized that FAS II was a credible and
accountable institution. These partners observed that the role of FAS should be to empower communities
even more so that the communities know where to go for issues relating to service delivery. In addition,
they felt that FAS should work with NGOs in capacity building of communities as well as for operation
and maintenance of infrastructure after hand-over. Partners had also seen an improvement in the state of
infrastructure, thus pointing to a higher level of sustainability.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Private sector partners were satisfied with the implementation of activities agreed with FAS II and the
reporting received from FAS, and express interest in further exploring opportunities for social investment
and innovative ways in which to work with FAS.

10. Additional Information




                                                     - 15 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                1
               Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
Increased sustainable utilization of basic   Annual cumulative increase of beneficiaries   Annual cumulative increase of beneficiaries
social, economic, and productive services in from end of FAS I baseline at 15%, of which from end of FAS I baseline at 16.5%, of
the project areas                            50% women                                     which 41.3% women

                                             90% of communities in FAS II report on their 93% of communities in FAS II report on their
                                             projects one year after handover              projects one year after handover

                                             Minimum of 1000 permanent jobs created        1476 permanent jobs created annually
                                             annually
                                                                                           96% of infrastructure functioning at
                                             95% of infrastructure functioning at          established technical standards one year
                                             established technical standards one year      after handover
                                             after handover

                                             Number of communities (not targeted)          NA
                                             undertaking development activities or having
                                             their own organizations after FAS II
                                             implementation

                                             90% of communities approve of FAS II or       90% of communities approve of FAS II
                                             performance of Implementing Agency one        performance in second beneficiary
                                             year after handover                           assessment, 89% in first beneficiary
                                                                                           assessment
                                             Systematic evidence of use of M&E for
                                             decision making                               NA

1. Community sub-projects                    95% of 1177 infrastructure projects           100% of 979 infrastructure projects
                                             rehabilitated/ constructed in accordance with rehabilitated/ constructed in accordance with
Infrastructure                               technical and environmental standards         technical and environmental standards
                                             established in Operational Manual             established in Operational Manual

                                             At least 15% of costs per subprojects are for NA
                                             construction work

                                             At least 195 training events for communities, 93 workshops realized
                                             partners, and project staff

Monitoring and Evaluation                    From January 2002 all components lacking      NA
                                             in FAS I M&E implemented and designed to
                                             create an M&E system supporting decision
                                             making

Institutional Support                        10% administrative costs                      13% administrative costs

                                             Average time for revision, approval, and      Average time for revision, approval, and
                                             contracting of subprojects not beyond 45      contracting of subprojects at 49 days
                                             days

                                             Average time from contracting to handover     Average time from contracting to handover
                                             not beyond 188 days                           160 days

                                             Average community contribution at least 10% Average community contribution 8.6% of
                                             of subproject cost                            subproject cost




                                                                - 16 -

Output Indicators:
                                                                        1
              Indicator/Matrix                      Projected in last PSR             Actual/Latest Estimate
Cumulative Disbursements                  US$33 million                      US$32.4
Operating Costs/Total Costs               10 percent                         13.3 percent
Number of Projects Financed               1022                               979
Number of Projects Completed in Education 283                                355
Number of Projects Completed in Health    94                                 97
Number of Projects Completed in           283                                403
Water/Sanitation
Number of Projects Completed in Economic 283                                 112
Infrastructure
Number of Projects Completed in           79                                 12
Environment
Number of Projects in Execution           -                                  -
Number of Permanent Jobs Created          6900                               5756
Number of Training Provided               195                                93
Number of Provincial Training Workshops   10                                 36
Number of Trainers Trained                30                                 54
Number of Community Leaders Trained       1500                               557
Quarterly M&E reports                     12                                 12
Annual M&E Reports                        3                                  3
Number of Beneficiary Assessments         2                                  2
Number of Provincial M&E Reports          36                                 18
Number of Quarterly FMR's                 6

1End of project




                                                          - 17 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
Community Sub-projects                                      28.90           31.55            108.7
Capacity Building                                            3.30             2.02            61.2
Monitoring and Evaluation                                    1.80             0.12             6.7
Institutional Support                                        3.60             6.47           180.6

Total Baseline Cost                                         37.60           40.16
 Physical Contingencies                                      4.70
 Price Contingencies                                         4.70
                        Total Project Costs                 47.00           40.16
                  Total Financing Required                  47.00           40.16


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.70              0.20         0.20          0.47         1.57
                                  (0.70)           (0.19)      (0.19)          (0.00)       (1.08)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00         3.94          1.50         5.44
Technical Assistance and          (0.00)           (0.00)      (3.94)          (0.00)       (3.94)
training
4. Institutional Support/         0.00              0.00         3.14          0.85         3.99
Operating Costs
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (2.98)          (0.00)       (2.98)
5. Sub-projects                   0.00              2.94        26.46          6.60         36.00
                                  (0.00)           (2.50)      (22.50)         (0.00)      (25.00)
   Total                          0.70              3.14        33.74          9.42         47.00
                                  (0.70)           (2.69)      (29.61)         (0.00)      (33.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00             0.00         0.00           0.15        0.15
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.51             0.25         0.12           0.10        0.98
                                  (0.51)          (0.20)       (0.03)         (0.00)       (0.74)
3. Services                       0.00             0.00         0.54           1.60        2.14
Technical Assistance and          (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.19)         (0.00)       (0.19)



                                                - 18 -

  training
  4. Institutional Support/                0.00               0.00              5.20             0.20              5.40
  Operating Costs
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (4.49)            (0.00)           (4.49)
  5. Sub-projects                          0.00              19.50              9.80             2.70             32.00
                                          (0.00)            (19.50)            (7.40)            (0.00)           (26.90)
      Total                                0.51              19.75             15.66             4.75             40.67
                                          (0.51)            (19.70)           (12.11)            (0.00)           (32.32)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Community Sub-projects        25.00                                 26.97         0.76       3.81       107.9
Capacity Building              2.50                                  0.71         0.38       0.92       28.4
Monitoring and Evaluation      1.50                                  0.05         0.00       0.07        3.3
FAS Institutional Support      4.00                                  4.67         1.52       0.28       116.8
TOTAL                         33.00         5.00         9.00       32.40         2.66       7.78       98.2      53.2     86.4

  *: Government contribution in addition to the above includes non-monetized costs such as premises and
  maintenance.
  **: Co-financing at appraisal includes 5 million from donors and 4 million from communities. Monetized
  community contributions were somewhat lower than expected, while co-financing from donors slightly exceeded 5
  millions.




                                                          - 19 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The average subproject cost overall was US$32,000. By sector, average infrastructure cost was
US$57,600 for education facilities; US$50,400 in health; US$30,600 in economic and productive
structures; US$11,600 for environmental infrastructure and US$9,700 in water and sanitation. There were
significant regional variations due to material access and local availability, which complicated the national
cost monitoring. The PAD estimated that, as in FAS I, subproject cost would continue to be lower than
average costs for similar subproject types supported by other sources of financing. According to a study
conducted by a Japanese consulting firm, SEEDS International Cooperation, comparing costs of primary
and secondary school infrastructure, FAS II schools cost $297/m against $158 in FAS I (PAD). It is
                                                                   2


estimated that the cost of building a school by the Ministry of Public Works is $250-300/m , and for
                                                                                             2


provincial governments $851/m . However, there is evidence that schools built by FAS are of superior
                                 2


quality. There is no comparable data available for NGOs. An economic analysis summary was presented
in the PAD, with plans for poverty targeting and cost-effectiveness. Six thousand, six hundred and twenty
six (6626) temporary and 5756 permanent jobs were created as a result of the project.




                                                    - 20 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              March/2000                8    Architect/Planner consultant
                                             (1); Grassroots Management
                                             Specialist (1); Micro Projects
                                             Specialist, Consultant (1); Social
                                             Fund Implementation Specialist,
                                             Consultant (1); Project
                                             Management Specialist,
                                             Consultant (1); Micro Finance
                                             Specialist, Consultant (1); Social
                                             Protection Specialist (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              May/2000                11     Senior Social Protection
                                             Specialist (1); Senior Social
                                             Scientist (1); Operations
                                             Analysts (2); Principal
                                             Financial Management
                                             Specialist (1); Senior
                                             Procurement Officer (1);
                                             Financial Management
                                             Specialist (1); Legal Counsel
                                             (1); Consultants (2);
                                             Language Program Assistant
                                             (1)

 Supervision
              August/2000               3    Social Fund Specialist (1);
                                             Financial management
                                             Specialist (1); Senior Social
                                             Protection Specialist (1)
              October/2000              1    Senior Social Protection               S               S
                                             Specialist (1)
              May/2001                  3    Senior Social Protection               S               S
                                             Specialist (1); Social Fund
                                             Specialist (1); Financial
                                             Management Specialist (1)
              December/2001             2    Senior Social Development              S               S
                                             Specialist (1); Senior Social
                                             Protection Specialist (1)
              December/2001             1    Senior Social Protection               S               S
                                             Specialist (1)
              May/2002                  1    Lead Financial Management              S               S
                                             Specialist
              August 2002               3    Senior Social Development              S               S
                                             Specialist (1); Senior Social
                                             Protection Specialist (1);




                                              - 21 -

                                           Financial Management Specialist
                                           (1)
               February/2003           2   Senior Social Protection             S    S
                                           Specialist (1); Senior Social
                                           Development Specialist (1)
               July/2003               1   Senior Social Protection             S    S
                                           Specialist (1)

 ICR
               February 2004          2     Social Dev Spec (1);                S    S
                                            Consultant (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           13.70                            35.60
  Appraisal/Negotiation                28.46                             83.1
  Supervision                          36.61                           119.40
  ICR                                   6.50                            16.90
  Total                                85.27                             255




                                            - 22 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

- Apresentação do Projecto, FAS III
- Avaliação Participativa de Beneficiário I, April 2002
- Avaliação Participativa de Beneficiários II, November 2003
- Development Credit Agreement Second Social Action Fund (FAS II) between Republic of
Angola and International Development Association, July 2000
- Estrategia de Combate a Pobreza, Draft PRSP, September 2003
- FAS Appraisal of Fundo de Apoio Social (FAS II), Randi Kaarhus, Norwegian Institute for
Urban and Regional Research Oslo, September 2001
- Guia do Amigo
- Identificação e Planificação de Projectos Comunitários
- Implementation Completion Report, Angola Social Action Fund (FAS I), January, 2001
- Manual de Monitoria e Avaliação
- Manual sobre a Planificação e Gestão de Projectos com Vista á Sustentabilidade, October 2002
- Operational Manual
- Project Appraisal Document Second Social Action Fund, May 2000
- Trabalhando Juntos Para o Municipio: Dez Passos Para a Planificação Municipal, February 2003
- Training Needs Assessment Final Report (draft), December 2000




                                               - 25 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Implementation Completion Report Prepared by FAS
Project Team

                            Implementation Completion Report (ICR) - FAS II


  1.   GENERAL CONTEXT

  The Fundo de Apoio Social (FAS) emerged within the scope of the Government Socio-economic
  Programme for 1994 (PES/94), in its chapter "Other Global Policies" in a perspective of long-term
  eradication of structural poverty. This component of the programme was the response of the government
  to the serious social problems that the country was undergoing at the time, namely the progressive
  impoverishment of larger segments of the population as a consequence of not only the resumption of the
  war after the elections of September 1992, but also the absence of corrective measures for the
  socio-economic distortions inherited from the colonial powers aggravated by the economic model
  adopted after independence.

  On 28 October 1994, under the Decree 44/94 of the Council of Ministers, FAS was created as a
  government agency, with a legal status to enjoy financial and administrative autonomy. It has its own
  means and procedures, which enable it to act fast, efficiently and effectively. FAS has simple and fast
  means of control of the use of resources under its management for the promotion of social alleviation
  and fight against poverty, which makes the incorporation of the populations into the process of
  reconstruction and economic and social development possible, through the funding of small social
  infrastructure projects. The signature of the Memorandum of Understanding on April 4th, as a
  complement of the 1994 Lusaka Protocol, by the Angolan Armed Forces (FAA) and the ex-UNITA
  Forces, gave new hope to effective and long lasting peace in Angola, a situation of stability that is still
  obtaining today.

  Statements from the international community such as the World Bank and other agencies since the
  ceasefire, stress the importance of good governance, respect for human rights, as well as involvement of
  the civil society, and obviously the need to support processes of population resettlement and
  demobilization. In the preparation of the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper for the upcoming years done
  by the government, FAS is considered as a component of this programme and one of the important
  instruments of GoA to fight poverty at the level of the community and most vulnerable families.

  2.   OBJECTIVES OF FAS II

  FAS focuses its action on community demand, directing its activities towards social investment, which
  funding comes from a World Bank credit, contribution of GoA, bilateral cooperation donations and
  support of the private sector, particularly the oil sector. Having a decentralized management structure,
  FAS has field offices in Provinces where it operates (9 Provinces), which supervise the contracting and
  implementation of activities, while its National Coordination Unit in Luanda coordinates and supervises
  the global programme. The second phase of FAS, which is treated in this report, entered into force in
  November 2000 to be implemented within three years (2000-2003).


  The objective of developing this phase was to increase the sustainable use of social and economic
  services by the target population. To achieve this objective, the project had to focus on the following: (a)
  provide the construction/rehabilitation of social and economic infrastructure at the local level at the



                                                   - 26 -

demand of the communities; (c) strengthen capacity at the level of the communities, partners, members
of the local government and FAS; and (d) reinforce the FAS monitoring and evaluation system.
Compared to the previous phase, two important components were introduced into this phase, for the
implementation of the programme: the component of monitoring and evaluation and that of capacity
building. The main reason for including these two components during this phase is due to the fact that
during the first credit (FASI), the programme was not successful in producing quality data and
particularly the monitoring system did not reflect the impacts on the lives of the direct beneficiaries.
Furthermore, the involvement of different partners in the project cycle was low due to the lack of local
capacity to plan, implement and supervise activities of subprojects aimed at guaranteeing greater
sustainability of such subprojects.

The new component of Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) was aimed at the systematic collection of
data and identification of impacts of project activities on the lives of the direct beneficiaries.
Furthermore, this component promoted participatory assessments of beneficiaries and subsequent
assessments aimed at involving the actors in the process of reflection of the impacts and in the search for
alternative solutions. The component of Capacity Building was aimed at consolidating the human capital
of local partners of FAS, mainly members of the local government, administrations, community leaders,
organizations and members of the communities.



3.       THE ROLE OF FAS AS AN INSTRUMENT OF POVERTY ALLEVIATION

To date, GoA has three poverty alleviations under implementation: (i) Programa de Reabilitação
Comunitário [Community Rehabilitation Programme] (PRC); (ii) Fundo de Apoio Social [Social Action
Fund] (FAS); and (iii) Programa de Apoio à Reabilitação [Programme for Support to Rehabilitation]
(PAR) funded by the EC. These programmes have similar mandates, but different areas of intervention.
The general objective of these programmes is to reach the poorest communities providing access to basic
social infrastructure and promoting economic and productive activities.

FAS and PAR are currently the most visible and operational, as their sources of fund have not yet
ended, while the situation is different in the case of the PRC. The former two (FAS and PAR) operate
with similar national coordination mechanisms in the Ministry of Planning. However, FAS has probably
more intervention experience than the other programmes due to experience accumulated during various
years of implementation. Its role as an instrument of poverty alleviation is seen in the successful transfer
of resources and technical capacities for improvement of access and quality of social and economic
services, through the provision of grassroots infrastructure to poor communities.

Furthermore, FAS established mechanisms to respond to the social policies of GoA through its
Provincial committees that have the duty of counselling, supervising and following up the
implementation of subprojects.



4.   APPROACH AND FEATURES OF FAS

FAS operate in a similar way to other social funds operating worldwide. Organizations at the local level
(called intermediary agents) work with representative community groups (community nuclei) to identify
priorities in terms of community infrastructure needs and prepare proposals of subprojects to be
considered by FAS.




                                                 - 27 -

The Provincial offices of FAS do the revision of the proposed subprojects and submit them to Provincial
coordination committees for their approval, as well as supervision and implementation and subsequent
part assessment of the subprojects.

FAS activities are organized around the project cycle composed of six different phases (promotion,
identification, preparation, programming, implementation, monitoring and evaluation). In terms of
approach, a key feature of FAS II was the attempt to concentrate its efforts at the level of design and
implementation of greater investment in strengthening the three capitals: physical, human and social at
the community level. Having had greater focus on physical capital in FAS I, the second phase gave
greater attention to the streamlining of the capitals with the aim of implementing more integrated
activities and more actively involving all stakeholders. Consequently, the component of capacity
building was given special attention.

However, the component of capacity building concentrated on human development, providing training to
civil society partners, communities and local government on the FAS project cycle. The aim of capacity
building was to establish strategic partnerships for partners to effectively manage the development
process and create mechanisms of accountability and mutual governance. Furthermore, the training
contributed to the reinforcement of participatory identification of needs among the partners, (demand
from bottom to top).

5.    PROJECTS

5.1     Outputs
The outputs of the projects were generally satisfactory. It could be concluded that the objectives set out
at the beginning of the project were achieved. During the activities, out of the 1.172 subprojects
envisaged, 979 subprojects were funded, out of which 36.37% were in the education sector, 9.63% in
health, 41.29% in water and sanitation, 11.48% economic and productive and 1.23% environmental.
The target was not reached for two fundamental reasons: a) the current average cost of projects is higher
than that initially envisaged and planned for the term of FAS; and b) the sources of funds available were
not enough to meet the community demand. About 30 projects were removed from the portfolio due to
the fact that FAS did not have money to support them, such projects thus being carried over to the next
phase.

The environmental subprojects were less than expected due to the lack of awareness of the communities
for this sector and consequently the low demand for this type of project. This fact could also be
explained due to the scarcity of social infrastructure such as schools and health posts, which
communities give more importance to this sector. Just like in FAS I, there was greater demand for water
and sanitation infrastructure with 41.29% and education with 36.37%, although in terms of amount,
there was greater disbursements in the education sector with 66.35%, followed by the health sector with
14.28%.

The a-posteriori evaluation were conducted on 321 projects after one year of implementation. They
indicated that the state of maintenance of the infrastructure was generally satisfactory, with 221
infrastructure in good functional and maintenance state, 89 in reasonable state and 11 in bad state.

5.2 Coverage, target and equity
The prevailing situation of military insecurity during the design of FAS II did not allow for the
envisaged expansion of the project to new Provinces and thereby respond to the national character for
which FAS was originally created. It was decided that the funding of activities in the existing Provinces


                                                 - 28 -

would continue, while there would be expansion to new Provinces only when the situation thus
permitted. However, in some cases, like in that of Kwanza Sul and Benguela Provinces, expansion and
continuation of activities in some Municipalities was suspended due to the situation of insecurity, which
resulted in the withdrawal of FAS from those Municipalities. Bengo, Huambo and Cunene Provinces
expanded their activities to one more Municipality during the project. This situation directly affected the
distribution of funding of FAS in the nine Provinces.

The performance of the Provincial teams regarding the number of subprojects, does not differ much
between them, although some internal and external factors influenced this aspect. In terms of
performance, the dynamic of the work of the teams made it possible to groups them into two different
groups: high performance (Namíbe, Benguela, Huíla, Kwanza Sul, Cunene and Cabinda) and average
performance (Luanda, Bengo and Huambo). External factors such as the dynamic of the local market
support of local governments, community participation and existence of civil society partners also
contributed to these disparities. The design and implementation of the subprojects were done in
accordance with cost and quality procedures as stipulated universally. It is important to note that FAS
was able to cut down its costs with (i) the engagement of working brigades; (ii) capacity building of
local builders on procurement norms and procedures; (iii) sensitisation of communities to contribute to
project costs.

5.3 Efficiency and outputs per sector
The outputs per sector indicate an unequal distribution, as mentioned earlier on the community demand
for sectors of greater need such as education and water and sanitation. The sector shows a total funding
of 355 subprojects that corresponds to 36.37% of the total subprojects and an investment in the order of
USD22.4 million, corresponding to 66.35% of the total investment on projects during this phase.

The education sector includes infrastructure such as primary schools, pre-schools and kindergartens.
The high number of this type of infrastructure shows the lack of infrastructure in the communities and
the concern of such communities to create and increase the human capital of their children. FAS may
have contributed to the inclusion of 74.560 children in schools, with the construction/rehabilitation of
932 classrooms at an average of 40 students per class. The water and sanitation sector had a total
funding of 403 subprojects, corresponding to 41.6% of the total subprojects funded. This sector includes
infrastructure such as water provision systems, small drainages, latrines and combined services.

The health sector includes infrastructure such as health centres and posts of which FAS funded a total of
97 subprojects, corresponding to 9.91% of the total of subprojects funded. It is noteworthy that the
sector did benefit more subprojects due to the difficulty of Provincial health departments to provide
regular services and medicines, without which the projects are not sustainable. The economic/productive
sector benefited from a total of 112 infrastructure such as rehabilitation of small roads, small bridges
and foot bridges, drainages; and small-scale community/municipal infrastructure such as markets and
silos, which were 11.44% of the total of subprojects funded.

The environmental sector funded a total of 12 subprojects, fundamentally those of protection of water
dams and afforestation, which correspond to 1.23% of the total of subprojects funded. As already
mentioned, the environmental subprojects were not a major concern or priority for the communities.It is
important to mention that the contribution of the community was important to the outputs achieved,
about 5% (approximately USD2.3 million) in relation to the global sums disbursed to the subprojects,
which is an indicator of sustainability, as it shows the manner in which the community was involved in
the process of funding the projects and their sense of ownership. As a result of the number of
subprojects funded, 12.382 jobs were created, of which 5.756 are fixed and 6.626 are temporary. It is


                                                  - 29 -

important to stress that the fixed jobs were an increase in the labour force in the community and a
contribution of FAS to household income.

6.   CAPACITY BUILDING

The capacity building activities implemented during FAS II created changes and/or impacts both in the
communities and partners, as well as in FAS itself; this needs to be analysed taking into account the
processes and its contribution at the level of the project cycle.

6.1 Impact on human capital
Understanding human capital as a set of knowledge and skills that enhance the performance of the
individual, at the beginning of FAS II, there was an attempt to respond to the training needs identified by
the partners and FAS teams in November 2000, with the actions of capacity building.

Thus, 93 training seminars were organized (4 outside the country, 3 national; 15 regional; 27 Provincial
and 44 Municipal) on 6 training topics such as: Introduction to Monitoring and Evaluation; Facilitation
Techniques; Participatory Diagnosis; Project Management and Strategic Planning. Also introduced was
the approach of Community Driven Development (CDD), while various reflection and community
capacity building meetings were held at the level of the Provinces, as well as study visits to social funds
in Zambia and Brazil.

During the period under review, 1.443 people were trained (1.065 men and 378 women) of groups of
beneficiaries from the different sectors mentioned above. The presence or attendance of training
sessions, in terms of gender, was disproportionate, as demonstrated on the table below. Although it is far
from desired levels, the participation of women both in the project cycle and in training actions is
becoming more visible.

Table Nr. 1 : Training sessions conducted / Beneficiaries per sex


                                                               Participants
       Module/training       Level          FAS             Adm      Partners* Total
                                            M        F      M    F   M     F     M      F

       Introduction to M&E National            35       3    0    0   0      0     35      3
       Training on M&E       National          33       5    0    0   0      0     33      5
       Facilitation
       Techniques            Regional           8       2    0    0   38    44     46     46
       Participatory         Reg/ Prov
       Diagnosis             /Municipal        23       3   133 62 232      67     388    132

       Project Management    Reg /Prov
       and M&A               /Municipal        25       3   128 51 210      56     363    110
       Strategic and         Reg /Prov
       Municipal Planning    /Municipal        26       2    89  49   85    31     200    82
                             Internat.
       Training on Finances /National           7       4    0    0   0      0      0      0

       Training on AutoCad International        5       1    0    0   0      0      0      0
                                                                                   1065    378



                                                   - 30 -

* - NGOs, Churches, Community-based Associations and Nuclei and local trainers. The Table does not include
the 54 local trainers, who according to the strategy mapped out were training intermediary agencies at the
local levels (Provincial and Municipal)

6.2 Impact on Social Capital
Social capital is generally understood as the norms and networks that permit joint action, which include
elements of capacity, organizational skills and competences at the level of grassroots communities,
mechanisms of accountability, self-esteem and confidence, reciprocity, sense of belonging, civic identity
and commitment. The implementation of social and economic projects in communities was the primary
way of strengthening the social capital during the duration of FAS II. The training actions and
institutional exchange visits were the other way of strengthening social capital at the community level.In
terms of impact, FAS partner communities or other development organizations establish closer links
among their members and existing institutions. Some communities already show signs of autonomy in
the identification and prioritisation of projects, as well as the process of negotiation with FAS, State
institutions, donors NGOs and associations.

7.     MONITORING AND EVALUATION

The Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) system was given special attention during the implementation of
FAS II. Monitoring and Evaluation became two of the most utilized concepts during the terms of FAS
II, which enabled, through reflection of lessons learned, the improvement of the practice and
mechanisms of relationship and articulation with various stakeholders at the project cycle level. The
Monitoring and Evaluation system of FAS II structured the evaluation into two exercises: (i) a-posteriori
evaluation which is conducted on a particular sub-project one year after its delivery to the community
and (ii) Beneficiary Participatory Assessment (BPA) that is an assessment that covers a representative
sample of the totality of the subprojects funded by the project for more than one year. Thus during the
term of FAS II 253 (25%) subprojects were submitted for <-posteriori evaluation, of the 979
subprojects funded in 9 Provinces. On the other hand, FAS implemented two Beneficiary Participatory
Assessments conducted by two Angolan NGOs, respectively Associação Mãos Abertas (AMA), in
November/December 2001 and ADRA ­ Acção para o Desenvolvimento Rural e Ambiente, in
July/August 2003. The Beneficiary Participatory Assessments enabled the provision of useful
information that assisted FAS during the process of internal reflection on the various aspects of
approach at the project cycle level and in improving the performance of the teams during FAS II.

8.    DISBURSEMENTS/ FINANCES

Disbursements during FAS II were about USD40.652.305.92, a figure that supported the programme
activities during the period of November 2000 to December 2003. Although we can consider the
amounts raised and the diversity of donors that participated as satisfactory, there is need to emphasize
that the USD43 million initially envisaged to cover all the programme was not realized. Also worthy of
note is that more than half of the total sum (USD21.5 million) was disbursed in 2002. The main reason
for this is the signature of the Luena Memorandum of Understanding in April that year.

8.1 Disbursements per Financiers
Compared to the previous phase, during FAS II, new donors participated such as USAID with USD246
thousand, the private oil sector, as in the case of BP with USD97 thousand and Shell USD78 thousand.
The World Bank, through the credit granted, was the institution that contributed most to the financial
package of FAS with about USD32.6 million, corresponding to 80% of the total amount of
disbursements during the period under review, followed by the donation of the government of Norway



                                                  - 31 -

with USD3.3 million, representing 8.2%, the contribution of GoA through budget donations with
USD2.4 million, corresponding to 5.9% of the total amount. It important to note that the contributions
given as donation by the government of Sweden with USD847 thousand and Italy with USD14
thousand, are contributions towards FAS I, but which referred to projects that were carried over and
concluded during FAS II.

Table 2: Disbursements per Donors (USD)


 DONORS             YEAR 2000      YEAR 2001      YEAR 2002      YEAR 2003        TOTAL          %
 World BANK             253.735,40   7.194.645,47 19.896.390,70   5.256.518,61   32.601.290,18 80,20%

 NORWAY                  12.740,00    562.340,84     664.250,62   2.120.754,38    3.360.085,84 8,27%
 SWEDEN                 197.152,74    650.412,95           0,00           0,00      847.565,69 2,08%
 ITALY                   14.365,00        604,00           0,00           0,00       14.969,00 0,04%
 USAID                       0,00           0,00     246.695,21           0,00      246.695,21 0,61%
 BP                          0,00       20.490,00     56.316,76      20.803,13       97.609,89 0,24%

  Gov. ANGOLA           192.439,44    609.309,46     663.418,28     954.345,57    2.419.512,75 5,95%

 COMMUNITIES                 0,00           0,00           0,00           0,00            0,00 0,00%
 OTHERS                 105.946,56      79.352,83      8.333,50     870.944,47    1.064.577,36 2,62%
    Total              776.379,14 9.117.155,55 21.535.405,07 9.223.366,16      40.652.305,92 100%



8.2 Disbursements by category
Regarding disbursements by category, just as envisaged, about 78.8% of the sums was used in funding
infrastructure projects, equivalent to USD 32 million. The operational costs, with the disbursement of
USD5.4 million, was the category that followed, corresponding to 13.3% of the total, a percentage that
falls within normal standards for this type of institution and activity. The other sums went to
consultancy and training, USD2.14 million and commodities, vehicles and equipment with USD981.
During the programme implementation period, financial expenditure reached very high levels (USD95
million, corresponding to a 0.24% of the total amount disbursed), compared to the volume of
disbursements, as an average percentage of 0.01% is considered as acceptable. The use of two different
banks for special sub-accounts was one of the reasons responsible for this high amount.

Table 3: Disbursements per Category (USD)


         Category        YEAR 2000 YEAR 2001       YEAR 2002     YEAR 2003      TOTAL           %
 Operational Costs         379.732,41 1.735.175,71   1.858.555,70 1.443.993,15 5.417.456,97   13,33%
 Projects                  259.944,68 6.064.621,19  18.773.668,61 6.915.667,01 32.013.901,49  78,75%
 Comm.,Vehicles/Equip.       3.674,38   833.357,31     140.532,67    6.956,01    984.520,37   2,42%
 Consultancy/Training      117.780,46   462.489,43     719.105,96  841.449,87  2.140.825,72   5,27%
 Financial Expenditure      15.247,21    21.511,91      43.542,13   15.300,12     95.601,37   0,24%
 Total                    776.379,149.117.155,55 21.535.405,079.223.366,16     40.652.305,92  100%

8.3 Disbursements per Province
Disbursements per Province did not have great discrepancies, since all were aimed at achieving the same
targets in terms of projects; the operation of expenditure structure was also identical, there were not
much variation. The major differences are in the following factors:
§ teamsthateitherdidnotcomplyorwerefarfromachievingtheprojecttargetsandtraining
sessions stipulated;
§ teamsthatfundedbigandmediumprojects;




                                                  - 32 -

§ Highcostofconstructionmaterials,anessentialelementinprojectimplementation.

The average disbursement per Province was USD4.4 million, for Provinces with high disbursement rates
(Cabinda, Kwanza Sul, Namibe, Huíla, Benguela and Luanda), Benguela being the Province with the
highest volume of USD4.6 million. For the Provinces with lowest level of disbursements (Bengo,
Cunene and Huambo, the rate of disbursement was USD3.4 million, with Bengo being the Province with
least disbursement during this period with USD3.34 million. Another aspect responsible for this
difference was the fact that most regional trainings, within the component of Capacity Building, took
place in Provinces that had good conditions (accommodation, transportation and food) for their hosting.

9.    LESSONS LEARNED AND KEY CHALLENGES

The years of the activities of the second phase provided some lessons, both negative and positive, that
will be useful during the design of FAS III, as well as improving on similar project approaches. Among
the various challenges and lessons of this phase are:

Sustainability and maintenance
The sustainability of infrastructure continues to be a priority for FAS. In the post-conflict context
communities have very scarce resources to set up participatory management and maintenance funds.
FAS III is considering to establish a maintenance fund and include the contributions to this fund as part
of the overall project costs. FAS II did not encounter serious problems with the provision of recurrent
costs after the delivery of the projects. However to mitigate against the risk of non-provision of
recurrent costs, FAS III has embarked on strengthening the accountability mechanisms between
communities and local adminstrations to ensure the incorporation of recurrent and maintenance costs
into the public investment plans and budgets.

The role of Community Nuclei
The outputs of beneficiary assessments conducted during the project indicate that Community Nuclei are
not always sustainable and that they sometimes do not have a good understanding of their roles and
responsibilities, after the delivery of the project. Taking into account the representative nature of the
Community Nuclei and the importance given to them during the project cycle level, the biggest challenge
for FAS III is that of strengthening their skills and competences to enable them improve on their post
project delivery performance. An adequate training programme and the use of indicators to measure the
impact of the work of the Nuclei will be an appropriate mechanism to address this issue.

Involvement of local Administrations in the process
The involvement of local Administrations in the project cycle process needs to be further strengthened.
The demand driven community level FAS processes and the planning/management processes of district
administrations need to better coordinated. FAS III is embarking on a comprehensive capacity
development program for both communities and districts, in which strategic planning is key.

Interaction of the three capitals
The attention given to the three capitals (physical, human and social) was positive. The funding of
infrastructure was a means and not an end in itself. Thus, investment in human and social capital led to
increased participation of communities and partners, as well as created conditions for dialogue and
social discussion aimed at enhancing community participation and guaranteeing the sustainability of the
projects.

Response capacity to community demand


                                                 - 33 -

The demand of the communities in terms of service provision, continued during FAS II to be much
higher then supply. If on the one hand the finalization of portfolio projects by FAS did not always meet
the requests of the communities, on the other hand, the levels of degradation and lack of infrastructure
that the country went through in recent years are so high that no matter what efforts FAS puts in, such
efforts shall always be insufficient to meet the current needs in the project coverage area. For this
reason, there is need for more commitment and articulation both with other poverty alleviation tools and
with public investment plans of GoA, so as to increase the offer and volume of options of services to the
communities.

10. CONCLUSIONS

Although the military situation impeded the expansion of FAS activities to new areas (Municipalities),
the project largely succeeded in meeting its original objectives. The scarcity of social services in Angola
is one of the major obstacles to the increase of human capital in the communities. In this regard FAS, as
one of the stakeholders in poverty alleviation, continues to play a very important role in the provision of
social services to the needy. During the implementation of the second phase, FAS tried to articulate its
intervention at the level of the three capitals, namely physical, human and social, in the communities in
order to guarantee integrated development activities that the communities are responsible for and are
active in developing. This approach was positive in that it encouraged greater involvement of the
communities in expressing their desire and identifying actions; it also bolstered the interest of other
partners to participate in actions promoted by FAS.

Performance during the project period was satisfactory, notwithstanding the fact that there are still
disparities between the Provinces, as was the case in the previous phase. The method used by the team
to plan strategies, peculiarities of the context of each Province, dynamism of the communities, as well as
the inability of entrepreneurs to quickly supply materials and the lack of articulation with some society
actors (governmental and non-governmental), are to some extent some of the major factors that had an
impact on the disparities.

The response of the local entrepreneurs to better understand the norms and procedures of FAS in the
procurement process facilitated their relationships with FAS and had an impact on the speed and quality
of infrastructure. Indirectly, FAS contributed to the local economy and development of enterprises
through the construction/rehabilitation of infrastructure. The issue of sustainability of this infrastructure
is still a source of concern, especially in the health sector, due to the irregular supply of medicines and
establishment of specialized infrastructure. There is a lot of involvement of the community in water and
sanitation sector projects, where the community is totally responsible for management, but the lack of
resources is still an obstacle to the creation of their own alternatives. FAS and its partners, especially
government structures, shall have to study mechanisms to ensure that project sustainability is not
endangered, as the situation is currently. FAS is still facing many challenges, especially now in the post
conflict situation. However, its role as a primary stakeholder in the fight against poverty is clear. The
number of beneficiaries achieved and jobs created showed some impacts achieved by the project at this
stage. The quantity of social infrastructure funded indicated the high demand and interest of the
communities in solving their problems, as well as good acceptance of the work of FAS. Furthermore, the
creation of internal and external partnerships made the other actors to collaborate with FAS in the fight
against poverty in Angola.

In view of the above situation, especially as regards the challenges, it is envisaged that the next phase of
FAS will respond, in terms of time and quality, to the expectations of the communities, always
considering the strengthening of the three capitals (physical, human and social) as the fundamental


                                                    - 34 -

pillars of the fight against poverty.




                                         - 35 -

Additional Annex 9. Persons Consulted During ICR mission

FAS Project Management Unit, Luanda
Victor Hugo Guilherme, Director
Henda Ducados, Deputy Director
Carlos Barbosa, M&E Technician
Domingos Oliveira, Capacity Building Technician

Bengo

Provincial Coordination Committee and Partners
Anastacia Norton de Vasconelos, MINARS
Pedro Paulo Manuel, Katomba Community
Rev. Manuel Afonso Buta, Methodist Church
Joana Narciso André, Ministry of Family
Costa Kiamwangana Nkongoli, Health
Richard Mathela, Médecins sans Frontières
Augusto Justino, ADEB
Claudio Nuruda, COSV
Communities of Kinguxi, Porto Kipiri, Kimaxia, and Mafulo

Cabinda

FAS Team
Silvestre Cabango, Provincial Director
Julio Costa, M&E Assistant
Cesar Campos, Capacity Building Assistant
Fransesco Manuel da Costa, Infrastructure Assistant
Tome Carlos Quinha, Social Promotion Assistant
Juliana Toco, Secretary

Provincial Coordination Committee and Partners
Rev. Antonio Cufo, Evangelist Church
Dinos da Maia, Provincial Director of Education
Pedro Mateus Cardoso Sumbo, Administration of Cabinda
Marcela Manuela, Promoção da Mulher
Juliana Chiguel Zau, OMA
Manuel Caulio, Provincial Direction of Health
João António Cabango, Committee Member, Health

Cacongo Municipality
Andre David Capita Fuca, Administrator

Nganzi Nucleus Group
António Maria Puenta, Coordinator



                                             - 36 -

Eduardo Baza
Vicente Ntomba
Catarina Malila
Madalena Cotea

Huila

FAS Team
Augusto Bolgolho, Provincial Director, Huila
Antonio Melgaco, Provincial Director, Cunene
Capacity Building Assistant, Cunene
Social Mobilization Assistant, Huila

Provincial Coordination Committee and Partners
Baptista Fernando, Agricutura
Dos Santos, GEPE
Jose Mussungo , MINOPU
Domingos Diri, IESA
Águeda DINA, Educacao
Tomas Hambili, Saude
Sadino Vitorimo, DPEA Aguos
Van Dinem, Sector Social Admin, Humpata
Abias Canocamba, Sector Saude, Humpata
Albetos Bembe, Inspector Saude, Humpata
Domigs Moria Lando, Sector da Agricultura, Humpata
Joao Martins Junior, Mobilization Social Agua e Saneamento

Projectos Igreja Catolica
Sister Natalia Tchela
Sister Feliciana Chamba
Communities of Poiares, Escola do Ndjonjo

Partners and donors
Ann Helen Azedo, First Secretary, Norwegian Embassy
Cathy Jane Bowes, Director of Projects, USAID
Tom Fyfe, BP

Government Officials-National Committee

Josephine Adao, Chef Seccao, Ministerio Financas
Julio Da Gloria, Chief de Financas, Ministerio Da Saude
Helder Jose Pires Pederneira, Assesssor, Ministerio do Planeamento




                                               - 37 -

- 38 -

