Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11512
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
COMMUNAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2173-PH)
DECEMBER 29, 1992
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific.Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Pesos per US$)
Year                                              Exchange Rate
1981 (Appraisal Year)                                       P8.1
1991 (Completion Year)                                      P27.5
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
BOD               Board of Directors
CIDP              Communal Irrigation Development Project
CIS               Communal Irrigation System
DOA               Department of Agriculture
ERR               Economic Rate of Return
IA                Irrigator Association
IDO               Institutional Development Officer
IBRD              International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IFAD              International Fund for Agricultural Development
IOSP              Irrigation Operations Support Project
M&E               Monitoring and Evaluation
MOA               Minitry of Agriculture
NFA               National Food Authority
NIA               National Irrigation Administration
O&M               Operation and Maintenance
OMM               Operation and Maintenance Monitoring
PIO               Provincial Irrigation Office
PCR               Project Completion Report
RIO               Regional Irrigation Office
SAR               Staff Appraisal Report
SEC               Securities and Exchange Commission
TOR               Terms of Reference
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
1 January - 31 December



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 29, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on the Philippines
Communal Irriaation Development Proiect (Loan 21 73-PH)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report on the
Philippines Communal Irrigation Development Project (Loan 21 73-PH)" prepared by the
FAO/CP with Part II contributed by the Borrower.
This project pioneered a new relationship between irrigators and National Irrigation
Administration. With major irrigator participation and NIA providing financing, advice, training
and contracting services, 144 small, scattered, irrigator-owned rice systems were upgraded,
extended or built. Despite rebellions, typhoons, cost over-estimates, shortage of Government
funds, and implementation delays, results are very good. If a way is found to cope with major
maintenance which the owners cannot handle, benefits should be sustained.
The Project Completion Report is comprehensive and informative. An audit is
planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I
I
I



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
COMMUNAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2173-PH)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface... ...  i
Evaluation Summary  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  iii
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Project Identity   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Background .......... ..                                                   1
Project Objectives and Description   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
Project Design and Organization ..... ..                                   2
Project Implementation ....... ..                                          3
Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
Project Sustainability            ............ . 10
Bank Performance             .............. . 10
Borrower Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Project Relationship   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Consulting Services and Procurement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Project Documentation and Data   .....              ......  .      ..  .    . 12
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . . . . 13
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . 15
Related Bank Loans ..................... . 15
Follow-on Project  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Project Timetable  . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Loan Disbursements ..................... . 16
Project Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Project Costs and Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Status of Covenants  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Use of Bank Resources  .......                . ...........  .             . 22
MAP: IBRD 16197
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
COMMUNAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2173-PH)
PREFACE*
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Communal
Irrigation  Development  Project   (CIDP)  in  the  Philippines,   for  which
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) Loan 2173-PH of
US$71.1 million and International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) Loan
108-PH of SDR 10.8 million (equivalent to US$12 million) were approved on June
8, 1982 and September 15, 1982, respectively. The project was restructured and
enlarged in scope in March 1988. However, as implementation costs in US$ dollar
terms proved to be much lower than expected, mainly because of the lower Peso
exchange rate and partly because of the lower actual costs of irrigation works,
the amount of the IBRD Loan was reduced at that time by US$20.1 million, to US$51
million. The loan amount was further reduced by US$12.5 million to US$38.5
million in December 1989. The IBRD Loan was closed on November 21, 1991 and the
IFAD Loan on November 15, 1991, respectively, when the disbursements under the
loans amounted to US$38.1 million and SDR 6.9 million,  respectively.   The
undisbursed balances of US$0.4 million from the IBRD Loan and of SDR 3.9 million
of the IFAD Loan were cancelled.
Parts I and III of the draft PCR are based on the report of an
FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program mission which visited the Philippines in
February-March  1992.    They  reflect  a  review  of  all  relevant  project
documentation, field visits to selected project areas and discussions with the
Borrower's project staff and associated Bank staff. Part II was prepared by the
National Irrigation Administration (NIA) on behalf of the Borrower.
The Bank staff wishes to thank the management and staff of NIA, and
other involved agencies, for their cooperation and support in preparing this PCR.



I



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
COMMUNAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2173-PH)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.        The main objectives of the project were to:  (a) support a national
program under which farmers would effectively participate in the planning and
construction of communal irrigation systems (CIS) and, after completion, would
assume full control of the operation and maintenance (O&M) of the systems; (b)
strengthen the capabilities of the National Irrigation Administration (NIA) and
its Provincial Irrigation Offices (PIO) to select, design and implement efficient
CISs, and maintain and operate small national systems; and (c) increase rice
production and the incomes of about 24,000 farm families currently growing
rainfed crops by providing irrigation facilities and support services.   To
achieve these objectives, the project, over a six-year period (1982-87), was to:
(a) strengthen 67 PIOs through construction and rehabilitation of existing PIO
offices and equipment workshops and provision of equipment and vehicles; (b)
support training of about 2,600 Institutional Development Officers (IDO) and
technical staff of PIOs, extension staff of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA)
and farmer leaders from 1,900 Irrigator Associations (IA); (c) construct 94 new
CISs on about 22,800 ha and rehabilitate and extend 50 existing CISs to cover
about 10,700 ha; (d) establish a new monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system
within NIA; and (e) finance a consultant study to improve NIA's internal
financial reporting system.
2.        Total project costs were estimated at US$121.9 million.  The Bank and
IFAD approved loans of US$71.1 million and US$12 million, respectively, were to
finance all foreign exchange costs (51Z) and about 35% of local costs.    The
balance of the project costs was to be met by Government (US$33.8 million) and
through farmers' equity contributions (US$5 million or up to 10% of the initial
investment costs of CISs in the form of land, labor, materials or cash). Overall
responsibility for project implementation was with NIA. Its PIOs, with close
participation from the IAs, were to be the principal functionaries of the
project.
Implementation Experience
3.        The project had a clear conceptual framework which fitted well with
the Government's development goals of increasing food production and incomes of
the rural poor, using   highly participatory approach.  The project was prepared
by NIA and further pr__essed by two successive Bank pre-appraisal and appraisal
missions. Although the design was basically satisfactory, more attention should
have been given to provision of agricultural support services (including credit



- iv -
and the post-harvest facilities) to the farmers expected to benefit from CIS
development.   The inadequacy of support services, combined with the lack of
suitable drying and storage facilities for the incremental paddy production,
caused the pace of agricultural development during the earlier years to be slower
than expected. The pace of development improved in later years as coordination
among implementing agencies improved.  Costs of CIS development seemed to be
somewhat overestimated at appraisal as, through adoption of more appropriate
engineering solutions and a shift of emphasis on rehabilitation over new
construction,   considerable savings occurred during implementation.   This,
together with the declining Peso exchange rate against the US dollar, provided
room for later restructuring of the project and for enlarging its scope.
4.        Overall,   despite considerable delays, project implementation was
satisfactory. Initial delays were caused by a 9-month lapse in the effectiveness
of the IFAD loan.   Problems of timely recruitment of staff and procurement of
equipment  caused  further  delays.    But  the most  serious  problem  causing
implementation delays was the shortage of counterpart funds. Other difficulties
included lengthy procurement delays,  sporadic law and order problems, delay in
approval of staff positions and reorganization within NIA.   Individual sub-
projects were usually completed in one year or one season, and the standard of
construction, intake structures and distribution works, sometimes built by
farmers themselves, was adequate for the purpose. However, some inaccuracy in
surveying and mapping resulted in over-estimation of the service areas. This
also resulted from the failure to exclude from the service area calculation
permanently cropped areas within some subprojects crop lands.
5.        Because of the substantial savings in the loan funds for reasons
mentioned earlier, the project was restructured and substantially enlarged in
scope in March 1988. Total project cost was re-estimated at about US$92 million
in March 1988, although this estimate was further lowered to US$70.8 million in
December 1989. Project implementation was rescheduled for completion in 1990.
The Bank loan amount was reduced to US$38.5 million by cancelling US$20.1 million
in March 1988 and US$12 million in December 1989.   The restructured project
increased the total service area by about 60%, from the original of 33,500 ha to
53,000 ha. The service area to be covered by the new CISs increased marginally
from 22,800 ha to 23,800 ha,   while the area expected to benefit from the
rehabilitation and extension of the existing CISs almost tripled, from 10,700 ha
to 29,200 ha. The proposed study of NIA's internal financial reporting system
was cancelled as a similar study had already been completed in 1987 under an
Asian Development Bank-financed project.
6.        As of November 1991, 136 CISs covering a total service area of 33,315
ha were completed. These included 45 new CISs (11,210 ha) and 91 existing CISs
(22,105 ha). The remaining 29 CISs (20 new and 9 existing), started under the
project, are being completed under the ongoing Second Communal Irrigation
Development Project (CIDP II, Loan 3261-PH). These final 29 CISs have already
generated a total service area of about 4,200 ha, or about 23% of the total
potential irrigable area of 18,645 ha. The loan was closed on November 21, 1991,
3½ years behind schedule, with total IBRD and IFAD loan disbursements of US$38.1
million and US$8.5 million, respectively.



- v -
7.        The other project components,  namely the strengthening of PIOs,
training of staff and farmer leaders and M&E, were satisfactorily implemented as
anticipated at appraisal.
8.        The participatory approach was successfully established and largely
accepted by farmers. Farmers were organized into lAs and adequate training was
provided. The operation of the system was generally acceptable and water was
used effectively.   However, subsequent major repairs which required either the
purchase of material or special skills exceeded the financial capacities of the
lAs, which had to wait until NIA could find funds to carry them out.
Results
9.        General. Despite various implementation difficulties, the project has
achieved its overall objectives and even surpassed some of the physical
development targets set at appraisal.   NIA was able to build up its own
institutional capability to implement the communal irrigation development program
throughout the country. The foundation of the participatory approach has been
established and is working satisfactorily. Although the agricultural impact was
slow, the increases in irrigation intensities and paddy yields are now
satisfactory and higher than the appraisal estimates.   The project has also
succeeded in increasing the farm incomes of about 37,000 farm families.
10.       Impact.   At full development in 2001, the project is expected to
generate a total service area of about 51,960 ha, comprising 22,800 ha under 65
new CISs and 29,160 ha under 100 existing CISs.  Based on the results of M&E
surveys, the average irrigation intensity has increased by 108%, which is
marginally higher than the increase of 105% estimated at appraisal. Increases
in cropping intensity averaged 60%, about 10% lower than the appraisal estimate
of 70%. The lower incremental cropping intensity is due to the higher cropping
intensity of about 124% estimated for the without project situation at PCR,
compared with 96Z assumed in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR).  On average,
yields of irrigated paddy have increased by about 0.90 ton/ha, about 50% higher
than the increase of about 0.6 ton/ha estimated at appraisal.   Total annual
incremental paddy production is estimated at 189,520 tons, 80% higher than the
appraisal estimate of 106,225 tons.
11.       Economic Rate of Return.  The economic rate of return (ERR) for the
overall project, calculated in 1991 constant prices over a project life of 30
years after completion of construction, is re-estimated at 17% assuming the
import parity price of paddy in calculating the economig benefits.  The re-
estimated ERR is almost at the same level as the SAR estimate, due to the fact
that substantial increases in the service areas and yields of irrigated paddy
offset the low prices of paddy. The re-estimated ERRs range from 14% for the
construction of the new CIS component to 20% for the rehabilitation and extension
of the existing CIS component.
12.       Farm  Incomes.    The  annual per  capita  income  of beneficiaries,
excluding other off-farm incomes and assuming a family of six persons, ranges
from US$33 for the 0.9 ha share tenant farms to US$204 for the 2.4 ha Own-er-
operator farms. The per capita incomes resulting from the rehabilitatton and
extension component are higher than those from the new CIS component. These farm



- vi -
incomes are about double those in the pre-project period and are close to the SAR
estimates. The per capita income from the rehabilitation and extension of CISs
for the 2.4 ha owner-operator farms, accounting for about 10% of the total
farmers in the project areas, is slightly higher than the absolute per capita
poverty income of US$200, while the remaining 90I of farmers are still below it.
Sustainability
13.       The prospects for sustainability are good.  The seeds of success were
contained in the original project concept, which gave the users responsibility
for the control and care of their own production facilities.   The greatest
weakness lay in the repairs and maintenance function: O&M among CISs is mixed,
ranging from quite good to rather weak.  As in the rest of the Philippines,
disaster ( mainly typhoon) damage is a factor for some systems. The follow-up
Second Communal Irrigation Development Project (CIDP II, Loan 3261-PH) continues
to provide valuable farmer institution-strengthening and training support,
thereby enhancing the prospects for long-term sustainability.
Findings and Lessons Learned
14.       The  project  suffered  from  some  shortcomings  in  design  and
implementation.    The most  important  ones were  funding  and  organizational
constraints. The funding constraint resulted from the serious budgetary problems
faced by the Philippines throughout much of the past decade. The organizational
difficulties arose from a lack of clearly defined responsibilities and
arrangements needed for the concerned agencies to provide the necessary
agricultural support services to farmers and slowed down the pace of agricultural
development under the project.
15.       The implementation experience suggests a number of lessons. The most
important ones are:
(a)  In order to ensure timely and successful project implementation, the
size of a project and Government counterpart funding requirements
should be realistically assessed, taking into account other priority
demands on the budget;
(b)  Given the country's financial problems, the adoption of least-cost
construction techniques, combined with users assuming responsibility
for O&M of small-scale systems, resulted in low-cost irrigation
development which still has good prospects for sustainability; and
(c)  Organizational arrangements for the provision of adequate agricultural
support services need to be clearly defined and agreed from the start
of a project.
16.       These lessons, and others discussed in the body of the PCR, were taken
into account in the design and implementation of the now ongoing Second Communal
Irrigation Project.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
COMMUNAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2173-PH)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Prolect Identity
Project Name         Communal Irrigation Development Project
Loan No.          :  Loan 2173-PH
RVP Unit             East Asia and Pacific
Country           :  Philippines
Sector            :  Agriculture
Subsector            Irrigation
2. Backaround
2.1       The World Bank's agricultural sector strategy for the Philippines in
the early 1970s included supporting the Government's objectives of attaining
self-sufficiency in cereal production, particularly rice and corn, and
strengthening sectoral institutions.  Self-sufficiency in cereal production was
considered important to raise farm incomes, as well as to strengthen the balance
of payments position. In support of this strategy, the Bank approved a series
of irrigation development projects from December 1969 to March 1980, as expansion
of the irrigated area was considered to be a major factor contributing to
increased domestic cereal production.
2.2       Towards the late 1970s, the National Irrigation Administration (NIA)
recognized that, because of budgetary constraints and decreasing opportunities
and need for large national irrigation projects, its operations must inevitably
shift from large new construction towards the operation, maintenance and
rehabilitation of existing systems. Many of the remaining opportunities for new
construction and rehabilitation would tend to be smaller in scale and well suited
for communal-irrigation-system (CIS) development. In consultation with the Bank,
NIA prepared a proposal in 1980 and requested the Bank and the International Fund
for Agricultural Development (IFAD) to assist in financing a program for
strengthening its Provincial Irrigation Offices (PIO) and CIS development. For
the Bank, this would be the first project in the Philippines focussing entirely



on CISs  and based  on beneficiary participation.   The Communal  Irrigation
Development Project was approved by the Bank in June 1982, with co-financing from
IFAD. Subsequent related Bank-funded operations are the Irrigation Operations
Support Project (IOSP, Loan 2948-PH), approved in June 1988, and the Second
Communal Irrigation Development Project (CIDP II, Loan 3261-PH), approved in
October 1990.
3. Proiect Oblectives and Description
3.1       The project was designed to support a national program under which
farmers would effectively participate in the planning and construction of CISs
and, after completion, assume full control of the operation and maintenance (O&M)
of the systems. It would also strengthen the capabilities of NIA and its PIOs
to select, design and implement efficient CISs, and maintain and operate small
irrigation systems. The project would increase rice production and the incomes
of about 24,000 farm families who were then growing rainfed crops. The project
was to finance a six-year (1982-1987) development program, incorporating the
following elements: (a) strengthening of 67 PIOs through construction of 23 new
and rehabilitation of 36 existing PIO offices and equipment sheds or workshops
and  provision  of  equipment  and  vehicles;  (b)   training  of  about  2,600
Institutional Development Officers (IDO), technical staff of PIOs, extension
staff in the Department of Agriculture (DOA), and farmer leaders from 1,900
Irrigator Associations (IA); (c) construction of 94 new CISs on about 22,800 ha
and rehabilitation and extension of 50 existing CISs to cover about 10,700 ha;
(d) establishment of a system within NIA for monitoring the implementation of
CISs and evaluating the impact of the project; and (e) consultant study of NIA's
internal financial reporting system and the preparation of a five-year work
program to develop an integrated financial management and reporting system.
3.2       Total project costs at appraisal were estimated at US$121.9 million.
The Bank and IFAD approved loans of US$71.1 million and US$12 million,
respectively, to finance all the foreign exchange costs (51%) and about 35% of
local costs. The balance of the project costs was to be met by the Government
(US$33.8 million) and through farmers' equity contributions (US$5 million or up
to 10% of the initial investment costs of CISs in the form of land, labor,
materials or cash). Overall responsibility for project implementation was with
NIA.   Its PIOs, with close participation from IAs, were to be the principal
functionaries of the project.
4. Project Design and Organization
4.1       The project had a clear conceptual foundation which fitted well with
the Government's development goals of increasing food production and incomes of
the rural poor.  The project concept was based on the participatory approach
developed by NIA since 1976, under a Special Communal Irrigation Pilot Project,
implemented with assistance from the Ford Foundation. The approach mobilized the
participation of beneficiaries as a group in the planning and construction
process and, after construction completion, in taking over full control of the
O&M of the systems. NIA's role was limited to financial and technical assistance
in the planning and construction of physical works and in development and
training of lAs.  The project scope was generally adequate.  However, due to
lower implementation costs in US dollar terms than those estimated at appraisal,
mainly because of the lower Peso exchange rate, and through adoption of lower-
- -   - - - - -



cost engineering solutions and a shift of emphasis on rehabilitation over new
construction, the project was restructured and enlarged in scope in March 1988
(para 5.1).
4.2       The project was prepared in 1980 by NIA.  Two successive Bank missions
pre-appraised and appraised the project in early and late 1981.  In general,
project preparation was adequate, but certain institutional and organizational
aspects  should have received more attention at that  stage.   Fortunately,
additional support for organization and training of lAs, M&E and a consultant
study of NIA's internal financial reporting system were included during project
appraisal. However, the SAR also did not clearly define the responsibilities and
organizational arrangements needed for agricultural support services, including
credit and post-harvest facilities.  At the outset, the pace of agricultural
development was slower than expected and beneficiary farmers faced difficulties
due to lack of adequate drying and storage facilities for their incremental paddy
production, but the pace increased as coordination among implementing agencies
improved.
5. Proiect Implementation
Adiustments in Proiect Scope during Implementation
5.1       Due to substantial savings in the loan funds, for reasons explained
earlier (para 4.1), the project was restructured and substantially enlarged in
scope in March 1988. The total cost was re-estimated at P1,750 million (US$92
million) in March 1988, although this re-estimate was lowered to US$70.8 million
in December 1989. Project implementation was rescheduled for completion in 1990.
The Bank loan was reduced to US$38.5 million 'y cancelling US$20.1 million in
March 1988 and US$12.0 million in December 1989. The project as restructured
increased the total service area by 60%, from the original 33,500 ha to 53,000
ha. The service area to be covered under the new CISs increased marginally from
22,800  ha  to  23,800  ha,  while  the  area  expected  to  benefit  from  the
rehabilitation and extension of existing CISs almost tripled, from 10,700 ha to
29,200 ha.
5.2       The small size of individual works and their dispersed locations
rendered these works unattractive to contractors. For this reason, and in order
to increase beneficiary participation in the construction of their irrigation
systems, the proportion of civil works carried out through force account was
increased from 40%, as stipulated at appraisal, to 95%. The actual proportion
of force account work at project completion amounted to about 86% of the total
cost of civil works.
5.3       Based on mutual agreement between the Government and the Bank, the
proposed study of NIA's internal financial reporting system was cancelled at the
time of the 1988 project restructuring, because a similar study has been
completed in 1987 under an Asian Development Bank-financed project.
General
5.4       Overall, project implementation was satisfactory, despite the fact
that it took about four years longer than originally anticipated.  The last
extension of six months was mainly to enable NIA to complete equipment



- 4 -
procurement.    Initial  delays  were  caused  by  a nine-month  lapse  in  the
effectiveness of the loan from IFAD. Problems of timely recruitment of staff and
procurement of equipment caused further delays. But, the most serious problem
causing implementation delays was the shortage and late release of counterpart
funds. Other difficulties encountered were lengthy procurement delays, sporadic
law and order problems, delay in approval of staff positions and re-organization
within NIA. Individual sub-projects were usually completed in one year, or one
dry season, and the standard of construction, intake structures and distribution
works, sometimes built by farmers themselves, was adequate for the purpose.
However, some inaccuracy in surveying and mapping resulted in the overestimation
of the service areas.   The presence of permanent crops in some areas and
difficulties encountered in the development of some abandoned lands into
irrigated crop lands also contributed to reducing the service areas.
5.5       The other project  components,  namely  the strengthening of PIOs,
training of staff and farmer leaders and M&E, were satisfactorily implemented as
anticipated at appraisal.
5.6       The participatory approach was successfully established and largely
accepted by farmers.   Farmers were organized into IAs and adequate training was
provided.    System operations were generally acceptable and water was used
effectively. However, in later years major repairs which required the purchase
of material or special skills exceeded the financial capacity of the IAs, which
therefore had to wait until NIA could find funds to carry them out.
Strengthening of PIOs
5.7       The project was designed to strengthen the capabilities of PIOs to
plan, design and construct CISs through the organization of IAs and the
application of the participatory approach. This was to be achieved through: (a)
construction of 23 new and rehabilitation of 36 PIO office buildings with staff
quarters and equipment sheds or workshops; (b) provision of office and workshop
equipment, instruments for topographic surveying and hydrologic observations, and
machinery and vehicles for the construction of minor and scattered works under
force account; and (c) provision for O&M activities to 67 PIOs.
5.8       Fifty-nine provincial irrigation office buildings, including equipment
sheds or workshops and staff quarters, were targeted for rehabilitation or
construction at appraisal, but this target was changed during the 1988 project
restructuring to 61 office buildings, 47 staff quarters and 52 equipment sheds.
As of November 1991, 57 office buildings (93% of the revised target), 46 staff
quarters (98%) and 49 equipment sheds (94%) were completed. The design of the
inspected buildings was appropriate and the quality of construction good.
However, after some years of service, most displayed signs of insufficient
maintenance, especially to roof and drainage details. An adequate budget for
annual maintenance operations which is essential to preserve the value of the
investment.
5.9       Recruitment of incremental staff and procurement of equipment and
machinery were completed as anticipated at appraisal, though with consi4erable
delays.   However,  this had little effect on project  implementation  sance
implementation progress was slower than anticipated due to counterpart fiar4ang
problems.



- 5 -
5.10      The process of strengthening PIOs is a long-term one.  Incremental
staffing, improvements in office accommodation and provision of necessary
equipment have already had a positive impact. Training, both local and overseas
(paras 5.11 and 5.12), coupled with the opportunity to work on actual development
of CISs, is providing valuable experience. The trend is in the right direction
and encouraging. The process will certainly need more time, therefore continuing
effort by the Government is required to reach the stage where PIOs would fully
run their operations on their own.
Training
5.11      The importance of training was recognized at appraisal and this led
to the component's satisfactory outcome. The project was to provide: (a) local
training to 2,600 NIA and DOA staff and farmer leaders from 1,900 IAs; and (b)
overseas study tours for two combined teams of farmer leaders and NIA staff,
selected from existing successful CISs. The SAR described in detail the training
needs and proposed topics relevant for training technical staff to broaden their
background and capacity to handle CIS development.
5.12      The training effort surpassed the appraisal targets by about 60% and
from the evidence amongst farmers whom the PCR mission found in the field, the
quality of instruction was good. Allowing for double counting, about 3,000 staff
and some 6,000 key farmers received training. Overseas training comprised visits
of two-week duration each by four teams to similar irrigation schemes in Thailand
and Korea and deputation of seven other staff to training courses in USA,
including four who attended EDI training courses at the World Bank.
5.13      One  criticism  noted  was  that  farmers'  training  courses  were
occasionally given late. For example, the sub-projects had already been taken
over by lAs in some cases before the courses on "water management" training were
given. This affected initial water distribution arrangements.
5.14      The success of this component demonstrates the utility of specifying
in detail at appraisal the content and size of the training program and is a
direct consequence of a clearly identified goal and knowledge of the practical
difficulties of reaching it.
Communal Irrigation Rehabilitation and Development
5.15      The preparation and evaluation of sub-projects, and their design and
construction are discussed below.
5.16      Sub-project Preparation and Evaluation.   The SAR laid down seven
criteria which a sub-project would have to meet in order to be eligible for
financing. If the sub-projects were accepted, they were listed for the potential
construction program and the first formal contact would be made by Institutional
Development Officers (IDOs), who would explain the obligations of participation
to the farmers concerned.  If the farmers  decided to proceed,  two parallel and
linked chains of action were started, one inst-tutional and the other technical.
IDOs would guide farmers in the institutional procedures to constitute themselves
as an Irrigator Association (IA), recognized by the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC).  The technical processes of studies, topographical surveys,
design and location of structures and planning of distribution systems through



- 6 -
procurement to final construction would all be discussed with farmers, stage by
stage, and each stage agreed before the next started.   Farmers participated
physically at topographic surveys and construction stages and contributed equity
for the initial investments of CISs. After acquiring water rights and receiving
training, IAs accepted full responsibility for O&M. IDOs remained with each IA
for a year after it became the proprietor of the sub-project and remained in
touch thereafter by regular visits.
5.17      Sub-projects  selected  for  construction were  evaluated  by  PIOs,
applying the set selection criteria, and then approved by Regional Irrigation
Offices (RIOs) and NIA headquarters. In general, sub-project preparation and
evaluation were satisfactory and the selection criteria were useful. Weaknesses
encountered in some cases, all of which are remediable for the future, were that:
(i) PIOs occasionally attempted to make sub-projects economically viable by
assuming an unrealistically high cropping intensity; (ii) lack of rainfall and
flow data, inaccuracies in surveying and mapping and the overly optimistic
expectation of the development of some abandoned lands into irrigated crop lands
led to the overestimation of service areas; (iii) design was sometimes influenced
by leading farmers, resulting in high development costs due to inclusion of non-
essential infrastructures, such as unduly wide service roads and more culverts
than required; and (iv) involvement of farmers at the planning and designing
stage of sub-projects was limited to an interim committee of farmer leaders, but
not the full assembly of irrigator beneficiaries, which sometimes resulted in the
change of design later on when the full group was constituted.
5.18      Design.   Technical design was well adapted to the circumstances.
Structures, especially in the distribution networks, are simple, which lead to
cost effectiveness in construction and facilitate maintenance repairs using
locally obtainable materials and resources.  During the project period, data
gathering for candidate sub-projects improved, but basic hydrology data
collection, processing and documentation remained weak.
5.19      Construction.   Out of the total 65 new CISs and 100 existing CISs
started under the project, 45 new and 91 existing CISs were completed by November
1991. The remaining works of 20 new and 9 existing CISs have been carried over
to CIDP II for completion.
5.20      Rehabilitation works consisted typically of the replacement of a
traditional brush dam or an existing damaged diversion dam by a permanent
concrete structure with appropriately designed arrangements to pass floods.
These are usually simple Ogee weirs, with sluice gates in addition where
required. Sluice gates are usually of "stop-log" construction, simple, cheap and
easy to replace. Some relatively few, rehabilitation sub-projects include lining
or piping of part of the main canal.
5.21      New CISs have diversion dams similar in design and construction to
those used for rehabilitation, because the performance required is the same.
Typically, new CISs have a higher proportion of lined canals than do
rehabilitation works. The essential difference between new and rehabilitation
works is that a complete distribution system has to be built for the former,
whereas it already existed in the latter case and usually required only small
spot improvements.



-7-
5.22      The quality of construction was adequate everywhere and, particularly
on diversion dams,   the standard of finish was good.  These structures were
designed by RIOs, which have had considerable experience in this scale of work
over many years.   Construction was frequently also done by RIOs under force
account, otherwise by local contractors.  Farmers themselves with the help of
local masons did most of the works on the distribution systems and the result was
satisfactory.
Monitoring and Evaluation
5.23      The project was to establish an M&E system to monitor the O&M of a
sample of CISs during the first three years after the completion of construction
and to evaluate the impact of the project. The M&E works were carried out by
nine M&E units attached to 12 RIOs.  A central M&E unit was also established
under the project at NIA headquarters for overall coordination, training of M&E
personnel,  planning and preparation of final M&E reports.   Generally,  the
performance of M&E units was satisfactory and adequate information was collected
for project impact evaluation.
5.24      Three types of surveys were conducted, including the baseline, the
operation and maintenance monitoring (OMM), and the ex-post evaluation.  The
baseline surveys, covering 100 preconstruction sub-projects, were conducted for
the periods 1983-84 and 1986-87.   The OMM surveys were designed to collect
information on the operation of CISs, and the use of farm inputs and yields of
paddy after the turnover of CISs to lAs.  A total of 88 sub-projects,   each
covering four seasons, were covered by OMM surveys. However, findings were not
fully utilized by NIA and other agricultural support service agencies for
improvement of project implementation and, in particular, the pace of
agricultural development. The ex-post evaluations, using 60 sample sub-projects,
were conducted in 1989,  1990 and 1991.   Complete information covering the
baseline, OMM and ex-post evaluation surveys, was available for 22 sub-projects
and this has been used for the project impact re-evaluation (para 6.3).
Participators Approach
5.25      The project was to strengthen the capabilities of IDOs to organize
farmers into IAs and provide them with training for participating in sub-project
planning, design and construction and with technical assistance for O&M. This
was to be achieved by mainly providing training to IDOs.
5.26      The participatory approach was established and largely accepted by
farmers. About 46 IDOs, all contractual assignments, have already been working
in PIOs since 1982, but additional training was provided under the project (para
5.12). Despite the lack of employment security and mobility, the performance of
IDOs was generally satisfactory. IDOs have fulfilled their responsibilities in
the organization of IAs, provision of training and technical assistance to lAs
for O&M, mobilization of farmers for sub-project planning and construction as
well as collection of equity and amortization. Each IDO is presently responsible
for three completed CISs and one CIS under construction. The operation of IAs
still depends heavily on IDOs' assistance due mainly to frequent changes in the
members of IAs' Boards of Directors (BODs),  whose membership is re-elected
annually.



-8-
5.27      As of November 1991, approximately 30,000 farmers were organized into
136 lAs and formally registered with the SEC.   As discussed in para 5.17,
participation of farmers in planning was limited to an interim committee of
farmer leaders, and this resulted in delays in construction due to changes of
design in some cases, particularly in the distribution systems. Some service
areas also had to be reduced due to exclusion of lands under permanent crops and
lands abandoned by absentee landlords. Participation of farmers in construction
was in the form of paid labor and equity contribution.
5.28      The operation of CISs was generally acceptable and water was used
effectively.   IAs appoint and pay gate and water tenders and arrange water
distribution collectively. Because CISs are small, farmers can perceive if their
collective interests and O&M arrangements have been adequate. Annual O&M costs
have been met through farmers' contributed labor and local materials, while the
costs for hiring gate- and water-tenders and for making minor repairs have been
met through collection of a service fee established by the IAs themselves.
Difficulties experienced by IAs were in making major repairs which require the
purchase of materials or special skills (para 5.6). Moreover, system operations
have sometimes been affected by changes in members of BODs of lAs.  To ensure the
sustainability of CISs, follow-up training and continuing assistance from IDOs
appear necessary (para 5.23). Other difficulties encountered were the lack of
institutional credit, especially for drying and storage facilities (para 4.2).
5.29      Equity Contribution and Amortization Payment.  The average up-front
payment of equity contribution from 136 CISs amounted to about 6% of the
chargeable cost of construction, compared with 10% anticipated at appraisal.
This reflects the low incomes of farmers at the pre-construction stage
(para 6.6). Whenever possible, equity payment was somewhat improved by increasing
the contribution in kind in the form of local materials and labor. When a system
is turned over to the IA, the amount of unpaid equity is included in the amount
to be amortized subsequently. Collection of amortization payments averaged about
50%,  slightly higher than the national average of 42%.   The low level of
amortization payments reflects the incidence of crop failures due to adverse
weather conditions, high prices of farm inputs, the large number of farmers who
have very small land holdings, and the need to strengthen NIA's financial system
for amortization collection.   Strengthening of NIA's financial system as it
relates to amortization collection is addressed in CIDP II.  Moreover, since
1991, most of the amortization collected has been in paddy, priced at P5/kg,
which poses storage and marketing difficulties for NIA. Arrangements have been
made between NIA and the National Food Authority (NFA) to minimize these
problems, however quite often NFA does not have adequate funds to purchase the
paddy collected by NIA on this account.
5.30      The actual total cost of the project was P1,400 million (US$69.2
million). In US dollar terms, this would constitute almost 98% of the revised
project cost estimated after the 1988 and 1989 project restructuring, and 57% of
the project cost originally estimated at appraisal. If costs of works necessary
to complete 29 CISs carried over to CIDP II (paras 5.19 and 6.2) were to be
included, the total project cost would rise to about P1,560 million (US$75
million equivalent).



-9-
6. Proiect Results
6.1       General. Despite various implementation difficulties, the project has
achieved its overall objectives and has even surpassed some of the physical
development targets  set at appraisal.   NIA was able to build up its own
institutional capability to implement the communal irrigation development
program in the country, and the foundation for the participatory approach has
been established and largely accepted by farmers.  Although the agricultural
impact was slow, the increases in irrigation intensities and yields of paddy are
now satisfactory and are higher than the appraisal estimates. The project also
succeeded in increasing farm incomes of about 37,000 farm families.
6.2       As already noted (para 5.19), as of November 1991, 136 CISs covering
a total service area of 33,315 ha had been completed. These included 45 new CISs
(11,210 ha) and 91 existing ones (22,105 ha). The remaining 29 CISs (20 new and
9 existing), started under the project, will be completed under the ongoing CIDP
II. These 29 CISs have already generated a total service area of about 4,200 ha,
or about 23% of the total potential irrigable area of 18,645 ha.
6.3       Impact.   At full development in 2001, the project is expected to
generate a total service area of about 51,960 ha, including 22,800 ha under 65
new CISs and 29,160 ha under 100 existing ones. Based on results of M&E surveys,
the average irrigation intensity has increased by 108% (ranging from 90% under
the rehabilitation of CISs to 130% under the new CISs) from 76% in the without
the project situation to 184% in the with the project situation, which is
slightly higher than the 105% estimated at appraisal.  Increases in cropping
intensity have averaged 60% (ranging from 40% under the rehabilitation of CISs
to 80% under the new CISs), or about 10% lower than the appraisal estimate of
70%.  The lower incremental cropping intensity is due to the higher cropping
intensity of about 124%, estimated for the without the project situation at PCR,
compared with 96% assumed in the SAR. On average, irrigated paddy yields have
increased by 29% from 3.1 tons/ha in the without the project situation to about
4 tons/ha with the project, compared to the appraisal estimates of 22% from about
2.7 tons/ha without the project to 3.3 tons/ha in with the project.
6.4       Based  on  the  above  benefitted  areas,  irrigation  and  cropping
intensities and yields of paddy, total annual incremental production of paddy is
estimated at 189,520 tons, 80% higher than the appraisal estimate of 106,225
tons.
6.5       Economic Rate of Return.  The economic rate of return (ERR) for the
overall project, calculated in 1991 constant prices over a project life of 30
years after completion of construction, is re-estimated at 17% assuming the
import parity price of paddy in calculating economic benefits. The re-estimated
ERR is at almost the same level as the SAR estimate due to the fact that
substantial increases in the service areas and yields of irrigated paddy offset
the lower prices of paddy.   The re-estimated ERRs range from 14% for the
construction of new CIS to 20% for the rehabilitation of the existing CIS. It
should be noted that the SAR used the export parity price of paddy in its ERR
calucluations, although this is no longer considered relevant as the Phihppines
is already a net importer of rice on a small scale and is likely to remaLn s co
any increasing degree over the long term. For comparative proposes, however, the



- 10 -
re-estimated ERR for the overall project would be about 10% using current export
parity price protection, or 29% using the export parity price projections in the
SAR.
6.6       Farm Incomes.  The impact on farm incomes has been analyzed for the
two typical farm sizes of 0.9 ha and 2.4 ha farms, accounting for 30% and 55%,
respectively, of the total 37,000 farm families in the project areas.    The
analysis has been carried out in 1991 constant prices and excludes off-farm
incomes.  The annual per capita income, assuming a family of 6 persons, ranges
from US$33 for the 0.9 ha share tenant farms to US$204 for the 2.4 ha owner-
operator farms. It should be noted that the per capita income resulting from the
rehabilitation of CISs is higher than from the construction of new CISs. These
farm incomes are about double those during the pre-project period and are close
to the SAR estimates.   The per capita income from the rehabilitation of CIS for
the 2.4 ha owner-operator farms, accounting for about 10% of the total farms in
the project areas, is slightly higher than the absolute poverty per capita income
of US$200, while the remaining 90% of farmers are still below it.
7. Proiect Sustainability
7.1       The prospects of sustainability are good.  The seeds of this success
were contained in the original project concept which gave the users
responsibility for the control and care of their own production facilities. The
greatest weakness lies in the repair and maintenance function: O&M among CISs
is mixed, ranging from quite good to rather weak.   As in the rest of the
Philippines, disaster (mainly typhoon) damage will be a factor for some systems.
The follow-up Second Communal Irrigation Development Project (CIDP II), Loan
3261-PH, continues to provide valuable farmer institution-strengthening and
training support, thereby enhancing the prospects for the long-term
sustainability of the CISs.
8. Bank Performance
8.1       The project was formulated on the basis of an approach which had been
pilot tested with Ford Foundation assistance. The concept was sound and basic
data were sufficient for the scale of works. However, the SAR did not clearly
define the organizational arrangements for agricultural support services to
farmers in the project (para 4.2), or the credit needs, particularly for drying
and storage facilities in some areas.
8.2       The Bank mounted 12 supervision missions over 9½ years.  At least one
Irrigation Engineer participated in 10 missions and the same project task manager
was maintained during about seven of these years. Staff continuity and quality
of advice was good. The Bank demonstrated understanding and flexibility when the
Borrower requested project restructuring and an extension of the implementation
period. Given that it was possible during restructuring to both increase the
proportion of rehabilitation to new construction works and simplify construction
works, it appears in retrospect that the appraisal did not fully exhaust all
possibilities for least-cost approaches or the best mix of works.
8.3       The most important lessons of experience for the Bank are:  (a) in
order to ensure timely and successful project implementation, the size of a
project and Government's counterpart funding requirements should be realistically



- 11 -
assessed, taking into account other priority demands on the budget; (b) given the
country's financial problems, the adoption of least-cost construction techniques,
combined with the user having responsibility for O&M of small-scale systems,
resulted in low-cost irrigation development which still has good prospects for
sustainability; and (c) organizational arrangements for the provision of adequate
agricultural support services need to be clearly defined and agreed from the
start of a project.
9. Borrower Performance
9.1       In general, but especially in the organization and training of IAs,
the Borrower performed well.   However,  the lack of sufficient and prompt
counterpart funding, because of national budgetary problems, slowed progress.
Within this constraint, NIA used its best endeavors to obtain scarce funds and,
where possible, NIA used its own corporate funds to bridge gaps arising from slow
budgetary  releases.    The  resulting  success  is  demonstrated  by  the  good
achievements in physical targets.
9.2       The data base for rainfall, stream flows and existing irrigated areas
was not adequate and this affected design and planning as well as system
operation.
9.3       The Borrower substantially complied with the loan covenants.  There
were delays in submission of audit reports for some years. However, this was
attended to and all reports have been received and are satisfactory.
9.4       In other respects,  the Borrower demonstrated considerable strength.
NIA, though hampered by a serious shortage of local counterpart funding, is
adequately  staffed with  qualified  and  competent  professionals.    Project
organization was generally adequate.
10. Proiect Relationship
10.1      Based  on  the  foundation  of  years  of  close  cooperation,  the
relationship between NIA and the Bank was consistently good. This relationship
was strengthened by maintaining staff continuity on both sides. At the level of
Government Departments, inadequate integration of irrigation operations with the
agricultural extension services has been noted, although this has improved to
some extent. In locations where coordination exists, the benefits are apparent.
Within NIA itself, coordination between the Communal Irrigation Department and
the Institutional Development Department still needs further improvement.
11. Consultine Services and Procurement
11.1      Based on mutual agreement between the Government and the Bank, the
proposed study of NIA's internal financial reporting system was cancelled at the
time of the 1988 project restructuring because a similar study had been completed
in 1987 under an Asian Development Bank-financed project.
11.2      Procurement was in general satisfactory, although,  due to financial
constraints, the procurement of equipment was considerably delayed and was
completed only during the last loan closing date extension period. Some local
civil works contracts were also delayed due to lengthy contracting procedures.



- 12 -
12. Proiect Documentation and Data
12.1      The SAR provided an adequate implementation framework for both the
Bank and the Borrower. The proposed implementation of sub-project preparation,
evaluation and construction; organization of farmers for participation in project
activities; and assigning responsibility for irrigation O&M were well described.
This framework contributed to the successful implementation of the project.
12.2      The provisions of the loan agreement were generally observed.   The
project maintained proper accounting and good data records for the project's
impact evaluation.



- 13 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Implementation Review
1.1         The information outlined in Part III of the PCR is adequate and
accurate.   The statistics on loan disbursement, project cost and financing,
project implementation results, and other relevant facts are more or less
consistent with records and reports that are kept at the project office.
1.2         The analysis contained in Part I presents a comprehensive review of
the whole project cycle from identification, preparation and appraisal to
implementation  and  completion.    The  project's  strengths  and weaknesses,
implementation problems, potential for project sustainability, and performance
of lender and borrowers are well explained in the report. Further comments on
Part I, particularly on deviations from SAR targets are discussed below:
(a)   Force account works accounted for 85% of total costs of civil works
as against the appraisal estimate of 40%. This arrangement allowed
for greater flexibility for the farmers to increase their equity
participation during construction.
(b)   Training for NIA staff enhanced their capability to assist farmers
in various stages of project implementation.   Delays in farmer
training were mainly due to inadequate funding and difficulties in
scheduling group training sessions for farmer leaders.
(c)   Hydrology data collection, processing and documentation in the early
years of the project were weak due to the inadequate training,
shortage of experienced staff and delays in procurement of
instruments. NIA is now paying close attention to the improvement
of this aspect by updating, through studies, the coefficients
currently applied in prediction models of water yields.
(d)   Low equity and amortization collection efficiency were due not only
to floods, droughts, and the unsystematic financing management
system, but also to some behavioral factors like the sudden change
from non-amortizable to amortizable CISs.   (Before the project
[CIDP] all CISs were constructed by government free !of charge to
farmer beneficiaries).   The problem was aggravated because some
radical groups and lawmakers advocate abolition of irrigation fees,
thereby undermining farmers willingness to pay.
(e)   The various lessons learned in CIDP implementation guided NIA to
promulgate and develop many simple strategies that may be
instrumental in preparation and management of similar on-going and
future projects.



- 14 -
1.3         Bank participation was satisfactory during project preparation and
implementation. It responded favorably to numerous GOP requests such as for loan
extension and for higher disbursement rates at times of tight and difficult
financial situations. The observations on project cost presented in Para 8.3 of
Part I are reasonable. Overestimation of project costs may have been minimized
also if local and foreign inflation rates could have been predicted with greater
accuracy. (For instance, it was not expected that the Peso would depreciate from
P8.10:US$ 1 in 1982 to P27.5: USS 1 in 1991).
1.4         The most serious constraint to project implementation was inadequate
government counterpart funding and untimely budget releases. Budget difficulties
were experienced by all government agencies in the early 1980s and during the
last year of the project (1990-91). The effect was to delay project activities,
thereby forcing government to request four extensions of the loan closing date.
1.5         The weaknesses  of NIA  in project preparation,  particularly  in
hydrological data generation that caused overestimation of the service area at
feasibility level were recognized and relevant measures have already been taken
to avoid similar problems in the future.
1.6         The physical targets set at appraisal were generally attained but the
target for the actual area developed may not be achieved because of the severe
effect of water shortages due to droughts and forest denudation. Government has
required this factor (including farmers' awareness of the need for environmental
protection) to be included in the design of future projects.
1.7         In CIDP I, institutional linkage among NIA, IA members, and DA's
agricultural technicians to support and assist farmers in crop production did not
materialize, resulting in a slow attainment of targeted output.  This experience
has served to provide NIA with lessons to improve the process and to give
emphasis to better coordination in preparing agricultural development plans in
monitoring and evaluating implementation, and in modifying targets whenever
necessary.
1.8         Generally, the Borrower has complied with loan covenants.  Problems
with audit reports and procurement were properly analyzed and corrective steps
were taken by NIA and the government to avoid a recurrence in succeeding
projects.
1.9         There was a cordial and cooperative relationship between the Bank and
the Borrower for the entire project period.
1.10        As mandated in the loan agreement the Cooperating Institution (the
Bank) performed almost all the works for the Co-financing Institution (IFAD).
The co-financier was considerate and cooperative in granting various government
requests.  However, tardiness in replying to various government inquiries and
requests contributed to some extent to the delays in project execution.



- 15 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Retoed Bank Loa
Yew of                Stbtus
Loain No.                     Purposes                     Approval
Loan 637-PH        Upper Pampanga River                           1969       PPAR# 3063 6/1/80
Loan 984-PH        Auror - Penaranda                              1974       IER # 8494 3/1/90
Loan 472-PH
Loan 1080-PH       TawEc Itrigation System Improvement            1974       PPAR # 5960 12/1/85
Loan 1227-PH       Chico River Irrigatbon                         1976       PPAR # 7923 6/1/89
Loan 1387-PH       JalaL, Irrigation                              1977       PPAR # 5969 6/1/89
Loan 1154-PH       Mhgat River - Stage I                          1976       PPAR # 7923  I1/8l>
Loan 1567-PH       Magat River - Stage II                         1978       PPAR # 7923 6/1/89
Loan 1e39-PH       Magat River - Stage 11/krigabon                1978       PPAR J 7923 2/11/90
Loan 1414-PH       National Irrigation System Improvemert I       1977       PPAR # 8390 6/1/89
Loan 1526-PH       National Irrigation System Improvemert II      1978       PPAR # 7820 8/1/89
Loan 1809-PH       Medium-Scale Irrigation                        1980       PCR unde preparation
Loan 2948-PH       Irrigation Operations Support                  1988       Ongoing
Loan 3261 -PH      Second Commurlal Irrigation Dovelopmert        1990       Ongoing
Folow-on Probdt
Name: Second Communal Irrigation Developmert Project (CIDP II)
Loan:  3261 -PH
Loan Amount: US$4a.2 million
ate of Board Approval: April10,1990
Commowita:
CIDP 11 aims to provide for conbinLity and improvemerts in the impilmentation of the ongoing communal
irrigtion development efforts in the Philippines, based on experience gained under the first Bank and IFAD-financed CIDP
(IBRD Loan 2173-PH/IFAD Loan 108-PH) It would help to develop about25,000 ha of CISs in impoverished
rural locatiors, thus contributing to Government's goals of poverty allevition and food sufficiency,
and would strengthen both NIA and lAs in the fields of managemert, financial administration,
design and constuction, and operation and maintenance of communal facilties. Tho project
also provides funds for the compleibon of 29 incomplete CIS& carried over from CIDP I.
The project is schoduled for completion in 1996.
2. Proiot Timtabb
Date Planned                                       Date ActuAl
Preparabon                             _                                    1979-80
Pro-Appraisal                          -                                    May-June 1981
Appraisal                              _                                     Sept-Oct 1981
Negotiation                            _                                    April 26-30,1982
Board Approval                         _                                    Juno 8, 1982 (IBRD)
Sept 15, 1982 OFA0
Loon,Credit Signature                                                        June 30,1982 (IBRD)
_                                    Nov. 16,1982 (1FAD)
Loan Effectivenen                                                            April 8,1983 (IBRD)
March 29,1983 OFAD)
Complbtion                        June 30,1987                               June 30,1991
Closing                           June20,1988                                Nov. 21,1991 (BRD)
June 30,1991 (IFAD)



- 16 -
3. Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements (USS million)
Fiscal Years
1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992
Appraisal Estimato
IBRO                   3.6    15.5    30.0    45.8    61.7    71.1
IFAD                   0.4     2.4      4.8     7.4    10.1    12.0
Total                  4.0    17.9    34.8    53.2    71.8    83.1
Revised
IBRD                                                           51.0    38.5
IFAD                                                            12.0    12.0
Total                                                          63.0    50.5
Actual
IBRD                  1.70     9.8    12.8    19.1    20.5    23.7    26.9    29.9    37.7    38.1
IFAD                  0.03     0.7      2.2     3.2     3.3     3.9      5.1     6.5      8.5     8.5
Total                 1.73    10.5    15.0    22.3    23.8    27.6    32.0    36.4    46.2    46.6
===         ===    ==-S  =    =:a= .--                                      M-
Actual as % of SAR     43       59      43      42       33      44      63       72      91      92
Date of Final                      IBRD Loan: November 21, 1991 - IFAD Loan: June 30, 1991
Disbursement
Comments: Despite upward adjustments in the physical targets, but as a result of the drastic fall In the
value of Peso vis-a-vis US dollar and savings arising from lower actual costs of irrigation works, IBRD
loan was reduced to US$38.5 million through cancellations of US$20.1 million, eff ective March 3, 1988,
and US$12.5 million, effective December 22, 1989. The undisbursed balance under the Bank loan of
US$0.4 million was cancelled on November 21, 1991. IFAD loan was maintained at US$12 million.
Toal disbursement of IFAD loan was SDR6.95 millin (US$8.5 million). Since FY 1988, actual
disbursements have been compared with the revised disbursement schedule of IBRD/IFAD loan
amounts.



- 17 -
4.  Prolect Implementation
Key Indicators as of December 1991
Appraisal    Revised          Actual          Actual as %
of Revised Targets
No. of CISs:
- New                                         94                          65 1/
- Rehabilitated                               50                          100 1/
Service Area (ha):
- New CISs                                22,800       23,800 2/       22,800 3/               96
- Rehabilitated CISs                      10,700       29,200 2/       29,160 3/               100
Strengthening of PlOs:
- Office Buildings                            59          61               57                  93
- Staff Quarters                              59          47               46                  98
- Equipment Sheds                             59          52               49                  94
Training:
- Local (man-days)                        55,520      100,710          90,130                  89
- Overseas (man-days)                      2.760        1,545           1,671                  108
Consultant Service (man-months)               65                           4/
Irrigation Systems:
- Diversion/Intakes (No.)                    144         163              149                  91
- Main and Lateral Canals (km)               812         800              747                  93
- Service Road (km)                          200         236              234                  99
- Distribution Canals and Drains (km)      2,097         652              624                  46
- On-farm Ditches and Drains (ha)         33,500       53,000          46.232                  87
Irrigator Associations (lAs):
- No. of lAs                                                              136
- Service Area (ha)                       33,500                       33,100
- Number of Farmers                       24,000                       30,000
1/ 20 incomplete new CISs on 11,590 ha out of the total 65 CISs on 22,800 ha, and
9 Incomplete existing CISs on 7,055 ha out of the total 100 CISs on 29,160 ha, have been carried over
to CIDP lI for completion.
2/ Total service area was increased to 65,200 ha in March 1988, but reduced to 53,000 ha in December 1989.
3/ Total service area at full development.
4/ Cancelled at 1988 project restructing.



- 18 -
5. Proiect Costs and Financins
A. Project Costs
SAR I/                     Actual
Peso        USS        Peso            USS
million    million     million         million
Strengthering of PlOs
Buildings                                   40.30        4.98       64.02           3.47
Machinery and Equipment                    178.90       22.09      346.88 2/       14.93
Training                                    31.30        3.86       45.45           2.33
Sub -total                                 250.50       30.93      456.35          20.73
Irrigation Systems
Diversion Works, Main Canals and Roads     479.40       59.19      656.95 3/       34.22
Distribution and On-farm                   137.00       16.91       15.87           0.79
Sub-total                                  616.40       76.10      672.82          35.01
Land Acquisition                            36.10        4.46        0.82           0.04
Monitoring and Evaluation                   15.10        1.86       17.32           0.87
Engineering, SupeNrsion and Administrabon   58.40        7.20      198.43 2/        9.56
Interest during Construction                                        41.07           1.96
Financial Reporting System Study             2.00        0.25        0.00           0.00
Front- End Fee                               8.50        1.05       11.56           1.05
Sub-total                                  120.10       14.82      269.20          13.48
Total                                      987.00      121.85     1,398.37         69.22
1/ Including physical and price contngenci s.
2/ Substantially more procurement and at the increasing unit cost.
3/ The rehabilitation works of existing CISs were more than triple the SAR's targets.
4/ Unit cost lower than estbmated at SAR and most of the works were carried out through hired labor.
B. Financina (USS million)
SAR                     R    Id  /               AcdLs
US$                     USS                       US$
million         %       million            %    milion
IBRD/IFAD                                   83.10         68        50.50            71      46.60       67
Farmers' Contributon                         5.00          4         3.00             4       1.00        I
GOP                                         33.75         28        17.30             25     21.62       32
Total                                      121.85         100       70.80            100     69.22      100
1 / After March 1988 and December 1989, IBRD loan cancellations.



- 19 -
6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Appraisal            Actual/PCR
Estimate              Estimate
Service Area (ha) 1/
- New CiSs                                    22,800                 22,800
- Rehabilitated CISs                          10,700                 29,160
Total                                         33,500                 51,960
Incremental Paddy Production (tons)          106,225                189,520
Beneficiaries (No.) 2/                        24,000                 37,000
Employment (man-days million)
- O&M of Completed Systems                      0.15                   0.25
- Farm Activities                                  3                   4.70
I/ Potential irrigable areas at full development including potential
irrigable areas of 29 incomplete CISs.
2/ Number of beneficiaries increased by about 20% due to substantial
increase in the service area.
B. Economic Impact
Appraisal            Actual/PCR
Estimate              Estimate
ERR (%)                                           19                     17
Assumptions
Project Lfe (years)                               30                    30
Full Development (year)                         1990                  2001
Standard Conversion Factor                      0.82                   0.83
Farm Labor Conversion Factor                    0.52                   0.60



- 20 -
C. FINANCIAL IMPACT
Per Capita Income
Appraisal Estimate  V >       Actual/PCR Estimate Y 31
Pre-Project  With Project   Pre-Project  With Project
___________-.______________(USS)---- -------------
A. Owner-Operator
New CISs:
- 0.9 ha                    32          106            24           76
- 2.4 ha                    89          283            59          184
Rehabilitated CISs:
- 0.9 ha                    45          106            40           81
- 2.4 ha                   130          283           100          204
B. Lease Holder
New CISs:
- 0.9 ha                    15           53             14 (9)      45 (35)
- 2.4 ha                    40          158            32 (23)    101 (76)
Rehabilitated CISs:
- 0.9 ha                    22           53            23 (16)      48 (33)
- 2.4 ha                    59          158            53 (38)    116 (86)
1/ Excluding off-farm incomes.
2/ In mid-1982 constant prices and at the exchange rate of US$1 - P6.1.
3/ In 1991 constant prices and at the exchange rate of US$1 - P27.5.
Note: Figures in brackets are for share tenants.



- 21 -
7. STATUS OF COVENANTS
Loan      Appraisal
Agreement    Report             Subiect         Action Required    Deadline         Status
3.02 (b)       5.06      Special Account        Borrower to          30.11.82       Complied
establish            (loan
effective)
4.02 (b)       4.23      Terms of Reference   NIA to furnish         31.12.82       Complied
(TORs) for
consultant study
1/
4.06           4.15      Implement phased       NIA to begin to    31.12.83         Complied
program for           implement
uniform criteria
and design
standards for all
communal systems
4.07           4.16      Sub-project            NIA to submit                       Complied
evaluation reports
4.8            4.19      Monitoring and         NIA to submit        31.12.82       Complied
evaluation
5.02           5.12      Audit Report           NIA to submit        9 months       Complied
after FY
0.103 (c)      8.09      Report on water        NIA to send          31.12.83       Complied
charges                                                   2/
0.04           5.06       Operating account    Borrower to           01.01.83       Complied
cause NIA to
open and
maintain
I/    TORs prepared by NIA and concurred by the Bank.  However, at the Government's request,
the proposed study was deleted from the project during the 1988 project restructuring.
2/    NIA has prepared  a paper on the  "Policy Issues  and Operational  Strategies for
Irrigation Fee Pricing and Cost Recovery" and an "Irrigation Study" under the
Agricultural Sector/Inputs Project (Loan 2469-PH), which covers pricing of irrigation
water.  The Government is committed to improve cost recovery for irrigation and is
implementing measures in this aspect under the recently approved Irrigation Operations
Support Project (Loan 2948-PH). However, the Government believes that the scope for
increases in serivce fee rates, before substantial improvement in the overall national
economy occurs, is difficult.



- 22 -
S. USE OF BANK RESOURCES
A. Staff Inruts
Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual (Staff Weeks)
Pre-appraisal (LENP)                                   21.9
Appraisat through Board
Approval (LENA + LENN)                                 72.9
Supervision                                            98.3
P C R                                                  6.9 I/
TotaL                                                220.0
af Estimate
B. MISSIONS
Stage of           Month/   |   No. of           Days          Specialization    | Performance | Trend               Types of
Project             Year        Persons           in          Represented If           Ratfng                     Problem  sJ
CycLe        I                                 Field    I                            status b/
Pre-Appraisal           5-6/81            3             55               A,B,E
AppraisaL               9-10/81           6           140            A,2S,C,D,E,F
Supervision:
I                     10-11/82          4              7                3B,F                 1                              N
II                     5-6/83           3             14                B,C,D                1                1             F
III                     10/83           1              7                  B                  2               1              F
IV                     6-7/84            1            10                  B                  3               2              F
V                       3/85             1             7                  8              A   B   C  D                        F
3   1   1 2          2
VI                     4-5/86            2             7                  28             2   1   1  2         2              F
VII                    3-4/87            2             14                B,C             2   1   1  2         2              F
VIII                    3/88             1             7                  B              2   1   1  2         2              F
IX                      11/88           2             30                 A,S            2   1   1  2         2              F
x                      3/89 !/           1             7                  B              11    1  2          1              F
Xi                     8f90!             1            10                  A              1   1   1  1         2              F
XII                    8/91w             1            13                  B             3   1   1  2          2             F
P CR                   2-3/92           3             42                B,2C                                 2             F,M
TOTAL                                                370
af   A: AgricuLture; B s Engineer; C n Economics; D 2 Finance; E u Institution; and F a SocioLogy/Anthropology.
b/   Performance Rating:  1 a Problem-Free or Minor Problems; 2 x Moderate Problems; and 3 a Major Problem.
_/   Trend:  1 a Improving; 2 z Stationary; and 3 a Deteriorating. After 1985, the cLassification was broadened to show performance
ratings for each of the folLowing:  A a AvaiLability of Funds; B a Project Management; C * Development Inpact; and D a Overall
Status.
d/   Type of problems:  Fx Financial; M a Management; and T a TechnicaL.
_/   During the period, CIDP I took place in additiqn to the time recorded in this tabLe.



IBRD 16197
tati°          l20                                                       124°                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JANUARY  1002
CLASSIFICATION OF PROVINCES                                                                                           PHILIPPINES
BY GEOGRAPHICAL REGIONS
I ILOCOS                  VI WESTERN VISAYAS                                           COMMUNAL  IRRIGATION  DEVELOPMENT
2 Abra                    38  Capiz
3 llocos Su,              39  Antique                                                                                   PROJ ECT
20°      4 Mountain                40   i                                                Boilo  80
La Union               41  Negros Occidental                                                                          PROJECT  PROVINCES   IRRIGATION  WORKS)
5 La UnionVillCENTRAL VISAYAS
6 Bge                     42  CebuB e                                                                            *      CIP  (NEW  PROPOSED  SAMPLE SUBPROJECT)
2 Pangasinan             43  Negros Oriental
J1CAGAYAN  VALLEY    44  BaoOt,                                                                                   A       CIS (REHABILITATION  SAMPLE  SUBPROJECT)
8 Batanes                 45  Siqujor
9 Cagayan              "VIIEASTERN  VISAYAS                                                                              ROAYS
10 KalingaApayao           46  Northern Samar                                                                  +8*    RAILWAYS
I IIabl                   47  SaMar                                                                                       RIER
12  Iugo                   48  Eastern Samer                                                                              RIVERS
13 Noona Vizcaya          49Lye-                                                                                           RVICA1OUDRE
"14  1urinn0               5ij Southern Leyiteau                                                                            RVICA          OUDRE
1 CENTRAL LUZON            IX WESTERN MINDANAO                                                                             REGIONAL  BOUNDARIES
16  Nueva Ecija             Ii  Zamboanga del Nore            )         I                i
16  Tarlac                 52 Zamboanga del S                                                                             INTERNATIONAL  BOUNDARIES
17  Zambalas               53 Basilan(I
Il  Pamping.               54 Solo                              N                                              NOTE  Institutional deielopment co:mPonents not Mcluded in
19  Bolacan                ss  Tewi Tawi                        a                                                      Baanes, Oasilan, Sulu, Twm  Twoii  and Camioeii,,
20 Batman                  X NORTHERN MINDANAO
IV SOUTHERN  TAGALOG 56  Surigao del Norte            tt
21  Quezon                 57  Camiguin                San        6
J2  RCzat                  b8  Agusun del Norte          4                                                            I      5
24  LttunJS                b9  Mismia Orientatl                                                                       0 1    S       0    150   200   260   300
16°    25 Batangas                 60  Misamis Occidental                                      7                                              KILOMETERS                                  T6O
26  Marinduque             61  Bukidnori                                                                              0          so        too         I60       200
27 Mindoro Oriental        62  Agustn del Sur
28  Mindoro Occidental   XI SOUTiERN AMiNDANAO                                                                                            MILES
29  Romnblon               63  Surigao del Sur         )          t
30  Palewan                54  Da ua  Oriental          2   <           ¾
V BICOL                     55 Dteto del Noert
31  Camarines Norte        SB  Dawao del Sur
32  Cararinesn ur         X7 South Cotabeto        01onBP                                                                    II        /NS
33 Catanduanes            XII SOUTHWESTERN  MlIP                                                                           IL PPNIVE 20 
34  Albay                  6B  Letnsa del Nonte                                                           .
35  Sorsogon                B9  Lanao del Sur
36  Masbate         720  North Catabato          ,7at
36  Macbate                 71 Maguildanao
72  Sultaii Kuderat
30~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~0.
S O  IJrTh   C H I N  A L28AAI
h   \\    /  -g      W    sa    ^N<f  )]                 j >~~~~~~~~~~vi  48
PANWANV                                                       DANA    StA i 
to                                                                                   ''"' d
MALOYSSA  I   9Iomt
N  U  .r .i,1d   I A             _
I        j I    12      B° l-N



