F"rILE  OY
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3326-PH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A
COMMUNAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 18, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Philippine Pesos (P)
P 1   = US$0.123
US$1 = P 8.1
SDR 1 = US$1.111
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 ha        =   2.47 acres
1 m             3.28 ft
1 km        =   0.62 miles
1 sq m      =   10.76 sq ft
1 cu m      =   35.31 cu ft
1 mm        =   0.039 in
1 kg        =   2.2 lb
1 cavan     =   50 kg
20 cavans    =   1 metric ton
(referred to as ton in
this report)
ABBREVIATIONS
CIS       -   Communal Irrigation System
IA        -   Irrigators' Association
IFAD      -   International Fund for Agricultural Development
M&E       -   Monitoring and Evaluation
MOA       -   Ministry of Agriculture
NIA       -   National Irrigation Administration
O&M       -   Operation and Maintenance
OED       -   Operations Evaluation Department
PIO       -   Provincial Irrigation Office
GOVERNMENT OF THE PHILIPPINES
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
COMMUNAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:        Republic of the Philippines
Beneficiary:     National Irrigation Administration (NIA)
Amount:          $71.1 million (including a capitalized front-end fee)
Terms:            The loan would be for a term of 20 years, including
5 years of grace, with interest at 11.6%.
Project
Description:   The proposed project would strengthen NIA's Provincial
Irrigation Offices' capacity to plan and implement a program
of communal irrigation development, and to operate, main-
tain and rehabilitate small national irrigation projects.
The project would also finance the construction of communal
irrigation works covering about 25% of the area to be
covered under NIA's 1982-86 communal irrigation development
program, including both new and rehabilitation schemes.
Irrigation works to be financed under the project would be
implemented through a participatory approach involving the
farmer beneficiaries in all phases of project planning,
design and construction, and preparing them to carry out
more effectively the operation and management of their sys-
tem after completion of construction. The project includes
a component for training of NIA's technical and institu-
tional staff and the farmers in communal irrigation
development. It also includes a monitoring and evaluation
component. Consultant services would be provided to carry
out a study to improve NIA's financial reporting system.
Approximately 24,000 farm families, or about 144,000
people, would benefit directly from the project. The
project would increase the total purchasing power of small
farmers as well as food availability in remote areas.
Demand for farm labor in the areas covered is also expected
to increase, and the institutional strengthening of NIA is
expected to result in significant improvements in the
quality and efficiency of NIA operations.
The main risk associated with this project concerns the
degree of farmer commitment to the participatory approach.
Although this approach has not been tried before on such a
large scale, NIA has used this approach in developing
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
about 40 pilot systems over the past 5 years with encour-
aging results, particularly the greater acceptability of
the systems to the farmers who manage them after comple-
tion. The participatory approach offers the most reason-
able prospect of meeting the operational and management
requirements of communal systems. NIA would also monitor
carefully the progress of the participatory approach in
order to correct any problems as soon as they arise. A
second risk is that input usage may be less than optimal,
either because many of the farmer beneficiaries have become
ineligible for credit owing to previous defaults, or there
may be insufficient inducement because paddy prices may not
allow an adequate margin after covering input costs. The
Government has already initiated steps to deal with farmer
ineligibility for loans by rescheduling loan repayments,
particularly where arrears result from factors beyond the
farmers- control. The Government has also been reviewing
paddy prices from time to time and making adjustments to
reflect changes in input prices.



- iii -
Estimated Cost
Local   Foreign   Total
---(US$ million)---
Strengthening of NIA                                4.3      17.2    21.5
Training                                            2.1       0.7      2.8
Construction of Communal
Irrigation Systems                              33.6      25.8    59.4
Monitoring and evaluation                           1.2       0.2      1.4
Financial Reporting Study                            -        0.2      0.2
Base Cost Estimate                              41.2      44.1    85.3
Physical contingencies                              5.7       6.1    11.8
Price contingencies                                12.4      11.3    23.7
Total Project Cost /a                           59.3      61.5   120.8
Front-end fee on Bank loan                          -         1.0      1.0
Total Financing Requirements                    59.3      62.5   121.8
Financing Plan
Bank                                            17.5      53.6    71.1
IFAD                                             3.1       8.9    12.0
Government                                      33.7        -     33.7
Farmer beneficiaries                             5.0        -      5.0
Total                                           59.3      62.5   121.8
Estimated Disbursements: Bank FY   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88
---------------(US$ million) -------------------…
Annual                             3.6   11.9   14.5   15.8   15.9    9.4
Cumulative                         3.6   15.5   30.0   45.8   61.7   71.1
Economic Rate of Return:  About 19% based on a representative sample of
projects to be financed under the project.
Staff Appraisal Report:   No. 3850-PH dated May 12, 1982.
/a Total project costs include identifiable taxes of about $1.0 million.



r0
I                I                                                                                                                                                                                   I



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A COMMUNAL IRRIGATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of the Philippines for the equivalent of $71.1 million
to help finance a communal irrigation project. The loan would have a term of
20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at 11.6% per annum. The
project involves cofinancing from the International Fund for Agricultural
Development (IFAD) of $12 million equivalent with interest at 4% per annum
for 20 years, including 5 years of grace.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        An economic report, entitled "The Philippines:  Domestic and
External Resources for Development" (No. 2674-PH), was distributed to the
Executive Directors under SecM79-822, dated November 16, 1979. A special
report, "Aspects of Poverty in the Philippines: A Review and Assessment"
(No. 2984-PH), was distributed to the Executive Directors on December 1,
1980 under SecM80-919. An economic mission visited the Philippines in
September 1981 and is now preparing its report./2 Country data are given in
Annex 1.
Performance in the 1970s
3.        During the 1970s, economic performance improved considerably,
raising the trend GNP growth rate to 6% at the end of the decade. The ratio
of fixed investment to GNP rose from 16% to 25% during this period. Half of
this increase was in the public sector; the ratio of public fixed investment
to GNP rose from 1.5% to 6.5% during the decade, reflecting substantially
expanded revenues and improved implementation capacity. Export growth was
accelerated, particularly in nontraditional manufactures, while growth in
imports of oil and consumer goods was restrained. Overall, expansion in
agricultural production was quite rapid, and rice deficits were eliminated in
the second half of the decade. Population growth slowed in the 1970s.
/1 This section is substantially the same as that contained in the
President's Report for the National Fisheries Development Project
which was distributed to the Executive Directors on May 6, 1982.
/2 Expected to be distributed to the Executive Directors in May, 1982.



- 2 -
However, the economy still has a number of structural problems. Most
importantly, the efficiency of investment has been low, particularly in
manufacturing industry producing for the domestic market; industrial
employment has not expanded rapidly enough; and poverty is still widespread.
4.        The economy's structural problems are reflected in its balance of
payments. Improvements achieved in the early 1970s were more than offset
by a sharp deterioration of the Philippines' terms of trade since 1975,
stemming from the oil price increases, accelerated international inflation,
and depressed prices for major export commodities. Consequently, the
Philippines has had to rely heavily on foreign borrowings to finance the
imports needed to maintain growth and investment levels. To hold the
external deficit at a sustainable level in the coming years, additional
structural adjustments in the balance of payments will have to be achieved,
primarily through reduced dependence on imported oil, increased efficiency
of investment, and improved performance of the industrial sector.
Development Strategy
5.        The Government's Development Plan for 1978-82 has as objectives the
rapid expansion of productive employment; improvements in economic, social and
regional equity; and provision for the basic needs of the population. The
agricultural strategy emphasizes food production, crop diversification, and
stronger linkages with processing industries. The industrial strategy calls
for promotion of export industries, development of small- and medium-scale
industries, regional dispersion of industrial growth, increased efficiency
of investment, and selected large-scale projects. The Plan includes social
development targets in education, housing, health, and family planning. In
addition, the Plan outlines development strategies for each of the country's
13 regions. A recently completed Food and Nutrition Plan, which complements
the Development Plan, aims at eliminating malnutrition by 1990 through
increased food production and nutrition programs.
6.        The Development Plan elaborates the policy directions pursued by
the Government in recent years and is broadly in line with the Bank's
assessment of the country's development priorities. In view of changes in
the international economy, the Government has, in 1980, adjusted the Plan
and revised the growth targets downwards. A Development Plan for 1983-87
is now under preparation.
Macro Issues for the 1980s
7.        As noted above, the Philippines faces several fundamental long-
standing development problems which will need increased attention during the
1980s. The four most important of these are reduction of population growth,
poverty alleviation, employment generation, and increased efficiency of
investment.



- 3 -
8.        Population Growth.  The Philippines has achieved an impressive
reduction in population growth from 3% in 1970 to about 2.4% in 1980./i
Nevertheless, rapid population growth is still straining available land
resources, aggravating already serious employment and poverty problems, and
burdening the public budget with a high growth in demand for basic public
services. Further reduction of population growth is, therefore, vital for
the country's development. The Philippines has an active family planning
program which has expanded rapidly during the 1970s. However, participation
in the family planning program is still low by East Asian standards, and the
number of new acceptors has reached a plateau as the program has faced the
increasingly difficult problem of extending into rural areas.
9.        Poverty Alleviation.  Despite satisfactory economic growth during
the 1970s, the incidence of poverty remains high at 40-45%. Income distri-
bution continues to be very skewed, and a small elite is conspicuously
wealthy. Regional disparities remain pronounced, with the incidence of
poverty reaching 60-70% in the least developed regions. Large numbers of
people, especially in the rural areas, which account for about 80% of the
poor, still suffer from malnutrition and lack safe water, basic education
and health facilities. An increasingly unfavorable man/land ratio, the
resulting expansion of cultivation into marginal lands, limited employment
opportunities in the industrial sector, and the sharp deterioration in the
external terms of trade have put downward pressure on real incomes.
Although the Government instituted several programs during the 1970s that
should directly improve the lives of the poor, most of these were
implemented on a large scale only toward the end of the decade, and will
require several years to achieve a marked impact. Key steps needed to
alleviate poverty will be the development of rainfed agriculture, more
balanced regional development, rapid expansion of manufacturing employment,
continued improvement in basic public services, and further reduction of
population growth.
10.       Employment Generation.  Growth of productive employment, partic-
ularly in the industrial sector, has lagged behind the rapid expansion of the
labor force, and considerable underemployment exists. During the 1970s, the
agriculture and service sectors had to absorb an excessively high proportion
of new entrants to the labor force. Manufacturing employment stagnated in the
first half of the decade, and picked up only slightly thereafter as labor-
intensive export production grew. Overseas employment, especially in the
Middle East, increased rapidly, providing a temporary income opportunity. As
the absorptive capacity of the agricultural sector is limited, employment
generation in manufacturing will have to increase considerably in the 1980s.
/1 This figure is based on a more recent survey than the data in Annex I.



-4-
11.       Efficiency of Investment.  While private and public investment rose
sharply during the last decade and have reached reasonable levels, the
accompanying expansion of the economy's real output has been relatively low.
In addition, the low rate of industrial job creation indicates that, on
average, investment has not been labor-intensive enough. The low efficiency
and low labor-intensity of investment have been caused by the distortive
effects of past trade, industrial, and financial policies on the allocation of
capital. In view of tight resource constraints to be faced in the 1980s, the
efficiency and labor-intensity of investment will be critical determinants of
future growth in output and employment.
Sectoral Issues
12.       The Philippines' macro-economic performance reflects achievements
and problems at the sectoral level. The more important of these are
summarized below for the agricultural, industrial, and energy sectors.
13.       Agriculture and Rural Development.  Although there has been con-
siderable variation among subsectors, the trend growth rate of the
agriculture, fishery, and forestry sector was about 5% during the 1970s,
which is quite high by international standards. The Philippines, once a
chronic importer of rice, began to export modest quantities in 1977, and
rice self-sufficiency appears assured for the 1980s. Production of fish and
nontraditional export crops, such as bananas and coffee, has also expanded
rapidly. However, the development of rainfed agriculture, which is of
critical importance for raising the incomes of the rural poor, has lagged
behind. Technologies to increase yields of corn have been developed only
recently, while multiple cropping systems are still at an early stage of
development. Productivity in the important coconut export sector remains low
because the recently introduced program to replace overage trees has not yet
attained rapid progress. Furthermore, population pressure on the arable land
is steadily increasing, and soil erosion in hilly areas that have been logged
over or settled is a serious problem.
14.       The Government has provided substantial support for rural develop-
ment. Agricultural production has benefitted from the introduction of high-
yielding varieties, improved credit, extension, and irrigation programs.
Rural infrastructure programs in water supply, electrification and health
services have also been expanded significantly. An agrarian reform of rice
and corn land, instituted in 1972, is well advanced.
15.       While these programs have achieved considerable improvements, the
gains have been uneven among regions, crops, and farming systems. Difficult
issues remain to be addressed if the living conditions of the rural poor are
to be improved. Solutions to the interrelated problems of low incomes and
poor soils in marginal settlements will require the development of tree
cropping and mixed farming technologies, resolution of land tenure
questions, and substantial upgrading of the administrative capability of the
agencies concerned. Steps are also needed to reduce poverty among subsistence
fishermen, coconut farmers, and sugar cane workers.



- 5 -
16.       Industry.  Although industrial and trade policies were improved in
the early 1970s, manufacturing industry grew only at about the same rate as
GDP, and its growth pattern remained unsatisfactory during the decade.
Excessive protection and artificially low cost of capital have led to low
efficiency of investment and stagnation of manufacturing employment in
industries producing for the domestic market. The introduction of export
promotion measures in the early 1970s led to extremely rapid growth in
exports of nontraditional manufactures, which rose from about $50 million in
1970 to $2.1 billion in 1980. Nontraditional manufactures now account for
over one-third of the country's total exports. However, the export expansion
has been concentrated on a few items, and backward linkages with the rest of
the economy have been limited due to the high cost and low quality of domes-
tic inputs. Consequently, nontraditional manufacturing export industries
have developed as an outward-looking enclave in an otherwise heavily
protected economy.
17.       The objectives of the Government's industrial policy are to
accelerate growth of output and employment, sustain the high growth of manu-
factured exports, reduce import dependence of domestic industry, improve the
efficiency of investment, and promote industrial development outside the
Manila area. Since industries producing for the domestic market still
account for more than 80% of manufacturing investment, output, and employ-
ment, restructuring of home industries as well as continued export expansion
are needed to achieve these objectives. In 1979, the Government initiated a
series of fundamental policy reforms designed to improve the performance of
the industrial sector. The first phase of the reform program, which is
currently being implemented, focuses on reducing protection through tariff
reform and liberalization of import licensing as well as strengthening
export promotion. The Government is preparing a second phase of reforms
that will address shortcomings in the industrial incentives and promotion
system.
18.       Energy.  Another sector critical for the success of the Philippines'
structural adjustment effort is the energy sector. Since the 1973-74 oil
price increase, the Philippines has made a considerable effort to reduce its
dependence on imported oil. The Government has not only passed on oil price
increases to consumers, but it has also increased taxes and levies on oil
products with the result that domestic oil prices are considerably above
import parity. These price increases combined with direct conservation
measures resulted in a reduction of commercial energy consumption in 1980 and
in 1981. Steps to increase and diversify domestic energy supply have also
continued and include development of hydroelectric, geothermal, coal, and
nuclear energy. Limited domestic petroleum production also began in 1979.
However, due to the long gestation period of energy projects, domestic energy
production still constituted only 17% of total commercial energy consumption
in 1980. In response to the "second oil crisis", the Government is
accelerating its program for domestic energy production but further taxing and
pricing initiatives will also be needed to restrain demand.



-6-
Domestic Resource Mobilization and Allocation
19.       Domestic Savings and the Financial Sector.  During the 1970s, gross
national savings expanded considerably, reaching 22.5% of GNP and financing
about 80% of total investment. However, the savings ratio needs to rise by
another 2-3% of GNP in order to maintain investment levels while simultan-
eously limiting the current account deficit and the country-s reliance on
foreign savings. In addition, interest rates and other financial incentives
affecting the labor-intensity and efficiency of investment, the flexibility
and competitiveness of the financial system, and the maturity of lending all
needed to be increased. Hence, in 1980-81 the Government introduced a
comprehensive set of financial reforms. Interest rates are being substan-
tially decontrolled, and revised monetary, fiscal, and rediscount policies are
being introduced. Legislation to encoturage multipurpose banking has also been
adopted to reduce the present excessive specialization and fragmentation of
the financial system and to increase competition.
20.       Public Finance.  During the 1970s, the Government raised the overall
level of public expenditures by 5% of GNP and increased the shares going to
economic services and investment. At the end of the decade, total government
expenditures had reached 18% of GNP, with public investment equalling 6.5% of
GNP. The expansion of public expenditures has made possible improvements in
basic infrastructure, particularly in transportation, power and irrigation, as
well as expanded programs in urban development, health and family planning.
At present, the size of the public investment program is appropriate, and its
composition is, with a few exceptions, broadly consistent with the country's
development priorities.
21.       In the last few years, however, public investment has been cons-
trained by the availability of resources, outdated contracting regulations
and rigid budget execution procedures which were introduced in anticipation
of a tight revenue situation. Problems were particularly acute during the
period of high inflation in 1979 and 1980, and they caused the Government
actually to underspend its capital budget. As resource constraints are likely
to remain tight during the 1980s, further strengthening of investment
programming and budgeting procedures will be needed to concentrate resources
on the highest priority projects.
22.       The rapid expansion of public expenditures has been made possible by
a program of systematic tax reform. The proportion of revenue coming from
domestic taxes has been raised through increases in indirect taxes and
improved collection, thus reducing dependence on cyclically volatile taxes on
international trade. The tax ratio was raised by three percentage points to
13.3% of GNP during the decade, but has remained about constant in the last
few years. Continuation of a strong revenue effort, both by the Government
and government corporations, will be necessary to finance further expansion in
infrastructure and social services. Further tax reforms are needed to raise
the elasticity of the revenue system, to improve its equity by increasing the
proportion of revenue coming from direct taxes, and to eliminate remaining
distortions in economic incentives.



- 7 -
Balance of Payments Adjustment and External Capital Requirements
23.       The 1979-80 oil price increase has considerably tightened the long-
term balance of payments constraints for the Philippines. The share of
oil in total merchandise imports increased from 12% in the early 1970s to 29%
in 1980. The current account deficit widened to $2.1 billion in 1980,
equivalent to 5.8% of GNP. If growth and investment rates are to be
maintained, accelerated structural adjustments in the economy and the balance
of payments have become essential to hold the external deficit at a
sustainable level. Considerable reforms have already been introduced with
respect to trade, industrial, and financial policies (see paras. 17 and 19),
and improvements are under consideration in energy policy. Additional policy
measures will be needed in these areas as well as resource mobilization and
investment programming. Implementation of necessary adjustment measures
should make it possible to sustain economic growth at 6.0-6.5%, mainly through
improved performance of the industrial sector. However, policy measures will
require a number of years to effect the needed structural improvement in the
balance of payments. The current account deficit, therefore, is expected to
remain in the range of $2.0-2.5 billion annually during the first half of the
1980s, while declining in relative terms to about 4% of GNP by the mid-1980s.
24.       The Philippines raised its external borrowing sharply to finance the
balance of payments deficits incurred after the 1973-74 oil price increase.
During the second half of the 1970s, net disbursements from medium- and long-
term loans doubled to $1.2 billion in 1980 and the debt service ratio stood at
20% in 1981. Substantial additional foreign capital will be needed during the
period of adjustment to the 1979-80 oil price increase, and net disbursements
from medium- and long-term loans will have to double again in the next five
years. If the Philippines can sustain the strong export performance of the
recent past, the debt service ratio would remain at about 20%.
25.       Official sources are expected to provide about 43% of the
Philippines gross external capital in the early 1980s. The last Consultative
Group Meeting, held in January 1981, agreed that it would be reasonable for
the Philippines to seek official development assistance (ODA) of about
$1.2 billion during 1981, a slight increase over the ODA commitments it
received in 1980.
26.       As noted above, progress has been made in domestic resource
mobilization. However, because the deterioration in the terms of trade has
increased the Philippines external financing requirements, and many projects
planned for ODA have low foreign exchange costs, the necessary resource
transfer can be achieved only through some financing of local costs of
projects and non-project lending.



PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS /1
27.       As of March 31, 1982 the Philippines had received 78 Bank loans (of
which two were on Third Window terms) amounting to $2,967.55 million and six
IDA credits amounting to $122.2 million. IFC investments totalled $143.8
million. The share of the Bank Group in total debt disbursed and outstanding
is currently about 11%, and its share in total debt service is about 8%.
These ratios are expected to be about 18% and 12%, respectively, by 1985.
Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans, and IFC investments as
of March 31, 1982 as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
28.       The volume of World Bank lending to the Philippines has increased
substantially from an average of about $90 million per year in FY71-75 to an
average of $420 million in FY77-81. Although the Bank has financed projects
in virtually all sectors of the economy, particular emphasis has been given to
agriculture, which has accounted for more than one-third of total Bank/IDA
lending. Another fifth of Bank lending has been for the transportation sec-
tor. Lending for power, industry, and social sectors followed in declining
order of size. The sectoral allocation of Bank lending remained fairly stable
throughout the 1970s. Pronounced changes took place only within infrastruc-
ture as lending for transportation and power declined in the second half of
the 1970s, while lending for water supply and urban development was initiated
during this period.
29.       Within sectors, however, considerable changes have taken place in
Bank lending. In agriculture, lending initially focused on expanding the
irrigation system, credit programs, and other services to support rice
production. More recently, efforts have been made to diversify agricultural
production through loans for treecrops, livestock, and fisheries, and to
assist low-income areas through integrated rural development projects. In the
industrial and financial sectors, the Bank initially concentrated on streng-
thening individual development finance institutions and on providing for the
credit needs of small and medium industries. In the last two years, however,
industrial and financial lending has been broadened to support the implemen-
tation of needed policy reforms. A structural adjustment loan was made in
September 1980 in support of trade and industrial reforms. Improvements in
financial sector policies were the basis for the May 1981 Industrial Finance
Loan, which also introduced a new institutional concept to broaden the reach
of Bank lending by channelling loans through an "apex" unit in the Central
Bank.
/1 This section is substantially the same as that contained in the
President's Report for the National Fisheries Development Project,
which was distributed to the Executive Directors on May 6, 1982.



- 9 -
30.       While overall implementation of Bank-financed projects in the
Philippines has been satisfactory, disbursements have been slower than antici-
pated. Disbursement performance is somewhat below average for the region and
has shown a slowly deteriorating trend over the past few years. Implementa-
tion problems increased in the later 1970s, reflecting, in part, adminis-
trative problems caused by high inflation and tight budget constraints (para.
21). They also result from the changes in the scope of the Bank's lending
operations: a substantial increase in the number of projects, new areas of
lending, an emphasis on institution-building, and efforts to reach specific
target groups and deprived regions have all made implementation a more
demanding task than in the past. The first project implementation review was
held in May 1980, at which time, among other issues, the relatively poor
disbursement performance was discussed. Steps were subsequently taken to
correct some of the administrative problems which were discussed with the
Government during the review. A second review, held in February 1982,
provided a useful follow-up and exchange of views on problems still being
experienced in project implementation and loan disbursement. During this
review, the Government and the Bank agreed that similar reviews would be held
in future on a regular basis.
31.       The Bank's future lending program has been designed to assist in
achieving the major objectives of the Government's Development Plan (para. 5).
Particular emphasis is being given to supporting poverty alleviation efforts
and to bringing about needed structural adjustments in the economy. Economic
and sector work is being closely integrated with lending operations. Future
project, sector, and structural adjustment loans will be designed to address
the wide variety of technical, institutional, and policy issues facing the
Philippines. Additional structural adjustment loans are planned to support
further reforms in trade, industry, and other key policy areas. In sectoral
terms, agriculture and rural development will continue to account for the
largest share of lending, with emphasis on food production and programs to
increase the incomes of the rural poor and rehabilitate existing cash crops.
Substantial assistance will be given to industry through further subsector
loans aimed at restructuring or developing specific subsectors; through
increased financial and technical assistance to small and medium industries,
particularly outside the Metro-Manila area; and through continued industrial
finance projects utilizing the recently introduced "apex" concept. Increased
effort is also planned over the next several years to develop domestic energy
resources and to strengthen the institutions responsible for developing and
managing energy supplies. The Bank's support for projects in education,
health, family planning, water supply, and urban development will aim at
improving basic services and supporting employment creation, particularly in
less advanced areas of the country.
32.       This is the sixth loan to the Philippines to be presented to the
Executive Directors this fiscal year. Loans for coal exploration, geothermal
exploration, petroleum exploration promotion, vocational education, rural
water supply, and regional cities development have been appraised and are
scheduled for Board presentation in the coming months.



PART III - THE IRRIGATED AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
General
33.       Agriculture is the predominant sector in the Philippine economy,
accounting for some 30% of GDP, over half of total employment and 60% of the
country's foreign exchange earnings. Almost 60% of the land under cultivation
is used for the production of rice and corn.  Most of the remaining land is
taken up by the major export crops:  sugar, coconuts, abaca, pineapples and
tobacco. Owing to the limited availability of land for further expansion of
the cultivated area, future increases in production must come largely from
increased yields and cropping intensities.
34.       About 65% of the population lives in rural areas, where nearly two-
thirds of the households depend on small farms for their livelihood. The
problems of poverty and income distribution continue to be acute in rural
areas, where at least half of the farmers have an income below the absolute
poverty level of $195 (in 1980 prices). Rural social services are inade-
quate, economic activities are limited, agricultural productivity is low and
underemployment is high. A rapid development of the agricultural sector is,
therefore, of critical importance to accelerate the overall pace of economic
development and to help meet the basic needs of the rural poor.
Government Objectives and Stratey
35.       The major government objectives for the agricultural sector are to
raise the incomes of small farmers and to attain self-sufficiency in food-
grains. To achieve these objectives, the Government has implemented an array
of programs, the most important of which aim to increase rice and corn
production. Once a chronic importer of rice, the Philippines achieved
impressive production increases during the 1970s and even began to export
modest quantities by 1977. The sharp rise in production from 1974 was due in
part to a continued expansion of the irrigated area, and, more importantly,
to a major government-sponsored credit and extension program, Masagana 99,
which helped rice farmers finance the inputs needed to exploit the new high
yielding varieties which had become available. Almost 40% of the area under
rice is now irrigated. As national irrigation schemes now under construction
come on stream and new varieties of seeds and better cultivation practices
are adopted, production will continue to expand, assuring continued rice
self-sufficiency through the 1980s and the possibility of significant
surpluses for export.  Entry into the export market on a larger scale would,
however, require cultivation of uniform varieties and greatly improved
post-harvest handling. Estimates of this anticipated surplus are currently
under review by the Bank and the Government.
Communal Irrigation Development
36.       The Government recognizes that further progress in increasing rice
yields for poor farmers, and thus addressing the problem of income distri-
bution, will partly depend on continued development and improvement of



- 11 -
small-scale irrigation. To date, most efforts in irrigation development have
been focused on the national irrigation systems, which will cover some 800,000
ha by the end of 1985. These efforts, however, have had only a limited impact
on poor farmers living in areas which are not suitable for large-scale
irrigation schemes. Therefore, the Government now proposes to accelerate
development of the communal irrigation subsector, which at present consists of
about 5,700 communal systems, accounts for about 45% (550,000 ha) of the total
irrigated area and supplies almost 40% of irrigated rice production. Unlike
the national systems which are constructed, operated and maintained by the
Government through the National Irrigation Administration (NIA), communal
systems are owned and operated by the farmers themselves. More than 70% of
the communal systems were built before 1965. Management of the systems varies
widely; smaller systems tend to depend on informal leadership by village
leaders or large landowners, but a more formal structure is evident in larger
systems over 100 ha, which often have formal Irrigators' Associations with
paid personnel and irrigation service fees paid in kind. Although Government
assistance to communal schemes rose rapidly in the last 20 years, this
assistance was mainly in design, construction and financing with little
attention paid to encouraging local participation. NIA now proposes to assist
farmers in meeting the rising costs of investment in new and existing communal
systems as well as in providing the institutional support for ensuring
community involvement. The communal systems, which can be completed in as
little as one year, give immediate benefits and reduce the operating burden on
NIA because operations and maintenance are performed by farmers.
37.       NIA proposes to carry out some 250,000 ha of communal irrigation
development during 1981-90, and the proposed project would assist this effort
during the period 1982-86. NIA's traditional, centralized approach to com-
munal irrigation often resulted in systems that were ill-adapted to local
conditions and poorly supported by the local population.  In contrast, a new
locally-based approach developed by NIA with assistance from the Ford
Foundation and involving the Philippines Institute of Culture, emphasizes
close participation of farmers in all phases of development. About 40 pilot
projects using the new approach have been initiated over the past five years.
Experience so far has indicated that the participatory approach to communal
irrigation results in better designed and constructed systems than those
developed by either NIA or farmers working alone, and in a greater willingness
and capability of farmers to assume responsibility for effective management of
the completed system and to improve their farm practices.
Experience with Past Lending
38.       The Bank has made 16 previous loans to NIA mostly for irrigation
development but also including some area development, rural infrastructure
and watershed development projects in the Philippines, but none exclusively
for communal systems. In the course of these earlier projects, NIA has
established itself as a well-managed and competent organization. Implemen-
tation has been generally satisfactory on most projects, but some projects
have experienced delays because of local funding constraints, design



12 -
changes, contractor problems, or local peace and order problems.  Two projects
have been completed. The Project Performance Audit Report (Report No. 3063
dated June 30, 1980) on the first Bank-assisted project, the Upper Pampanga
River Irrigation Project (Loan 637-PH) noted that the dam was completed
10 months ahead of schedule, despite changes in design. The OED report
computed the revised economic rate of return of the project at 14% compared
to 13% estimated at appraisal. It concluded that NIA's current excellent
project preparation and farmer support capabilities were developed initially
in the Upper Pampanga Project. A second project, the Aurora Penaranda
Irrigation Project (Loan/Credit 984/472-PH), was completed in December 1981
and preparation of the Completion Report is underway. While work on the two
dams and the transbasin canal was completed about one year ahead of schedule,
difficulties in awarding construction contracts delayed the start of
improvement works in the service areas which were further hampered by severe
typhoon damages in 1978 and 1980. The Mindoro Rural Development Project (Loan
1102-PH), approved in 1975, included a small communal irrigation component of
about 3,000 ha. Construction was completed about two years behind the
appraisal schedule, the delay mainly being due to design changes, difficulties
in right-of-way acquisition and shortages of construction materials and
supplies. In 1978, the Rural Infrastructure Project (Credit 790-PH) included
about 9,400 ha of communal irrigation systems which were subsequently expanded
to 10,400 ha. Implementation progress is satisfactory in four provinces but
is behind schedule in two provinces. The project is expected to be completed
in 1983, one year behind the appraisal schedule. About 2,000 ha of communal
irrigation systems form part of the Samar Island Rural Development Project
(Loan 1772-PH 1980). Rehabilitation of 23 existing communal irrigation
systems and improvement of buildings is progressing satisfactorily.
39.       The Philippines Agricultural Sector Operations Review by OED (Report
No. 3796 dated February 10, 1982) concluded that while irrigation associations
in the large national schemes have posed problems, communal associations have
been relatively more successful. As communal schemes ultimately become the
property of the associations, construction or rehabilitation is usually
carried out using their ideas and suggestions. They are especially successful
where local farmers have actively participated in the design and siting of
structures and canals. The report also concluded that farmer participation
appears to have reduced the incidence of failures due to faulty design.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Ba ckg round
40.       The proposed project was prepared by NIA and was appraised in
September/October 1981. Negotiations were held in Washington in April 1982,
with a Philippine delegation led by the Honorable Antonio M. Locsin, Deputy
Director General, National Economic and Development Authority. A Staff
Appraisal Report, No. 3850-PH, dated May 12, 1982, is being distributed
separately. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.



- 13 -
Project Area
41.       The project would be national in scope.  The majority of the areas
with potential for communal irrigation development have only one wet-season
rainfed rice crop (or an inadequately irrigated crop), and only a limited area
has a second, rather risky, dry-season crop. Communal systems are found in
areas of moderate topography where farmers can achieve sufficient water con-
trol with very simple diversion structures and ditches. Over 70% of the
communal systems are smaller than 100 ha, and farms within the system have an
average area of 1.4 ha each. About 50% of the farmers own their land, some
30% are share tenants paying an agreed percentage of their harvest, and the
rest either rent extra land or are part-owners.
Project Objectives
42.       The project places substantial responsibility on NIA to plan and
execute a series of subprojects throughout the country. In so doing the
project would: (a) support a national program of communal irrigation develop-
ment under which farmers would effectively participate in planning and con-
structing their systems and, after completion, would assume full control over
systems' operation; (b) strengthen NIA's organization and capability to
select, design, and implement efficient communal irrigation systems, and to
maintain and operate small national sytems; (c) develop NIA's capability to
undertake the selection of communal subprojects according to criteria agreed
with the Bank and to determine the phasing of their implementation; and
(d) increase the incomes of about 12,000 farm families currently growing
rainfed crops by providing irrigation and support services to produce rice,
and improve the incomes of another 12,000 families by rehabilitating and
upgrading their present run-down communal irrigation systems (CISs).
Project Description
43.       The proposed project would consist of:  (a) strengthening of
67 Provincial Irrigation Offices (PIOs) through construction or improvement of
office buildings and workshops and the provision of office, workshop, survey,
hydrological and construction equipment as well as vehicles and spare parts;
(b) training for NIA staff, agricultural extension agents and farmer leaders
from Irrigators' Associations (IA); (c) construction or rehabilitation of
commrunal irrigation systems on about 33,500 ha including diversion and intake
works, main canals and laterals, service roads, farm ditches, drains and
appurtenant structures; (d) establishment of a monitoring and evaluation
system within NIA; and (e) a study to improve NIA's internal financial
reporting system.
44.       Strengthening of Provincial Irrigation Offices ($30.4 million
including contingencies). In view of budgetary constraints and the decreasing
opportunities for large national irrigation systems, NIA's operations will
shift from the construction of large new systems toward the operation and
maintenance (O&M) and rehabilitation of the rapidly expanding national irri-
gation system. NIA is preparing for this task with Bank assistance (Loan



- 14 -
1809-PH) through a comprehensive study of the level of O&M required to meet
system needs. New construction in the future will often be smaller in scale
and more suited for communal system development. NIA will rely heavily on
PIOs in its future investment activities, as the PIOs are responsible for O&M
of national systems, and the construction and rehabilitation of communal
systems. Although NIA's central office and the Regional Irrigation Offices
have undergone considerable strengthening and have the expertise for managing
large scale foreign-assisted irrigation projects, the PIOs are deficient in
staff, buildings and equipment to carry out their tasks.  Strengthening the
PIOs is, therefore, a cornerstone of NIA's future program.  The PIOs would be
responsible for assisting farmers to organize themselves into IAs which would
work with NIA staff to plan, design and construct the communal systems. The
project would include the construction of 23 new office buildings and work-
shops, the rehabilitation of 36 existing facilities, and the provision of
required vehicles, equipment and machinery in sixty-seven provinces.
45.       Training ($4.0 million including contingencies).  Project implemen-
tation would require the joint participation of NIA staff and farmers to
establish and operate the local systems. The proposed training component is
designed to expand an ongoing program directed at preparing both groups for
these activities. About 2,600 staff members of NIA's Provincial and Regional
Offices and the Ministry of Agriculture would be trained in the technical and
organizational tasks to be performed in developing the communal systems, and
the farmer-leaders and members of Irrigators' Associations would attend
workshops to prepare them to take part in each stage of system design, con-
struction and operation. Training would be provided in NIA's existing eleven
regional centers and would be coordinated by the NIA Training Division and its
regional offices. NIA's training capability has strengthened through the
implementation of previous Bank-assisted projects, particularly the substan-
tial training component under the National Irrigation Systems Improvement
Project (Loan 1526-PH).
46.       Communal Irrigation Development ($84.1 million including contin-
gencies). The construction component of the project would cover about 25%
of the area to be covered under NIA's 1982-86 communal irrigation develop-
ment program. An indicative work program for the project has been identi-
fied covering about 33,500 ha including the construction of 22,800 ha and
rehabilitation of 10,700 ha; 33 of the subprojects have already been pre-
pared to allow start of construction by January 1983.  Subprojects range in
size from 50 ha to 1,000 ha and would be based on run-of-the-river supply,
served by gravity irrigation. Most systems would be served by diversion
weirs, although a few would need intake structures only. Diversion weirs
would be of concrete ogee type with a crest height of 1-2 m above the stream
bed. The main canals would generally be unlined with provision for concrete
lining only in soils susceptible to erosion and where the possibility of
excessive seepage is identified.  Service roads of 4.0 m and 15 cm thick
gravel would be built along the main canals, and access roads would connect
service roads to the nearest barangay, provincial or national roads.



- 15 -
47.       Subprojects selected for implementation during the project period
would meet minimum agricultural and economic criteria and common design
standards, including an expected cropping intensity of at least 130%;
minimal conversion of land from productive permanent crop; areas not less
than 50 ha or more than 1,000 ha; average farm size of not more than 2 ha;
and an internal economic rate of return of not less than 10%. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that NIA would, by December 31, 1983,
begin to implement a phased program satisfactory to the Bank with a view to
achieving, by December 31, 19855 the above selection criteria and design
standards for all CISs, regardless of financing source (Section 4.06 of the
draft Loan Agreement). Assurances were also obtained that NIA would submit
for review by the Bank, prior to implementation, full evaluation reports for
subprojects costing more than P 5.0 ($620,000) million each and summary
data forms for subprojects costing less than P 5.0 million ($620,000)
(Section 4.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
48.       Monitoring and Evaluation ($2.0 million including contingencies).
In order to benefit from experience gained under the project, NIA would
improve its existing monitoring and evaluation system with the intention of
improving its communal development policy and administrative procedures and
developing more effective training programs for staff and farmers. This
would be done in two ways; NIA's existing reporting requirements for com-
munal works would be expanded and a new monitoring and evaluation scheme
would be implemented. NIA's established program of monthly reporting of
communal construction progress from the provincial to the regional and
central offices would be extended to include progress during the design phase
of a system, covering both technical and organizational activities. NIA
would also establish a system to: (a) monitor the operation and maintenance
of sample communal systems by Irrigators' Associations during the first
three years after completion of construction; and (b) evaluate the impact of
these subprojects after the first and third years of cropping. The sample
systems would comprise 40 Bank-assisted subprojects and 40 locally-funded
subprojects in order to compare the benefits achieved in the two sets of
systems in terms of types, amount and distribution of benefits to members.
Assurances were obtained that NIA would submit the indicators to be
monitored and other details of the monitoring and evaluation system before
December 31, 1982 (Section 4.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).
49.       Financial Reporting System Study ($0.3 million including contin-
gencies). Although the accounts for major projects are consistently accu-
rate, NIA's overall financial reporting system is too unwieldy to supply
timely financial information to managers. The project would therefore
finance consultants to review this system. On the basis of this review, a
five-year work program would be prepared to develop an integrated financial
and management system. Assurances were obtained that, by December 31, 1982,
NIA would prepare terms of reference for consulting services for the finan-
cial reporting system study for review by the Bank (Section 4.02 of the
draft Loan Agreement).



- 16 -
Status of Engineering
50.       Feasibility grade designs, layouts, and drawings have been prepared
by NIA for 33 sample subprojects (22 new areas and 11 rehabilitation areas)
covering 6,700 ha in 24 provinces or about 20% of the total project area.
This would serve as the basis for the entire first year's construction pro-
gram. Construction quantities have been estimated for the diversion works,
main and secondary canals, tertiary canals and drains, access and service
roads and all appurtenant structures, from plans and profiles supported by
field surveys and site investigations. Adequate investigations have also
been conducted to ensure the availability of ample supply of construction
materials.  Designs and drawings for buildings in 22 provinces have been
prepared. Preparation of bid documents for equipment and vehicles is under-
way. Preparation of detailed designs and tender documents is sufficiently
advanced for procurement and construction to start soon after loan
effectiveness.
Organization and Management
51.       Overall responsibility for project implementation would rest with
NIA's Assistant Administrator of Operations. A Project Manager has been
appointed to handle day-to-day coordination of the project and supervision
of the work of the Regional and Provincial Offices involved as well as other
NIA agencies carrying out project-related functions. NIA's Project Develop-
ment Department would be responsible for support functions related to the
overall preparation and economic viability of the subprojects; its Design
and Specifications Department, for the engineering design of civil works;
the Equipment Management Department, for equipment specifications and pro-
curement; the Farmer's Assistance Department, for institutional development
and agricultural coordination and for the monitoring and evaluation
component; and the Training and Development Division, for the training
component of the project. Preparatory activities for project implementation
are underway.
52.       The PIOs would be responsible, under the supervision of the
Regional Offlces, for the planning, design and execution of communal irriga-
tion subprojects. Project proposals prepared in the provinces would be
reviewed by the Regional Offices and screened at NIA headquarters, where
annual operational programs would be prepared. The institutional work of
organizing the lAs would be carried out by Community Organizers who would be
administratively responsible to the PIOs. Training of project personnel and
farmers would be conducted at the Regional Offices. Upon completion of con-
struction, a commural system would be turned over to the IAs, which would
accept this responsibility by contracting with NIA to repay the construction
costs in annual installments.
Agricultural Support Services
53.       Following the completion of each communal scheme, the subproject
areas would be assisted by the agencies which normally provide agricultural



- 17 -
supporting services. Extension agents of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA)
would be trained under the proposed project in water management and crop
production. The capacity and efficiency of MOA's Bureau of Agricultural
Extension is also being improved under the Bank-assisted National Extension
Project (Loan 1626-PH). The production and distribution of registered seeds
countrywide is satisfactory. The existing fertilizer and agrochemical dis-
tribution network is adequate and could be easily expanded to meet increased
demand in the future. Farmers on the communal systems receive an estimated
35% of their credit needs from formal credit institutions; the remainder
comes from various informal sources. The major formal credit program
affecting the communal farmers is the Masagana 99 program which combines
supervised credit with a package of inputs. Although this program has
experienced problems in the past, the Government is reviewing the credit
situation and taking action as required.
Project Cost and Financing
54.       Total financing requirements of the project are estimated at
$121.8 million, including taxes amounting to $1.0 million on the cost of
contracts for civil works and the capitalized front-end fee. The estimated
foreign exchange cost is $62.5 million including the front-end fee or about
51% of the total financing requirements. Costs include a physical
contingency factor of 20% for irrigation works, 10% for buildings, training,
and monitoring and evaluation, and 5% for equipment. The following annual
inflation rates were assumed for the equipment and civil works: local costs
10% in 1982 and 8% thereafter; foreign costs 8% in 1982 and 1983, 7.5% in
1984, 7% in 1985 and 6% in 1986/87. Expected price increases over the
implementation period amount to about 24% of the base cost plus physical
contingencies. The services of local consultants for the financial
reporting system study would require a total of about 35 man-months at an
estimated cost of about $4,500 per man-month including overheads, office
costs, and local travel.
55.       The proposed Bank loan of $71.1 million /1 and the International
Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) loan of $12.0 million equivalent
would cover the foreign exchange cost of the project and about $20.6 million
of local costs./2 The Bank loan and IFAD loan would finance 71% of total
project costs excluding taxes and the cost of land acquisition, or about 68%
of the gross total cost. Of the remaining project costs of about $38.7 mil-
lion, the Government would finance about $33.7 million and the rest would
be contributed by farmer beneficiaries through their equity contributions to
communal irrigation system construction through labor, materials or cash.
The full amount of the Bank loan would be channelled through the Government
directly to NIA. In order to begin construction in 1983, preparatory works
/1 Including the capitalized front-end fee.
/2 For justification of local cost financing, see para. 26.



- 18 -
such as construction and equipping of PIOs, staff training, detailed topogra-
phic surveys and detailed design will have to be undertaken.  To provide
for these preconstruction activities, a retroactive financing of up to
$1.5 million in aggregate is recommended to cover expenditures made after
January 1, 1982.
Special Account
56.       NIA has experienced liquidity problems which stem from time-con-
suming reimbursement procedures and slow budgetary processes.  This takes on
increased importance in this project because of its geographically dispersed
nature and the large number of individual disbursement requests which would be
submitted for each subproject. Small contractors and suppliers who would be
servicing the project have limited financial resources, and thus prompt
payment of their claims is essential to smooth project implementation. The
participatory nature of the project requires sustained, active local involve-
ment for its success. Farmer-beneficiaries, who are involved in the design,
construction, operation and maintenance of the communal irrigation systems
must be assured of timely provision of equipment and inputs in order to ensure
continuity of work.  In order to facilitate implementation a special account
mechanism would be instituted consisting of two separate Philippine peso
accounts to be established in the Philippines National Bank. The Bank and
IFAD would make advance payments to the first account (the Special Account) of
up to $850,000 and $150,000 equivalent respectively to cover the estimated
quarterly requirements for eligible project expenditures. Disbursements from
the Account would cover the Bank's and IFAD's shares of expenditures for force
account civil works, small civil works contracts (less than P 1,000,000) and
small local purchases of equipment and materials (items costing less than
P 50,000 equivalent). Replenishment of the Bank and !FAD advance would be
subject to Bank review and approval of withdrawal applications justifying
expenditures financed from the account.  In order to extend gradually the
purposes for which the funds in the Special Account are used, and to ensure
that the Account continues to provide liquidity after loan closing, a
counterpart account (Operating Account) would be established and maintained by
NIA from its own resources with a deposit of the equivalent of $250,000 per
year during project years 2-6. This would result in an established fund of
$1.5 million for general corporate purposes, and become a virtual successor
to the Special Account. Assurances were obtained that NIA would establish a
Special Account and an Operating Account (Sections 3.02(b) and 5.04 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement
57.       Equipment, construction machinery, surveying and hydrologic instru-
ments, vehicles and spare parts, and materials and supplies, totalling about
$19 million equivalent, would be grouped in appropriate bidding packages
and procured by international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with
Bank Guidelines. Qualifying domestic manufacturers would receive a preference
in bid evaluation of 15% of the c.i.f. price of imported goods, or the import
duty, whichever is lower. Miscellaneous items of equipment and machinery,
costing less than $20,000 each and totalling not more than $3 million, would
be procured under local competitive bidding procedures, which are satisfactory
to the Bank. Buildings and workshops, totalling about $5 million, and



- 19 -
diversion works, main canals and roads, totalling about $56 million, to be
constructed under the project are scattered countrywide and are relatively
small. As such, they would not be suitable for ICB, and would instead be
procured by local competitive bidding procedures, but foreign bidders would be
given an opportunity to participate. Works in the remote areas and minor
irrigation works to be financed under the project, totalling about $14 million
and $18 million, respectively, are not likely to interest even local contrac-
tors and would be carried out under force account. Assurances were obtained
that the aggregate cost of civil works done by force account would not exceed
40% of the total cost of civil works (Schedule 4,C(3) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
58.       All bidding packages for works estimated to cost over $400,000
equivalent, and for goods over $200,000 equivalent, would be subject to the
Bank's prior review of procurement documentation. This would result in a
Bank review of about 40% of the total estimated value of civil works contracts
and about 75% of goods contracts. The balance of contracts would be subject
to random post-review by the Bank after contract award.
Disbursements
59.       Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100% of foreign
expenditures for directly imported equipment and materials, 100% of the
ex-factory cost of such items manufactured locally, and 80% of the cost of
imported items procured locally; 75% of expenditures for civil works; and 100%
of expenditures for training, consultants' services, and the monitoring and
evaluation of component. Disbursements for force account civil works would be
made against statements of expenditure based on agreed unit rates. NIA would
submit a detailed unit rate analysis with supporting documents for Bank review
before September 30, 1982, or before claiming the first reimbursement for
force account work, whichever is earlier. These unit rates would exclude
depreciation of the equipment directly financed under the project.
Disbursements for minor civil works contracts (less than P 1,000,000) would
also be made against statements of expenditure based on actual progress
payments made to contractors. In addition, statements of expenditure would be
used for minor local expenditures for equipment and materials (items costing
up to P 50,000 equivalent), for local training programs, and for expend-
itures under the monitoring and evaluation component. The use of statements
of expenditure for these items is justified because of the small and frequent
payments involved. NIA has the institutional capability to maintain related
records in a satisfactory manner, and supporting documentation would be made
available for review by visiting Bank missions. All disbursements shall
be apportioned by the Bank, as nearly as practicable in the circumstances,
between the Bank loan and the IFAD loan in the ratio of 6:1.
Accounts and Audit
60.       NIA's accounts are audited annually by the Government's Commission
on Audit. Assurances would be obtained that NIA would cause all its



- 20 -
regional and provincial offices to maintain separate accounts for the project.
Audited project accounts would be collated by the Project Manager, and
together with the auditor's comments, as well as his opinion on the certifi-
cation of expenditure on force account works, would be sent to the Bank within
six months of the close of each fiscal year (Section 5.02 (d) of the draft
Loan Agreement).
Environmental Effects
61.       The impact of communal irrigation systems on the natural environ-
ment is generally slight, since such schemes are usually small, widely dis-
persed, on well-drained upper plains, and include no storage structures.
Schistosomiasis and malaria vectors are therefore seldom a problem. Only
seven of the subprojects now identified are located in schistosomiasis-
endemic areas, and most of the subprojects in malaria-endemic areas are at
elevations where malaria rarely occurs. To maintain acceptable health and
water quality standards, a number of measures would be carried out, including
the provision of drainage in subproject works, technical monitoring of disease
vectors to be carried out periodically in any endemic areas by the Ministry of
Health, and water management training courses for Irrigators' Associations
which explain the importance of maintaining efficient drainage to public
health as well as agricultural efficiency.
Cost and Rent Recovery
62.       Cost recovery never approaches 100% on irrigation projects in the
Philippines because irrigators, being largely a low-income group, are favored
by a government policy which allows 50 years for government construction
expenses to be repaid at zero interest. The project's direct beneficiaries
would be subject to the same terms that other CIS beneficiaries face: during
construction lAs would contribute labor, materials and/or cash worth 10% of
subproject cost (less the cost of maintenance roads and administrative over-
heads). The remaining 90% must be repaid over a period of up to 50 years at
zero interest. These repayments are set in terms of paddy with farmers agree-
ing to pay a fixed number of cavans of paddy per irrigated hectare per year
or the cash equivalent in current paddy prices. Repayments are, therefore,
indexed roughly'to the rate of inflation. For the project, average annual
repayments would be about two cavans per ha for rehabilitation subprojects and
about three cavans per ha for new subprojects. Total cost recovery for
communal systems has three sources: the 50-year stream of capital cost
repayments, the initial IA 10% contribution, and incremental land taxes, in
order of magnitude. Land taxes are 1% of assessed value under P 3,000 per
ha and 2% of assessed value of P 3,000 per ha and above; and would rise by
P 2.3 million per year at full development as irrigation raises land values.
In present value terms, water charges would account for 53% of recovered
costs, IA contributions 29%, and incremental land taxes 18%. The irrigation
construction component's overall cost recovery index is 28.2%. Operation and
maintenance charges are not included in the calculation of this index because,
as farmers would pay all such charges, the costs are never incurred by govern-
ment and so cannot be recovered by government. Although the cost recovery



- 21 -
index shows a high degree of subsidy, the beneficiaries are asked to pay a
larger share of costs than their neighbors on recent Bank-assisted national
systems, where the appraisal estimates of the cost recovery index average
about 17%.
63.       The project rent recovery index measures the economic impact of the
project and the burden of water charges on beneficiaries. Project rent is the
incremental cash income from the project less allowances for costs of farmer
capital, labor, farm management and risk. The rent recovery index (present
value of incremental water charges divided by present value of project rent)
is 19.0% for the irrigation construction component as a whole, compared to the
20-30% rent recovery index on three recent Bank-assisted national irrigation
projects. The proposed project charges on beneficiaries are consistent with
the objective of narrowing the gap betwen rural and urban incomes. To ensure
an equitable contribution by beneficiaries toward recovery of project capital
costs, assurances were obtained that Government would not reduce the exist-
ing level of capital cost repayment expected of project beneficiaries, and NIA
would send the Bank by December 31, 1983 a report detailing current estimates
of the level of water charges, the capacity of beneficiaries to pay, and
actual collection rates, and the Government's policy on irrigation project
cost recovery and measures planned to improve collection of water charges
(Section 5.03(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Benefits and Justification
64.       The proposed project would contribute to government objectives of
rural poverty reduction and increased rice production. At full development
(1990), the irrigation component would result in increases in yields, higher
cropping intensities and expanded physical area under rice, and would benefit
about 24,000 farm families supporting about 144,000 people.   The annual
incremental production due to the project would be about 106,000 tons of paddy
with an export value (in 1982 prices) of about $37.1 million or about
$22.5 million in farmgate prices. This would mean an incremental net income
of about $588 per year for each project farm family. The project would create
additional employment from three sources: (a) initial construction activities
generating over 31,000 manyears of full-time employment over a five-year
period, about 63% of which would be paid in cash, the remainder credited to
the 10% share of construction costs of the Irrigators Associations; (b)
operation and maintenance of systems generating 400 incremental manyears/year
at full development; and (c) more intensive farming operations generating over
10,000 incremental man-years/year at full development. This additional demand
for labor would greatly reduce seasonal unemployment in project areas, and
would be increasingly important in the future as the rural labor force,
particularly landless labor, continues to grow in numbers. The project would
help to maintain constant or even slightly improve real wages for local
unskilled labor, checking a continued deterioration of real wages which
occurred during the 1970s. The cost of project irrigation works would be
about $1,825 per ha or $2,550 for each farm family which benefits directly



- 22 -
from the project; this is in line with the per hectare costs of previous
Bank-assisted irrigation projects in the Philippines and considerably less
than the historical average cost per direct beneficiary. The project's
impact on rainfed farms would be the greatest, with net farm incomes rising
170% to 260% on presently rainfed rice farms and 280-350% on presently
rainfed corn farms. Irrigated rice farm net incomes would rise 80-100%.
65.       The nationwide strengthening of NIA-s PIOs and training of NIA
staff and farmer-leaders would introduce major improvements in the quality,
speed and efficiency of NIA works, and in the ultimate operation and
maintenance of communal systems by irrigators. The capacity and incentive
of irrigators to keep their systems in optimum condition would be improved,
thus maximizing production while reducing the future burden on NIA of costly
rehabilitation.
66.       The economic rate of return for the project's construction com-
ponent is estimated at 19.2% over 30 years. Sensitivity analysis was used
to determine which variables would be most crucial to the success of the
project. The most adverse change would be delays in benefits with costs
incurred on schedule. A delay of three years in the realization of benefits
would reduce the economic rate of return to 9.4% although such a long delay
is highly unlikely for such small, simple systems. A one-year lag, which is
more possible, and an accompanying cost overrun of 20% would reduce the rate
of return to 9.9%. Switching values, based on a 10% opportunity cost of
capital, show the rate of return to be more sensitive to reductions in
benefits than to increases in costs. Even so, benefits would have to fall
by 25% in order to reduce the project's economic rate of return to 10%.
Risks
67.       NIA has a long and generally successful experience in constructing
communal irrigations systems, but the O&M and cost repayment aspects of
the CISs have had a less successful history. The participatory approach
offers the most reasonable prospect of meeting the operational and managerial
demands of communal irrigation systems. The main risk associated with the
project concerns the degree of farmer commitment to the participatory
approach. Although NIA has not previously tried the participatory approach
to communal irrigation development on such a large scale, its pilot projects
have demonstrated the basic soundness of the concept and acceptability to
farmers, and NIA's management is fully committed to the promotion of community
participation. The project will be monitored closely in order to address
problems as they arise. Less than optimal input usage may present a second
risk, because some of the farmer beneficiaries may not have access to credit
owing to previous defaults, or paddy prices may be low in relation to input
costs. The Government is addressing the credit eligibility question by
rescheduling loans, particularly in cases where arrears resulted from
factors beyond farmers' control. Paddy prices are also periodically
reviewed by the Government and adjusted to reflect changes in input prices.



- 23 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of the Philippines
and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section IV(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distri-
buted separately. Special conditions of the project are listed in Section
III of Annex III.
69.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOIMENDATION
70.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 18, 1982
Washington, D.C.



- 24 -                                          Ai21X I
TABLE 3A                                        Page  1  of  5
PHILIPPINES - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PHILIPPINES                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE£AGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. RM.)                                                               - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)/
TOTAL             300.0                                  MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGhlCULTURAL       90.8               1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b          ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                   15U.0       240.0      600.0                  1136.1                  1616.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PEk CAPITA
(KILOGKAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       159.1       292.9      355.9                 1150.6                   1324.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 27372.0       36852.0   46748.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 30.3          32.9       35.8                   40.8                     64.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
NJPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         75.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          125.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                        91.2        122.3      155.8                  373.1                     34.3
PER SQ. KE. AGRICULTURAL LAND    360.0         472.0      502.6                 2382.8                     94.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          44.6         45.5       44.3                   39.8                     40.7
15-64 YRS.                          52.4         51.6       52.6                   56.7                     55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     3.0         2.9        3.1                    3.5                      4.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.7         3.0        2.6                    2.3                      2.4
URBAN                                3.8         3.8        3.6                    3.8                      3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       45.7        39.2       34.4                   29.7                     31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       15.6        10.8        8.2                    7.5                      8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.3         2.8        2.3                     1.9                     2.3
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..       191.7      650.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           2.0       37.0                   44.1
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-lOU)          102.0        101.0      114.0                  123.7                   108.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    97.0        102.5      107.7                  112.6                   107.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PFR DAY)           45.0         50.0       53.0                   62.5                     65.8
OF WHICH ANIMiAL AND PULSE       17.0         20.0       21.0                   19.7                    34.0
ChILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       15.6         9.6        6.3                    4.8                      7.6
HEALTh
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    51.0          57.3       61.6                   64.0                    64.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            98.0         80.0       65.0                   50.2                     70.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         36.0       43.0                   45.9                     65.7
URBAN                                ..           ..       66.0                   68.0                    79.7
RURAL                                ..           ..       33.0                   34.4                    43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         57.0       59.0                   53.4                     59.9
URBAN                                ..           ..       76.0                   71.0                    75.7
RURAL                                 ..          ..       44.0                   42.4                     30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICLAN                ..           ..    2758.2                 4428.7                   1728.2
POPULATION PER NURSINC PERSON           ..      3840.0    3115.3                  2229.7                  1288.2
POPULATION PER hOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             1134.1       821.8      558.0                  588.5                   471.2
URBAN                             536.2        392.7         ..                  579.6                   558.0
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..                 1138.5
ADMISSIONS PEE HOSP1TAL BED             ..        30.0         ..                   36.7
hOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.8         5.9
URBAN                                 ..         6.2
RURAL                                 ..         5.8
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..         2.3
URBAN                                 ..         2.1
RUKAL                                 ..         2.4
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLlNGS)
TOTAL                               16.5        23.2       36.0
URBAN                                 ..        60.4       82.0
RURAL                                 ..         6.8       10.0



- 25 -                                     ANNEX I
Page' 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
PHILIPPINES - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PHILIPPINES                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEyAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATIlON
ADJUSTED LNROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 95.0        114.0     105.0                    99.8                    101.7
MALE                  98.0       115.0      102.0                  100.6                    103.0
FEMALE                93.0       113.0      107.0                   98.8                    101.5
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 26.0         50.0      56.0                    53.5                     35.3
MALE                  28.0        59.0       65.0                   58.4                     34.9
FEMALE                25.0        42.0       47.0                   48.6                     35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)  15.0            ..      34.0                    21.1                     30.1
PUPIL-TEAChER RATIO
PRIMARY                            36.0         29.0      31.0                   34.2                      29.6
SECONDARY                          27.0         33.0      36.0                    31.7                     15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        71.9         82.6      88.4                    86.5                     80.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0          7.6       8.9                    12.7                     42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         21.9         46.6      43.5                  174.1                    215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.4         10.9      19.1                   50.6                      89.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THUUSAND POPULATION                  17.0         13.6      21.2                   106.8                     62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.6            ..        7.6                    4.3                      3.2
LABVR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    10893.2       13478.1   16608.5
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   34.4         33.1      32.3                   37.4                      22.6
AGKICULTURE (PERCENT)              61.0         53.0      46.7                    50.2                     35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 15.2         16.0      16.9                   21.9                     23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                39.8         36.6      35.5                    40.2                     31.8
MALE                                 52.1         48.6      47.6                    49.8                     49.0
FEMALE                               27.4         24.4      23.2                   31.1                      14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.2         1.3        1.3                    1.1                      1.4
INCOME DISTKIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         25.1
hlGHEST 20 PERCENT UF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          54.0
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          5.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         14.2
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     260.0/c
RURAL                                ..           ..     195.07                 193.7                    187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (Usb PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     266.0/c                   ..                   513.9
RURAL                                ..           ..     200.0o7                234.3                   362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
UhBAN                                ..           ..      32.0/c
RURAL                                ..           ..      41.07c                 32.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
aaong the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   198(0.
Revised
June, 1981



26  -                                  ANN~~EXTI
page 3 of 5
Notes:  Although the data are druon  from  ouea  g.osro11Y Judged tho moat ouohon-otn  -o  callable, It mhouId sle  ho note.d tho, thy say ooe he iter-
taloalyepe Khl  hb-eas  of the Ilak of a--trdinod  detlnt Snota PIA ooueo   -md hy doffert..'  -ouorto  It tulttr                          ndotau.  Tha data are. tots-
thele..s,. usful to describe Ildera of sa ituo   o hanur-           d    tnoonnnrro:etd    ao   t dfees-oo  betaettomnl
Terfsoagtpa  r  11) the samenountrYPgrop of  neeohco   --ort' aad (2) s oruo..fy proup otr,honfa  highor... atrp On--t  than ate tonty group
of  he  ojtatunay  ( toePt  u   CaitalSurplus Ill          l fooor' rop ohnm  "iddIn Z-c.-. forth Africa and huddle hoar  ha  hos-n brumusa of afrnogsr
aetietoieaal effititss)    f  the retereons group data ohr -h-rg-r -r  popu!latto  otightedoife  r  ec  f.c  -ah indlusno  ond shott oiy ehso
majority of the toneinin agroop has data for that ioduno.o. -  Pille the  otera9  of  -o-rtr-atotbrit t osh                      r  cptde ord                       P! v  laiiyo  dai
sod i  notumifom, cutio   sut I. e...o hoed anrea,  r  argeof nra Indcttt  oti     brearet   t   n   us sht  ooe                                o   th    lu  of
1APtI AREA (thosadP 1Amf                                                                            t;loton,yccopiolbo   z.sfl,<,hr,ad  oa  - opuPIlaiar(otl
Tstsl - Tota  srfl eonarr   1opnsii    d stin  ion iclo    aec                                      cot,udtil      oe   h   br  coet'e    bno  hospital beds
Aettiliuai-  ai-         eo E.  riu rura  area oed  -ea-naily onpr-at                              orlheI   uho   n    rot  feneIl  oo yt Ial leadl 1 heates  osdr-
yitlanciphyaioiao.  hatbliatuistia. ytidin   prIto7rpuso
iGNP PER CAPITA f01-if   e   aiainia                  tceetnre (eUSoa,oGN-Pdol.ton are  o   tldd.Pe   hepil.boemr,  iroods health
19ff, and 1979 data.                                                                               todioni assla         P oar . nuce,midofe.Ot.  ohoofe          it-pater  stie-
fNERiT CONfSfLlTION Ptt CAPITA. - Annoi  osupio    f  - --orta  monty (tlccl  orooonhtbortl  io-d  Wi0Th... y itotpi/gso.::n  hayitais,
t  Ig' InI, pete_eu.   ntrltaadhdo   uia   o   atevu  ilac-                                      ad cuta  hoP-ina  Ina  or- cora  h. tep.   amd sadins  so -eraoty
mtty) to'dars   fnoleuoln   r  onpiot; (gPl,1971  a-  09tneo    ycelodoeito Ire  lonldad omly utder total.
data.                                                                                            Ad.'taa,ynteiulld-Ttal nude   f odaisl..a to or disohsrgas
ftn    opol  di,nclnd ho, the noobto  tf hbda.
PIPULATION4 ANI SITAL STATISTICS
Tata1 PeoAlation. hiid-fear h.. (iouada( -. itf Joiy 1; 1960, 190,od 1979                      HOUINGi
dai.                                                                                                                                       n--pboo   homo~oo~_t   ouhc1d) -totalI. unbun. so  turd1-
Irbam dpenultitot iorco-a of ftota) - k.io nf utbuo tototlo-           lmlo;                           Mooardol  cosotoo  a  coo   f    Vid-uofa   ho.aat  liinir  qusters
diffsrant deiolitons of urbn ereaa may afn   outility' of dco                                    nod t. raI -min Io .  p. bc-d-r or IoOft to         yn o  no  be imtludad to
amenguouirles; 1ff,197f, end 1979dBeet.                                                   ilo  ho-orholt fot,  ---unooctoa
Pe s Idt imnPr 01    Cmnt           pouutiP  prjetnleshndon1fo  of p-nnn  Pon root In all urhio, tnd tonal  -ocpted t...aota
totll,    euatn yI      g  end;1   set7:   an   tm mratyou   onl           en                   dduel ite,  -raa-i-ony.  (null toes to1ldent-eoaat                            .drsa
Projenetotpanaseiresfor nrt _tfrie   _opnise of three j_rlousun                          otctp-nd  aInt.
ing liefa eaetiya  birth anoreaoinf nithouni '0               -toPiun inono-ots0 flnotrt-itio (nocen  ,yf deiin                               - f.oIs i utb.m, s      .d o .at-
lani,  nd  emae lfe ot-euteoy a-oilittig an7.   et     h   eu                             oonooeldtlnaot lntot   nlnn  quarter.                            npnatg
fmeterst fu_siiycaasatht in,ti          hcee I-aaaengdotnl                                     o   oi,uha,in   uu  dnlie    rPrt buy."!
fth-ouro   i   ..ersignedotofItrert    oonalr   f ounenilto                      imICAT -,O
,tbeihrnr       tacul  ob  deeth rate, andi- ichtitou   e1,tnuoOotot6-ntoloaiftfkaateotoyceioaeo tise                                                              freanm
mainscit. .    t htf is ho achirnd onlY after tet:d         ccre   rltet                         Oratory OhO_     Oe  tuloo;nomly tolue  oifrm ie    -If
the erlel-  sn. It  e  o-    f u.itini-pduiio  ot, oh toeeh fEn...  fr. .                        year  hu   djidfodIff,ro -           mprsofyrsryduaittPn
ofsamelosirsr   reac '1y.  The~ stationary yonait   u  nno-otrotbolotn                                            1euuion evlill..oti  -Y eatsd 1ff yaniot
to nba year 20PS, aidierar-fdolt   ffroiltry to    oryua-fcr-rcho      oa, tae  rdf                                                        Io   - Ceapud at shon;  -anodary
Tear setioanti oulsetor is hrate - Ths your that a-in-oo y pooeinrtla    eerl.ooiol   rtaheriennl                                                           rtutiema foe papi.i
.isa has b.te rea..bed.                                                                          umhao ly of 12 in 17 yiera of age; noeayonane.u.na.ar   garllp
Per so. k.. -Mid-year populanion pee  kqro   ilo...tte   (1ff bet--nru  on                        u-tionl tnrlon   (tr t of trosn    -                   . fostotal ltitutbie
Pertan   m.; aeiuirlin       optdu   bnofrarolti   udaol ra  depucmete of  erooyumttnas
Itly  1991,  971 so   1979 d"1p.dsta.           bfi--feohIrnato - nneurt. d_aondt-fal  tda                                                                           erlldi
Poiulatoo Assinroicua imeratif -Children  (f-i4 Yoace) .-nrklne-ug   );o-                  pItae  ard  -ectdun   lar-ls dtntda  by m-mon  if ts..obare  It the
64 yese), ted rste-d (65 yaars and  -nr) ta p-.nstagaa of md-yairyoy.p-                            noca    -odetlnoe
latter; 19ff, 1970 ",as  1979dta                                                                 Adult itte-tor-nt    oren)-Li..tattedu-s    l                Pt rsd"ad  melts)
Preulation Wrmb  sa  ern...t) - tota   - A .nual goonh rate to total                                 P mt-  apae--ttmePI nrtr  adult Populsniorse   5yme.n                 t
Y-e  perelanio.. for 19ff-fl, 1961-70, end 1970-79.
Porlateririib  at  (Pee-ent  - urban - Aoaasl eroanh tent  of urbot  pupo-               CO9ilUfPTIPN
1seloo. for 1950-60, 1991-71  an   9159                                                         aeisoln  (e  busi   tuliu)-  stse  tars taprise mete
Irada girth kit f.re thuad) - AuttuI line hienhe pen thiutaid of tat-yortr-rem    eeta   ib.pnsr;snur   uasrs   ae                                                            a
pplto;19ff  1971, aid 1979 dare,                                                          nilhisrlyneil.
popu  isrm; 19ff, 1970, end II199dt._                                                            Irodaii  no 9S.....I public  r  thosad Ifpoutin eslas -
leae CrdutnianMl _a-Ansesg   mumbet if deathrts seati:l b-lteI in                               i         ..e . re -aoec  Inn-uutolanfd in yasre themngerao  of ien
bar ..r-I reproductive period if the.n isoapra...t  ge-spenifte  foe-                            sat  eat   tfo-t; all  too mactnt Year  may not hso  athi   aIto
tlilt,y eaen  unlly fn-y-n   --ergas stding it iffo,I1971,tn  1979 .                             a  tcutie  shiehsd titan. sta.
,-mur PlatmhtaAiiaeror.  oAntul_ f uesds)-  Aunualtuhe1               o      _ocp'Itm            fteanr(athu nd  oilio)- TV rarins.a  for broadea...me
ef hrrheonrel  anise udersuaIcaf      fnttolft    plerin PeteIdenralt pubin yen thuondpouliho t                                       entdeuliatadTVrasia
tossi of  hild-basrttg age (15-4W pasta) ~Mhus  birnh-no-t-  dennei                            tpfpo_Crul-n   methou... d eroain   -9Se    the  megaoe
sitriedhir_     I n sea  age gtu.ciro   f"diygmrihursttasaa"    atada       stla
putlinaiton  denola.d pr imaly to  ra ding geas..    nays   it is  madre
FO1 ANDl NUTRITION                                                                                   to he "doily" It itrppaarer lsee.. fno-nLaeeseah..k
Itdao If Foed Prd inPer Canita )i969-SeI)-lde   fynorieuhd                                        in-  Annual otnnd-eoe can CenItm ra   fear-assd em the  -tbar If
ite,sisd of.aogat  thaibh one edibla amd cnattan ui iee  (..t. toffim  and
tea are  _ldad.    Aggragate cp-dioten ofan   iuayi  bread on                               o,A15  FORCh
arteelaarag   erounr prtce tighia; 11-f6, 1970, and 1979 data.                                 Tut.1ab I.hrnonto  ;th ....tds  - tooomotiy   tai-eo1n.  inoludIm
Par i t    (unP i             ta .ts  ..seeo  if rnlest)-Compuod    t                             redCfies  td  nr1plyad bui  -eiadimehtsele,auatn    t
ereeg8yaquialm    o  tea toe  suPle ..      na..ilabla  .  ho .otrny yPr -mpine                ocnenogpnuelD f  liaes.m..tu   itnean nieur ..troisar
per day   Availale suppies negrido do       P,l prduotm    mim   es                    otmtal:1k,  9fed17   sa
qmaisusd Ii  odpiesa,ed bates. it distel'b-iho.  aqutra-                             Asiunrafeotr      aerTcsInfutg,frsry   u s  me
matte  re estmatedby Pal base-d to yphys,I,iuots  nedsfor toeo- I-                       ftahfop a  p-tecg  oft oli,l  tbo- fence; 19ff, 19Sf ma  1,179  at.1:1
olt  ad halh ttsdentgmnntmmtlnneriue    bod _mighi   agIduttlent       7to   on  i   iiinomtntm.aaaste
ea   upya   on   e   a,Ntaipyotodi  deindasahn.   e i -atc  aesi Leunptad  em'l  toal  mat  ndfneolae   eror
aleaedff   em  i   ea   rri   e  Buy.aid 27 :nema6of atlma dot                            9I9. 191   i   99dm.Iseeabue   t1P    atopae   ae
puleprit.   r  ofpl  Pio   1gassoldP   telpean,    Tatsen-eaiat'ing ag-oI                                           tucreo.h   oueto.edlm   ohms trend
Pedted  un;              iSf-I  1170 amd197 dais                                                ti  thoI ettaIl later  --lotus.1.-P                                    td. 
Pa emts eitain nuelf  rd P"        isl sa  nuPly e-Pont  muyyfy o  fi . de-pP.   -tt.                                                       I          
rdive   fo  atimae sa  panls..  ir temla pe  day; US 9A1-td, 197ead       17  ae          I. C    ..f htTgt.Ii lfft.,-..df-.pP '-
tries 0stPIerive         Pros life tbles;019l0 19f5 amA 19791d6ta                         of      97ouandn de. 7     f.T..   .b..dI   IO~ 't
sa bIrth; 1960, 1970 ardniI 97  dte-tdItI,dhet                                                           _ennet   tin  coth eehean  ..dI.    i                   rd.
of age partheusead lve births  T                                                          batmloer .d  p Irot  itnim   henr.i to. thtioc    oelhlntdiha  i
bee o  penele (trl, uha-  and th rural) mith            .  byeoal    FOna  to raft Tafftrdslle.                                                                  6   .
IaS,seable     y-eee  moul  Kimlythaintrha  aaat   oeebn   fnattetl                                    ur  P"";tneno 'h   if ymy--io  (ohum   rua)  b  era 't aheolut
Anmeere lirem  Piamsal reroet o   ouIatbeu -f tonal urban aitdetrail                       T".-1-s-               L    l    1 lplidl_    dP    dlyI
"Teombee it peep9ia flmasih.aches, sd t ruIsi) earned by en...ota disposal as
par_tsatag    fy atsl  rapat thited p       ...stese dtenreIf diepian  say. Inr-olads                      l                                             it        b-
lbs elrthom  ad dlsp ithesa.. :l, ub00aihet  ramei,ofhoit atot                                                                         tini .dfni Rate hniho
-hle ne    ttaml   gdetanutsbe er htitl mueu  sodassistant muness.                                                                    115 1E



- 27 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
PHILIPPINES - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amlount
(million US$ at                                 Annual growth rates (X)
current prices)                       Actual                                        Projected
Indicator                            1979            1976    1977    1978    1979    lq80/a   1981    19R2    1983    1984    1985    1990
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product            286854            7.1     6.2      5.9      5.9      4.7       5.8      6.3      6.3      6.3      7.1      8.3
Agricuilture                     6,991           8.6      5.0      4.8      5.3      4.3       5.2      5.2      5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0
Industry                        10,174          10.0      7.7      6.4      6.7      5.8       6.5      7.2      7.5      7.5     8.5    10.0
Services                        11,689           3.7      5.7      6.3      5.5      5.0       5.6      6.2      6.0      6.0      7.0     8.5
Consumption                       21,R60            4.3     5.2      4.6      4.8      4.2       5.4      5.2      4.9      5.1      5.8      7.0
Gross investment                   8,576            8.0     0.7    13.3       7.4      4.8       6.3      6.1      6.3      6.3      7.1      8.3
Exports of CNFS /h                 5,526           19.9    17.6      1.6      7.4    11.3       10.2    10.7    11.2    10.6    10.8    10.5
Imports of GNFS                    7,110            1.3      5.3    13.2    10.3       5.2       6.6      6.7      6.5      6.6      6.8     7.2
Gross national savings             6,665          -2.0    11.3       6.3      7.7      3.1       -        -        -        -       -        -
PRICES
GCP deflator (1972 = 100)                        183.6   lC8.8   210.6   250.8    296.9          -        -        -        -        -       -
Exchange rate (US$1 =)                            7.45    7.41    7.38    7.39         7.52      -        -        -        -       -        -
Export price index (1978 = 100)                   92.6    95.R   100.n   124.6    140.3   149.9   160.0   170.5   183.3   195.7   256.7
Import price index (1978 = 100)                   91.6    94.2   100.0   117.4    142.2   157.0   170.8   185.2   197.1   210.6   289.3
Terms of trade index (1978 = 100)                101.1   101.7   100.0   106.1         98.7    95.5    93.7    92.6    93.0    92.9    89.4
Share of GCP at market prices (A) Average annual increase (X)
(at culrrent prices) /c                                 (at constant prices)
1960    1970    1975    1980   .1985        1990      1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1960-85   1985-90
Gross domestic product             100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0              5.1        6.1        5.9        6.3        7.6
Agricultuire                      28.1    27.8    29.0    26.8    25.n    22.0             4.3         4.3        4.8        5.0        5.0
Industry                          25.8    29.6    33.5    35.5    37.7    40.6             6.0        8.6         7.6        7.5        9.1
Services                          46.1    42.6    37.5    37.7    37.3    37.4             5.2         5.4        5.7        6.1        7.7
Consumption                       85.3    79.2    75.8    74.5    72.4    68.7             4.6         5.5        5.2        5.2        6.5
Gross investment                  16.3    21.5    31.0    30.1    29.2    30.5             8.2        11.5        6.5        6.8        7.6
Exports of GNFS                   1n.8    19.4    18.5    19.4    24.7    27.5             5.8         3.2       10.0       10.7       10.0
Imports of GNFS                   10.6    19.7    25.3    24.0    26.2    25.4             6.3        6.3         8.0        6.6        6.9
Gross national savings            16.2    20.5    25.3    23.1    25.4    29.2             7.4        9.7         -          -          -
As X of GDP
1960       1970       1975       1980         Labor Force in 1978           Millions    (1)
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                Agriculture                   7.4       44.4
Current revenues                            9.8        9.5       13.9       12.8           Industry                      2.7       16.2
Current expendituires                       9.6       10.9       12.3        9.6           Services                      5.6       33.0
Current surplus                             0.2       -1.4        1.6        4.1           Unemployed                    1.1        6.4
Capital expenditure                         2.3        1.9        3.2        3.2
Foreign flnancing                           -          0.1        0.3        1.5                Total Labor Force       16.6      100.n
1960-70          1970-75           1975-80           1980-85           1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (X)                                   5.1              5.6               5.9               6.3               7.7
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (X)                       2.0               2.7               3.2               3.6              5.1
Annual energy consumption growth rate (7)                   7.4               6.2               4.2               4.7              4.6
ICOR                                                        4.5               4.7               4.6               4.5              4.1
Marginal savings rate                                     0.285             0.330              0.26              0.32             0.35
Import elasticity                                          1.33              1.12              1.20              1.05             0.90
Ia  Preliminary estimate.
/h  Historical figures are official estimates based on 1972 weights.  In relation to the composition of Philippine exports
in the late 1970s these estimates give undue weight to stable or declining exports of raw commodities suich as copra,
sugar, and logs, and insufFicient weight to rapidly growing exports such as nontraditional manufactures and coconut oil.
Bank staff estimates of export voluime based on 1978 weights are shown on Attachment 3b.
/c Projected years of constant prices.
East Asia & Pacific Regional Office
November 1981



- 28 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5 pages
BALANCE OF PAYMFNTS AND EXTERNAL CAPITAL ANT DEBT
(US$ million, at current Prices)
Actual                Est.              Projected
1977   1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
Summary of Balance of Payments
Exports of goods and services             4,161   4,838   6,177   7,863   9,084  10,710  12,830  19,360  18,370
Of which:  exports of goods             3,151   3,425   4,602   5,788   6,518   7,890   9,630  11,710  14,220
Imports of goods and services             5,248   6,323   8,108  10,348  12,076  13,680  15,620  17,820  20,210
Of which:  imports of goods             3,915   4,732   6,142   7,727   8,810  10,050  11,510  13,170  15,100
Transfers (net)                             260      312      355      434     500      550      610      660     730
Current Account Balance                  -827  -1,173  -1,576  -2,        -2490  -2,420  -2,180  -1,800  -1,110
Direct investment (net)                     216      171       99       45     290      320      350      390     420
MLT loans (net)                             662      891   1,091   1,032   1,370   1,600   1,540   1,310          920
Official-source loans (net)               332      333      449     375      851      940   1,050   1,120   1,150
Private-soturce loans (net)               330      501      642     657      519      660      490       90    -230
Other capital (net) /a                      113       56    -193       543     455      300      300      300     300
Overall Balance lb                        164      -54    -579    -381    -375    -200           -     200      530
International reserves (end-year) /c   1,525   1,883   2,423   3,155
Reserve as months of imports                3.5      3.6      3.6     3.7
External Capital and Debt
Gross Disbursements                       1,376   1,96    2,385   2,047
Concessional Loans                         88      120      183     178
Bilateral                                62       56     113      101
IDA                                       2        1       3        2
Other muiltilateral                      24       63      67       75
Nonconcessional Loans                   1,287   1,848   2,202   1,869
Official export credits                 123      121     152        8
IBRD                                     99      16i    204      221
Other multilateral                       30       47      81       83
Private sources                       1,035   1,520   1,765   1,557
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed          5,003   6,199   7,137   8,554
Official-source                       1,423   1,895   2,265   2,710
Private-source                        3,580   4,304   4,872   5,844
Undisbursed debt                        2,601   4,017   4,305   5,476
Debt Service
Total service payments                    762      910   1,028   1,259
Of which:  Interest                     183      270     486      65n
Payments as % of exports of goods
and services                           18.3    18.8    16.6    16.0
Average interest rate on new loans
Official-source                           7.5      5.5      5.5     6.4
Private-source (DRS)                      8.4      9.0    10.5    14.7
Average maturity of new loans
Official-source                          18.6    22.8    23.3    21.2
Private-source (DRS)                      9.0    10.2    11.1       9.9
/a  Short-term capital, monetization of gold, allocation of SDRs, and errors and omissions.
T7  Equals change in net international reserves.
Tc  Gross reserves of the Central Bank ("International reserves," IFS).
East Asia and Pacific Region
November 1981
:,00.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 18
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PHILIPPINES
A.  STATFMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
As of March 31, 1982
Loan or
Credit                                                                      Amount (less cancellations)
Number      FY    Borrower                 Purpose                          Bank      IDA  Undishursed
Twenty-six Loans and three credits fully disbursed                          485.82  32.20
984-P1E   1974  Rep. of the Philip.    Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation           9.50              0.16
998-PH   1974                            DBP I                              50.00              0.43
1034-PH   1974  National Power Corp.   Power                                 61.00              0.51
1035-PH   1974  Rep. of the Philip.    Population                            25.00              7.83
1080-PH   1975  Rep. of the Philip.    Tarlac Irrigation                     17.00              2.87
1102-PH   1975                            Rural Development                  25.00              4.88
1154-PH   1976                            Magat Irrigation                   42.00              5.81
1190-PH   1976                            DBP II                             75.00              1.29
1224-T-PH 1976                            Education III                      24.73              2.23
1227-PH   1976                             Chico Irrigation                  50.00             25.80
1272-T-PH 1976                            Manila Urban                       10.00              2.99
1282-PH   1976                            Manila Urban                       22.00              6.58
1269-PH   1977                            Second Grain Processing            11.50              4.04
1353-PM   1977                            Third Highways                     95.00            44.98
1367-PH   1977                            Jalaur Irrigation                  15.00              5.55
1374-PHi  1977                            Fourth Education                   25.00              6.64
1399-PH   1977 Central Bank of the        Fourth Rural Credit
Philippines                                                36.50             12.30
1414-PH   1977 Rep. of the Philip.        Nat. Irrig. Syst. Improvmt.    50.00                 30.25
1415-PH   1977                            Provincial Cities Water Sup.   23.00                  7.89
1421-PH   1977                            Rural Dev. Land Stlmt. II          15.00              6.93
1460-PH   1978 National Power Corp.    Seventh Power                         58.00            30.63
1506-PH   1978 Rep. of the Philip.         Smallholder Tree Farming           8.00              5.90
1514-PH   1978 Philip. National Bank   PDCP V                                30.00              5.15
1526-PH   1978 Rep. of the Philip.        Nat. Irrig. Syst. Improvmt. II 65.00                48.30
790-PH   1978                            Rural Infrastructure                      28.00    21.09
S.8-PH   1978                            Education                           2.00             0.88
1547-PH   1978 Nat. Electrif. Admin.   Rural Electrification                 60.00              1.05
1555-PH   1978 Philip. National Bank   PISO                                  15.00              1.05
1567-PH   1978 Rep. of the Philip.        Magat II                          150.00            22.97
1572-PH   1978                            Industrial Investment III          80.00            25.20
1615-PH   1979                            Manila Water Supply II             88.00            78.14
1626-PH   1979                            National Extension                 35.00            30.10
1639-PH   1979                            Magat River Multipurpose           21.00            14.22
1646-PH   1979                             Small Farmer Dev. (Land Bank)  16.50               10.12
1647-PM   1979                             Second Urban Development          32.00            21.65
1661-PH   1979                            Highways IV                       100.00            97.44
1710-PH   1979                            Water Suipply II                   16.00            16.00
920-PH   1979                            Water Supply II                           22.00    19.17
1727-PH   1979                            Small & Medium Industry II         25.00             0.36
923-PH   1979                            Population II                             40.00    39.30
1772-PH   1980                            Samar Island Rural Devel.          27.00            23.92
1786-PH   1980                            Fisheries Trng. (Fduc. VI)        38.00            37.31
1809.NH   1980                            Medium-Scale Irrigation            71.00            67.06
1814-PH   1980                            Manila Sewerage & Sanitation   63.00                57.18
1815-PH   1980                            Rainfed Agric. Dev. (Iloilo)   12.00                11.21
1821-PH   1980                            Third Urban                        72.00            60.59
1855-PH   1980                            Third Ports                        67.00            65.11
1860-PH   1980                            Rural Roads Improvement            62.00            57.86
1890-PH   1981                            Watershed Management               38.00            36.48
1894-PH   1981                            Third Livestock & Fisheries    45.00                33.90
1903-PH   1981                            Structural Adjustment             200.00             3.96
1984-PH   1981  Central, Bank of the    Industrial Finance (Apex)           150.00           149.88
Philippines
2030-PH   1981  Rep. of the Philip.    Elem. Educ. Sector Loan              100.00           100.00
2040-PH   1982  Rep. of the Philip.    Ag. Support Services                  45.00            44.97
2067-PEl/a 1982  Rep. of the Philip.    Urban Engineering                     8.00             8.00
Total                                                                2,967.55 122.20 1,546.57
of which has been repaid
(Bank and third parties)                                             236.50
Total now outstanding                                                2,731.05 122.20
Amount sold                                              24.34
of which has been repaid
(third parties)                                        23.06           1.28   -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange rate adjustments)                               2,729.77 122.20
Total undisbursed                                                    1,346.55  79.56 1,426.11
/a Not yet effective.



- 30 -                   ANNEX I
Page 2 of 18
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of March 31, 1982
Fiscal                                                      Amounts ($ million)
Year                     Company                          Loan   Equity   Total
1963 & 1973  Private Development Corporation of the        15.0      4.4    19.4
Philippines
1967         Manila Electric Company                        8.0      -       8.0
1967         Meralco Securities Corporation                 -        4.0     4.0
1970         Philippine Long Distance Telephone             3.7       .8     4.5
Company
1970 & 1972  Mariwasa Manufacturing, Inc.                   0.8      0.4     1.2
1970         Paper Industries Corporation of the             -       2.2     2.2
Philippines
1971 & 1977  Philippine Petroleum Corporation               6.2      2.1     8.3
1972         Marinduque Mining and Industrial              15.0      -      15.0
Corporation
1973         Victorias Chemical Corporation                 1.9      0.3     2.2
1974         Filipinas Synthetic Fiber Corporation          1.5     -        1.5
1974/1979    Maria Christina Chemical Industries, Inc.   1.6         0.6     2.2
1974         Republic Flour Mills Corporation               1.2     -        1.2
1975         Philippine Polyamide Industrial                7.0     -        7.0
Corporation
1976/1980    Philagro Edible Oils, Inc.                     2.6      0.2     2.8
1977         Acoje Mining Company, Inc.                     2.3      1.2     3.5
1977         Sarmiento Industries, Inc.                     3.5     -        3.5
1978         Cebu Shipyard and Engineering Works, Inc.   2.1        -        2.1
1979         General Milling Corporation                    4.0     1.1      5.1
1980         PISO Leasing Corporation                       5.0     0.1      5.1
1980         Ventures in Industry and Business              -       0.3      0.3
Enterprises, Inc.
1980         Consolidated Industrial Gases, Inc.            4.5     -        4.5
1981         Loans to Seven Corp. for SMSE                 18.5       .7    19.2
1981         Philippine Assoc. Smelting & Refining Corp. -           5.0     5.0
1981         Davao Union Cement Corp.                      16.0     -       16.0
Total gross commitments                     120.4    23.4   143.8
Less sold, acquired by others,             53.5    12.6    66.1
repaid or cancelled
Total commitments now held by IFC            66.9    10.8    77.7
Total Undisbursed                            34.5      0.8    35.3



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 18
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
as of March 31, 1982
Agricultural Sector
Credit No. 472 Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation; $9.5 Million Credit and
Loan No. 984    $9.5 Million Loan of May 14, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
August 22, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project was completed on December 31, 1981 and preparation of
the Completion Report is well under way. Work on the Canili and Diayo dams
and the transbasin canal was completed in 1975, about one year ahead of
schedule. However, difficulties in the award of construction contracts
delayed the start of improvement works in the Penaranda service areas which
were further hampered by severe typhoon damages in 1978 and 1980. Due to cost
increases, delays in construction and reduced cropping intensity resulting
from the overall shortage of water in the Upper Pampanga River Irrigation
System, the internal rate of return is expected to be considerably lower than
the appraisal estimate of 17%. The last consignments of O&M equipment are
being delivered.
Loan No. 1080 Tarlac Irrigation; $17.0 Million Loan of January 27, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project is now about 90% complete. Full completion is expected
by December 1982, a two-year delay in the original schedule, caused mainly by
managerial problems and late preparation of the designs for the drainage
works. The closing date has already been extended by one and a half years to
June 30, 1982, and it is expected that the Government will request a further
extension to complete the project works. The area developed is likely to be
some 20% less than originally planned, mainly because of flooding from the
Chico, Camiling and Agno rivers. Costs are higher than anticipated, partly
due to the delays referred to above, and the economic rate of return is now
likely to be close to 10% compared with an appraisal estimate of 15%.
Loan No. 1102 Rural Development; $25.0 Million Loan of April 16, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: July 28, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Overall project execution is well advanced. The irrigation works
are substantially completed, except for two communal systems which are planned
for completion by the end of 1982. After initial delays in the award of
construction contracts for the roads component, progress in project execution
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 18
has now improved with the mobilization of contractors on three national and
one provincial road contracts. Completion of the roads component is now
planned for mid-1983, about three years behind the appraisal schedule. The
closing date has therefore been extended to December 1983.
Loan No. 1154 Magat Multipurpose Project; $42.0 Million Loan of
August 7, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 4, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Civil works by local contract and force acount for rehabilitation
and new construction of canals, drains and access roads are progressing well,
and the project is over 90% complete. All contracts have now been awarded,
but some of the work has been postponed until the end of the rainy season.
The water management training is continuing satisfactorily. Due to earlier
delays in contract award, budgetary constraints and typhoon damage in 1980,
project completion is expected to be delayed by about two years over the
original schedule of June 30, 1982.
Loan No. 1227 Chico River Irrigation Project; $50.0 Million Loan
of April 8, 1976- Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1976;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1984
Although the project was scheduled for completion in June 1980, it
is now only about 54% complete. Work started slowly due to late procurement
of equipment for force account work. Further delays were caused by: changes
in design which resulted in rebidding the three major contracts for the
diversion dam, the main canal and the river siphon; severe and repeated
typhoon damage; and problems of right-of-way acquisition. Work on the
diversion dam was suspended for over four months because of security problems
in the area. The project is now scheduled for completion in June 1984, a
four-year delay over the appraisal estimate, and the closing date has
therefore been extended to December 31, 1984.  Towards the end of 1981, in
an effort to accelerate project implementation, the National Irrigation
Administration created a special task force, reorganized and strengthened the
project organization and brought in additional equipment and materials.
Loan No. 1269 Second Grain Processing Project; $11.5 Million Loan
of July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: October 4,
1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The loan is fully committed and the closing date is expected to be
met. The loan has disbursed rapidly since the end of 1980 after a slow
beginning which led to a two-year postponement of the closing date to June 30,
1983. The post-harvest study on grain losses is expected to be
completed in early 1982.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 18
Loan No. 1367 Jalaur Irrigation Project; $15.0 Million Loan of
February 14, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 12, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is about 85% complete. Remaining major construction
activities include the improvement of the Santa Barbara diversion dam by
contract, the repairs of the existing right bank of the Jalaur diversion dam,
and on-farm facilities, including some additional works by force account. The
National Irrigation Administration expects to complete all construction works
by the end of July 1982. The Government intends to use the anticipated
balance of $4 million for the detailed engineering of the Jalaur multipurpose
storage dam for Stage II of the project. A draft feasibility report is being
reviewed by the Bank.
Loan No. 1399 Fourth Rural Credit Project; $36.5 Million Loan of
April 11, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 2, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The escalation in fuel and machinery costs during 1978 and 1979,
accompanied by a sharp fall in sugar prices, substantially reduced the subloan
demand, particularly for four-wheel tractors, power tillers and light trucks.
Another major problem has been the growing arrears of several rural banks
resulting in many of them being ineligible for project lending. To compensate
for this, in November 1979, the project's scope was broadened to include new
categories of investments and new lending channels (private development
banks); however, their impact on the disbursement rate has been modest.
Effective January 1982, the institutional arrangements for project imple-
.entation have been further widened to include private investment corporations
to lend, on a selective basis, for project-supported investments. The lending
terms have also been suitably rationalized. As a result, the pace of subloan
commitments is expected to accelerate; however, the undisbursed balance of the
loan ($12.8 million) may not be fully utilized by the extended closing date of
December 31, 1982.
Loan No. 1414 National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project;
$50 Million Loan of May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
August 9, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Progress in project implementation has been slow due to shortage of
staff and design problems at the outset, which caused delays in the finaliza-
tion of designs and preparation of bidding and contract documents for the
Abulog diversion dam and drainage works in Leyte. Shortages of fuel and
construction materials, which initially caused major delays, were eventually
overcome. Implementation improved in 1979 as a result of better planning and
organization and less complicated contract procedures. However, project
execution was severely delayed in 1980 and 1981 due to inadequate and, in
certain cases, late release of counterpart funds. Corporate funds have now
been approved, and in part released, for the 1982 construction program. Final
project costs and benefits are expected to be in line with original estimates.
Project benefits may be lower than estimated due to inadequate water,
particularly in Region 1. The project is now expected to be completed in
December 1984, about three years behind the appraisal estimate.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 18
Loan No. 1421 Second Rural Development (Land Settlement) Project;
$15.0 Million Loan of June 10, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
October 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
A Cabinet subcommittee has been appointed to examine proposals for a
public land management policy emerging from an interagency workshop held in
August 1981. Feasibility studies have been completed for two of the three
settlements proposed for a follow-on Bank-financed project. Satisfactory
progress is being made in land allocation and titling and project infra-
structure; however, some titling and infrastructure works are expected to
extend beyond the current loan closing date. A recent promising start has
been made on the credit program and this should gather momentum. Progress in
the agricultural development component has been promising, as reflected in the
adoption by settlers of improved techniques, in the extent of areas now under
cultivation, and in reported improved yields. The reforestation component of
the project has, however, been neglected. In view of the status of some
project components, the Government is expected to request an extension of the
loan closng date by twelve months, to December 31, 1983.
Loan No. 1506 Smallholder Tree Farming and Forestry Project;
$80.0 Million Loan of January 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
May 11, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Physical progress on the DBP tree farming component continues to be
satisfactory, and area commitments have reached approximately 82% of the
project's target. The BFD pine plantation component at Abra has been
seriously affected by insect attack resulting in the need to reconsider plans
for development and to initiate work on pest control measures and the use of
alternative tree species. The PCARR forestry research program is progressing
well and the draft Wood Industries Development Study has been submitted to
the Ministry of Natural Resources. Disbursement continues to be behind
schedule, principally because of procurement difficulties over vehicles,
infrastructure and equipment.
Loan No. 1526 Second National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project:
$65 Million Loan of March 15, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
June 20, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Topographic surveys, planning and design for most of the project
works have been completed and construction is under way. Overall implementa-
tion progress is slow due to delays in finalizing the design for diversion
works and drainage systems in Regions 9 and 12, slow bureaucratic processes in
bidding and award of contracts, and inadequate and belated release of
counterpart funds in 1981. Corporate funds have now been approved for the
1982 construction season, and the project is expected to be completed in 1985.



- 35
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 18
Credit No. 790 Rural Infrastructure; $28 Million Credit of April 21,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: July 21, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Construction of rural water supply systems and health stations is
proceeding satisfactorily with about 360 water wells and 53 health stations
now completed. The construction of San Jose Port is expected to be completed
by mid-1983, allowing for the repair of typhoon damages. Work has progressed
well at the port of Culasi, but completion is delayed due the continuing
settlement of the storage platform. Construction of Dumaguit port is behind
schedule, as is construction of the irrigation components which were held up
by inadequate support facilities, ineffective farmer organizations and failure
of farmers to collaborate with project staff. However, remedial measures have
now improved the situation and the service area has been increased to about
10,400 ha. About 35 km of roads have been constructed through force account,
construction contracts have been awarded for 300 km of roads and the detailed
design of the remaining roads is well under way. The total length of village
roads has been reduced from the appraisal estimate of 1,390 km to about 1,200
km. Project completion is now planned for December 1984, about two years
behind the appraisal schedule.
Loan No. 1567 Magat River Multipurpose Project - Stage II;
$150 Million Loan of May 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness;
August 24, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Progress is good. The first stage of river diversion has been
successfully achieved and excavation is sustoanLially complete. Construction
of the main dam is making excellent progress. Concrete work for the spillway
started slowly and suffered from interruptions due to breakdown of the cranes,
but the contractor has made up for lost time and is once more nearly on sche-
dule. Work on resettlement of the population to be displaced by the reservoir
is excellent, with work on one of the three new villages nearly complete. The
project is expected to be completed on schedule.
Loan No. 1626  National Extension Project; $32.0 Million Loan of
December 21, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: March 26, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
After a slow start due to the reorganization within the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA), the project is being further delayed by management and
financial constraints. Implementation in the regions is now the
responsibility of the Regional Directors, and performance varies depending on
the motivation of the Director. The Minister of Agriculture has now been
requested to ensure that Regional Directors are fully conversant with the
Project's objectives.  The influence of the Project Manager   the Director of
the Bureau of Agricultural Extension - has been reduced since his agency
become a staff bureau. A shortage of local funds during the latter half of
1981 affected progress detrimentally. Procurement problems persist, as it is
unlikely that the President's Office will allow the import of the full quota
of vehicles designated for the project because of their increased cost and
drain on limited fuel resources. MCA will request that surplus vehicle funds



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 18
be used for other purposes, including additional motorcycles and visual aid
materials, and increased travel and gasoline allowances for all field
technicians. This request is expected to be received by the end of June 1982
and will be reviewed at the next supervision scheduled later in the year.
Loan No. 1639-PH Magat River Multipurpose Project; Stage II Irrigation;
$21.0 Million Loan of January 26, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness: April 25, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Implementation started early in 1980 and progress is generally
satisfactory. All major contracts have been awarded and some are ahead of
schedule. All construction equipment has been procured and delivered to site.
Completion is now expected by the end of 1984, eighteen months behind the
appraisal estimate. The major constraint is the overall shortage of local
funds which is being carefully considered by the Government.
Loan No. 1646 Small Farmer Development Project through the Land Bank of
the Philippines; $16.5 Million Loan of January 26, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The pace of sub-loan disbursements to small farmers continues to be
slow due to LBP's cautious approach to lending resulting from poor
collections under past sub-loans and to the delay in the reorganization of
field offices caused by belated government approval of LBP's proposals. In
addition, there has been a backlog in loan withdrawals in respect of
disbursements to second priority (non-agrarian reform) beneficiaries. The
field office reorganization and and other institution development measures
are, however, expected to be carried out in near future. Procedural
difficulties which held up withdrawals under the infrastructure component have
also been resolved, and the line agencies have started sub-project
implementation. The disbursements under the infrastructure component are
expected to start in May 1982.   The loan is expected to be fully drawn by
December 31, 1983, an 18-month delay over the appraisal estimate of June 30,
1982.
Loan No. 1772 Samar Island Rural Development Project; $27.0 million
Loan of February 1, 1980; Date of Fffectiveness:
May 21, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Bidding on road construction has been delayed due to political
disturbances on the island. Port work is proceeding satisfactorily but the
irrigation program has been delayed due to withdrawal of one of the sites
because of technical objections by the settlers. Alternative sites are now
being reviewed by the Bank. The construction of village wells is progressing
satisfactorily, and a pump maintenance problem was corrected by providing
specialized service tools under the project. The formation of water users
associations, and the collection of water charges, have begun slowly but are
gaining momentum. The program of schistosomiasis control is proceeding on
schedule, as is the Catubig Valley development study.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 18
Loan No. 1809 Medium-Scale Irrigation; $71.0 million Loan of March 28,
1980. Date of Effectiveness: June 25, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The consultants engaged to develop the design of the dams have now
started compiling design and construction standards for irrigation structures
and facilities. However, detailed engineering design of the diversion dams
is behind schedule due to unavailability of drilling rigs to conduct sub-
surface investigations. Force account works have been started. Construction
contracts have been awarded for three of the 12 major contract works. Diffi-
cult working conditions in the project areas and inadequate communications
facilities have resulted in poor response to invitations for competitive
bidding from prospective contractors. This is likely to cause further delays
in the implementation schedule.
Loan No. 1815 Rainfed Agriculture (Iloilo); $12.0 million Loan of
March 28, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: June 25, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
In spite of the complexity of the project, the Ministry of Agri-
culture's project management is making fair progress. The multi-agency set-up
of this project requires close financial monitoring, which needs further
improvement. The 1981 wet season multiple cropping target of 6,000 ha under
the Kabsaka methodology has been achieved. For the success of the coming 1982
wet season target of 16,000 ha, much will depend on the effectiveness of the
farmers training sessions, the selection of farmer leaders and the mobility
of the field staff. The mobility of the coordinating management staff has now
improved with the provision of new vehicles funded through the National
Extension Project. The project has not to date been able to purchase its own
vehicles due to restrictions imposed by the Presidential Office. Several
project components are seriously affected by the inadequacy or delay in the
allocation and/or release of local funds.
Loan No. 1890 Watershed Management and Erosion Control Project;
$38.0 Million Loan of August 4, 1980; Date of
Effectiveness: October 30, 1980, Closing Date:
December 31, 1986
In spite of funding restraints which affected project implementation
in 1981, the reforestation component achievement is close to target, and, with
the allocation of funds for 1982 now available, this progress should continue.
Road works are behind schedule, as vehicles and equipment procured under the
project have not yet been delivered, and the use of hired equipment has been
plagued with problems. Project staffing levels proposed by NIA have been
reduced by 32%, and the proposed salary grades of key management personnel
have also been reduced. The Bank is monitoring this situation closely to
determine its possible effect on project implementation. The contract for the
Magat Feasibility Study was signed in November 1981. The forest protection
pilot project is behind schedule due to the late release of funds in 1981.



_ 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 18
Loan No. 1894  Third Livestock and Fisheries Credit Project; $45.0 Million
Loan of August 4, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: November 5,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is progressing well and cumulative disbursements have
ben slightly ahead of schedule. Estimated commitments over the medium term
indicate that this trend should continue. In general, lending for fishponds
and hog production has exceeded appraisal estimates, while lending for
seagoing vessels and some types of cattle has lagged. (Village level cattle
schemes have substantially surpassed appraisal estimates.) Studies being
carried out by the Bureau of Animal Industries should be under way shortly,
and institutional strengthening of the Development Bank of the Philippines
is currently in progress. The need for a study on fishing gear technology
to be handled by the Fishery Industry Development Council is being reviewed,
but a review of maritime regulations is expected to start shortly.
Loan No. 2040 Agricultural Support Services; $45.0 million Loan of August 25,
1981; Proposed Date of Effectiveness: November 10, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1987
This loan was signed on August 25, 1981 and was declared effective
in November 1981. New agencies have been established, and existing agencies
organized to implement the 24 components of the project. Delays have been
encountered due to confusion over the designation of responsibilities
between the Central Office, the staff bureaus and the Regional Offices
following the 1980 reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture and non-
release of scheduled local start-up funds in 1981.
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 1353       Third Highway Project; $95.0 Million Loan of January 12,
1977; Date of Effectiveness:  March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Overall, the project is about 65% complete and two and half years
behind schedule because of slow procurement, poor performance of many contrac-
tors, and inadequate planning for the use of local funds. The Ministry of
Public Highways was poorly managed. However, it was merged in 1981 with the
Ministry of Public Works and its operations are now improving. Further
efforts are, however, required to strengthen its management, and a short-term
action program was agreed in detail in 1981 with the Ministry of Public Works
and Highways (MPWH) in order to tighten the project implementation. MPWH
has adhered to the schedule of the action program, and works on national
and minor road contracts are now progressing satisfactorily. The road
maintenance and restoration programs have been reduced in scope to establish
more realistic targets. Procurement of road maintenance equipment, tools
and other machinery has been completed. Consultants for supervision of
construction of roads and workshops are in place and the road and ferry
feasibility studies have been completed. The technical assistance advisors
to MPWH completed their assignment in November 1979 and training advisors to
MPWH completed their work in March 1980. Overall, the project is likely to
be completed by mid-1983, the revised completion date.



- 39
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 18
Loan No. 1661      Fourth Highway Project; $100 Million Loan of March 9,
1979 ; Date of Effectiveness: June 15, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
After long initial delays caused mainly by slow procurement, the
implementation of this project has now started to progress more rapidly. MPWH
has adhered, with some minor delays, to the action program agreed upon in
May 1981, and has recently made significant progress by awarding nine of the
ten national road construction contracts. Nevertheless, the overall delay now
amounts to at least a year. The detailed engineering for construction of
workshops is well under way. Pilot maintenance programs for four regions have
started and procurement of maintenance equipment is under way.
Loan No. 1855      Third Ports Project; $67 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Proposed Date of Effectiveness: September 11, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Bids for almost all project components have been received and
evaluated. The soil consolidation work at the Port of Cebu is virtually
complete. Contracts for the main construction works at the ports of Iloilo,
Cebu and Zamboanga have been awarded and mobilization is under way. The
contract for the main construction work at the Port of Cagayan de Oro is still
under evaluation. Arrangements for construction supervision are still not
satisfactory and the Government is attempting to improve its field supervision
organization with the help of technical assistance consultants.
Loan No. 1860      Rural Roads Improvement Project; $62 Million Loan of
June 13, 1980; Proposed Date of Effectiveness: September 8,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Initial progress in preparing the 1981 rural roads program has been
slow due mainly to a delay in providing technical assistance services to the
implementing agency. Due to delays in preparing and reviewing detailed
engineering for rural roads, no construction contracts started in the 1981 dry
season, putting the project about nine months behind schedule. Recently, the
Ministry of Local Government has awarded contracts for the first year's
program packages, and the works are now starting. Contracts for improvement
of the national road in Occidental Mindoro have recently been awarded, and the
contractors are mobilizing. Consulting services for the technical assistance
component are now under way.
Education Sector
Loan No. 1224-T   Third Education Project; $25 Million Loan of April 8,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 29, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The main component of the project, which is the development,
printing and distribution of 27 million primary and secondary textbooks and
teachers manuals in five subject areas, has made good progress. The project



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 18
has met its goal of producing and distributing 84 titles to schools,
amounting to over 31 million copies. Over 56,000 teachers have been upgraded.
A delay in the completion of a central facility for the Textbook Secretariat,
resulting from change orders and price escalation, has caused a one-year delay
in project completion. Two hundred seventy thousand dollars of the loan was
cancelled in March 1982 due to misprocurement when a contract was not awarded
to the lowest bidder.
Loan No. 1374      Fourth Education Project; $25.0 Million Loan of March 25,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 9, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Implementation of the project is now some 18 months behind schedule.
Rapid price escalation and high credit costs in the 1978-80 period resulted
in a slow-down in building activity, the rescinding of an important contract
and renegotiation of others, thus delaying implementation of the projectts
other physical components and dependent educational objectives. The problem
is being resolved, and in the process EDPITAF has devolved implementation
responsibilities to recipient institutions. The closing date has now been
extended for two years to December 1983. Overall project utilization of
Technical Assistance Specialists is only 20%, while over 80% of Fellowship
time has been committed. Enrolments are about on target and other educational
developments at UPLB and VISCA are proceeding satisfactorily. There is some
tendency to proliferate fields of specialized study and the National Governing
Board of the PTC-RD system has not functioned as planned in reviewing
important changes in policies and programs.
Loan No. 1786 Fisheries Training Project; $38.0 Million Loan
of February 1, 1980; Date of Effectiveness:
May 19, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Overall physical implementation is behind schedule by about six
months mainly due to the transfer of detailed implementing responsibility from
EDPITAF to the respective project institutions, and to delays in Presidential
approval of civil works contracts (P 2.0 million each). TJncertainties over
where management responsibilities would lie are expected to cause further
delays. Seven of the 13 civil works contracts have now been awarded and
technical assistance is in progress. The Fellowship program is being
implemented on schedule, but the recruitment of consultants has been slow,
also affected by the transfer of implementing responsibility and the delay in
the release of the Obligation Authority for project funds to recipient
institutions. This release is expected shortly. The Bank has recommended
that an interministerial task force be created to review the management
difficulties and other issues which are hampering project implementation.
Loan No. 2030 Elementary Education Sector Loan; $100.0 Million Loan of
August 25, 1981; Proposed Date of Effectiveness:
November 10,1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This loan was declared effective in November 1981. The project has
made a good start, and project planning is proceeding well. The main



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 18
difficulties anticipated would arise from the Government's complicated
procurement, payment and accounting procedures. These difficulties should be
minimized by the transfer of expertise from EDPITAF to the Ministry of
Education, which is responsible for project implementation.
Urban Sector
Loan No. 1272-T   Manila Urban Development Project; $10.0 Million and
Loan No. 1282       $22.0 Million Loans of June 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
December 9, 1976; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
On-site infrastructure is about 90% complete and 4,800 plot titles
have been awarded with another 4,000 scheduled by September 1982.  Improved
water supply is delayed and now expected by last quarter 1982. The sewer
outfall should be completed by February 1983, the R.lO road in late 1983 and
the C.2 road by april 1984. The site will be turned over to the local
government shortly.
Loan No. 1415 Provincial Cities Water SuPPly Project; $23 Million Loan of
May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:  September 9, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Overall project implementation is about one year behind schedule.
Major contracts have been awarded; however, due to unforeseen delays in well
drilling and late deliveries of pipes, progress has been slow. All major
contracts have been let, and better progress is expected through 1982. Work
has started in four of the six project cities, and contractors are mobilizing
in the remaining two. The construction cost is expected to be close to
appraisal estimates; however, project completion is expected to be delayed by
about one year.
Loan No. 1615 Second Manila Water Supply Project; $88 Million Loan of
July 26, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: December 21, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project suffered a late start because of initial delays in
approvals of contracts in source development which delayed the construction
of the Bank-financed distribution system component. Nearly all the major
contracts have now been let and no further slippage is expected. However,
because of the high cost of money, many contractors have delayed mobilization
on their contracts. A water rate increase of P 0.25 plus a 10% waste water
disposal charge were implemented on July 1, 1981.
Loan No. 1647       Second Urban Development Project; $32.0 Million Loan
of January 26, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: April 26,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
In Manila, problems in funding contracts and poor coordination
between executing agencies, which caused considerable delays and cost over-
runs (50% over appraisal estimates), are now being resolved. Physical works



- 42-                        ANNEX II
Page 14 of 18
are expected to be completed by early 1984, 15 months behind schedule. In
the regional cities, after an initially slow start due to staffing and
political problems, work is underway on all sites and completion is expected
at the end of 1983.
Credit No. 920 Second Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $22 Million
Loan No. 1710   Credit and $16 Million Loan of June 27, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness: November 30, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985.
The 50 Water Districts required under the project have been formed.
Work is under way on the development of a financial planning and control
system, and consultants have started the preparation of a comprehensive
management assistance and training proposal. A new institution, the Rural
Water Supply Development Corporation, has been created, and is now preparing a
list of materials to be procured for rural water supply.
Loan No. 1814 Manila Sewerage and Sanitation Project: $63.0 million Loan of
March 28, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: September 10, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
The project is proceeding well, with no major problems. Detailed
designs for the Tondo Pumping Station have been completed, and tenders for
sanitary sewers in Dagupan and Pandacan awarded. The organization for the
combined sewer program is in place; staffing and training plans are being
prepared; and equipment for the water quality monitoring program has been
approved for procurement.
Loan No. 1821 Third Urban Development Project; $72 Million Loan of
June 2, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: September 25, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Problems of funding and land acquisition have slowed the project.
Disbursements are now 60% of that projected at appraisal, and show an
improving trend. The problem of land for sites and services is expected to
be resolved shortly and contracting is expected to start later this year.
Overall costs are stable. Progress on finalizing policies for ZIP, and
precise agreements with local governments have been slow, but are now about
to be implemented. Preparation of the next phase of basic services programs
is progressing well.
Loan No. 2067 Urban Engineering Project; $80.0 Million Loan of
February 24, 1982; Date of Effectiveness: May 26, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30,1985
This loan was signed in February 1982 and is expected to be
effective in May 1982. Most of the consultants have been selected.



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 18
Power Sector
Loan No. 1034      Sixth Power; $61.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974:
Date of Effectiveness: November 15, 1974;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
The Pantabangan generating plant was commissioned in April 1977, and
the transmission facilities are now expected to be completed by April 1982,
about four years behind schedule. The main delays in the execution of the
transmission system have been due to the slow pace of engineering design and
preparation of tender documents, and delays in procurement. The revised
project cost estimate is 53% higher than the appraisal estimate. The
closing date of the loan was postponed from June 30, 1981 to March 31,
1982 to allow additional time for payment of retention monies to
contractors.
Loan No. 1460      Seventh Power Project; $58.0 Million Loan of August 9,
1977; Date of Effectiveness:  January 6_, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project implementation is now two years behind schedule, mainly due
to delays in the construction of the load dispatching center. The revised
project cost is now estimated at $100 million (including additional works),
8% higher than the original estimate. Due to delays in procurement, and
because of additional works authorized by the Bank, the closing date of the
loan has been extended to December 1983. NPC has still been unable to meet
the 8% rate of return target provided in the Loan Agreement and the
Government has yet to provide specific assurances that appropriate action
will be taken to remedy this. This problem is being followed up by the
Bank.
Loan No. 1547      Rural Electrification; $60.0 Million Loan of May 10,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982
The project is substantially complete, with about $1.2 million
uncommitted. These funds are to be used by NEA for the purchase of equipment
and materials for its 1982 program. NEA's lending to cooperatives for power
development has increased by over 50% in the last two years, and its financial
results and condition continue to be satisfactory according to unaudited
financial statements for 1981. However, NEA's collation of the financial
results of its client cooperatives shows that a number are in financial
difficulties. The Bank is monitoring the situation closely, and is pressing
NEA, as the regulatory agency, to take all necessary remedial steps through
rate increases improvements in management, or other appropriate measures.



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 18
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 1514      Private Development Corporation of the Philippines (PDCP);
$30 Million Loan of February 9, 1978; Date of
Effectiveness: June 23, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982
The loan is now fully committed and disbursements as of March 31,
1982; stood at $24.9 million. The project progress is satisfactory. The
closing date might be postponed by one year to allow for completion of
disbursements.
Loan No. 1555      Philippines Investments Systems Organization (PISO);
$15 Million Loan of May 8, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
May 12, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The loan is fully committed and disbursements ($13.9 million as of
March 31, 1982) are proceeding at a satisfactory rate.
Loan No. 1572      Third Industrial Investment Credit Project through the
Development Bank of the Philippines: $80 Million Loan
of June 6, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: September 15,
1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
DBP's SMI program is operating satisfactorily; the loan allocation
of $29.7 million for this component has been fully committed. However,
commitments under the loan for medium/large industry financing ($50 million)
and related disbursements are slower than anticipated at appraisal. The
closing date might be postponed by 18 months to allow for completion of
disbursements.
Loan No. 1727      Second Small and Medium Industries Development Project;
$25 Million Loan of June 27, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:
November 9, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The IGLF component ($24.5 million) was fully disbursed by October
1981 and overall progress of the project is satisfactory. Disbursements
under the MASICAP component ($0.5 million) are slower than anticipated
because of the recent reorganization within the Ministry of Trade and
Industry. However, this component is expected to be completed before the
current closing date.
Loan No. 1984      Industrial Finance Project; $150 million Loan of May 28,
1981; Proposed Date of Effectiveness: July 28, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Satisfactory progress has been made in achieving the main objectives
of the project. The Apex Development Finance Unit of the Central Bank has
been successful in meeting the institutional aspects of the project: the



- 45 -
ANNEX II
Page 17 of 18
commercial Loan Agreement for $100 million was signed on August 7, 1981 on
favorable terms); issues discussed during negotiations relating to individual
participating financial institutions (PFIs) are being dealt with; and
subsidiary loan agreements with individual PFIs are being negotiated and
finalized (after due consultation with the Bank). Commitments by the three
participating financial institutions (PFIs) have started and good progress is
also being made in identifying and appraising new PFIs. Progress made so far
is in line with expectations, except that the pace of commitments is slower
than anticipated at appraisal.
Structural Adjustment Lending
Loan No. 1903      Structural Adjustment Loan; $200.0 million Loan of
September 25, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: November 14,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Considerable progress has been made in implementing the Government's
industrial development program in support of which the loan was made. The
first stage of the Government's five year program of tariff reform and trade
liberalization became effective on January 1, 1981; the second stage of this
program became effective on January 1, 1982. Studies are under way to review
and improve the Government's industrial incentives and promotion system; and
subsector development programs are under preparation to assist domestic
industries to adjust to the tariff reform and trade liberalization measures.
The two requirements for the release of the second tranche of the loan were
met by the Government in July 1981. The second tranche was subsequently
released and, with the exception of the $5 million technical assistance
component, the $200 million loan has been fully disbursed.
Population Sector
Loan No. 1035      Population; $25.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: November 13, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
With the exception of some construction in Regions 6 and 9 and water
supplies to rural health units, the project has been substantially completed.
The balance of the loan is expected to be committed by mid-May of this year,
and all works and procurement completed by the closing date of December 31,
1982. This is, however, dependent upon the release of 1982 project funding
by the Budget Ministry. Project implementation is now being handled by the
Ministry of Health, whose performance is gradually improving following the
dissolution of the previous Project Management Service at the time of the
original closing date (December 31, 1979). A major cause for concern,
however, is the project accounting, of which very little has taken place.
This situation has been brought to the attention of the Minister of Health
and is being very closely supervised by Bank staff. All project-related
training activities and staff recruitment programs have been completed.



- 46 -
ANNEX II
Page 18 of 18
Information, education and communication activities are substantially com-
pleted, and management information services and technical assistance are
expected to be completed by September of this year.
Credit No. 923    Second Population Project; $40.0 Million Credit of
June 27, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: October 15, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The earlier slow pace of implementation is now improving with the
Ministry of Budget's advance release of funds to cover the carryover
activities of CY80 and those scheduled for 1981. The release of the 1982
project funds has been delayed, however, by the Ministry of the Budget.
All sites required for scheduled civil works have been acquired and surveyed,
arrangements for construction management and monitoring are being finalized
and the procedures designed to encourage community participation for Barangay
Health Station development under the first project are being applied to those
under the second project. Implementation of the Primary Health Care component
has attained notable momentum; however, activities in training, IEC and pro-
curement lag far behind the appraisal schedule. Greater decentralization of
the implementation responsibilities at regional, provincial and municipal
levels in recent months is expected to accelerate the pace of project
implementation.



- 47 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
COMMUNAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project: two years
(b) The agency which prepared the project: National Irrigation
Administration
(c) First presentation to the Bank, and first Bank mission to consider
the project: May 1981
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: September 1981
(e) Completion of Negotiations: April 30, 1982
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness: October 1982
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III - Special Conditions
The Borrower will be requested to agree that:
(a)  by December 31, 1983, NIA would begin to implement a phased program
satisfactory to the Bank with a view to achieve by December 31,
1985, a uniform set of selection criteria and design standards
satisfactory to the Bank to be applied to all its communal irriga-
tion systems, regardless of financing source (para. 47);
(b)  NIA would submit for Bank review, prior to implementation, full
subproject evaluation reports for subprojects costing more than
P 5.0 million each and summary data forms for subprojects
costing less than P 5.0 million (para. 47);
(c)  by December 31, 1982, NIA would submit to the Bank for review the
indicators to be monitored and other details of the monitoring and
evaluation system (para. 48);
(d)  by December 31, 1982, NIA would prepare terms of reference
for consulting services for the financial reporting system
study for review by the Bank (para. 49);



- 48 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(e) NIA would establish a counterpart account to the special account
and maintain and operate the account in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 56);
(f) the aggregate cost of civil works done by force account would not
exceed 40% of the total cost of civil works (para. 57);
(g) NIA would cause all its regional and provincial offices to
maintain separate accounts for the project. Audit and project
accounts would be collected by the Project Manager and, together
with the auditor's comments, as well as his opinion on the
certification of expenditures on force account works, would be
sent to the Bank within six months of the close of the Bank fiscal
year (para. 60); and
(h) Government would not reduce the existing level of capital cost
repayment expected of project beneficiaries, and NIA would send the
Bank by December 31, 1983 a report detailing current estimates of
the level of water charges, the capacity of beneficiaries to pay,
and actual collection rates, and explaining the Government's policy
in irrigation project cost recovery and measures planned to improve
collection of water charges (para. 63).



IBRD 16197
lI10                                                                                  120°                         lZ4°                                                  JANUARY  1982
CLASSIFICATION OF PROVINCES                                                                                           PHILIPPINES
BY GEOGRAPHICAL REGIONS
:ILOCOS                  VIWESTERN VISAYAS                                             COMMUNAL  IRRIGATION  DEVELOPMENT
1 llocos Norte            37  Aklan
2 Abra                    38 Capiz                                                                                      PROJECT
3 lloras Sur              39  Antique                                           8                                                                                               200
4                         40oontain20-
520°   La Un4o1n              Neg4os1OCcidental                                                                         PROJECT PROVINCES  (IRRIGATION  WORKS)
6 BLnae Unon1ICENTRAL ViSAYAS
6 LaUng.et                42  Cebu                                                                               A       CIP (NEW  PROPOSED  SAMPLE  SUBPROJECT)
7 Pariyasinan             43  Negros Oriental
JICAGAYAN VALLEY    44  Bohof                                                                                     A       CIS  (REHABILITATION   SAMPLE  SUBPROJECT)
8 Batanes                 45  Siquijor                                   '                                               ROADS
9 Cagayan               VIIIEASTERN  VISAYAS
10 Kalinga-Apa9ao          46  Northern Samar                         1     '                                   --I-I I   RAILWAYS
I1 Isabela                 47  Samar                                                    -                                 RIVERS
12HufagaoI             48 Eastern Samar ,                         )                                                   PB
13 Nueva Vizcaya           49  Leyte                               1         i
14 Qutrino                 50 Southern Leyte               LaIag            !                                                      C
iELCENTRAL LUZON          lriX WESTERN MINDANAO               ,>          :                                              REGIONAL  BOUNDARIES
16 NuevaElia a             52 Zamboana del Sur                     2      10 '    Tranao                        _         INTERNATIONAL  BOUNDARIES
17  Zaerbales              53 Basilan
18  Parmpanga              54 Suol                            ;  '             8                                N'.1E: 113rE   ½uri'Or, l     '<11r001  Aiii1ArtI  r,ret' Oidcd i
19  Bulacan                55 TawiTawi                          3  (4Boeeoe3 lagee; ao, 507402s   SaA   Satz, T6nrafo  . r                                 rI Osr CGr.1r,
20  Bataan                 x NORTHERN MINDANAO                >              \   I 9010911
lVSOUTHERN  TAGALOG 56 Scripeo del Norte   Cwlay-              a I        2{/ 4 C
21 Quezon                  57 Camiguin                  Sen    5       1 6    :_180    290   259   3W
22  Rizag                  58 Agusan del Norte       F°rarAIla 1 0 L UEO 2  2         3     'JO
?3 Cavite                                                                  iN9  -0                                           9     1118   15      0    20 3
24  Lagacna                 6  Mjoamnis Oriental                    /              / 
25 Barangas                60  Misamis Occidental  .                           - /                                                    KILOMETERS                                  16°-
26 Marinrdque              61  Bu-idnon             -                                                                            5l 1Ei                160        200
27 MiedOo, Orieantal       62 Agusan, del Sunr                                                                         1         5           t
28  Mi doro Occidental    xi SOUTHIERN MIt'DANA.                                 400MILES
29 Rombloni                 63 SurigaO  del Sur         n /              barlan (   Ce
30 pala,an                  64 Davao Oriental              \      (      b r o
VEICQI.                    65 Davao del Nerte            5roI?       r1
31 Camarinnh Norte          66  Davau  del Sur          !                                   ;
32  Canarines Sur,          67 South Claebeta       oigeeaa4              /21      1
33  Catonduates r         XISOUTHWESTERN  MINDANAO22                                 )
34 Alba),                   68 Lanao del Norte                ,,                                     aaa7'Palr
SornototO69  Larr-o del Sur                                                                             ,
70  North Cotabato 
36~~~~ ~ ~ ~  ~                                        * mMastrate           z      't     f Y-b   _'
36  SlaoSard        ~71 Mageuincdarac,                                 7~lerhn
72  Saltan. Kadarat\Rga
~~~~~MINDyRO'~aaa
12/                  -, -                                       47         .12
-12°                                                                                                         '-1 ~ ~ X       '  > >      SA M IA R
'                                           \     \  ~~~~~~6+\~Roavs       -J                    -~ .     1WY'    48
II   P4'NAY          A   1               ,~~~~~~~~~~~~annle
NEiR93,                           <al   r5
-'30 rJpuerloPrlrcrsr                        |                    3         g         t
PAIAWAN                                                              f     naue --             - -             /
7'{    '5                  60 57   0 50/9>w  63
*U                                                                                                        >0        J6           NiA ,.'  t   s   { > t
1~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ *~eia.    7                                                             g/-                    85        64iaf _/      
AM               Jrt  .
Mrvr,- t  A    r        / b- 1-3  -   .r   .'  I
Ci  NA   D  O  N- E' S  I A
.. ,e  '.                     ,'..5  --124'                                                      1241
~~*UZON                                                                                            Keree~~~~ad120
1                                         1                                                             . I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



