Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 19320
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Ln. 3297-AR)
May 19, 1999
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGN                   National General Auditor
BCR                   Borrower's Completion Report
FAO/CP                Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations
Cooperative Program
FMD                   Foot and Mouth Disease
GATT                  General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
GOA                   Government of Argentina
IASCAV                Plant Protection Services Agency
ICADS                 Institutional Capacity Analysis and Development System
IDB                   Inter-American Development Bank
ICB                   International Competitive Bidding
ICR                   Implementation Completion Report
IICA                  Inter-American Institute for Agricultural Cooperation
INASE                 National Seeds Certification Agency
lNIDP                 National Fisheries Research and Development Agency
INTA                  National Agency for Agricultural Technology
IWTO                  International Wool Testing Organization
JNC                   National Meat Board
MERCOSUR              Southern Cone Common Market
PCU                   Project Coordination Unit
POA                   Annual Operating Plan
PROCAR                Meat Export Promotion Program
PROMEX                Non-Traditional Agricultural Export Program
PROMSA                Agricultural Services and Institutional Development Project
SAGPyA                Secretariat of Agriculture, Livestock, Fisheries and Food
SAR                   Staff Appraisal Report
SENASA                National Animal Health and Plant Protection Services Agency
SIIAP                 Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries Information System
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Local Currency Unit at Appraisal': Austral
Exchange rate at appraisal:    US$1 = A 5,800
A 1 = US$0.0002
Exchange rate at closing:      US$1 = 1 Peso
I Peso = US$ 1
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system has been used throughout the report.
A new cuffency, the Peso, was introduced in 1991.
Vice President          Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director       Myrna Alexander
Sector Director        John Redwood
Task Manager           Steven N. Schonberger



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
(Loan No. 3297-AR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No
PREFACE ..........................................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...........................................................ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .................................................1
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives ..............................................1I
B. Achievement of Project Objectives                         ..............................................3
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project .............................................9
D. Project Sustainability ...............................................                                    11
E. Bank Performance .............................................. 12
F. Borrower Performance ...............................................                                      13
G. Assessment of Outcome .......... ...........                               ......................... 14
H. Future Operation .............................................. 15
I. Key Lessons Learned ..............................................                                        15
PART  II: STATISTICAL  INFORMATION  .....                                 ..    .....     ............................................. 17
Table 1: Summary of Assessment .................................                    ........................ 17
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits ..................................................... .... 19
Table 3: Project Timetable ......................................................... 20
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ...................... 20
Table 5: Key Performance Indicators ..................................................... .... 21
Table 6: Studies Included in Project .                    ......................................................... 22
Table 7: Project Costs and Financing ..................................................... .... 23
Table 8: Economic Costs and Benefits .........................................................   24
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants .........................................................                25
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ....................................... .................. 27
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions .........................................................                  28
APPENDIX I: BORROWER COMPLETION REPORT (Summary) ............... ................. 30
MAP:                IBRD No. 22436
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
(Loan No. 3297-AR)
Preface
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Agricultural Services and
Institutional Development Project, for which Loan 3297-AR in the amount of US$ 82.7 million
was approved by the Board on February 2, 1991, signed on August 13, 1991 and became
effective on February 5, 1992.
2.    The Loan closed on September 30, 1998, after a three month extension of the Closing
Date. The Bank made its last disbursement on August 17, 1998. Following the termination of
the grace period for the disbursements incurred before the Loan Closing Date, there was an
undisbursed balance of US$571,446.43. That balance has been canceled from the Loan. An
additional US$120,083.61, representing unused funds from the Project Special Account, was
refunded to the Bank and canceled from the Loan on May 21, 1999.
3.    This ICR was prepared by Steven Schonberger of the Environmentally and Socially
Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit (LCSES) of the Latin America and
Caribbean Region (LCR) in collaboration with Selim Mohor of the Food and Agriculture
Organization, Cooperative Program (FAO/CP), Nancy Hirschhorn (World Bank) and Alvaro
Soler (Consultant, FAO/CP) all of whom participated in the Bank's final Project Supervision
Mission. Review of forestry development activities was carried out independently by Robert
Kirmse (World Bank). The ICR was reviewed by Thomas Wiens, Lead Specialist, Rural
Development (LCSES) and Anna Roumani (LCSES).
4.    Preparation of this ICR has been based on review of material in the project file,
discussions with Bank and FAO/CP staff and consultants who worked on the project, interviews
with 'government officials and project beneficiaries in the private sector, and a Borrower
Completion Report (BCR), prepared by the Secretariat of Agriculture, Livestock, Fisheries and
Foods (SAGPyA). The executive summary of the BCR is attached as Appendix 1, and the full
report is available in the LCSES Department Project Files. The conclusions of the ICR mission
were discussed with Government and comments were taken into consideration during the
preparation of the final version.



ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
AGRICULTURtAL SERVICES AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
(Loan No. 3297-AR)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    Agricultural production, and particularly exports, have been crucial in Argentina's
economic development. Until 1991, domestic policy had historically been oriented to using the
agricultural surplus to finance industrial development. At the time of project appraisal, the sector
was heavily taxed relative to the rest of the economy through export taxes on the fo.b. value of
agricultural products and through exchange rate regimes which implicitly taxed the sector.
2. . An Agricultural Sector Review (Report No. 7733-AR) completed in 1989, pointed out
that Argentina's economic recovery would depend on an expansion of exports and foreign
exchange earnings. However, the report indicated that despite its significant comparative
advantage, Argentina's traditional agricultural exports were limited by sanitary restrictions in
many important potential export markets, and non-traditional exports suffered from a poor image
due to insufficient quality control, unreliability of supplies, and a passive approach to export
marketing. The Agricultural Services and Institutional Development Project (Ln. 3297-AR)
focused on improved agricultural competitiveness in export markets, through development of
improved agricultural services to support product quality enhancement, and an export promotion
scheme to foster diversification of export products and markets.
Project Objectives
3.    The project sought to promote private sector development through achievement of the
following objectives: (a) establishment of mechanisms to improve the efficiency, productivity,
impact and accountability of its technical services while achieving savings in their operation; and
(b) diversification of the agricultural export mix by strengthening marketing, export promotion,
technical and research services for a variety of agricultural products through joint public and
private efforts. Furthermore, the project would build on the then on-going Public Sector
Management Technical Assistance Loan (Ln. 2712-AR) which attempted to strengthen the
planining and policy-makiing function in public institutions.



iii
4.    In order to achieve its objectives, the project had eight components at appraisal':
(a) Component A: Animal Health Services to strengthen animal disease control, primarily for
foot and mouth disease (FMD), brucellosis, mange and tick-borne diseases through
construction of a reference laboratory, a quarantine station and promotion of intensive
vaccination programs ($17.5 million);
(b) Component B: Plant Protection Services to create and maintain plant disease and insect pest-
ftee zones through establishment of phytosanitary barriers and controls, construction and
rehabilitation of quarantine and reference laboratory facilities; and Seed Certification
Services (later a separate component) to improve certification and registration of seed quality
through provision of technical assistance, training and equipment ($12.6 million);
(c) Component C: Fisheries to strengthen analysis and monitoring of maximum sustainable fish
catches ($11.0 million);
(d) Component D: Meat Marketing to promote export of higher value-added meat products
jointly with the private sector ($10.4 million);
(e) Component E: Research Activities to improve research on wool, biotechnology, post-harvest
physiology of fruits and vegetables, and forest plantation management ($9.1 million);
(f) Component F: Information System: to link existing independent sources of information in
order to produce consistent and regular information flows ($1. 1 million);
(g) Component G: Non-Traditional Export Promotion Scheme to assist the private sector to
venture into new export markets by partially financing marketing studies, technical
assistance, and overseas visits and export promotions ($7.4 million);
(h) Component H: Institutional Development of SAGPyA to strengthen institutional and
administrative capabilities in providing agricultural services, including procurement
capabilities and the project coordinating unit ($4.7 million).
5.    The total project cost at appraisal was $83.2 million (including contingencies and
refinancing of PPF), of which the Bank would finance $33.5 million, the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB) $30.0, a Japanese PHRD Grant $1.0 million and Government the
remaining $18.7 million. Shortly after appraisal, the project costs were revised upward to $107.3
million to account for the increased cost of non-tradable goods and services and changes in the
institutional structure of SAGPyA. While the Bank loan remained unchanged, IDB's loan was
increased to $41.3 million, the Japanese PHRD Grant to $1.3 million, and Government
counterpart to $31.2 million. Government's decision to eliminate the exemption of
internationally-financed projects from payment of the value-added tax required an additional
increase in counterpart funding of $14.7 million. At project closure, the project had undisbursed
balances of $0.6 million of World Bank financing and $0.1 million of IDB financing, bringing
total project cost to $121.3 million.
The creation of a Seed Certification Agency (INASE), following project appraisal, resulted in the addition of a ninth component
wthich comprised the relevant activities formerly included under the Plant Protection component.



iv
Implementation Experience and Results
6.    The project's outcome is assessed as satisfactory. The project contributed to creation of
an improved business environment in the agricultural sector, and supported Government's
restructuring of the public, sector to improve efficiency and to concentrate on services
complementary to private activity. Most of the project's major objectives were achieved. Foot-
and-Mouth Disease and Citrus Canker were eliminated, opening several new export markets to
Argentine meat and citrus products. 150 non-traditional export promotion projects were
supported through matching grants which were complemented by over 100 training seminars and
courses for producers which contributed to an estimated $220 million in export contracts for 336
firms. Similar activities were carried out to promote high-value beef products which increased
almost 250% over the prcject period. Sustainability is likely for most activities. Animal health,
plant protection, seed cert:ification and wool testing activities all achieved at least 85% self-
finan,cing of operating costs. Most project activities, by focusing on cost-recovery and
participation of the private sector and local governments, were carried out in a cost-effective
manner.
7.    The important exception is in the area of institutional strengthening, where, other than in
those cases where the implementation unit and the agency were virtually the same (SIIAP,
INASE, and to a lesser extent INTA), project financed activities were neither sustainable nor
cost-effective. Project design sought to compensate for the complexity of many components and
weak implementing agencies through the creation of implementation units in each agency. By
focusing institutional strengthening activities on these units, the benefits of these efforts
generally had little lasting impact on the implementing agencies. There are indications of
excessive use of finds -mainly local counterpart- to hire consultants for short term and non-
capacity building activities with limited long term impact on institutional strengthening. This
was aggravated by the absence of institutional development monitoring and evaluation criteria to
guide project supervision.
Key Lessons Learned
8.    The project provided several key lessons which can be applied to other projects in
Argentina both within and outside the agricultural sector:
T Ihorough sector assessment permitted identification of key bottlenecks to improved
agricultural export performance which could be appropriately addressed by public sector
initiatives. The project's effectiveness in supporting the positive response of Argentina's
agricultural producers to the new incentive framework created by the economic stability and
liberalization of secto:r policy was due, in large part, to the thorough analysis of the sector
carried out by Government, the Bank and their international partners. Close collaboration
with technical staff in the future implementing agencies and consultation with the private
sector permitted identification of the key bottlenecks to improved export performance and
diversification and an appropriate role for Government intervention.
*  Organization ofplant and animal health campaigns proved to be the most effective
government-sponsored activities to open new export markets. Plant and animal health
restrictions in the United States and in Asian countries on imports from countries with FMD



v
and citrus canker are examples of export barriers which cannot be addressed by individual
producers. Government's role in informing and organizing producers, as well as carrying-out
required control activities, was essential to the eradication of these diseases. As a result,
Argentine producers enjoyed immediate access to new markets representing billions of
dollars in potential exports. While export promotion activities were also valued by
producers, unless carried out as part of an industry-wide campaign to promote a product
quality image, as in the case of meat, the benefits tended to be producer-specific and could
have been carried out by the private sector with little or no Government assistance.
Organizedproducer involvementfrom the outset in defining the goals and operational
mechanisms ofproject activities permitted Government to effectively pass-on operational
responsibility to the private sector. Government's role in identifying the technical
requirements, organizing producers and demonstrating the value of animal health,
phytosanitary, seed certification and meat export promotion services, at the very least,
significantly accelerated the recognition of their importance by the private sector. In all
cases, producers were initially skeptical regarding the value of, and Argentina's ability to
carry out, the controls and promotional activities. However, in those cases where producers
were involved in an organized fashion from the beginning in defining and monitoring the
operation of the activities, the private sector eventually assumed a substantial share of the
technical and financial responsibility for these services. In those cases where industry's
participation was less formalized and proactive, such as with PROMEX, industry has not
demonstrated a willingness to assume a substantial share of the costs of the program. This
approach is particularly important in Argentina, where Government has emphasized private
service provision.
* Project outputs were unable to effectively support development objectives in the absence of
institutional capacity in terms of appropriate legislation and budgetary and technical skills
in the responsible agency. The fisheries component was successful in strengthening
INIDEP's capacity to assess maximum sustainable yields of key commercial species, and in
the installation of a fisheries information system to monitor registered catch. However, these
tools were not effectively applied to avoid over-fishing due to the Subsecretariat of Fisheries'
limited capacity to monitor and enforce restrictions on fishing effort due to inconsistent
budgetary support, lack of qualified staff and weak legal framework.
* institutional strengthening activities should have been carried out directly with implementing
agency staff, rather than project consultants, and required specific monitoring and
evaluation indicators. Institutional strengthening activities were more or less successful to
the extent they were focused on staff of the implementing agencies rather than consultants in
the implementation units. SIIAP and INASE are the most successful institutions as their
creation was directly supported by the project and as such their implementation units were
the key operational staff of the agencies. At the other extreme, in fisheries, the
implementation unit undertook many of the tasks of the Subsecretariat of Fisheries which
demonstrated no management improvement under the project. These problems were not
easily detected during implementation as there were no indicators for monitoring and
evaluating institutional performance of the participating agencies.
External implementation support should have been centralized in the project coordination
unit, with assistance to implementing agencies provided within the context of their line



vi
operations, under their direct responsibility. Creation of implementation units for each
participating agency, was very costly and tended to isolate technical staff of the agency from
the project, diminishing their direct responsibility for component performance. The large
number of implementation units resulted in substantial over-capacity and duplication of
functions, resulting in high project administration costs. Line staff tended to view the
implementation units as highly paid consultants who controlled project resources. As a
result, ownership of thie project waned and project staff were left on their own to resolve
delays and conflicts which should have been addressed by the direct beneficiaries of the
investments. As indicated above, in those cases such as INASE and SIIAP, where project
staff and line staff were the same, or INTA where the implementation unit consisted of a
single consultant, implementation was relatively trouble-free.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
(Loan No. 3297-AR)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
1.    Macroeconomic and Sector Setting: Agricultural production, and particularly exports,
have been crucial in Argentina's economic development. The natural productivity of its fertile
soils contributes to some of the lowest production costs in the world, providing Argentina with a
distinct comparative advantage. Until 1991, domestic policy had historically been oriented to
using the agricultural surplus to finance industrial development. At the time of project appraisal,
the sector was heavily taxed relative to the rest of the economy through export taxes on the f.o.b.
value of agricultural products and through exchange rate regimes which implicitly taxed the
sector. Export taxes more than off-set marketing-board regulated price supports.
2.    Project Development: An Agricultural Sector Review (Report No. 7733-AR) completed
in 1989, pointed out that Argentina's economic recovery would depend on an expansion of
exports and foreign exchange earnings. However, the report indicated that despite its significant
comparative advantage, Argentina's traditional agricultural exports were limited by sanitary
restrictions in many important potential export markets, and non-traditional exports suffered
from a poor image due to insufficient quality control, unreliability of supplies, and a passive
approach to export marketing.
3.    The project grew out of a series of studies carried out by the Inter-American Institute for
Agricultural Cooperation (IICA) under an Agriculture Sector Loan (Ln. 2675-AR) and by
missions from the World Bank, Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) and Food and
Agricultural Organization of the United Nations (FAO/CP) during the latter part of 1988 and
1989. Those missions worked with the Secretariat of Agriculture, Livestock, Fisheries and Food
(SAGPyA) on the preparation of three different projects focusing on: agricultural export
development (export diversification and promotion), fisheries and agricultural services. By 1990
all three projects were merged into a single project, financed by the World Bank, IDB and the
Government of Japan, which focused on improved agricultural competitiveness in export
markets, through development of improved agricultural services to support product quality
enhancement, and an export promotion scheme to foster diversification of export products and
markets.
4.    Project Objectives: The project sought to promote private sector development through
achievement of the following objectives: (a) establishment of mechanisms to improve the
efficiency, productivity, impact and accountability of its technical services while achieving
savings in their operation; and (b) diversification of the agricultural export mix by strengthening
marketing, export promotion, technical and research services for a variety of agricultural
products through joint public and private efforts. Furthermore, the project would build on the



2
then on-going Public Sector Management Technical Assistance Loan (Ln. 2712-AR) which
attempted to strengthen the planning and policy-making function in public institutions.
5.    These objectives were consistent with Government priorities and the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy at the time of appraisal, and became increasingly relevant as a result of the
macroeconomic, sector policy and institutional changes which occurred during the 1 990s. The
Convertibility Plan required strong export performance from the private sector in order to sustain
exchange rate parity with the dollar. Though the share of agricultural and agro-industrial exports
declined relative to other sectors (65% at appraisal to 60% in 1998), they grew in absolute terms
(from $7.9 billion to $11.9 billion), and continued to account for the bulk of Argentina's export
revenues. In addition, new opportunities resulting from MERCOSUR and GATT agreements
required aggressive quality control and market development. Finally, the liberalization of the
sector and increased costs of non-tradable goods and services required many farms, particularly
small- and medium-sized operations, to diversify into non-traditional products which provide
higher returns per unit of land.
6.    Project Components: In order to achieve its objectives, the project had eight components
at appraisal2:
(a) Component A: Animal Health Services to strengthen animal disease control, primarily for
foot and mouth disease (FhDD), brucellosis, mange and tick-borne diseases through
construction of a reference laboratory, a quarantine station and promotion of intensive
vaccination programs ($17.5 million);
(b) Component B: Plant Protection Services to create and maintain plant disease and insect pest-
free zones through establishment of phytosanitary barriers and controls, construction and
rehabilitation of quarantine and reference laboratory facilities; and Seed Certification
Slervices (later a separate component) to improve certification and registration of seed quality
through provision of technical assistance, training and equipment ($12.6 million);
(c) Component C: Fisheries to strengthen analysis and monitoring of maximum sustainable fish
catches ($11.0 million);
(d) Component D: Meat Marketing to promote export of higher value-added meat products
jointly with the private sector ($10.4 million);
(e) Component E: Research Activities to improve research on wool, biotechnology, post-harvest
physiology of fruits and vegetables, and forest plantation management ($9.1 million);
(f) Component F: Information System: to link existing independent sources of information in
order to produce consistent and regular information flows ($1.1 million);
(g) Component G: Non-Traditional Export Promotion Scheme to assist the private sector to
venture into new export markets by partially financing marketing studies, technical
assistance, and overseas visits and export promotions ($7.4 million);
2 The creation of a Seed Certification Agency (INASE), following project appraisal, resulted in the creation of a ninth component
which comprised the relevant activities formerly included under the Plant Protection component.



3
(h) Component H: Institutional Development of SAGPyA to strengthen institutional and
administrative capabilities in providing agricultural services, including procurement
capabilities and the project coordinating unit ($4.7 million).
7.     All of the components were intended to provide outputs consistent with achievement of
the project objectives; however, the large number of diverse components and the tenuous linkage
of some of these components (Fisheries and Information System) to the broad project objectives
reflected the amalgamation of three separate projects during the preparation stage. The resulting,
complex project design put substantial demands on SAGPyA to coordinate and monitor the
disparate activities. Nonetheless, the project was able to adjust to the substantial institutional
changes in SAGPyA and to changes in Government's sector priorities, particularly as concerned
sanitary emergencies (foot-and-mouth disease and cotton boll-weevil) and the redirection of
phytosanitary control activities to support increased trade with MERCOSUR partners (border
control posts with Brazil and Uruguay).
B. Achievement of Project Objectives
8.     The project substantially achieved its objectives as summarized by the indicators
portrayed in Table 1.
Table 1 - Main Project Output Indicators
Indicator                    Target          Target
I At Appraisal I Achievement
Degree of self-financing of operating costs
Animal health                                     90%             87%
Plant health                                      70%             87%
Seeds                                             70%             95%
Wool testing                                      90%             98%
INIDEP                                            90%             82%
Sanitary Status
# of annual FMD outbreaks                  Less than 100            0'
Citrus Canker - free status in NOA               100%            100%
Fruit Fly eradicated in Patagonia                100%             0% 2
Export Markets
New citrus markets                                  5               4
Beef exported with quality seal                  100%            100%
# of non-traditional exports subprojects supported  120            134
# of PROMEX sponsored seminars and courses        100              116
# of businesses participating in trade fairs      200              676
# of annual trade fairs with PROCAR participation   5                8
1 Complete eradication under vaccination achieved.
2 Although rural eradication program was carried-out, outbreaks emerged in urban areas.
9.     Objective 1 - Establish Mechanisms to Improve the Efficiency, Productivity, Impact
and Accountability of Technical Services while Achieving Savings in Their Operation: This
objective, focused on improvement of public sector management, involved an institutional
development objective which was only partially achieved and a financial objective which was
fully achieved. Project design was technically consistent with achievement of this objective, but
in the case of institutional development, failed to provide an effective monitoring framework or
evaluation criteria.



4
10.   Institutional Development: Institutional development activities consisted of development
of an agricultural information system, staff training, technical assistance, improvement of
management planning tools and monitoring of institutional development.
11.   Agricultural Information System, SIIAP. The component provided an important
contribution to the efficiency of SAGPyA as it unified the various information bases and
provided easy access for all staff. The arrival of the internet facilitated access to the system by
SAGPyA and provincial clelegations in the interior of the country as well as non-official users in
Argentina and throughout the world. As a result, SIIAP surpassed its performance goals related
to user access, and expanded its activities into primary data collection (agricultural census) and
qualitative data analysis.
12.   Training and Technical Assistance. Skills enhancement through exposure to external
knowledge was more effectively captured by the implementing agencies through external
technical assistance than through staff training. Foreign technical assistance for management
advice or technical peer review was generally well utilized and internalized by the agencies. On
the other hand, the majority of staff that received foreign training did not return to the sponsoring
agencies.
13. ' Institutional Strengthening, SAGPyA: The management planning and monitoring
framework introduced by the project had limited impact on the implementing agencies. Project
preparation included an institutional capacity analysis of all implementing agencies based on the
Institutional Capacity Anailysis and Development System (ICADS)3 in order to identify "capacity
gaps" related to legislation, inter-institutional relationships, organization and distribution
functions, personnel policy and skills. Annual operating plans (POA) based on the ICADS
model were utilized by the implementation units for planning and monitoring of project
activities. The POAs permitted the linkage of objectives, outcomes, activities and resource
planning, and served as the basis for implementation monitoring and reporting.
14.   While the ICADS model facilitated project management, its benefits for SAGPyA were
limited by the failure of the majority of the project implementation units to fully integrate
themselves into the pareni: agencies. In most cases, the implementation units were viewed as
isolated groups of well-paid consultants whose role was simply to provide procurement and
contracting services. This extended to the project coordination unit (PCU) itself which failed to
evolve into a central projects unit for SAGPyA as expected at appraisal. In the extreme case of
the Fisheries Component, continued institutional weaknesses in the Fisheries Subsecretariat
resulted ifn the implementation unit assuming many administrative functions with the result that
the Subsecretariat demonstrated little improvement in its ability to manage fisheries resources. In
the more successful cases of the Seeds, SIIAP, and Meat Marketing Components, the
institutional strengthening activities were much more influential as these were new agencies
within SAGPyA and so the implementing units and the agencies were virtually the same.
15.   In addition, institutional development was poorly monitored during project
implementation due to: (i) failure of the project coordination unit to assume its central role in
carrying out the reviews; and (ii) the lack of specific, verifiable institutional development
3 "Institutional Capacity Analysis and Development System (ICADS) Operational Maliual, LATPS Occasional Paper, Number 9
- July 14, 1992,.



5
indicators for each agency. The PCU focused strictly on administration of project
implementation. The comprehensive institutional assessment and description of institutional
development activities contained in the SAR was not complemented by a complete set of
indicators which would draw attention to the broader institutional issues of the project. Even in
the case of cost recovery, the PCU only carried out the monitoring required by the Project Loan
Agreement following repeated requests by the Bank.
16.   Financial: The autonomous agencies supported by the project surpassed the targets for
the financial objective, achieving an average level of self-financing of 85%. While all agencies
reduced their cost-structure through personnel reductions, each utilized different mechanisms to
generate revenues consistent with the nature of the services provided. In all cases, revenues did
not flow directly to these agencies, but were placed in general or sector revenue accounts.
17.   The animal health service charged producers for vaccination services and, together with
the plant health service charged inspection fees at control barriers. In both cases, cost-recovery
was initially resisted by producers and local governments and the national government financed
close to the full cost of the services. However, when the benefits associated with improved
market access for exports were realized, both local government and producers took over the
primary responsibility for administration and financing of the quality control systems.
18.   The seed and wool certification laboratories provided services which were directly
related to the prices which producers received for their exports. As a result, these services could
immediately charge frll cost-recovery rates. By gaining international accreditation, both
facilities became regional reference laboratories which attracted clients from other South
American countries.
19. * The costs of the fisheries research service (INIDEP) were recovered indirectly from
fishers through licensing and permit fees as well as administrative fines imposed on violators of
access or equipment restrictions.. This indirect approach was justified by the fact that research
was not used directly by the fishing industry but was intended to be utilized by Government in
order to establish maximum sustainable catch levels.
20.    Objective 2 - Diversify the agricultural export mix by strengthening marketing,
export promotion, technical and research services for a variety of agricultural products
through joint public and private efforts. The physical objective was substantially achieved.
Sector statistics indicate that the agricultural export mix did diversify substantially during the
project period. In addition to important increases in exports of fruits, ground nuts, cotton,
forestry and fish products, Argentina established itself amongst the first five world exporters of
value-added products such as fruit juice concentrates, wine and vegetable oils.
21.   Achievement of this objective was directly supported by institutional development
activities to strengthen export promotion, technical, and research services through joint public
and private efforts4. Project design - provision of infrastructure, equipment, technical assistance
and training to the key public service agencies - was generally appropriate to support the
objective. With few exceptions, performance criteria in the SAR and President's Report focused
4 Sector reforms in 1991 resulted inter ail in the dissolution of the marketing agencies for meat and grain. As a result, activities
associated with these institutions, with the exception of the export promotion activities, were dropped from the project.



6
on indicators of project output, rather than monitoring the impact of the outcomes on the
institutions, or the quality of the services provided.
22.   Export Promotion Services: Promotional services for non-traditional agricultural exports
and meats were successfully developed under the project, though with differing levels of
participation by the private sector. Activities supported by the project, which included technical
and financial assistance for exporters and organized participation in major international trade
fairs, were effective, cost-effective measures for achieving the project's objectives.
23.   Non-traditional agricultural export promotion agency, PROMEX PROMEX, which was
established by the project, was successful in developing an export information database,
participating in trade fairs, and providing training, advisory services and financial assistance to
mainly small and medium-sized producers. As a result, in part, of PROMEX assistance, 336
companies initiated export operations with export contracts worth over $220 million. The
component was less successful in developing a sustainable mechanism for private sector
participation and support.
24.   PROMEX was careful to ensure that activities benefited producers in all regions of the
country. Producers of fresh and processed horticultural products, honey, organic products, fine
wines and cut flowers, were involved in 90% of the activities. The non-traditional export data-
base provided market information to over 11,000 users. PROMEX also organized over 100
courses, seminars and workshops which were attended by over 10,000 participants; organized 16
trade missions to select markets, and led producer delegations and carried out promotional
activities at 43 international fairs. A $1.2 million matching grant fund provided assistance to 134
companies with a median grant size of approximately $22,000.
25.   There were a number of changes in the design of PROMEX following appraisal,
including definition of targeted products and eligible participants. Eligible food products were
expanded to include higher value-added exports, such as wine and cookies, reflecting the
expansion of SAGPyA's rnandate to include processed food products. Near the end of the
project, the strategy of the export promotion fund focused on grants to producer organizations,
rather than individuals, with grants which exceeded the $30,000 limit for individual exporters.
PROMEX effectively worked to organize and foster the participation of producers' and
processors' groups in development of the training program and review of export promotion
proposals; however, the component failed to build a self-sustaining institutional structure.
PROMEX also had limited success in coordinating and differentiating its activities relative to the
other Government-sponsored export promotion programs.
26.    Meat export promotion agency, PROCAR. PROCAR was successful both in its export
promotion and institutiona[l objectives. PROCAR was successful in promoting an image of high
quality, "healthy beef' in Argentina's principal high-value export market, Germany, while also
developing product recognition in new markets in Asia, Russia, the United States and South
Africa. High-value beef products (fresh cuts) increased almost 250% over the project period.
Promotional activities were carried out with the direct participation of the private sector and
included seminars by animal health personnel from importing countries, marketing studies,
matching export promotion grants of up to $30,000 per company, registration of a quality logo
for Argentine beef, participation in overseas trade fairs, as well as point of sales promotions,
mainly in restaurants and hotels. These promotional efforts coincided with Argentina's
certification as a foot-and-mouth disease-free producer of beef which opened access to several



7
new markets which were monitored by a meat marketing publication produced and disseminated
by PROCAR. While beef exports did not reach the appraisal goal of 500 metric tons and $1
billion by project close (467 MT and $616 million achieved), this was due in large part to a
worldwide decline in beef consumption, both as part of a longer-term trend, and due to concerns
related to the outbreak of BSE ("mad cow disease") in Europe.
27.   PROCAR, like PROMEX, experienced a number of adjustments in its institutional
arrangements. The National Meat Board was abolished shortly after project effectiveness and
project activities focused exclusively on meat export promotion and marketing information. The
single-industry focus of PROCAR facilitated stronger direct producer participation in the
planning and management of activities.. Indeed, PROCAR considered organization of the
industry to develop a single Argentine beef export image as a central objective of its efforts. At
project closure, a proposed law was under consideration for the creation of a meat export
marketing board to be fully funded by the private sector and managed with limited Government
participation.
28.   Technical Services: Technical services were generally very effective in eradicating
targeted diseases and pests and providing quality certification services. Strong participation
from the private sector substantially lowered the direct cost of service provision to Government.
Actihities under the project directly supported achievement of foot and mouth disease free with
vaccination status for beef cattle and eradication of citrus canker, which positioned Argentina to
enter several important new export markets, including the U.S., Chile and East Asia. In the case
of seed and wool certification, Argentina achieved international recognition for its laboratories.
The development of seed-stock and egg quality control facilities for aquaculture was negligible.
29.   Animal health services agency: SENASA. The component was successful in supporting
(via training and provision of equipment) the consolidation of the animal health system based on
activities operated by beneficiaries' foundations and commissions. The most notable contribution
was to the eradication Foot and Mouth Disease (FMD), including the development of the oil
based-FMD vaccine, though New Castle poultry disease was also eradicated and Argentina was
certified free of BSE ("mad cow disease") and Scrapie. Target values for most indicators (input,
process and impact) were achieved. Although results for the Brucellosis vaccination campaign
and tick-borne diseases were slightly lower than expected (87% achievement), the
aforementioned system supported by the project provided an excellent basis for their control and
eradication. A level 3 bio-security laboratory was built and equipped to handle FMD and other
exotic and regional viruses, while construction of the central laboratory and quarantine facility
was postponed due to SENASA's decision to focus its efforts on FMD control.
30. . Rapid progress in the FMID campaign encouraged strong participation from initially
hesitant producers. A foundation was established under producer's control to mobilize financial
support of the program and to lobby for continued Government support. Producers were
connected directly with SENASA through a computer system purchased with project support.
Provincial governments, recognizing the economic benefits to producers, worked closely with
SENASA and producers to ensure effective operation of control stations.
31.   Plant protection services agency, SENASA (formerly IASCA V). The component
supported implementation of the successful phytosanitary campaign (establishment of
fumigation and control points and monitoring) to eliminate citrus canker from the Northwest
Region. Attempts to eradicate the fruit fly from the Patagonia Region were less successful due



8
to difficulties in controlling its presence in urban areas. The project also financed renovation of
SENASA's central phytosanitary laboratory and construction of a quarantine facility to control
the import of vegetable matter through the country's main international airport. The planned
construction of a regional pesticide residue analysis laboratory was suspended in order to redirect
funds to higher priority activities such as control of the cotton boll-weevil incursion from
Paraguay, and improvements to border control points to handle the higher volume of trade of
fruits and vegetables with neighboring MERCOSUR countries.
32.   As in the case of animal health, plant protection activities were oriented toward
developing capacity amongst producers to support the phytosanitary campaigns. Initial
resistance to participation on the part of producers disappeared as the individual benefits of
successful controls became apparent. Regional foundations were organized with producers, and,
in the case of the Northwest Region, with provincial governments, to monitor, finance and
manage the barriers and fumigation points. The decision to suspend construction of the pesticide
residue laboratory in the PFrovince of Tucuman reflected the view of producer organizations that
the limited demand for these services could be met by existing, private laboratories with
SENASA certification.
33.   Seeds certification agency, INASE. This small component supported INASE's
development into an internationally recognized reference laboratory for the certification and
registration of seeds, allovwing Argentina to adhere to international conventions governing
property rights and product quality, and thus supporting growth in seeds production and exports.
The project supported remiodeling, equipping and staff training for INASE's central seeds, seed
pathology, molecular marlcers laboratories.
34.   The creation of INASE as a semi-autonomous agency at the outset of the project,
facilitated its focus on cost recovery and provision of services which were complementary to
existing private and provincial service providers. With producer support, INASE has signed
agreements with 15 provinces to decentralize its services.
35.   Wool quality control laboratory, INTA. This component supported the improvement of
the quality of wool exports by building capacity for quality analysis which was used for
commercial certification and as part of genetic improvement programs. The project provided
equipment, technical assistance and training for the expansion of INTA's wool technology
laboratory in Bariloche and the establishment of a satellite laboratory in Rawson. In recognition
of the high quality of their analysis, the laboratories received certification from the International
Wool Testing Organization (IWTO), and within IWTO, as a reference laboratory of the group of
six Independent Laboratories Round Trials. However, these certifications were suspended at the
end of the project period, pending compliance with ISO 25 quality standards.
36.   The laboratories focused on provision of services required by the private sector, both in
Argentina and in neighboring countries, for wool marketing, such as core sample analysis and
traction and compression tests. Substantial drops in the international price of wool over the
project period limited the demand for testing services.
37.   Aquaculture reference laboratories, Subsecretariat of Fisheries. This component
supported construction and equipping of a center to promote warm water aquaculture through
provision of seed stock and training, and construction of a salmon production center which
would screen eggs and breeding stock which enter Argentina. Construction of both centers was



9
substantially delayed due to conflicts with the provincial and local governments regarding
cessation of land. In addition, as these activities were carried out independently of the private
sector and local government, the basis for the continued operation of these facilities was unclear.
38.   Research: Research was generally effective in supporting the export-oriented technical
services. By their nature, these activities did not involve close collaboration with the private
sector, though they did respond directly to exporters' needs. Project-supported activities, by
building on existing research capacity, generated substantial benefits relative to the cost of the
incremental infrastructure and equipment provided.
39.   Applied biotechnology, INTA. The project provided equipment and training to
researchers who developed, inter ail, sterile fruit flies and improved diagnosis and vaccines for
FMIJ and Bruccelosis. These activities directly supported the associated plant protection and
animal health services of SENASA which were responsible for transferring the benefits of the
research to producers.
40.   Post-harvest loss reduction, INTA. The project financed training of staff, construction of
pilot plants and laboratories, and vehicles for INTA experiment stations, which were able to
develop improved post-harvest handling practices, including cold storage, fumigation and
packaging. These results were transferred to the private sector through training courses,
publications and INTA's extension service.
41.   Forestry development, INTA. The project financed construction and rehabilitation of
offices and laboratories, as well as equipment, for the INTA experiment stations focused on
plantation forestry, primarily in the Northeast Region and the Rio de la Plata Delta. The research
on species selection, phytosanitary requirements and harvesting practices permitted the
integration of agro-forestry activities in INTA's extension programs.
42.   Diversification of production, INTA. A Japanese PHRD Grant financed studies of
alternative agricultural products, including their production, domestic and export marketing. A
series of publications, oriented to private sector users, were produced and disseminated through
workshops and INTA's extension service.
43.   Marine fisheries resources evaluation, INIDEP. The project financed the equipment and
operational and maintenance costs for INIDEP's two, principal research vessels, permitting them
to substantially exceed the 200 days at sea operational goal. The project also financed observers
on commercial fishing vessels in order to collect data for analysis of commercial fish stocks, and
studies of fishing practices and by-catch. The estimates of the stocks and the impact of
commercial fishing activities were intended to support the Subsecretariat of Fisheries in the
management of fishing effort. While the information was not effectively used for resource
management, the quality of the stock assessments was verified by an international panel of
experts.
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
44.   Factors not subject to government control: Factors not subject to Government control
had a negligible effect on achievement of project objectives. Given the project's support of a
wide variety of export products, fluctuations in world prices were generally short-lived and
uncorrelated, resulting in limited impact on producers over the project period. An important



10
exception was beef, whose export demand and prices were substantially depressed by declines in
consumption in the wealthier export markets targeted by the project as a result of health concerns
and the outbreak of "mad cow disease" in Great Britain. With the exception of the Ezeiza
Phytosanitary Quarantine Station, where bankruptcy of the primary contractor delayed
completion, contractor and consultant performance was generally satisfactory.
45.   Factors generally subject to government control: Factors subject to government control
had a substantial and generally positive impact on achievement of objectives. In 1991, important
macroeconomic and sector policy reforms were implemented which significantly improved the
incentive framework for agriculture. The Convertibility Plan5 resulted in the reduction of the
annual inflation rate from over 1340 percent in 1990, to negative one percent in 1998.
Maintenance of the plan required strong export performance, further enhancing government's
commitment to the project's objectives and activities. However, the sharp increase in the costs
of non-tradable goods andi services, particularly labor, resulted in strong increases in the cost of
consultant and construction services under the project.
46.   In terms of sector policy, export taxes were virtually eliminated, and a number of public
agencies which intervened in the provision of inputs and services and marketing of agricultural
outpbts were disbanded (National Grain Board and National Meat Board), as were their
regulatory functions and the special taxes and tariffs earmarked to finance them. In 1990, the net
transfer for seven principle commodities6 to the rest of the economy amounted to over US$1.9
billion. By 1993, the seven commodities as a group received an estimated net transfer of $252
million from the economy.
47.   Public sector reform throughout the decade had a significant impact on the project. The
significant institutional changes associated with the initial round of reforms delayed compliance
with effectiveness conditions until 15 months after project signing. The reforms resulted in
significant reduction of the size and role of SAGPyA and the gradual devolution of
responsibilities to provincial governments and the private sector. Government generally
appointed well-qualified staff to head the project units which, in some cases, compensated for
weaknesses in the implementing agencies. In addition, project implementation benefited from
stability of personnel in both the project units and implementing agencies throughout the life of
the project.
48.   The total project cost at appraisal was $83.2 million (including contingencies and
refinancing of PPF), of which the Bank would finance $33.5 million, the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB) $30.0, a Japanese PHRD Grant $1.0 million and Government the
remaining $18.7 million. Shortly after appraisal, the project costs were revised upward to $107.3
million to account for the increased cost of non-tradable goods and services and changes in the
institutional structure of SAGPyA. While the Bank loan remained unchanged, IDB's loan was
increased to $41.3 million, the Japanese PHRD Grant to $1.3 million, and Government
counterpart to $31.2 million. Government's decision to eliminate the exemption of
internationally-financed projects from payment of the value-added tax required an additional
increase in counterpart funding of $14.7 million. At project closure, the project had undisbursed
balances of $0.6 million of World Bank financing and $0.1 million of IDB financing, bringing
5 The Convertibility Plan created a currency board which tied the monetary supply closely to the Central Bank's holdings of
foreign exchange, which essentially pegged the value of the new Argentine currency, the peso, to the U.S. dollar.
6Beef, cotton, maize, sorghum, soybean, sunflower, wheat.



11
total project cost to $121.3 million. Counterpart funds were not a problem, except during the
aftermath of the Mexican financial crisis in 1994 when budgetary outlays were restricted under a
fiscal adjustment program.
49.   Cessation of land by local governments, particularly for the aquaculture facilities in
Corrientes and San Martin de los Andes was much more contentious than expected. Suspension
of the provincial legislature in Corrientes and disputes regarding the cessation to the federal
government delayed construction by three years. Efforts by the Province of Neuquen to have the
salmonculture facility added to the provincial research center and legal challenges by the
municipality of San Martin de los Andes interrupted construction for over two years.
50.   Factors generally subject to implementing agency control: Although cost increases were
largely outside the control of the PCU and implementation units, there was limited effort to
anticipate the impact of these cost increases on overall project implementation or to rationalize
project activities accordingly. This passive approach was facilitated by the availability of funds
from IDB due to the cancellation of construction of the animal health lab. The Bank-financed
portion of the project was extended by three months, until September 30, 1998, to permit
completion of the Ezeiza Quarantine Station, Significant delays were also encountered in
construction of the aquaculture facilities which, in part, justified the 30 month extension of the
IDB loan to March 22, 1999.
51.   The project sought to overcome limited institutional capacity by financing technical
assistance to improve project management. This strategy was only partially successful and
proved to be very costly. The simultaneous process of reduction of permanent staff within
SAGPyA, that was carried out without a revision of overall requirements and functions, led to a
situation where essential regular tasks within SAGPyA were performed by PCU and
implementation unit staff as well as other short term consultants. The SAR projected project
coordination and institutional strengthening costs of US$4.7 million, or 5.6% of total project
costs. Final figures show expenditures of US$ 24.9 million, equivalent to 20.5 % of total project
costs. Expenditures for the PCU and implementation units totaled $6.8 million while the
additional funds were utilized for institutional strengthening of SAGPyA and preparation studies
for new projects. While the dollar value of salaries for highly-qualified Argentine consultants
increased as much as 400% as a result of macroeconomic stability, there are indications of
excessive use of funds -mainly local counterpart- to hire consultants for short term and non-
capacity building activities with limited long term impact on institutional strengthening.
D. Project Sustainability
52.   Given the continued importance of export performance in agriculture, general long term
sustainability of most project supported activities is likely without having to resort to substantive
changes in the institutional and operational strategies followed by each component. Animal and
plant health and seed and wool quality services respond directly to the recognized needs of
producers who, as a result of their close involvement in implementation, represent both a lobby
and source of funding for these activities.
53.   The export promotion activities demonstrate the importance of developing activities in
alliance with the private sector from the outset so as to permit transfer of operational and
financial responsibility. In order to ensure the sustainability of meat export promotion activities,
a new law creating a meat export promotion fund is being prepared for presentation to the
Congress. The fund would be managed by industry with Government participation, and funded



12
by a levy on beef producers In contrast, the non-traditional export promotion fund, which has
operated relatively independently of industry, is faced with uncertain funding though it may
receive assistance under new loans being prepared by the IDB.
54.   Research funding is likely to come from more diverse mechanisms. The continuity of
agricultural research activities in INTA will depend on the demonstrated ability of scientists in
this well-established agency to access funds from their own budgets, donors and partnerships
with the private sector. lI4TA is also preparing a research project for IDB financing. Forestry
research is supported by the Bank-financed Forestry Development Project (3948-AR). On-going
fisheries research and information development should be financed through the fisheries fund
established by the new fisheries law. The law requires that the revenues from licensing and fines
be used to support fisheries management and research. Little interest has been demonstrated by
either Government or the private sector in funding the aquaculture research activities.
55.   The importance of a well-functioning agricultural information system has led SAGPyA to
support SIIAP as a regular budget item and to seek funding for continued system development
under the Bank-financed Provincial Agricultural Development Project (4150-AR). The
information unit is also investigating revenue generation through development of a customized
subscription service. A plan to sell advertising space on their web-site was dropped as it
conflicted with Government regulations.
E. Bank Performance
56.   Bank performance was highly satisfactory throughout project Identification, Preparation
and Appraisal. Sector ES'W complemented the studies undertaken by IICA and provided an
excellent technical basis for project design. The Bank also worked effectively with IDB and
FAO/CP to ensure a comprehensive approach to strengthening of services which was consistent
with Government's on-goiing civil service reform efforts and which responded to farmers' needs.
By working closely with the implementing agencies in preparation, project activities generally
responded well to their technical needs as well, ensuring ownership of project outputs.
Assessment of SAGPyA and the individual implementing agencies' capacity was thorough and
correctly identified the need for substantial implementation support.
57.   The primary weakness in the Bank's performance during this phase of the project was the
design of mechanisms to address the institutional weaknesses in the implementing agencies. It
was clear that the project's broad scope would make coordination and supervision very difficult.
The formation of implementation units in each implementing agency permitted government to
avoid addressing the long-term strengthening needs of these agencies and resulted in high
consultant costs. In addition, improved management skills were generally transferred to
consultants in these units, rather than to agency staff. Lack of a project organizational plan for
the PCU and implementation units, as well as the absence of specific monitoring indicators for
institutional strengthening of the agencies, resulted in weak controls on the use of consultants in
these units.
58.   Bank performance during implementation was satisfactory. Implementation was
adequately reported and included identification of key problems, though implementation ratings
may have under-estimated the difficulties faced by some of the subcomponent activities such as
aquaculture. Initially, supervision focused on procurement and disbursement issues, as well as
amendments to the Loan Agreement required by SAGPyA's reorganization. Following the mid-
term review process, there was greater focus on development objectives as reflected by the



13
incorporation of FAO/CP technical staff in the supervision missions. These was also agreement
on the preparation of a project organizational chart which included terms of reference for all
PCU and implementation unit staff, which were used to rationalize the hiring of Bank-funded
consultants.
59.   In response to budgetary limitations and client request, Bank supervision efforts evolved
from two dedicated supervision missions per year, to a more continuous supervision effort
carried out by the task team in conjunction with missions for other activities in Argentina7. As a
result, though formal supervision missions became less frequent, there was increased field
presence which permitted more rapid response to client concerns and a better understanding by
the Bank of the project's evolving needs. This was also more consistent with the client's
experience with IDB which supervised the project from Argentina.
60.   Loan covenants were enforced by the Bank, but the Bank showed flexibility in modifying
the activities financed by the project in order to address more urgent or newly emerging sector
requirements such as phytosanitary and animal health emergencies. A major amendment to the
Loan Agreement was signed in August 1997 to reflect SAGPyA's new institutional structure and
to reassign funds consistent with actual priorities and operational needs.
61.   The primary weaknesses in the Bank's performance during supervision were: (i)
insufficient coordination with IDB; and (ii) insufficient focus on institutional strengthening
issues. The presence of the IDB task manager in Argentina resulted in an on-going, rather than
mission-oriented approach to supervision. As a result, despite regular meetings with IDB,
supervision efforts were carried out independently by the two institutions, in some cases
resulting in distinct reporting and procurement requirements which complicated the work of the
implementing agencies. On the other hand, the Bank and IDB worked well in supporting
reassignment of project funds to address newly emerging priority activities consistent with
project objectives.
62.   The Bank also failed to focus sufficiently on institutional development of the
implementing agencies. This was, in part, a consequence of the lack of specific monitoring and
evaluation indicators, but also due to the tendency of supervision missions to interact mainly
with consultants in the implementation units rather than the line agency staff. This improved
somewhat through increased participation of technical staff from FAO/CP in supervision
missions.
F. Borrower Performance
63.   Government's performance was highly satisfactory during project preparation. Staff of
the concerned agencies worked closely with preparation unit consultants to define project
activities and support technical, institutional and financial assessments. Government's close
participation is reflected in the project's anticipation of the evolving role of SAGPyA and the
implementing agencies in the sector.
7Budgetary limitations in FYI 995 resulted in the cancellation of two formal supervision missions, including a four-month
postponement of the mid-term review mission. This was partially compensated for by an FAO-CP mission which canied
out a technical review of the project in December 1995 in conjunction with mid-term review preparation.



14
64.   Government's implementation performance, particularly that of the PCU, was generally
satisfactory. The initial pace of project implementation was slow, reflecting difficulties in
complying with legal covenants following the public sector reforms of 1991. Institutional
changes resulted in lags of 60% and more in disbursements throughout the first two years after
project approval (1991 through 1992). Thereafter, the primary difficulty in complying with legal
covenants regarded the cessation of land from provincial authorities for construction of the
aquaculture centers. Altlhough Government was able to obtain rights to construct the facilities,
disputes with local authorities continued up to the project closing date.
65.   Procurement problems, associated with International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
procedures, hampered implementation at the outset of the project but was resolved. Until
amendment of the loan agreement in August 1997, procurement thresholds for the Bank and IDB
were different, with several delays due to the insistence of the implementation units to apply IDB
thresholds to Bank-financed procurement.
66.   Planning, monitoring and evaluation, and reporting were very good throughout the
project. POAs and project progress reports were prepared according to the agreed format and
were provided to the Bank in a timely manner. On-going monitoring and evaluation, while input
and output, rather than outcome, oriented was carried out according to agreed indicators. The
mid-term review was contracted out to a firm which provided a thorough review of the project,
including interviews with project stakeholders in the public and private sector. Following initial
delays, a thorough Borrower Completion Report was prepared according to terms of reference
agreed with the Bank.
67.   Project financial management under the PCU was generally excellent, but audit
timeliness and quality declined with the assignment of auditing responsibilities to the National
General Auditor (AGN). Audits were contracted to a Bank-approved, private firm until audit
year 1997. During this time, audits were prepared on-time, and the auditor's recommendations
were rapidly addressed by the PCU to improve financial management. Beginning in 1997, the
Bank agreed with Government to have projects audited by AGN, a public auditing service.
AGN, which suffered shortages of qualified auditors, was unable to complete the audits within
the legal deadline. In addition, the auditor's comments were not always discussed with the
project staff prior to issuance, resulting in disagreements with the PCU.
68.   While the PCU did a good job coordinating activities with the financiers and also
responding well to the needs of the implementation units, there was little effort to integrate the
separate components of the project and very little teamwork in project implementation. The
implementation units, despite having their own procurement and financial management staff,
required substantial individualized assistance from the PCU, an indicator of staff quality
weaknesses below the level of the implementation unit coordinators.
G. Assessment of Outcome
69. * The project's outcome is assessed as satisfactory in supporting its private sector
development objectives. This assessment is based on: (i) most of the project's major objectives
were achieved; (ii) sustainabilty is likely for most activities; and (iii) most project activities, by
focusing on cost-recovery and participation of the private sector and local governments, were
carried out in a cost-effective manner. The project contributed to creation of an improved
business environment in the agricultural sector, and supported Government's restructuring of the
public sector to improve efficiency and to concentrate on services complementary to private



15
activity. The important exception is in the area of institutional strengthening, where, other than
in those cases where the implementation unit and the agency were virtually the same (SIIAP,
INASE, and to a lesser extent INTA), project financed activities were neither sustainable nor
cost-effective.
H. Future Operation
70.   An operation plan was prepared by the PCU in conjunction with the implementation units
prior to project closing. In all cases, except PROCAR, PROMEX and the aquaculture centers,
maintenance of the facilities, equipment and staff are included in the regular budgets of the
implementing agencies. Incremental investment costs are included under PROSAP. As
mentioned above, a law is under review to create a meat marketing and promotional organization
based on a $1 per slaughtered head charge on processors. PROMEX is being considered for
support under a future IDB loan. Aquaculture activities are being reviewed in the context of an
overall institutional assessment of the Subsecretariat of Fisheries.
L Key Lessons Learned
71.   The project provided several key lessons which can be applied to other projects in
Argentina both within and outside the agricultural sector:
*  Thorough sector assessment permitted identification of key bottlenecks to improved
agricultural export performance which could be appropriately addressed by public sector
initiatives. The project's effectiveness in supporting the positive response of Argentina's
agricultural producers to the new incentive framework created by the economic stability and
liberalization of sector policy was due, in large part, to the thorough analysis of the sector
carried out by Government, the Bank and their international partners. Close collaboration
with technical staff in the future implementing agencies and consultation with the private
sector permitted identification of the key bottlenecks to improved export performance and
diversification and an appropriate role for Government intervention.
*  Organization of plant and animal health campaigns proved to be the most effective
government-sponsored activities to open new export markets. Plant and animal health
restrictions in the United States and in Asian countries on imports from countries with FM
and citrus canker are examples of export barriers which cannot be addressed by individual
producers. Government's role in informing and organizing producers, as well as carrying-out
required control activities, was essential to the eradication of these diseases. As a result,
Argentine producers enjoyed immediate access to new markets representing billions of
dollars in potential exports. While export promotion activities were also valued by
producers, unless carried out as part of an industry-wide campaign to promote a product
quality image, as in the case of meat, the benefits tended to be producer-specific and could
have been carried out by the private sector with little or no Government assistance.
*  Organizedproducer involvementfrom the outset in defining the goals and operational
mechanisms of project activities permitted Government to effectively pass-on operational
responsibility to the private sector. Government's role in identifying the technical
requirements, organizing producers and demonstrating the value of animal health,
phytosanitary, seed certification and meat export promotion services, at the very least,
significantly accelerated the recognition of their importance by the private sector. In all



16
cases, producers were initially skeptical regarding the value of, and Argentina's ability to
carry out, the controls and promotional activities. However, in those cases where producers
were involved in an organized fashion from the beginning in defining and monitoring the
operation of the activities, the private sector eventually assumed a substantial share of the
technical and financial responsibility for these services. In those cases where industry's
participation was less f^ormalized and proactive, such as with PROMEX, industry has not
demonstrated a willingness to assume a substantial share of the costs of the program. This
approach is particularly important in Argentina, where Government has emphasized private
service provision.
Project outputs were unable to effectively support development objectives in the absence of
institutional capacity in terms of appropriate legislation and budgetary and technical skills
in the responsible agency. The fisheries component was successful in strengthening
INIDEP's capacity to assess maximum sustainable yields of key commercial species, and in
the installation of a fisheries information system to monitor registered catch. However, these
tools were not effectively applied to avoid over-fishing due to the Subsecretariat of Fisheries'
limited capacity to monitor and enforce restrictions on fishing effort due to inconsistent
budgetary support, lackc of qualified staff and weak legal framework.
Institutional strengthening activities should have been carried out directly with implementing
agency staff, rather than project consultants, and required specific monitoring and
evaluation indicators. Institutional strengthening activities were more or less successful to
the extent they were focused on staff of the implementing agencies rather than consultants in
the implementation units. SIIAP and INASE are the most successful institutions as their
creation was directly supported by the project and as such their implementation units were
the key operational staff of the agencies. At the other extreme, in fisheries, the
implementation unit undertook many of the tasks of the Subsecretariat of Fisheries which
demonstrated no management improvement under the project. These problems were not
easily detected during implementation as there were no indicators for monitoring and
evaluating institutional performance of the participating agencies.
* External implementation support should have been centralized in the project coordination
unit, with assistance to implementing agencies provided within the context of their line
operations, under their direct responsibility. Creation of implementation units for each
participating agency, was very costly and tended to isolate technical staff of the agency from
the project, diminishing their direct responsibility for component performance. The large
number of implementation units resulted in substantial over-capacity and duplication of
functions, resulting in high project administration costs. Line staff tended to view the
implementation units as highly paid consultants who controlled project resources. As a
result, ownership of the project waned and project staff were left on their own to resolve
delays and conflicts which should have been addressed by the direct beneficiaries of the
investments. As indicated above, in those cases such as INASE and SIIAP, where project
staff and line staff were the same, or INTA where the implementation unit consisted of a
single consultant, implementation was relatively trouble-free.



17
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
(Loan No. 3297-AR)
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1. Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Obiectives           Substantial         Partial         Negligible        Not applicable
Macro Policies                         E                 E                 E                  [A
Sector Policies                        El                                   D                 El
Financial Objectives                   [                 E                 E                   E
Institutional Development              [                [A                 j                   E
Physical Objectives                    [A               El                  0                  0
Poverty Reduction                       ]                E                 E                  [A
Gender Issues                          E                 E                 E                  [A
Other Social Objectives                E                 E                 E                  [
Environmental Objectives               E                 E                 E                   [A
Public Sector Management               E                [                  E                   E
Private Sector Development              A                E                 El                  E
Other (specify)                        E                 E                 E                  [A



18
(Continued)
B. Project Sustainabilitv             Likely                 Unlikely                 Uncertain
Highly
C. Bank Performance                    Satisfactorv         Satisfactorv              Deficient
(/)                     (/)                       (/)
Identification                                             I]                        f]
Preparation Assistance                                     j]                        [J
Appraisal                                                  E]                        El
Supervision                       [E                                                 []
Highly
D. Borrower Performance                      satisfactorv   Satisfactorv     Deficient
Preparation                                                []              []
Implementation                              [              E]
Covenant Compliance                         [               E]
.Operation (if applicable)                   []
Highlv                                           Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome             Satisfactorv   Satisfactorv  Unsatisfagty      unsatisfactorv
CI     E3               [:1              0



19
Table 2. Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title           Purpose             Year of approval               Status
Preceding operations
1. Balcarce Livestock   Encourage adoption of    1967                     Implemented between
Development Project (Ln.  new technology in pasture                       1968 and 1980
505-AR)                 production and
management, and in
animal health practices
2. Agricultural Credit  Provide medium and long   1978                    Canceled in 1980
Project I (Ln. 1564-AR)    term credit for on farm
investments
3. Grain Storage Project    Expand nationwide grain   1978                Implemented between
(Ln. 1521-AR)           storage capacity,                                 1978 and 1987
supported complementary
rail and port
transport/handling
facilities, and provided
credit for private
investments in storage
related facilities
4. Agriculture Sector Loan  Support sector       1986                     Implemented between
(Ln. 2675-AR)           adjustments: reduce                               1986 and 1989
export taxes on ag.
Products; implement
compensatory federal land
tax; rationalize import
tariffs and regulations on
ag. Imports
5. Public Sector        Strengthen GOA's general  1986                    Implemented between
Management Project (Ln.   management of the                               1986 and 1991
2714-AR-)               economy
6. Agricultural Credit  Provide credit for on farm   1988                 Implemented between
Project n (Ln. 2970-AR)   investments in a wide                           1988 and 1996
range of agricultural
subsectors
Follow-up Operations
1. Forestry Development   Improve framework for  1995                     Ongoing
Project (Ln. 3948-AR)    development of plantation
forestry
2. Provincial Agricultual   Finance infrastructure and   1997             Ongoing
Development Project (Ln.  agricultual services at the
4150-AR)                provincial and national
levels.



20
Table 3. Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                  Date Planned              Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                                      October 1988
Preparation                                                                     August 1989
Appraisal                                            November 1989              March 1990
Negotiations                                                                   December 1990
Board Presentation                                                            February 28, 1991
Loan Signing                                                                   August 13, 1991
Loan Effectiveness                                                             February 5, 1992
Midterm review                                                                   May 1996
Project Completion                                    June 30, 1998          September 30, 1998
Loau Closing                                         October 31, 1998          January 31, 1999
Table 4. Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
Fiscal Year          Appraisal Estimate               Actual            Actual as %  of
Estimate
1991                      3.50                      0.00                    0%
1992                      6.30                      2.62                   42%
1993                     10.20                      9.48                   93%
1994                     15.70                     14.08                   90%
1995                     22.50                    20.81                    93%
1996                     29.40                    26.21                    90%
1997                     32.00                     29.24                   91%
1998                     33.50                    31.97                    95%
1999                     33.50                    32.81                    98%
Final Disbursement: August 17, 1998
' Loan balance of US$0.69 million canceled.



21
Table 5. Key Indicators for Project Implementation
I. Key Implementation Indicators in SARI
President's Report8                              Estimated Goal  Achieved (% of Goal)
Output                                                                                        .
1. Build Central Laboratory (phytosanitary)           Complete & equip   Completed & equipped (100%)
2. Build Quarantine Station (phytosanitary)           Complete & equip     Completed but not equipped
__________ __              (90 %)
3. Build and equip wool testing laboratory in Bariloche  Complete & equip   Completed & equipped (100%)
4. Remodel and equip wool testing laboratory in Rawson  Complete & equip   Completed & equipped (100%)
5. Build biotechnology laboratory                     Complete & equip   Completed & equipped (100%)
6. Build aquaculture center in Corrientes             Complete & equip   Completed & equipped (100%)
7. Build aquaculture center in San Martin de los Andes  Complete & equip    Completed but not equipped
(90%)
8. Install sanitary barriers in Patagonia and NOA (citrus canker    20 operational  20 operational (100%)
and fruit fly)
9. Determine maximum sustainable catch levels of 5 main fish  5 species              5 species (100%)
species
10. Percentage of beef exports with quality seal                100%                          100%
11. Number of seminars and courses carried out by PROMEX          100                    116 (116%)
12. Number of projects approved by PRONEX                         120                    134 (112%)
Impact
13. FMD cases                                             Less than 100                    0(100%)
14. Eradication of Fruit Fly in Patagonia                  FF free area              Rural only (0%/-)
15. NOA declared region free of citrus canker           International         International recognition
recognition                 achieved (100%)
16. Number of agreements signed with provinces to ensure           12                     15 (125%)
observance of the Seeds Law
17. Number of units within SAGPyA linked to SIAP                  240                    240 (100%)
18. Number of provinces linked to SIIAP                            23                     23 (100%)
19. New citrus exports markets as a result of being recognized      5                       4 (80%)
as free of Citrus Canker
20. Percentage of commercial seed with quality guarantee         100%                         100%
21. Number of participants in trade fairs and missions            200                    676 (339%)
organized by PROMEX
22. Number of businesses that carried out exports with direct                                   655
PROMEX assistance
23. Value of exports carried out with PROMEX assistance                                  US$ 220 M
8 Original indicators were modified after beginning of implementation.



22
Table 6. Key Studies Included in Project
Study            Purpose as Defined at           Status               Impact of Study
Appraisal
1. Situation of         Evolution of production of  Completed             To be utilized in extension
Salmonculture in        trucha arco iris over past                         program for Salmonculture
Argentina                10 years and analysis of                          Center in San Martin de
firms dedicated to its                           los Andes which was not
production.                                       completed at project close.
2. Sityation of Warm    Identification of principal   Completed            To be utilized in extension
Water Aquaculture in     warm water aquaculture                            program for Warm Water
Northeast Argentina.    species and practices in                           Aquaculture Center in
Northeast Argentina.                              Corrientes which was not
operational at project
close.
Evaluation of the market   Irmports and exports of  Completed              Utilized by Subsecretariat
for fish in MERCOSUR     MERCOSUR countries                                of Fisheries in identifying
and destination of exports.                       regional market
Analysis of import                                opportunities.
substitution opportunities.
Evaluation of yield levels   Analysis of captures of 10   Completed        Utilized by Subsecretariat
of the principle        species between 1990 and                           of Fisheries in evaluation
commercial marine species  1994 including location                         of requests for fishing
in Argentina.            and volumes of catch.                            licenses.
Requirements for wood    Review of types of       Completed                Utilized for preparation of
processing and marketing   products, technical                             Forestry Strategy and
strategies for value-added   processing requirements                       Forestry Development
products.                and opportunities within                          Project.
Argentina and the
MlERCOSUR market.
Demand profile for       Demand, quality          Completed.               Used to identify potential
eucalyptus and pine      specifications and prices,                        regulatory impediments
products in Europe and   an,1 required modifications                       and incentives to orient
North America.           in Argentine products to                          production to these
meet demand.                                      markets.
Production and marketing   Growing conditions,    Completed.               Published by INTA and
requirements for non-    cultural practices, and                           distributed to producers
traditional crops.       harvest and marketing                             primarily through Cambio
requirements for                                 Rural Program.
alternative, high value
crops such as asparagus,
kiwi fruit, star fruit, etc.



23
Table 7A. Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)            Actual/Latest Estimate(US$M)
Local       Foreign        Total       Local         Foreign       Total
Item               Costs         Costs                     Costs         Costs
1. Animal Health            8.4          9.1         17.5          17.1           1.5          18.6
2. Phytosanitary            8.5           4.1        12.6           21.0          3.2          24.2
Services and Seed
Certification
3.Fisheries                 7.4           3.6        11.0           17.6          1.5          19.1
4. Meat Promotion           6.0           4.4        10.4           10.5          0.3          10.8
5. Research                 4.7           4.4         9.1            8.0          3.1          11.1
6. Export Promotion         5.4           2.0         7.4            9.1          0.2           9.3
7. Information              0.9           0.2         1.1            2.5          0.2           2.7
System
8. Institutional            4.4          0.3          4.7           24.1          0.8          24.9
Development and
Project Coordination
9. PPF                      0.5           0.0         0.0            0.6          0.0           0.6
Total Baseline Costs       46.2          28.1        74.3          110.5         10.8         121.3
Contingencies               5.4           3.5         8.9            0.0          0.0           0.0
TOTAL            1        51.6          31.6        83.2          110.5         10.8         121.3
Table 7B. Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)            Actual/Latest Estimate(US$M)
Local       Foreign        Total       Local         Foreign       Total
Source              Costs         Costs                     Costs         Costs
IBRI)                      17.9          15.6        33.5           29.0          3.9          32.9
IDB                        14.4          15.6        30.0           34.5          6.7          41.2
Japanese Grant              0.6           0.4         1.0            1.1          0.2           1.3
Funds
Local Counterpart          18.7           0.0        18.7           45.9          0.0          45.9
TOTAL                     51.6          31.6        83.2          110.5         10.8         121.3



24
Table 8. Economic Costs and Benefits
An analysis of economic costs and benefits was not carried out at appraisal, and given the
difficulty in evaluating the direct contribution of the project supported activities to private sector
profitability, no ex-post ralte of return was calculated for the project. The project's success in
garnering technical and financial support from the private sector, as well as mid-term evaluation
and completion mission interviews with private sector beneficiaries, suggests that most activities
were highly cost effective.



25
ARGENTINA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
(Loan No. 3297-AR)
Table 9. Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement  Section  Covenant Present  Original    Revised                         Description of                                       Comments
type    Status  fulfillment  fulfillment                    Covenant
date       date
Loan        3.01 (b)  10       C        05/31/91               Borrower to sign subsidiary agreements with SAPyA,
INTA, IASCAV, INASE, SENASE (Implementing
Agreement)
3.01 (d)  10       C                               Actions taken to enable INTA, IASCAV, INASE,       External review delayed. Expected to be completed by
SENASA to comply with obligations of loan including  March 30, 1998.
repayment of their part of the loan.
3.03     10        C                               SENASA to maintain planning and epidemiology and
training units.
3.07 (i)  05       C                               Each agency to prepare POAs before October 30 each year.
3.07 (ii)  09      C                               Each Agency to review POA with Bank by 11/30 and 6/30
each year.
3.08     09        CD                              Progress reports to beprovidedto the Bank 8/31 and 2/28   Supervision mission reviewed requirements of Borrower
of each year. Midtenn review 6/30/93 and final review  Final Report. First draft to be provided to World Bank by
6/30/97.                                           March 30, 1998 and final report by April 30, 1998.
3.09     10        C                               Establish Export Promotion Fund                    Allocation of unclaimed funds from second round of grant
awards to be finished by December 31, 1997 according to
criteria agreed with March 1997 supervision mission.
3.11     02        CP                              Establish, maintain and review annually revenue collection  Cost recovery study to be completed by March 30, 1998
systems for each implementing agency to allow agencies to  will verify level of self-financing of implementing agencies.
cover its financial needs to service the loan.
Schedule  02       C                               Phytosanitary services agreement entered mto with
I, 3 (bXi)                                         participating provinces and funds collected to remain with
SAPyA to cover costs of providing these services.
Schedule  10       CP                              DNPyA to acquire effective possession of lands necessary   While land was formally provided by the Province of
1, 3 (bXii)                                        for construction of aquaculture facilities in San Martin de   Neuquen for construction of the aquaculture facility in San
los Andes and Corrientes.                          Martin de los Andes, consequent delays resulted from a
dispute with the Province regarding the location of the
center and the municipalitys request for an environmental
assessment. Though resolved, the mayor of San Martin de
los Andes now considers that the time frame allowed for
construction in the original cessation of land has passed and
has stopped construction. The case is currently before the
Supreme Court of Argentina.



26
Agreement   Section   Covenant Present   Original         Revised                          Description of                                             Comments
type     Status  fulfillment  fulfillment                          Covenant
date         date
Schedule  02         C                                   Mechanisms effected to ensure recovery of costs related to   Existing maritime permit system generates revenues
1, 3                                                     fishery resource monitoring activities.                   sufficient to cover costs of Government activities.
(bxiii)                                                                                                            However, concerns regarding managemuent of stocks is
likely to result in establishment of a quota system and it is
unclear how this would provide sustainable financing for
management activities.
Covenant types:
I.    Accounts/audits                                    8.   Indigenous people
2. =  Financial performance/revenue generation from       9.    Monitoring, review, and reporting
beneficiaries                                     10.    Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds              11.    Sector or cross-sector budgetary or other resource
4. =  Counterpart funding                                       allocation
5. =  Management aspects of the project or executing     12.    Sector or cross-sector policy/ regulatory/institutional
agency                                                   action
6. =  Environmental covenants                           13.    Other
7. =  Involuntary resettlement
8. Present Status:
C = covenant complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC = not complied with



27
Table 10. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
STAGE OF PROJECT CYCLE
FISCAL                                    Negotiations                                   TOTAL
YEAR                                    through Board
Preparation     Appraisal       Approval       Supervision    Completion
STAFF WEEKS
1989         17.5                                                                         17.5
1990         61.5           21.1                                                          82.6
1991                         14.1            4.2              5.0                         23.3
1992                                                         29.9                         29.9
1993                                                         19.8                         19.8
1994                                                         24.8                         24.8
1995                                                         12.9                         12.9
1996                                                         15.8                         15.8
1997                                                          6.4                          6.4
1998                                                         10.1                         10.1
1999                                                          0.5           4.5            5.0
Total         79.0           35.2            4.2            125.2            4.5         248.1
USs'000
1987
1988
1989         35.6                                                                         35.6
1990        141.7           45.1                                                         186.8
1991                        39.9            12.5             14.7                         67.1
1992                                                         86.1                         86.1
1993                                                         53.5                         53.5
1994                                                         80.3                         80.3
1995                                                         42.6                         42.6
1996                                                         38.4                         38.4
1997                                                         18.9                         18.9
1998                                                         33.4                         33.4
1999                                                          1.5           13.5          15.0
Total        177.3           85.0           12.5            369.4           13.5         657.7
Source: Cost Accounting System



28
Table 11. Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Number                    Specialized    Implementat   Development
Stage of     Month              Of        Days in        Staff Skills    ion            Objectives      Types of
Project Cycle   Year            Persons       Field        Represented       Status                       Problems
Through Appraisal                                                     _
December 1988          7            20   Agronomist
Ag. Economist
Institutional
Marketing
Agriculturalist
Financial
April 1989         4            20   Agriculturalist
Ag. Economist
Institutional
Marketing
November 1989s         4             12   Agriculturalist
Ag. Economist
Institutional
Marketing
March 19910         6            12   Agriculturalist                                 Appraisal
Ag. Economist
Institutional
Marketing
Financial
Procurement
Appraisal through
Board Approval
September 19913        1              5   Agriculturalist                                 Public sector
restructuring
Supervision
June 1991            2             5   Financial             NR             NR         Pre-effectiveness
Agriculturist
October 1991         1             1   Financial              2              2
December 1991          3            11   Ag. Economist          2              2         Delays in preparing
ICB documents
Institutional
Procurement



29
May 1992          2            11   Ag. Economist         2              2
Agriculturist
December 1992         2             11   Ag. Economist         2              2
Agriculturist
May 1993          2             8   Ag. Economist         2              2         Delays in cessation
of land for
Agriculturist                                 aquaculture centers
March 1994         2              5   Ag. Economist         2              2         Amend loan
agreement to reflect
Economist                                     actual institutional
structure
December 1994         3             7   Economist              S              S         Animal health
component delaying
Agriculturist                                 construction ofjoint
Ingtitutionl .facility with plant
Institutional                                 health
Midte;m Review          June 1996         5            10   Economist             S              Ss        Lack of
organizational plan
Fisheries                                     to rationalize use of
Institutional                                 consultants.
Marketing
Agriculturist
March 1997         3             10   Economist             S              S         Continued delays in
construction
Fisheries                                     resulting from land
Marketing                                     disputes for
November 1997          3             7   Economist             S              S         Continued
construction delays
Marketing                                     at Salmonculture
Fisheries                                     Center due to
dispute with
municipality.
Concems regarding
funding for
operation of
aquaculture centers.
May 1998          2             6   Economist             S              S         Remaining
construction of
Marketing                                     Salmonculture
Center to be
financed by IDB.
Bankruptcy of
contractor delayed
constrtuction of
Ezeiza Quarantine
Station.
July 1998        1             3   Economist              S              S         Extension of project
requested to
complete Ezeiza
Quarantine Station.
Completion              July 1998         4             7   Economist
Mission                                                     Agriculturist
Institutional
_._______.___             _       ,      ,        ____=-  Marketing



30
APPENDIX I
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
(Loan No. 3297-AR)
BORROWER COMPLETION REPORT
(SUMMARY)
Introduction
The Agricultural Services Modernization Program - PROMSA - stemmed from the
administrative reform and decentralization process which the National Government began to
implement in the second half of the 1980s, seeking, among other things, greater participation by
the provinces in the provision of public services and their rationalization at federal level.
Among the financial assistance programs it provides to the Argentine Government, in 1988 IDB
presented a report on the agricultural sector which defined limitations and priorities in terms of
investments in the sector and prepared a non-traditional agricultural export development project
and another dealing with fishery development. A similar contribution was carried out in 1989 by
IBRD which requested the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program to prepare an investment
project aimed at improving agricultural services in order to increase exports in that sector. In
September 1989, a joint 1DB/World Bank mission finalized the preparation of a financial
proposal for the agricultural export development project which included the important features of
the three projects mentioned above, together with a credit component for agro-industrial export
investment. However, a subsequent evaluation carried out in 1990 determined that the project
should focus on agricultural services and on institutional strengthening activities. At the request
of Argentine authorities, a new joint mission by both banks was carried out in September 1990 to
adjust PROMSA to new institutional reforms in the public sector which began that year.
PROMSA's objectives
PROMSA's main objective has been to improve the country's capacity to produce, certify and
ensure the high quality of agricultural and fishery products, for the purpose of increasing and
facilitating export diversification.
The Program was focused on the institutional strengthening of SAGPyA to improve the
efficiency and productivity of technical support services for production. Nine components were
therefore defined: (i) Animal Health (construction of a National Laboratory dealing with Animal
Health; fight against foot-and-mouth disease, control of ticks, brucellosis, tuberculosis, scab in
cows and sheep; disease monitoring, and strengthening of SENASA's technical-administrative
capacity); (ii) Plant Health and Quality (support to national plant health programs to control
citrus canker in NOA, fruit flies in the northern Patagonia region, preventing the introduction of



31
boll weevils in NEA, and institutional strengthening of the plant health service); (iii)
Certification and National Registry of Seeds; (iv) Technological Development (development of
biotechnology, reduction in post-harvest losses, modern wool classification, and management of
forest plantations); (v) Fishery Development (support to fishery research, development of
aquaculture and institutional strengthening of SAGPyA's fishery area); (vi) Promotion of
External Market for Meats; (vii) Promotion of Non-Traditional Agricultural Product Exports;
(viii) an Integrated Agricultural and Fishery Information System; and (ix) a General
Coordination Unit under the responsibility of the Secretariat of Agriculture, Livestock and
Fisheries. The Program was co-financed by the World Bank, the Inter-American Development
Bank - IDB, and the Government of Japan. The Program's initial cost rose to US$107.300
million, of which US$33.5 million constituted IBRD financing, US$41.260 million was from
IDB, US$1.378 million was from the Government of Japan, and US$3 1.162 million
corresponded to national counterpart funds.
Execution and Results of the Program
Program execution took seven years instead of the five originally planned, due to a combination
of factors that affected disbursements, including: (i) institutional changes in SAGPyA, (ii)
difficulties in obtaining firm land rights for the location of civil works, (iii) increase in costs of
non-tradable goods and services, and (iv) delays in the preparation of contracts and bids.
Despite this, there were no important changes in objectives and most targets and scheduled
products were reached. The results achieved are notable: record harvests in principal export
crops and fish landings, eradication of bovine foot-and-mouth disease and other diseases, control
of major pests (i.e., boll weevil), protection of NOA region against "citrus canker," important
progress in controlling the Mediterranean fly, etc. The value of exports rose from US$8.000
million in 1990 to US$14.600 million in 1997, with a significant participation by the fruit and
vegetable sector, fishing, forest production and non-traditional agricultural products, which grew
at a greater rate than that of the sector's exports as a whole. While this growth is the result of a
set of actions by the Government and the private sector, the reduction in gaps in the sector's
institutional capacity and the improvements PROMSA was able to introduce in those services
which are of importance to foreign commerce, doubtlessly constituted a significant support to the
increase noted in exports, facilitated by favorable changes in the macroeconomic and
institutional environment which occurred during the execution period.
The strengthening of animal and plant health services was extremely important in the economic
deregulation process by improving health controls which allowed the level of external
competitiveness to increase and enabled the opening of new markets for beef, poultry and fruits.
In the case of fishing, the strengthening of INDEP allowed a fishery information network to be
incorporated nationwide and made it possible, for the first time, to evaluate Argentina's maritime
fishing resources, defining limits for catches of different species of fish for conservation
purposes.
Adaptive research in the field of post-harvest physiology made it possible to obtain technologies
aimed at improving the quality of the principal fruits which the country exports, especially in
perishability treatment and in prolonging post-harvest life. Wool classification improved
through the construction and operation of two internationally acknowledged classification
laboratories. Types of work in forestry research were consolidated, resulting in the



32
dissemination and marketing of improved seeds, the incorporation of germ plasma from
alternative species and the evaluation and dissemination of new forestry and forest management
and protection practices. The development of biotechnology allowed significant research
progress in the fields of animal health (improvement of vaccines against foot-and-mouth disease
and brucellosis, production of diagnostic kits against foot-and-mouth disease, brucellosis and
tuberculosis), plant health (obtaining sterile genotypes for the Mediterranean Fruit Fly potato
plants resistant to virus), and development of genetically-improved crops (soybean, potato,
sunflower).
A national seed institute was created, which has agreements with 15 provinces through which it
carries out its role as a leading agency dealing with certifications and registration of reproduction
material.
The external promotion program for beef generated a significant change in export supply by
incorporating cuts of better quality and price, which allowed it to reach new markets and
substantially increase export volume and value.
The Non-Traditional Export Product Promotion Program was most useful in increasing and
diversifying food exports,, and in establishing a unique international image of Argentine foods as
being synonymous with quality and origin and offering technical assistance and training to those
small- and medium-scale food companies entering international commerce for the first time.
Finally, the Integrated Agricultural and Fishery Information Service supported by the program
has become the principal source of information on the agricultural sector and currently
collaborates with the National Statistical System in data collection and qualitative analysis.
Determining factors in F'ROMSA execution
Institutional changes
Due to a series of unexpected factors stemming from institutional changes in the Argentine
public sector structure, compliance with prerequisites for the first disbursement only became
effective 15 months after the loan was signed.
These include the enactment of the Economic Deregulation Decree in October 1991, which
eliminates certain agencies, including the National Meat Board and the National Grain Board,
making it necessary to reformulate ownership and activities of the Animal Health, Plant Health,
and the National Seed Service components. SENASA therefore underwent an institutional
reorganization and SAGPyA's National Bureau of Agricultural Marketing and Inspection was
eliminated; in its place, new semi-autonomous agencies were created: the Argentine Institute of
Plant Health and Quality - IASCAV and the National Seed Institute - INASE. Likewise, the
execution of the meat product export promotion component came under the responsibility of
SAGPyA's National Market Bureau.
The decision by Argentine authorities to postpone construction of a Central Laboratory for
Animal Health and an Animal Quarantine Station, and to allocate those funds to the fight against
foot-and-mouth disease through a new program, also meant a reduction in the program's general
rate of execution. Subsequently, budget restrictions in the concurrent National Contribution,



33
imposed by the Ministry of Economy at the end of 1994 (motivated by the Mexican financial
crisis which affected the international system), eliminated the possibilities of maintaining the rate
foreseen in the construction category and in the purchase of equipment, which are financed in
large part by IDB. Based on this, in August 1995 the Argentine Government requested a 24-
month extension for IDB disbursements, which was agreed to by said Bank.
Rescheduling of activities
Another change made in the initial scheduling was the elimination of the Toxic Waste
Laboratory in TucumAn in the NOA region, which was contemplated under the Plant Health
component. IASCAV did not consider the construction of this laboratory a priority, since the
plant health demands of markets to which this region's fruits and vegetables are sent do not
require this type of analysis. Thus, these activities were transferred to a private laboratory
network, under IASCAV supervision, which could operate once demand arises. The funds
earmarked were used in the construction of a new IASCAV Bureau in the city of Paso de los
Libres, on the border with Brazil, to handle the intense commercial exchange of plant products
with that country.
Legal problems in the construction of infrastructure
The program also met with legal problems in the area of investments for construction, scheduled
in several components (laboratories, research and fishery development centers, quarantine
centers), which took away some of the dynamics of execution. The common denominator
among these problems was the obtaining of firm rights on lands ceded by national and provincial
institutions and local governments to PROMSA as a disbursement condition for the start-up of
construction, since in various cases the ownership of these institutions was not very evident. It
should be noted that the existence of these problems had been duly visualized in the institutional
analysis of agencies carried out during the preparation stage.
Thus, for example, in the case of the Fishery Development component, the delay noted in
building the National Warm Water Aquaculture Center in Corrientes (this work was only
received in February 1998) was due the delay in ceding lands by the Provincial Legislature; in
the case of the construction of the National Salmon Certification Center of San Martin de los
Andes in Rio Negro, construction was paralyzed by the arbitrary decision of the Municipality of
San Martin, which obliged the program to recur to the federal justice system. As a consequence
of the latter, the Argentine Government once again had to ask IDB for a six-month extension of
the execution period, and September 22, 1998 was agreed as the program's closing date.
In the case of the Plant Health component, a significant delay was noted in the construction of
the Plant Quarantine Station due to problems in the ownership of adjudicated land, and the
primary contractor's declaration of bankruptcy.
Macroeconomic context
One of the main factors that contributed to proper execution of the program and that helped to
carry out its main objectives, can be found in the major changes that took place in the Argentine
economic structure, in its macroeconomic, sectoral and institutional areas, at the start and during
the execution of PROMSA.



34
Beginning in 1989, the Argentine Republic began the construction of a new economic model,
based on a strategy of integration with the world economy as a source of economic growth, to
replace an import substitution industrialization model that had been in place for several decades.
This integration required increased participation of exports and imports in economic activities,
which occurred through the implementation of policies aimed at opening foreign trade and
policies in order to increaese competitiveness.
In this group of policies, the main ones were the progressive reduction of import tariffs and the
policy of integration with M:ERCOSUR, aimed at forming the Common Market and thereby
expanding the internal market to the regional market. The maximum tariff levels, which until
1988 had reached 50% plus 15% of the additional surcharge, decreased to 20% plus 10% of the
statistical rate in 1992, while the average tariffs went from 39% to 10%.
In terms of foreign trade: (a) quantitative restrictions, permits, authorizations and prior
processing for the export of goods and services were revoked; (b) quantitative restrictions on
imports were eliminated, with the exception of the automotive industry scheme, the "buy
national" scheme in public hiring and limitations on origin or source; (c) customs procedures for
settlement of taxes were simplified, and the principle of direct dispatch for imported merchandise
was adopted; (d) various taxes and fees were eliminated, including contributions to the Merchant
Marine Fund and to INTA, among others.
Competitiveness policies included those dealing with measures aimed at increasing the
efficiency of production and reducing marketing costs to reach and maintain foreign markets. To
increase efficiency, greater internal competitiveness was sought, based on a reduction in State
intervention in markets to recover the market's role as a mechanism for allocating economic
resources. These measures included: (a) dissolution of agencies that regulated agricultural
activities (National Meat B3oard, National Grain Board, Fishery Concentration Market, National
Cattle Market, Argentine Meat Producers Corporation, Regulatory Commission for the
Production and Marketing of Yerba Mate, National Consignment Market for Yerba Mate, and
National Sugar Bureau); (lb) release of quotas for planting, harvesting, processing and marketing
of sugar cane, yerba mate, and vineyards, grapes and wine; (c) elimination of taxes and
contributions that financecl the activities of dissolved agencies and that directly or indirectly fell
upon producers of the respective goods. Another policy within the framework of increasing the
productivity and availability of productive factors was the realignment of the country's financial
relations with provinces, aimed at creating clear and stable foundations for the development of
productive activities and the strengthening of the federal system.
This 'set of policies was carried out within a framework of monetary stability, achieved by
approval of the convertibility law (Law No. 23.928 of March 1991) by which BCR is obliged to
sell the foreign currency that the market requires for a peso rate equal to one dollar, and by the
organic reform of the Central Bank which reaffirms its autonomy and establishes its
independence from the Naitional Executive Branch.
Sustainability of Actions and Future Plans
From the set of components and actions contained in each of them, it may be stated that, in a
high percentage, their sustainability appears to be ensured through the mobilization of income
from the sale of services, while there may be others that should be assisted by their own
decentralized agencies or SAGPyA's own resources.



35
In the area of Animal Health, the financing of a project aimed at strengthening the current
Disease Monitoring System is currently being negotiated with PROSAP, to achieve international
recognition of Argentina as being free of foot-and-mouth disease without vaccination, and at the
same time to avoid introducing exotic diseases into the country and control emerging ones.
In Plant Health, the sustainability of Mediterranean fly control programs in the Northern
Patagonia region and of protection against citrus canker in NOA, are ensured in terms of their
operating costs by the income received by private foundations in charge of the quarantine system
based on plant health barriers. In the case of the Central Laboratory for Plant Health, its
operation is guaranteed by the regular budget of the National Agricultural and Food Health and
Quality Service. Finally, in the case of boll weevil control, financing of control and eradication
campaigns is ensured through a national budget which established the payment of US$2.00 per
ton of cotton fiber. Despite the important progress achieved by the current SENASA, there is
still a long way to go and there are needs to be met in these aspects in the agricultural and
forestry subsectors, where the presence of plant pests and diseases (apple and pear worms, fruit
flies in NOA and NEA, citrus canker in NEA constitute non-tariff barriers that impede export
expansion.
In INASE, the proper level of cost recovery and the full self-financing achieved by this Institute
after its modernization, added to the prospects of greater income due to the growth in demand for
certifications and the excellence if its services, allow its financial sustainability over time to be
ensured.
In the case of the Technological Development component, with the exception of the Wool
subcomponent, where there is a cost recovery mechanism (it currently only covers operating
costs due to a specific economic situation that it is currently experiencing caused by a drop in
international wool prices), the sustainability of this set of subcomponents will be guaranteed with
funds from INTA's ordinary budget. In the case of the Forestry Research subcomponent, a large
part of its activities will be continued with SAGPyA' s National Forestry Development Project
financed by IBRD.
Under the framework of PROCAR, there is currently a National Meat Committee, with the
participation of the Argentine Chamber of Beef Producers and export meat packing plants,
whose mission is to define the meat promotion strategy, analyze competitiveness and contribute
toward promoting more information on the markets reached. Attempts are being made to create,
through a Congressional law, the Argentine Beef Promotion Institute as a non-state public
agency whose objective is to position Argentine meat on the international market in order to
place the country on equal standing in promotion and marketing with the principal meat
producing countries which are Argentina's competitors. This Institute would be financed by
charging a self-assessment of US$1 .0.0 per slaughtered head, which would signify receipts of
US$12 million per year.
In the case of PROMEX, this program is included in SAGPyA through a small structure
comprised of six technicians, two technical assistants and four assistants. The immediate
financial sustainability of its activities would occur through the 18-month financing of a bridge
project presented to PROSAP for US$1.4 million, while a new credit request is prepared for a
new project called Non-Traditional Agricultural and Food Export Promotion Program -
PROMXA to be presented to IDB.



36
In the case of SIIAP, its financial sustainability will be ensured by funds from SAGPyA's
operating budget.
Increase in Program Costs
The program's total cost, estimated at US$107,000, increased by US$14,779 million at the start
of execution, totaling US$122,079 million, with the objective of covering tax credits initially
granted to the program, which were eliminated in August 1991. This increase was absorbed by
local counterpart funds.
Banks' Participation
The Banks' participation in the preparation stage was satisfactory. The program was broadly
justified due to its solid technical nature, both of its prior diagnostics on the sector's
performance, such as framework of objectives, which were broadly discussed and adjusted
programmatically with authorities of the new government that took office at that time (economic
openness, promotion of MERCOSUR, State reform, etc.), since this program has important
effects on the macroeconomic environment.
The project execution process was also generally satisfactory. In the case of IDB, the local
office in Buenos Aires carried out program monitoring, dealing quickly with the various requests
made by ongoing contact with the Program Coordinating Unit. In the case of IBRD, project
monitoring took place through supervision missions. These missions were a positive help for
executors, by allowing adjustments and modifications to be incorporated in work programs that
improved execution.
Despite fluid dialogue, some executors agreed to indicate the existence of various difficulties to
comply in time and form with certain procedures requested by the Banks due to different
regulations in both Banks, especially with regard to the preparation of bids and contracts, causing
some delays in the procurement of goods and services for the program. IBRD recently corrected
this situation by raising the amounts that can be released locally and defining new levels of
amounts required by bidding processes with levels regulated by IDB.
Supervision by both Banks could have been more complete if more flexible mechanisms had
been incorporated to cover project needs, such as ex ante approvals based on annual operating
plans. This flexibility only became effective by IDB in the final stage of project execution,
based on a streamlining of disbursements to complete the use of financing granted, by facilitating
the presentation of eligible projects generated by each component, taking into account only the
overall availability of loan financing.
Finally, in relation to moniitoring indicators proposed during formulation, these were not the
most appropriate to be able to evaluate program performance in greater detail. A review of these
was carried out in the mid-term review of the program.
Borrower's Role
The role played by the Borrower in program preparation and execution was satisfactory. During
execution, the Coordinating Unit coordinated 8 Executing Units, of which 4 operated in



37
Decentralized Components, such as Animal Health (SENASA), Plant Health (IASCAV),
Technological Development (INTA) and Seeds (INASE), and the other 4 in Centralized
Components, i.e., Fishery Development (DNPyA), External Meat Promotion (DNMA), Non-
Traditional Export Promotion (DNMA) and Integrated Agricultural and Fishery Information
System (DNPyDA). A ninth component, that of Institutional Strengthening, was operated by the
Coordinating Unit.
Its strengths included:
*  Its proper placement within SAGPyA which gave ongoing support to this Coordinating Unit
in order to carry out the various adjustments in the program's activities stemming from
macroeconomic and institutional changes which took place, without altering the program's
objectives.
*  Economic resources assured for budget execution within deadlines and with minimum
disbursement difficulties.
*  Flexibility in purchasing and contracting.
  Satisfactory logistical support in general terms (computers, offices, secretarial support).
Its weaknesses included:
*  Deficit in some Executing Units, in terms of purchasing and contracting; for this reason they
had to be supported by the Coordinating Unit.
*  Prioritization of administrative, accounting and financial aspects over technical aspects, on
the part of components.
*  Progress indicators generally faulty and difficult to verify in terms of changes or results of
activities carried out. Insufficient differentiation among input, product, objective and impact
indicators.
Lessons learned
(a) According to the new concept of agricultural development policy promoted by SAGPyA, the
latter is principally a task of the private sector in which are involved agricultural producers,
marketing agents, input providers, financial agents, etc. The State's new role should rather
be concentrated on the creation of a favorable macroeconomic environment for establishing
investments, with a precise definition of the agricultural services it can offer, incorporating
only those essential ones that the market does not normally provide: basic technology
research, quality and health regulations, worldwide promotion of Argentine products on the
world market.
(b) Based on recent experience gained by SENASA through its successful horizontal National
Health Campaign Programs (foot-and-mouth disease, boll weevil control and eradication,
etc.), it is possible to progress toward a better status of agricultural health in'all those diseases
and pests that create or may create tariff barriers, stemming from this institution's strong
involvement with Campaign Commissions comprised of producers' organizations, national
and regional production forces, and public and private sector professionals and technicians.
(c) Therefore, a strategy should be prepared; beginning with defining the element primarily
responsible for each health problem or issue, the State assumes its regulatory and controlling
role in establishing guidelines and the general framework of health actions, assigning the
central operational role for resolving it to whomever is primarily responsible for the problem.



38
In this manner, the State need not take full responsibility for agricultural health, but rather it
facilitates and supports the participation of the various actors working in this category.
(d) The results that can be achieved in a food export promotion project are in line with the
premise that the effectiveness of a promotional effort is directly related to its permanence
over time.
(e) In matters of technological development and particularly with regard to the post-harvest
subcomponent, self-financing of these activities is not feasible in that the technologies
developed are not appropriate. Private entities are interested in types of work although they
are not willing to contribute toward financing. In this regard, technological development
should be presented fi-om the standpoint of demand, beginning with detection of needs and
then establishing public-private linkage. These technological contributions should be
marketed by INTA, which would only be viable if potential clients consider them
worthwhile. In this context, technology generation means incurring market risks, added to
scientific risks.



MAP SECTION



IBRD 22436
:   7b0-  R      B O L I V I A    \60
LolQuioo)7 ->  /   oit&                         ;          .
L.  | Ut Y                X           PARAGL)AY                 /
4          SALTAX  A. _ . A X         R,FOb    ,                      AT   B R A  Z I L
'' e ,{ >f ->,;, Clorindj
; W1. YS.TT,J<_nORSA                                     u       Bernrdo
/            .tv 3  NfsG    RESISTENCI   p. Poau   /MsIrgoyenr
SanFogo del Estero         CaRI  E
(         L~~~~AR
30~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
30'tCAsTAMARi                                                                                     30/
tr~~~~~~MEDZ                                                   illoCos on URUGUAY
C H ILE /                                                       BUE AIRES    /
E~N NDOZA  jlSA
' SBanjos Bloncos                                onst
-CHILE(-                  SANTARO
PK AMPA
,N   J iOENN    "             V                    z
~,~y   X' )aa           ARGENTINA
% g^ >   930 NriO    | V  - AGRICULTURE SERVICES
40-                                                           )g             f5 tEDM^A     AND                              40
So CorlondeBoriloche         __          INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
PuoertoModryn                                  PROJECT
Esqoel           Trele.
Area of the Pampa
y  M  '  -Major roads
) \ '} S /t - -~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Rivers
.   .   . . . COMODORO               *'- -' Province Boundories
~ ib  -  -- nInternational Boundaries
. , g<;. ~~~~Fils Ro C
.IOGALLEGOS
fr0,nooeo'ec  of  .
a*eA, ws dL                                                    -, -,* -
wOossofoso  600f ebtbWeof*
hae.hoonhonae   . fotfoon0
Cosporonon ThoOons  -n f          'El\ j70        _6
ussd srod tl tbo.eddJs sNo1n990
bOonet/onolthonoo Co.pan_o,,.
00550  Fnw'7 -O 0/00i*05 en                                             KILOM*ETERS 0      200       400    .600         800
=MXancsol                                          l\iiLES O    100    ~~~~~~~~~~~~200  300    4L00    S00
80'                             700                           60-                          50             '  
JUNE 1990



