Document or
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9138-AR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARGENTINA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JANUARY 29, 1991
Agricultural Operations Division IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Austral (A)
EXCHANGO RATF
(as at January 10, 1991)
US$1.00 - A 5,800
A 1.00 - US$0.0002
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ADBREVIATIOMS AND ACRONWi.iU I/
AOP         Annual Operating Plan
ASL         Agricultural Sectcr Loan (Ln. 2675-AR)
DMa         Bank of the Argentine Nation
CAlI        Argentine Chamber of Integrated Fruit Growers
CCOU        Central Coordination and Management Unit (Project)
CIATI       Rio Negro Industrial Research Center (INTI)
CITECA      Center for Technology and Research on Meat (INTI)
CYS         Maximum Sustainable Fish Catch
CONKSA      National Animal Health Commission
COIAIs      National Seed Council
DICON       National Directorate for Diagnostic Control and Methods (SENASA)
EC          European Community
mum         Epidemiology and Training Unit (SENASA)
PAO/w3 CP   Food and Agriculture Organization/World Bank Cooperative Program
F3=         Foot- and-Mouth Disease
ODA         General Directorate of Administration (SSAGyP)
ICD         International Competitive Bidding
IDS         Inter-American Development Bank
IFONA       National Forestry Institute
IICA        Inter-American Institute for Agricultural Cooperation
INIDP       National Fisheries Research and Development Institute
INTA        National institute for Agricultural Technology
INTI        National Insti-ute for Industrial Technology
IPM         Integrated Peat Management
inC         National Meat Board
LCB         Local Competitive Bidding
NBC         Ministry of Economy
NDAP        National Directorate of Agricultural PolLcy
NDAS        National Directorate of Agricultural Services
NDF         National Directorate of Maritime Fisheries
NDNR        National Directorate of Natural Resources
PAC         Project Advisory Committee
PANAFTOSA   Pan American Foot- and-Mouth Disease Center, Rio de Janeiro
PMU         Project Component Management Units
PIt         Plant Inspection Service
PPF         Project Preparation Facility
PPS         Plant Protection Service
ISLAB       National Animal Laboratory Service
ISLSA       Animal Disease Control Field Service
S*NAWA      National Animal Health Service
SENASE      National Seeds Service
sIxAP       Agriculture and Livestock Information System (SSAGyP)
SIPA        Livestock and Meat Sanitary Inspection Service
8NZySR      National Economics and Rural Sociology Service
BOB         Statement of Expenditlre
ISAGyP      Subsecretariat of Agriculture, Livestock 2';' Fisheries
sOP         Statement of Policy
$SiC        Subsecretariat of Commerce and Industry
L/  Spanish listing in Annex 14.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



AGRICULTURAL SERVICES AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJFCT
Table of Contents
Pace No.
I    LOANl AND PROJECT SUNJARY. .                                    1
II *   T   AGRICULTURAL SECTOR..           ..                        4
Agriculture in the Economy.                             4
Agricultural Institutions and Service.                  5
Subsector Summaries .10
Ex1port Marketing Constraints .12
Bank Group Experience Lending for Agriculture .    12
Bank Lending Strategy in the Sector ..    13
III.   TE1 PROJFT                                                   14
Origin and Rationale for Bank Involvement              14
Project Objectives .16
Project Description .16
Organization and Implementation ..                     24
Costs .25
Financing .26
Procurement .27
Disbursements and Special Accounts .28
Accounting and Audits .29
Reporting .                                            30
Coat Recovery .30
Project Benefits .30
Project Risks .31
Ernvirontmental Impact .31
IV.    SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED .32
This report is based on the findings of: (a) a joint World Bank/IDB appraisal
mission which visited Argentina in March 1990, comprising Messrs. Mark Wilson,
Jonathan Parker, Sura3it Goswami (Bank) and Mark Fairless, Fernando Rodriguez,
(Consultants); and (b) a joint post-appraiwal mission in June 1990 comprising
Messrs. Mark Wilson and Luis-Jose Mejia (Bank) and Mark Fairless, Fernando
Rodriguez and Francisco Reifschnieder (Consultants).



ANNF D 8 ....................... Pac- No.
1.    Project-Supported _ns'.itutional Development
Component ..                .....................       34
2.    Animal Health Services  .......................               47
3.    Phytosanitary Services and Seeds ...................          56
4.    Eisheries    ..........................................       78
5.    National Institute for Agricultural Technology  .....         87
6.    Forestry .... .......................................         92
7.    National Meat Board ................. ...............         94
8.    Agricultural Information System Component ......... .         98
9.    Export Promotion Component .....       ....................    104
10.    Key Indicator  .......................................    113
11.    Cost Tables and Disbursement Table ..         ...............    115
12.    Organization Charts ................ .................    157
13.    List of Documents in the Technical File ....       ........   158
14.    Acronyms in Spanish          ..................    159
MAP    IBRD No. 22436



AGRICUL5URAL SERVICES AMD INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
. LOAN AND PROJECT SWOMRY
Borrower:                The Argentine Republic.
Executina Aoence:        Subeecretariat of Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries
(SSAGyP).
seneficiarie:            Public   institutions   providing   services   to   the
agricultural sector, farmers and agroindustrialists.
Loan Amount,.            US$33.5 million.
Terns:                   Seventeen years, including five years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Prolect Oblectives:      The project would improve Argentina's ability to compete
in export markets for basic and high value-added
agricultural, horticultural, livestock, forestry and
fisheries products. It would: (a) establish mechanisms
to improve the efficiency, productivity, impact and
accountability of its technical services while achieving
savings in their operation; and (b) diversify the
agricultural export mix by strengthening marketing,
export promotion, technical and research services for a
variety of agricultural products through joint public
and private sector erforts.
Proiect DescriRtion:    The project which would be cofinanced by the Inter-
American Development Bank (IDB) and the Government of
Japan, would strengthen agricultural services managed by
SSAGyP, through investment in physical facilities,
institutional development, training and technical
assistance activities. Specifically, the project would:
(a) strengthen animal disease control, primarily for
foot- and-mouth disease (FMD), brucellosis, mange and
tick-borne diseases, through construction of a reference
laboratory, a quarantine station and promotion of
intensive   vaccination   programs;   (b)   strengthen
phytosanitary programs to create and maintain plant
disease- and insect pest-free zones, and establish
quarantine and reference laboratory facilities to
certify levels of chemical residues and phytosanitary
standards in agricultural produce; (c) improve wool
grading and classification to provide improved market



transparency; (d) strengthen analysis and monitoring of
maximum sustainable fish catches; (a) promote export of
higher value-added meat products jointly with the
private  sector;    f   improve  research  on  wool,
biotechnology, post-harvest physiology of fruits and
vegetables, and forest plantation management; (g)
provide specialized training and technical assistance to
strengthen technical and marketing skills in the Meat
Board and Fisheries Institutel and (h) assist the
private sector to venture into new export markets by
partially  financing  marketing  studies,  technical
assistance, and overseas visits and export promotions.
snuefita:                The main project benefits would includes  (a) improved
and   more   ccot-effective   agricultural   services
(approximately 80% of total costs wonild be recovered
from end users); (b) increased agricultural output and
diversification of both commodities and high value-added
export products; (c) increased effectiveness of quality
control services in support of agricultural exports; and
(d) increased export promotion and marketing capacity to
open new markets. The following environmental concerns
would  be  addressed:    improved management  of  fish
resources and analysis of chemical residue levels in
food.
Riske:                   In  addition  t.  Argentina's  general  macroeconomic
uncertainty, the nost important risks stem from the
availability of counterpart funds, the level of
managerial capacity and the low level of commitment by
public servants due to low salaries.   The budgetary
risks, which affect all proposed Bank operations in
Argentina, have been mitigated to an extent by the
project's  proposed  cost-recovery  mechanisms.    The
project's institutional strengthening programs would
mitigate the lack of managerial capacity in public
institutions. The issue of inadequate compensation in
the public sector would be tackled by Government and the
Bank through public sector reform measures to be covered
under  a proposed  new  loan.   Since  project design
encourages financial autonomy, this should over time
also support the development of a competitive salary
structure for agriculture sector institutions.



-3-
Estimated Costs:
Local      ftrein              Total
---------  UES million  -----------
Animal Health                          8.4          9.1              17.5
Phytomanitary Services                 8.5          4.1              12.6
Fisheries                              7.4          3.6              11.0
Meat                                   S.0          4.4              10.4
Research                               4.7          4.4               9.1
Export Promotion                       5.4          2.0               7.4
Information System                    0.9           0.2               1.1
Project Coordination                  LA            2&a               JAI
Total Baseline Costs                  45.7         28.1              73.8
Contingencies                   5.4           3.5               8.9
Total Project Costs                                                      7 1/
Financina Plan:
IBRD                           17.4         15.6               33.0 V
IDB                            14.4         15.6               30.0
Japanese Grant Funds            0.6          0.4                1.0
Local Counterpart              1A dQ 0                         18LZ
Total
Estimated IBRD Disbursementsr
IBRD FY      199 M    199 1 993   199    199    J_996   1997   1998
Annual        3.5       2.8    3.9    5.5    6.8    6.9    2.6    1.5
Cumulative    3.5       6.3   10.2   15.7   22.5   29.4   32.0   33.5
Economic Rate of Returnt       Not Applicable.
i2:   IBRD No. 22436.
.1/ Excluding US$0.5 million to refinance PPF 119-AR used to prepare project.
at Includes the initial deposit in the Special Account of US$2.0 million
equivalent plus US$0.S million to refinance PPF 119-A'.



1I. THN AGRICULTURAL UNCTOR
Auriculture in the Economy
2.01        laportance and Potential of th  Sector. Argentina has a significant
comparative advantage  in agricultural and agroindustrial production.   The
country'a rich soils and varied agroclimatic conditions permit the production of
a wide range of commodities. Thie ensures self-sufficiency in most foodstuffs,
provides low-cost raw material for a developing agroindustrial complex, and
allows the country to be a significant factor in world markets for a number of
products, especially cereals and oilseeds. I/
2.02        Agriculture contributes about 15% to GDP and the sector is a major
contributor to export revenues. Crops represent about 65% and livestock about
35% of sector GDP. Agricultural products and manufactured goods of agricultural
origin provide about 75% of total exports. For a number of historical reasons
(para. 2.03), the traditional grain and livestock subsectors operate far below
their potential. Additionally, the country has great potential to diversify into
the production and export of fruits, vegetables, fisheries, and forestry
products.  However, several key constraints affect the sectors  federal and
provincial institutions are weak and export marketing skills are underdeveloped
(except  for grains).   Consequently,  any  long-term  strategy  to  diversify
Argentina's agro-export mix and penetrate and hold markat share will require a
major revamping of its support infrastructure in technical setvices, quality
control, export  -omotion and marketing ability, as well at investment in new
technology.
2.03        Macroeconomic Policy. The single most important instrument to create
a healthy incentive framework for Argentine agriculture and agroindustry is the
exchange rate.   Since the country is self-sufficient  in most agricultuLal
products, sectoral growth depends almost wholly on exports; hence maintenance of
a stable, competitive exchange rate is crucial. This applies to all agricultural
subsectore (traditional and non-traditional) and to agroindustry. Historically,
however, domestic policy has been oriented towards using the agricultural surplue
to  finance  industrial  development.   During  the  last  decade,  agriculture
transferred an average of 45% of its GDP to other sectors of the economy and
Government. The long-term consequence of these discriminatory policies, which
have aleo included export taxation and an overvalued exchange rate, has been to
decapitalize the agricultural sector. A low-cost, extensive form of agriculture
has resulted, with little capital stock or debt and no incentives to improve
technology. Of all the major world producers, Argentina's agriculture is by far
the least protected, yet it has continued to grow. The implication is that with
stronger positive signals, there is good potential for new investment and growth.
In this context, recent initiatives on trade liberalization, reduction of export
3/    For a detailed review of the agriculture, livestock, forestry,
fisheries, horticultural and agroindustrial subsectors, the reader is
referred to Report No. 7733-AR. "Argentina: Agriculture Sector
Review," dated June 30, 1989 (Green Cover).



- 5 -
taxes and freeing of the exchange rate aro important stepL in the direction of
creating confidence at the farm level.
2.04        Public Sector Reform. Government Is in the midst of a public sector
reform initiative, the most recent version of which war promulga.ed in September
1990.   This proceas  aims to delegate more  respovsiblity  to provincial
authorities, reduce federal intervention, increase the role of the private
sector, reduce the size of the public sector apparatus where appropriate, and
establish mechanisms to reduce coats by charging the end-user for certain
services, which to date have been provided free. in addition, by Presidential
Decree, the public administration apparatus has been reformed by eliminating 56
secretariats  and  80  subsecretariats  within  the  eight  ministries.    The
institutional arrangements for agriculture resulting from these reforms are
described below in greater detail.   In essence, the new approach to public
finance and the provision of public services has important implications for the
sector and for the design of the project proposed in this report.
Aoricultural Institutlions and Servicgs
2.05        The Subsecretariat of Agriculture. Livestock and  risheries 13AGvyPI
(Annex 1 and Chart 11. Following the reforms described above, which still have
to be ratified officially, SSAGyP now comprises: (a) four National Directorates:
Natural Resources (NDNR)I Agricultural Services (NDAS); Maritime Frisheries (NDF);
and Agricultural Policy (NDAP). The latter was formerly the National Economics
and Rural Sociology Service (SNEySR). SSAGyP is a dependency of the Ministry of
Economy (MEC) which historically has meant that SSAGyP has acted more as
technlcal adviser than policy maker and planner.   Public expenditures on
agriculture and llvestock are low, at about 0.3% of total expenditures, compared
to the manufacturing sector (1.2%) and to their relative contributions to GDP
(15% for agriculture, compared to 24% for manufacturing).  In addition, as a
public body, SSAGyP has difficulty attracting and keeping full-time staff due to
low levels of compensation. SSAGyP staffing levels have declined significantly
over the past decade.  B^tween 1980 and June 1990, tctal staff, excluding the
Agricultural Research Institute (INTA) which is financed independently (p.ra
2.17), declined by about 29% (12,940 to 9,180) and central administrativo staff
by about 49% (1,280 to 6EO). Comparing June 1990 to the average of .ne 1980.,
the decline wac about 2)% for total staff (11,550 vs. 9,200) and about 36% for
administrative staff (l,280 vs. 650).   Within the public sector apparatus,
therefore, SSAGyP does not reflect the importance the agricultural sector
represents in the economy, especially 'or exports. An institutional analysis of
SSAGyP agencies involved in providing agricultural services is detailed in Annex
1.
2.06        Animal Health services (Annex 21. Animal diseases are among the mcat
important factors that affect livestock productivity in Argentina. Foot- and-
Mouth Disease (FMD), which is endemic north of the Colorado River in Northern
Patagonia, is the disease that receives mo'st attention because of importing
country trade restrictions. The current control strategy is based on vaccination
three times a year. The role of Government is to control vaccine quality, ensure
that vaccination is performed, and Issue validation certificates.   Despite
producers spending abouat US$70-80 million annually on vaccines, the disease is



still present, highlighting the need to develop alternative control strategies
and improve management of vaccination campaigns.   This will require better
knowledge of the epidemiology of the disease %nd use of a more off i'-ient vaccine
which requir&s lec frequent vaccLnations.  Such a vaccine (oil-added vaccine)
has recently been developed by the Pan American Foot and Mouth Disease Center in
Rio de Janeiro (PANAFTOSA). In Argentina, vaccination by veterinary personnel
instead of by farmers (but at farmers' expense) ham been tried and accepted in
pilot areas as the best way co ensure a higher coverage rate.   Simllarly,
veterinary staff can at the same time also contribute to better control of other
diseases.
2.07        Other major disease control programs that require strengthening are
for mange (parasitic mites in sheep and cattle), ticks (in the subtropical zone),
brucellomis (entagLous abortion) and tuberculosis. Improving the control of
animal diseases is one of the few ways that Argentina can increase livestock
productivity and production without requiring major on-farm investments.
2.08        Veterinary services in Argentina are provided by private sector
professionals, provincial veterinary services, and the National Animal Health
Service (UENASaj in NDAS'a General Directorate of Health and Inspection of Animal
Products (too Annex 1, Chart 1).  Coordination between SENASA and provincial
veterinary services is ensured by a National AnLmal Health Commission (CONASA).
There are also FMD Commissions at the national, provincial and zonal levels with
privete sector, professional, farmer and public sector particip'a,ion. The Zonal
FHD commissions directly coordinate field campaign., and have the legal staitu
of foundations.   The prcductlon,  distribution,  and import of vaccines and
veterinary pharmaceuticals are carried out by private companies; however, SENASA
is responsible for quality control.
2.C9        SENASA was established in 1963 and has a staff of about 3,300,
including 1,500 professionals. 't became an aut.nomous body on October 23, 1990,
under Decree No. 23899.  Nlnety percent of its budget of about US$12 million
equivalent is covered by earmarked taxes or fees. It comrrises three services:
the Animal Disease control Field Service (SELSA), the National Directorate of
Diagnostic Control and Methods (DICON), and the Livestock and Meat Sanitary
Inspection Service (SIPA). DICOM consists of 22 regional inspectorates and about
300 local offices, and works on disease campaigns.  SELAB manages veterinary
laboratories, including one obsolete central laboratory and 14 small regional
facilities. Its major activity is FMD vaccine quality contrcl. SIPA has the
largest staff of the three and provides sanitary inspection services to about 70%
of Argentinals slaughterhouses. (A detailed institutional analysis of SENASA hfs
been carried out and is available in the technical file).
2.10        SENASA's disease control and meat inspection services are v4tal not
only for the domestic but also for the export market, which imposes rigid disease
control and sanitary certification requirements on meat and meat products. Since
Argentina v.as endemic FJAD, in addition to the other major diseases, it is
currentll excluded from the fresh (chilled or frozen) meat trade in many markets.
It is essential therefore that veterinary and meat inspection services have high
credibility in order to mainrain access to the remaining markets, including those
for ccoked meats (which kills the FMD virus). Key issues that require urgent



attention  in  animal  health  serviceo  areat   (a) inadequate  factlities  and
compensation for SENASA .mployeesj (b) unsatisfactory work programs due to
'imited interaction betwoen interested agencies an-' farmers; Ic) the neod to
expand the use of oil,-added FMD vaccine to support a comprehenuive ccntroa  plan;
and (d) an adequate fee structure for its services.
2.11        Phytosanitarv Services {Plant Pest and Disease Control) (Annex 3)-
In Argantina, plant diseases and pests, especiaUly on fresh fruits ai.d
vegetableo, cause not only reductions in yield but also impede accesa to certain
important internatianal markets. Key constraints are institutional, legal and
phytosanitary 2pr.ac Institutionally, NDA8 handles phytosanitary issues through
its General Directorate of Plant Health and Quality Control.   The latteL'
comprises the Plant Protection Services (PPS), the Plant Inspection Service
(PIS),  and a Microbiology and Chemical  Laboratory.   PPS  coordinates the
activitie of 24 provincial delegations. However, despite the creation is 1987
of a Federal Plant Health Commission to act as a forum for dialogue on these
issues, linkage between the federal, provincial and private level remains weak.
PIS is primarily involved with preparation of legislation rather than with its
application. The PPS, alternatively, has greater operational responsibilities
but has suffered from drastic reductions in its budoat in recent years and in the
early 1980's Government eliminated user fees, except for laboratory analysis.
2.12        PPS has a diagnostic laboratory which, though A prerequisite for any
phytosanitary service, is in practice inoperative due to a lack of staff,
financtal support, and supporting infrastructure.  Although Argentina has no
plant quarantine stption, it has a central laboratory to test active ingredients
In agrochemicals (fertilizers and pesticide) but little work is carried out on
chemical residues in foodstuffs on a routine basis.  Additional but limited
analyses of residues are carried out by:   (a) the National  Institute for
Industrial Technology (INTI) research center in Rio Negro (CIATI) under contract
to the Argentine Chamber of Integrated Fruit Growers (CAFI); (b) Buenos Aires,
Central Market; and (c) a small number of privace laboratories. Most critical,
however,  is the constraint on staffing.   The entire phytosanitary service
comprises only 265 posts, of which 76 are professionals. Vacancies are not being
filled at present due to budgetary constraints, and 84 staff (35%) are due to
retire over the next five years.
2.13        Key activities of Argentina's phytosanitary services include:
(a)   Monitoring - field detection of insect diseases and weed problems.
Specifically,  PPS  currently  focises  on:    (i)  confining  the
bacterial disease, citrius canker (Xanthomonas camyestris 2.vX
citri), to the northeast of Argentina where it is already present.
This would allow exports to continue from the northwest, which is
currently free of the disease; (ii) providing laboratory analysis on
pesticide residues; and (iii) attempting to control the endemic
Mediterranean Fruit Fly (Cerntitia capitata) to ensure access to
key export that restrict imports from fly-infested zones. Work is
also ongoing on grasshoppers, nematodes and the cotton boll weevil;



- 8 -
(b)   Defense - setting up quarantine barriers (check points and import
control) for the above problems;
(C)   Inspection and certification of export products; and
(d)   Chemical analysis cf active ingredients in agrochemicals (registers
and authorizing commercial distribution), residues of industrial
crops (tobacco, cereals, oilseeds), and limited residue analysis of
fresh fruit and vegetables.
2.14        The  main  constraints  on  the  effectiveness  of  Argentina's
phytosanitary services include:  (a) insufficient technical staff and vehicle.,
fluctuating finances, and a poor information system; (b) inadequate interaction
between federal, regional, and private agencies; (c) lack of a national
phytosanitary strategy; (d) lack cf a quarantine station; and (e) need to update
Argentina's pioneering legislation on pesticides and their residues.
2.15        Seeds (Annex 31. The National Seed Service (SENASE) in SSAGyP aims
to regulate and promote the seed trade, which is well represented by
multinational seed companies with agents in Argentina. Annual seed output is
valued at about USS300 million, only 10% of which is currently exported but with
good prospects for expansion. SENASE's regulatory functions are defined under
the National Seeds Law No. 20247 promulgated in 1973 and refined in 1978 by
Decree No. 1995. The law protects breeders' rights by granting proprietorship
to those who develop new cultivars or varieties. It also creates norms for seed
production and marketing and provides farmers with improved access to good
quality seed by requiring the specification of seed purity and germination
percentage. The present legai framework is considered in need of modernization
although the basic principles are sound.   SENASE lacks qualified staff and
equipment.   It has a fee structure, but funds are returned d'.rectly to the
Treasury.   Good communication between the public and private sector exists
through representativee on the National Seed Council (CONASE). Cost recovery
through fees charged for the registratior of cultivars, proprietorship of
cultivars, seed certification, and seed laboratory services combined with their
reinvestment in seeds activity would greatly stimulate the efficiency and impact
of SENASE in the sector.
2.16        Fisheries Research and Development {Annex 4). The National Fisheries
Research and Development Institute (INIDP) is required by law to report maximum
sustainable fish catches (CMS) for the main commercial species at the beginning
of  each  year  as  a means  of  controlling  overexploitation.    It  operates
laboratories, research ships, and has a staff of about 270 of whom 87 are
professional, 73 technical, and 110 support level. In addition to biological
studies of both saltwater and freshwater organisms and the monitoring of fish
stocks, INIDP carries out research into new fish products and holds training
progr&ans for crewmen and fish processors. Howevor, as with the other research
institutes, its activities are severely constrained by inadequate budgetary
resources, and its research vessels spend little time at sea.  As a result,
insufficient scientific information is gathered to manage the country's fishery
resources properly.



-9-
2.17        Aoricultural Research (Annex 51a  Crops. The National Institute for
Agricultural Technology (INTA) was created in 1956 to perform agricultural
research and provide extension services. Its current research program is carried
out on 37 experimental etations by about 1,300 professional staff and a support
staff of about 3,500 who service both research and extension neede. In 1988, an
Economics and Rural Sociology Institute was established within INTA to improve
economic and marketing aspects of its technical packages. A major institutional
strengthening ie also underway (financed in part by the Inter-American
Development Bank  (IDB);,  focussing heavily on overseas training of future
research leaders. INTA has also identified areas of comparative advantage to
complement private sector initiatives,  including:   (a) basic research into
genetic engineering; (b) basic germplasm development; and (c) specific problem
areas such as soil conservation, integrated pest management, fertilizer use and
fertility, and crop stress response. INTA is an autonomous agency within SSAGyP,
financed by a 1.5% tax on the value of exports of grains, wool, and roundlogs.
2.18        Livestock Research.  INTA devotes about 40% of its resources to
livestock research and extension.  It operates a Veterinary Disease Center a
Molecular Biology Institute, anid complements SENASA by performing advanced
diagnostic services (e.g. , identifying strains of FMD virus). At its main animal
production research center at Balcarce, in southeastern Buenos Aires Province,
a number of improved animal production and health schemes have been developed
successfully with SENASA and private veterinarians, to improve disease control
and increase livestock productivity (para. 2.06). INTA also has established an
effective dairy demonstration model at its Rafaela Dairying Research Center,
Santa Fe Province, where the focus, inter alia, is on animal health and
improvement of milk hyglene.   In addition,  INTA operates a wool testing
laboratory at Bariloche, Rio Negro Province; however, this facility needs major
upgrading to meet the requirements of:   (a)  farmers to strengthen their
negotiating position with wool buyers; (b) an expanding wool industry; and (c)
a highly competitive international wool market.
2.19        Horticultural Research.  Although INTA is the main agency involved
in horticultural research, its work on new varieties is insufficient to meet the
needs of an expanding export sector. Dissemination of results is poor and market
research is weak. An increased focus on Integrated Pest Management (IPM) and the
greater use of biotechnology to reduce pesticide and herbicide usage has been
recognized as essential to help reduce producer costs and to meet export market
requirements.
2.20        Forestry Research (Annex 6). Forestry research is conducted in both
the public and private sectors. In the public sector, the principal agencies
are: INTA, the National Forestry Institute (IFONA), and the Wood Technology and
Research Center. In the private sector, forestry research is conducted by larger
private companies either independently or through joint support of the Forestry
Research and Experience Center.   Althougn forestry research covers a wide
spectrum of activities, most work concerns site and species selection, forest
tree improvement (pine and eucalyptus species primarily), and wood technology.
A greater  emphasis  is  needed,  however,  on:    (a) increasing  yields  from
plantation-grown species; (b) indigenous forest management to identify optimum
management regimes; and (c) wood technology to identify uses for the lesser-known



- 10 -
species of the mixed semi-tropical forests of the northwest. The latter could
be done in conjunction with the National Institute for Industrial Technology
(INTI)
2.21        The National Meat Board (JNC) (Annex 71, established in 1933, is an
autonomous government body funded through an obligatory, outdated grading system.
Its Board consists of a president, vice-president and eight directors.  The
president and vice-president are government-appointed, and four of the eight
directors are from industry, two representing livestock producers and one each
representing meat processors and livestock agents.   JNC's functions are to
promote the development of meat marcots, service and regulate the livestock and
meat industry, and ensure an orderly and continuous flow of meat products to
domestic butchers and export markets.  Its major activities inter aia are to:
(a) provide meat grading services at meat packing plants; (b) inspect and license
terminal livestock markets and wholesale meat markets, and collect and
disseminate price information on these markets; (c) administer and distribute
high-value cuts/"Hilton" quotas (17,000 tons) allocated by the European Community
(EC); (d) check quality control at processing and packaging plants producing for
the export market; and (e) conduct market research and promotional activities in
the local and international markets.
2.22        While the fortunes of JNC have fluctuated with changes in government
policy, the consistent trend over recent years had been downwards along with the
general decline in meat exports. With this decline, it became less effective in
developing  and maintaining  its  role  in  industry  and  was  unable  to  act
independently of government. The general quality of stdffing also suffered, and
operations concentrated on its grdding activities at slaughter plants. Important
functions, including economic analysis, market research and meat promotion in
conjunction with the private sector, are not being performed effectively. In
response to this situation, in late 1990 the structure of JNC's Board was changed
to a majority representation by the private sector (7 of 10) and in November
1990, Resolution No. 160 was promulgated giving transparency to the allocation
of "Hilton" quotas and ensuring access to it for a wide range of meat packers in
Argentina.
Subsector Summaries
2.23        Livestock and Neat (Annex 7).   Beef exports from Argentina are
affected by several factors: high domestic consumption (70 kg per capita); a
declining cattle herd (down from 59 million head in 1977 to 45 million head in
1989); and animal health constraints (primarily FMD) that restrict entry of
Argentine beef into certain markets.
2.24        The meat  industry  has been  an important  part  of  Argentina's
development for over a century.  Despite recent declines in the quantity of
Argentine meat exports, potential still exists to increase the value of exports.
Over the last 25 years, beef exports have changed dramatically in favor of cooked
meats and prepared cuts, which now represent 91% of the total. Despite this,
only about 10% of domestic beef production is exported (275,000 of 2.8 million
tons) and efforts are underway to free-up beef for export through promotion of
greater domestic consumption of substitutes (poultry, pork and fish). However,



- 11 -
any strategy to increase the value of beef exports will also require more
emphasis on higher value-added beef products. The main difficulty at present is
therefore to reorient the industry towards promoting better export performance,
which will require: (a) improvements in domestic and export meat marketing and
export promotion within JNC; and (b) investment capital to diversify and upgrade
existing meat processing facilities.
2.25        .orticulturs.   Argentina has considerable scope to expand  its
horticulturil exports both in quantity and value-added. At present the subsector
(fruits, vegetables and specialty crops) produces about US$1,000 million of
product, 40% of which is exported either in fresh or processed form with over 60
processing firms in the sector. Argentina has considerable comparative advantage
in horticulture with its southern hemisphere location and its controlled growing
environment, which is mainly in irrigated areas. With an increasing world market
for year-round fresh fruit and vegetables, it is in an excellent position to help
meet the demands of northern hemisphere markets. However, technical constraints
exist. INTA needs to carry out genetic engineering, basic germplasm development,
and an integrated peost management program to control levels of chemicals as well
as eradicate pests/diseases.  Furthermore, quality control is inadequate and
phytosanitary and residue analysis serviceo do not meet the needs of a demanding
export market.
2.26        Fisheries.  The growth and development of the fishing subsector is
closely linked to the export market. In 1988, fish exports were valued at US$267
million, with about 92% by weight and 70% by value in the category of frozen
products.  Hake (Merluccius hubbci) is the main species exported, representing
49% by weight and 35% by value of exports.   The fish processing industry
comprises about 63 freezing plants with a combined capacity of about 1.0 million
tons per year. The growth potential of this sector is considerable but a strong
diversification into new products is required with emphasis on underexploited
species.  Unfortunately, key constraints remain in:  (a) monitoring maximum
sustainable fish catches; (b) an antiquated ocean-going fleet; and (c) on-shore
plants which need re-equipping.
2.27        Forestry.  Argentina's huge forestry resource (15 million ha of
potentially productive forest plus 0.9 million ha of plantations) is largely
unexploited. Imports of forestry products are about US$100 million per year (42%
sawnwood, 40% paper and 18% pulp) and exports to neighboring countries are modest
at about US$30 million per year (58% pulp, 31% paper and 11% mechanical wood
products).   However,  test shipments of roundlogs,  mostly eusalyptus,  have
recently been exported to Europe, which may represent a new market, along with
the potential to export greater quantities of chips. Potential domestic demand
for wood and wood products is estimated to increase from current levels of 15
million m3 per year to 40 million m3 per year by the year 2010.  This will
require a substantial expansion of the industry for which there are two basic
prerequioites:   (a) an accurate inventory will have to be carried out (EC
financing has been offered); and (b) research into forest management and
varieties will have to be intensified.



- 12 -
Ex2ort Narketina Constraints
2.28        In the meat subsector, problems of disease affect access to export
markets.   Consequently,  a two-pronged strategy  is neededs    (a)  control/
eradication of serious diseases (FMD); and (b) increase development of cooked
meats with a significant improvement in export promotion by JNC in conjunction
with the major meat packers.   In wool, the lack of effective international
standard woc' fiber analysis severely restricts Argentina's ability to compete
in overseas markets. In horticulture, producers and processors generally lack
exposure to international marketing and markets, and they are not up-to-date on
new varieties, new products and quality standards overseas, which would allow
them to evaluate adequately risks and profitability of business alternatives.
Risk aversion, limited access to information and expertise, and lack of direct
contact with mainstream business realities are causing costly and unnecessary
delays in preparing for the future.  Finally, the bureaucracy in the public
external trade system is excessive, frequently unnecessary, and time-consuming
for potential exporters. This is a major hindrance for exporters of perishable
products and particularly to the *ntranice of new operators. For *xample, the
Subsecretariat of Industry and Trade's (SSIC) promotion fund (FOPEX), which has
been suspended under recent Emerqency Legislation, requires completion of a
minlmum of 24 steps for an exporter to obtain financial support.
Bank Group Zxnerience Lendina for Aericulture
2.29        IBRD lending to the agricultural sector in Argentina has been limited
to four projects and one sector adjustment loan (ASL). The Balcarce Livestock
Development Project (Ln. 505-AR), approved in 1967, was designed to encourage
adoption of new technology in pasture production and management and in animal
health practices. This moderately successful project was imjlemented between
1968-80, a period of high inflation, extreme shifts in livestock policies,
frequent changes in credit policies, and economic policies not conducive to
sectoral investment.   The Agricultural Credit Project I (Ln. 1564-AR) was
approved in May 1978 to provide medium- and long-term credit for on-farm
investments.  This loan was cancelled in 1980, however, without disbursement
because of competition from large inflows of low-cost commercial credit. A Grain
Storage Project (Ln. 1521-AR), implemented between 1978 and 1988, expanded
nationwide   storage   capacity,   supported   complementary   rail   and  port
transport/handling facilities and contained a credit component for private
investments in storage and related facilities. In 1988, the Bank and the IDB
approved the Agricultural Credit Project II (Ln. 2970-AR) which finances on-farm
investments in a wide range of agricultural subsectors. Disbursement progress
has been excellent despite the recent economic crises in Argentina.
2.30        In 1986 an Agricultural Sector Loan (Ln. 2675-AR) was approved to
support sectoral adjustments. The policy package sought to: (a) reduce export
taxes on agricultural products; (b) implement a compensatory federal land tax;
and (c) rationalize import tariffs and regulations on agricultural inputs. In
addition, a number of studies were funded and succecsfully completed.   The
Government of Argentina (GOA) did reduce, and has recently further reduced,
export taxes. However, while much of the technical basis for the federal land
tax was completed as proposed under the project, passage of required legislation
did not take place and continues to be a politically sensitive issue.



- 13 -
Quantitative restrictions on imports of tractors and agricultural chemicals were
removed.
2.31        Other projects affecting agricultural development in Argentina have
been funded by the Bank group.   SSAGyP participates in the Public Sector
Management Technical Assistance Loan (Ln. 2712-AR), which seeks to strengthen
GOA'* general management of the economy. The Board has also approved several
small ISC loans to support agri-buoiness. A recently-completed Second Railways
Project (Ln. 1677-AR) assisted in rehabilitating the rail network and upgrading
rolling stock and the locomotive fleet, thereby improving transport of
agricultural goods, especially grains.  The Bahia Blanca Port I Project (Ln.
2805-AR) also includes rehabilitation of existing grain storage infrastructure
as a first phase in deep-water port development.
Bank Lendina Strateav in the Sector
2.32        The policy conditions embodied in Ln. 2675-AR had far-reaching
implications for the country's trade and tax policies, and in retrospect it
appears that their achievement was limited by the narrow sectoral context in
which they were set. Looking to the future, the main policy issues affecting
agriculture (the exchange rate, trade and tax policy and the role of the State)
will continue to be addressed through the Bank's broader support for economic
stabilization and structural reform. Specifically, continued progress towards
trade liberalization is the subject of conditionality under the on-going Second
Trade Policy Loan (Loan 2996-AR); issues of taxation are being addressed as part
of a general tax reform under a proposed Public Sector Reform Loan; and the
future of the grain marketing system will be fundamentally effected by the
privatization of ports, roads, railways and grain silos, a process which is being
strongly supported by the Bank under the Public Enterprise Reform Adjustment
Loan.
2.33        These  reforms,  which  are  aimed  at creating  a more  open  and
competitive economy, will undoubtedly benefit agriculture, a sector that relies
heavily on external trade. Long-term sustainable growth, however, wll not occur
without major investments, even if an appropriate economic and structural
framework is in place. Years of neglect in the public sector and disinvestment
by the private sector have created serious bottlenecks in:   (a) physical
infrastructure; (b) capital for primary production, processing and marketing; and
(c) agricultural services. The Bank's lending strategy for the sector over the
next five years will therefore aim to stimulate growth by targeting resources to
each of these three major areas.
2.34        Infrastructure.      Rehabilitating  the  country's  agricultural
infrastructure involves potentially much larger sums of money than have been
expended at any time in the recent past. Major flood control works are required,
as are investments in irrigation rehabilitation, rural roads and drainage. An
essential requirement for allocating resources in this area is a close decision-
making connection between federal and provincial governments, since many
potential investment proposals should originate in the provinces and would
require provincial financing and administration. Given the extreme shortage of
public resources, the Bank's strategy is to help build the capacity of the



- 14 -
provinces to initiate and evaluate small- and medium-scale projects and to apply
high standards of economic analysis in selecting them. This strategy closely
conforms to that being followed in other sectors through a proposed Provincial
Development Loan and would be applied specifically to agriculture through a
Provincial Agricultural Development Project now in the early stages of
preparation.
2.35        Private Investaent.   A renewal of productive investment by the
private sector in agriculture and agro-industry depends first and foremost on the
creation of a stable and open economy. This alone may not be enough, however.
It is unlikely that private investment will grow without a revival of financial
intermediation in the banking system. This may be some years away, in spite of
the far-reaching reforms now underway in the Central Bank and in the public
banking system.  There is therefore a gap to be filled in financing private
investment, which will need to be met from external sources. Experience with the
on-going Agricultural Credit Project II (Ln. 2970-AR), where subborrowers have
financed on average 25% of investments, suggests that Bank resources made
available through the financial system can act as a catalyet for mobilizing
private savings to increase the capital assets of the sector. Therefore, as a
complement to operations aimed at reviving public investment, the Bank is also
considering a further line of credit to support private investment in export-
oriented agriculture and agro-induz'-y.
2.36        Public Services.  Finally, the capacity of the agricultural sector
to exploit its comparative advantage is contingent on the strength of the
institutions which serve it. The need for improvement covers a wide range. Many
of the problems are familiar issues, related to poor funding and lack of
direction. The total resources needed an an annual basis are not particularly
large, but they are fundamental to the long-run productive and marketing
potential of the sector.   They therefore deserve high priority and, since
agricultural technology is advancing rapidly on an international level, they are
particularly suitable for external financial and technical assistance. Support
for this effort is a central part of the Bank's lending strategy for agriculture,
and is the subject of the project described below.
III. THE PROJECT
Origin and Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.01        Origin.  The project developed from a series of studies financed
under the ASL and carried out by the Inter-American Institute for Agricultural
Cooperation (IICA) on behalf of SSAGyP. These studies formed the basis of the
Bank's April 1989 Agricultural Sector Review which defined constraints and
priorities for investment in the sector.  Subsequently, IICA prepared a Non-
Traditional Agricultural Exports Development Project for the Bank, and a
Fisheries Development Project for IDB, and the FAO/WB Cooperative Program
prepared an Agricultural Services Project. A total of four separate or joint
Bank/IDB/FAO missions visited Argentina between October 1988 and May 1989 on



- 15 -
theme three project proposals, with preparation of the Agricultural Services
Project beginning in March 1989.
3.02        In September 1989, a joint Bank/IDB mission completed preparation of
a proposal to finance an Agricultural Export Development Project compricing key
features of the above three project proposals including an investment credit
component for export-oriented agroindustries. Joint preappraisal took place in
Dec-mber 1989 after which it was decided to focus on agricultural services and
institutional development activities. The credit component was postponed until
the economic situation in Argentina demonstrates sufficient improvement to permit
a resumption of Bank operations in the financial sector. Dank appraisal took
place in April/May 1990 and IDB appraisal took place in June/July 1990.  At
Government's roquest a joint mission was carried out in September 1990 to make
appropriate modifications to ensure that the project conformed to public sector
reform initiatives announced earlier in that month.
3.03        Rationale.   The proposed project would be an integral part of the
strategy defined in paras 2.32 to 2.36 above, and would be consistent with the
findings of the 1988 Agricultural Sector Review, which has been endorsed by the
Government and the Bank.   In that review it was stated that the principal
components of a strategy to develop agricultural services would be:  (a) the
setting of clear priorities for agricultural research; (b) the strengthening of
animal health and plant protection services; (c) provision of market research,
varietal  development  and export promotion  for fruits and vegetables;  (d)
increased emphasis on the control of soil erosion and on pasture improvement; (e)
development of a more autonomous meat marketing board; and (f) strengthening of
forest management services and support to the fishing industry.
3.04        Through involvement in the preparation and appraisal of the project,
the Bank has already had a profound impact on the structure and organization of
the agencies involved, and this impact would be deepened during project
implementation. In preparation for the project, each agency has had to define
its strategy, role in the sector, priorities, competence and ability to develop
effective cost-recovery mechanisms. This has led to a keener awareness of skill
gaps, which have been critical constraints to the management of public sector
institutions (Annex 1). At Bank insistence, great emphasis has been placed on
sustainability through cost-recovery, and as a result, the fiscal impact of
providing these services is expected to decline as the project is implemented.
Furthermore, priority incremental staffing needs would be offset by reductions
in SSAGyP's overall personnel quota through elimination of low priority
activities. In fact, as part of ongoing public sector reform initiatives, SSAGyP
was one of the first institutions to present its proposal for restructuring to
MEC, following the guidelines set out during the preparation of the proposed
project. As such, it is seen as a model for other institutions. Furthermore,
the project focuses heavily on field-level staff, given the weakness of the
federal bureaucracy and the need for service infrastructure to become more
commercially oriented, with greater involvement of producers and provincial
agencies.



- 16 -
Proiect obiectives
3.05        The proposed project would build on the ongoing Public Sector
Hanagement Technical Assistance Loan (Ln. 2712-AR) which is attempting to
strengthen the planning and policy-making function in public institutions,
including SSAGyP. It would extend this support to agricultural 4ervicss with a
strong focus on exports. Its aim would be to improve Argentina's capability to
produce, certify and maintain high quality agricultural products for export. It
would:   (a) strengthen the effectiveness of quality control service. while
reducing the se,vice agencies' dependency on budgetary allocations by charging
user fees for services renderedl and (b) diversify agricultural exports by
strengthening marketing, export promotion and technical and research services
through joint public and private sector efforts. This conforms to Government's
public sector reform plans which can be split into two phases: the first phase
(staff reductions) has already taken place (para 2.05) and the second phase (to
improve the efficiency and impact of these services) would be supported by the
project.
Proiect Descriotion
3.06        The  project  would  focus on  investment  in physical  facilites,
institutional development, technical assistance and training, to improve key
agricultural services provided by SSAGyP.   These services fall into three
categories, based on the degree of institutional reform needed.   The first
requires moderate but specific institutional changes, and includes SENASA and
JNC.   The  second  requires  substantial  institutional  development  support,
complemented by private sector inputs, and includes PPS, NDF, INIDP, and SSAGyP's
Information Service (SIIAP). The third category includes INTA, which has already
embarked on institutional reform but requires long-term financing to carry out
priority research work.   In -ddition,  the project would  stimulate export
promotion by creating a Non-Traditional Agricultural Export Promotion Scheme.
Project completion is estimated at December 31, 1997.   The components are
summarized in the table below:



- 17 -
Table 3.1   3ummarv of Proiect Comnonents
Degree of Institutional
Agency                Reform                            Objectives
SENASA             Moderate                   Improve Animal Health Services
JNC                Moderate                    Improve Meat Export Promotion
PPS                Substantial                 Improve Phytosanitary Services
NDF                Substantial                 improve Fisheries Administration
INIDP              Substantial                Improve Fisheries Monitcring
SIIAP              Substantial                Reform Information Services
INTA               Minor                      Carry out Priority Research
Promotion Fund    New                         Support Exporter Initiatives
3.07        Animal Health Services.  This component would be implemented by
SENASA and would: (a) increase '.ivectock production and productivity by reducing
the impact of major diseases (FMD, bruc-llosis, mange and tick-borne diseases);
(b) avoid the introduction of exotic diseases into Argentina by setting up modern
quarantine facilities and an epidemiological monitoring system; (c) ensure a
regular supply of high quality, state-of-the-art biologicals (including oil-added
FMD vaccine) and pharmaceuticals for veterinary use; and (d) ensure the
development of meat products that meet health and quality standards demanded by
export markets.
3.08        The component would improve SENASA's services through an internal
reorganization and better interaction with CONASA, provincial and zonal animal
disease control groups, producers, and other public institutions, especially INTA
and the provinces. A Directorate of Planning would be established to assist in
the provision of the following common services: programming, epidemiological
awareness,   statistics   and  economics,   human   resource  development  and
communications.
3.09        Specific items to be financed would include:
(a)   the strenothenina of SENASA's central services  (USS1.5 million}
through the establishment of a permanent Epidemiology and Training
Unit (ETU) and a temporary Project Management Unit (PMU). The PHU
would prepare annual operating plans (AOP), contract construction,
procure equipment,  and monitor the component.   The ETU would
establish strategies, propose structural changes in admini;tration,
evaluate technical procedures and cost-recovery schemes, monitor
field campaigns and support field staff in their training.  This
would require 12 new staff, the development of an epidemiological



- 18 -
information system, staff training, and provision of equipment
(office, computing, communications);
(b)   strenathenino of SELSA's field services and suuDoort to s22cific
disease control camiaians IUSS7.5 millionL  Field services would be
strengthened through staff training (epidemiology, computing and
monitoring), the provision of equipment (offico, computing,
communications),  and vehicle purchase.   Resources  for specific
campaigns would be provided to expand the FHD control program using
oil-added vaccine (projected to reach 45 million doses by 1995).
Approximately US$1.0 million would also be included to meet
requirements  for  stocks  of  vaccine.   SENASA would  coordinate
financing of campaigns closely with the "Commission to Control FMD"
and with JNC both of which have earmarked funds for this purpose;
(c)   construction. eauioment. trainina and technical assistance for a new
central veterinary laboratory iUSS10.2 million) (11,000 mW on the
grounds of INTA's Castelar station. This would include provision of
additional laboratory equipment, the incorporation of staff through
transfers from other laboratories (9 professionals, 26 technicians),
and specialized staff training.   This facility would become a
National Reference Center for Argentina's network of laboratories.
Half of the area would be used for bacteriology, parasitology,
pathology, pharmacology, basic chemistry, and food analysis.  The
remaining area would be holding pens for large animals and breeding
facilities  for  laboratory  animals.    This  would  be  the  main
laboratory  for  quality  control  of  vaccines,  chemicals,  and
biologicals used in veterinary work in Argentina; and
(d)   construction and eauioment of a medium-security animal cuarantine
station at Buenos Aires' Ezeiza airoort (USSO.8 million) (11600 m2).
Final designs on the laboratory and quarantine station, preparation of draft
tender documents on vehicles and establishment of the ETU have been completed.
3.10        The fee charged to farmers would cover the cost of vaccines as well
as the cost of staff, transport and cold storage of vaccine at existing private
facilities.  The areas to be covered are the Salado River Basin, the North,
Mesopotamia, the FMD barrier areas in northern Patagonia and the milk production
areas  of  Buenos  Aires  Province.    Other  disease  programs  (brucellcsis,
tuberculosis, mange and tick-borne diseases) would also benefit from the manpower
resources allocated for the FMD scheme since these areas could be covered during
off-periods of the FMD campaigns. The cost of the animal health component is
estimated at about US$20.0 million. Debt service on the Bank and IDB loans would
be recovered through user fees from SENASA's entire service activities, including
inspection by SIPA at meat plants. SENASA currently administers a system which
recovers about 70% of its costs but these funds are returned to the Treasury.
A revised fee structure has been developed and the final rates will be presented
to the Bank prior to first disbursement (para 3.44).  An analysis of the fee
structure is available in the Technical File.



- 19 -
3.11        Phytoganitary Services (Annex 31. This component would target public
services which are not substitutable by the private sector and which require
independent  quality  control  and/or  certification  service.           Improving
phytosanltary residue analysis and quality control services would earn increased
acceptance and access for Argentine products in export markets. The quality of
agricultural produce in the local market would also be improved. PPS would carry
out the phytosanitary component in coordinatica with provincial agencies, and
would aim to improve programs to control the fruit fly and citrus canker, prevent
introduction of exotic pests such as the cotton boll weevil, and improve analysis
and monitoring of chemical residues in foodstuffs. Incremental staff needs would
be met in part through internal transfers iithin SSAGyP, and in part through
losses ln other lower priority SSAGyP agencies, e.g., the National Forestry
Institute (IFONA). Specific items to be financed would includet
(a)   a central auarantine station and diaanostic laboratory in Buenos
Aires (USS2,Q 0illionA. The project would finance the construction
(610 m ), equipment, staffing and training (three MSc-level) of a
phytosanitary control facility that would include a main building
(office and laboratories) and a greenhouse complex. All staff needs
would be incremental (23 total, 7 professionals);
(b)   supo2rt to PPS and provincial staff (USS5.5 sillion}.  The project
would finance the construction of small office facilities,
equipment, and vehicles. A number of staff would be recruited (37
professional, 37 technical, 18 administrative, and 21 general
service) and post-graduate training would be provided at the MS
level (two each in pathology and entomology).   Additional staff
needs have been derived by assuming that relevant provincial
delegations would each require a minimum of two professional, one
technical, one administrative, and one service staff. Delegations
with sections in Cordoba, Corrientes, Mendoza, Posadas, and
Resistancia would need additional staff and two new delegations
would be created at Rio Gallegos and Neuquen;
(c)   Desticide residue analysis (USS3.0 aillioni for both export and
domestically consumed products.   The project would remodel an
existing laboratory building at the Central Laboratory and construct
a new regional laboimtory  (220 m2 building,  16 m2 oven)  in the
Northwest at Tucuman.   The project would provide equipment,  11
additional professional and technical staff and construct, equip and
staff the regional laboratory.   Post-graduate training would be
required for two professionals in detection and in application
technology; and
(d)   ohvtosanitarv barriers and disease prevention can2aians  1USS.2
aillion) would comprise:   (i) the citrus canker campaign, which
would aim to maintain the Northwest Region free from the disease Ly
setting up eight quarantine barriers (phytosanitary control points)
in the region, upgrading disease monitoring, and providing
communications equipment. This is especially important since the EC
only conferred cancrosis-free status on the area in September 1990.



- 20 -
Staff would include six professionals distributed in eight-hour
shifts at each phytosanitary control point, with one vehicle per
location plus communication equipment.   All fruit and vegetable
shipments passing through these control points would be inspected;
and (ii) the fruit fly program, which would aim to eradicate the
pest from the Comahue Region (Rio Negro, Neuquen, and part of La
Pampa Provinces). A monitoring network with sanitary barriers and
communications equipment would be set up. Close coordination would
be maintained with the local fruit producers organization (ENTE
FRUTICOLA), provincial authorities (especially in Mendoza) and INTA.
Additional staff would include six professionals to lead the team
and 40 quarantine agents. The monitoring network would require five
vehicles plus insect traps and laboratory equipment to identify
species. Each of the five checkpoints would need one vehicle.
3.12        PPS would work closely with INTA on research into post-harvest losses
of horticultural products (para 3.20 c) and on equipping the quarantine station,
diagnostic laboratory, residue analysis laboratory and improvement of itd
technical services.  A major constraint identified during preparation is the
quality and quantity of staff available to implement the component. As a result,
a major hiring and training program for PPS staff is anticipated.
3.13        The  cost  of  the phytosanitary  component  (excluding  seeds)  is
estimated at about US$13.2 million and, except for the campaigns, annual
operating costs and debt serv'- on the Bank and IDB loans would be recovered
through user fees as in the case of SENASA.  (Preliminary estimatee of fees for
the first year of the project are shown in Annex 3). Conditions of disbursement
of this component would be:  (a) signing of an agreement with the resp3ctive
provinces on campaigne; and (b) confirmation that all funds collected for
phytosanitary services would be made available to SSAGyP to cover operating
costs. Final designs of laboratories and the quarantine stations have already
been prepared.
3.14        Seeds  IUSS1.0  millionl.    The  project  would  improve  SENASE's
certification and registration of seeds by financing consultant services,
training and the purchase of equipment.  Specifically, consultants would be
contracted to: (a) improve seed quality control as required by the International
Seed Testing Association; (b) improve plant breeders' rights; (c) improve seed
certification (as required by OECD); (d) modernize SENASE; (e) develop a national
seed plan: (f) explore the potential of the export/import market; and (g) update
the legal framework for the export/import trade. Training would be concentrated
on short trips to gain first-hand experience on seed certification, plant
breeders' rights and seed quality control in the USA, Europe and Australi_
Local training for seed inspectors, seed analysts and staff from seed quality
control laboratories would concentrate on the same three themes as above for
short trips plus variety registration.   Electrophoresis equipment would be
purchased for the seed laboratory operated by SENASE to improve varietal
identification, seed pathology identification as well as purity, germination and
viability. Computers would be procured to improve processing of the national
registrars of plant breeders, seed certification, and retail inspection.



- 21 -
3.15        Fisheries  Ln  4g       The fisheries development strategy supported
by the project aims to expand the industry and exploit Argentina's southern
continental shelf in a rational manner, ensuring in the process that populations
of the maln economic species are sustained at productive levels. The specific
mechanisms to achieve this strategy would include:  (a) setting up a program in
INIDP to monitor fisheries resourced aid determine maximum sustainable fish
catches (CMI) for the main commercial species. This would entail making better
use of INIDPl two research vessels and complementing results with data pgovided
by 1S observers placed on board private fishing vessels; (b) reorganizing NDF to
improve its capacity in strategic planning, control, and support to the private
sector; (c) restructuring INIDP; (d) supporting legislation which should include
clauses on f4shery licensing to cover the cost of fisheries research. The latter
woutc1 be set up in such a manner so as not to create a selective barrier to entry
into Argentine waters by foreign vessels; and (e) supporting the creation of two
aquaculture centers for INIDP. The latter would focus research and development
on trout farming in Patagonia (Bariloche) and on fresh water prawn (Macrobrachium
ros*nbercii) and other warm water species in the northwest (Corrientes).  This
research would also complement the fish farming investments eligible for
financing under Loan 2970-AR.
3.16        Specific items to be financed include:  (a) at INIDP, fishing and
scientific equipment for research vessels, scientific equipment for on-shore
laboratories and incremental operating expenses to allow INIDP's two research
vessels to increase the total number of days at sea from 200 up to 400 per year
(US$10.2 million); (b) at NDF and INIDP, institutional support would including
about 80-man months of consultant support in fishing technology, project
management, administration of fisheries research, institutional development
(policy, planning and economics), information systems, short-term training
courses and computer equipment  (US$0.8 million);  (c) Aquaculturs.   At the
Bariloche Research Center, construction and equipping of the facility, and at the
Corrientes Center, civil works, fish tanks and equipment (US$1.7 million total).
Conditions of disbursement would be:   (a) on aquaculture,  ensure effective
possession of land for the two aquaculture centers; and (b) on the INIDP research
program, put into effect appropriate mechanisms to generate adequate funds
through issuance of permits to finance resource monitoring on a permanent basis.
The total cost of the fisheries component is estimated at about US$12.7 million.
3.17        Neat Karketina tAnnex 7). Institutional development of JNC would focus
on developing its capacity to promote Argentine meat exports, vacuum- packed
meats and substitute meat products (poultry, pork, fish). JNC would also upgrade
standards in the domestic meat market by changing its meat classification system,
and would rebuild its capacity to analyze financial aspects of the meat market.
The project would include consultancies, meat promotion studies, and purchase of
equipment to aid in promotional activities.
3.18        The cost of the meat marketing component is estimated at US$11.5
million.  Specific items to be financed include: (a) development of a market
information system; and (b) research into meat quality at INTI's Center for
Technology and Research on Meat (CITECA) under an agreement with JNC. The goal
would be to build CITECA into a quality certification institution especially for
chemical residues in meat; (c) promotional costs associated with fairs and



- 22 -
exhibits, including equipment, materials and technical assistance for
international eventsl (d) technical assistance in planning, marketing studies,
and market information systems; and (e) support to modify seat classification
procedures since meat is still classified on a carcass basis despite the fact
that the major'ty of non-cooked meat is sold as cuts. The total cost of the meat
marketing component is estimated at about US$11.1 million.
3.19        Research (Annex 51. The project would support four INTA activities
related to analytical procedures and generation of new technology to increase
agricultural export activity. INTA's network of research facilities wo 'd be
involved in the subprojects which would comprises (a) expansion of INTA's wool
technology laboratory at Bariloche (Rio Negro Province) and establishment of a
satellite, provincial laboratory at Rawson (Chubut Province).  The objective
would be to bring Argentine wool certification procedures up to International
standards, to allow "more objective" measures into the production, preparation
and classification of wool, and to bring more transparency to the wool market in
Argentina.   (b) biotechnology in four areas:   (i) FHD and brucellosis; (ii)
resistance to potato virus; (iii) control of insect populations; and (iv) hybrid
vigor in plants; (c) post-harvest physiology in fruits and vegetables, which will
require equipment and training at regional centers.   In Northern Patagonia,
research would cover apples, peaches and table grapes, focussing specifically on
chemical residues and fungicides to reduce disease during refrigeration. In
Mendoza, the same topics would be covered on stone fruits and vegetables. In the
Northwest, citrus and vegetables research would focus on refrigerated storage and
in other regions on residues and cold storage; and (d) development of techniques
to improve forest plantation management and varieties at INTA's Concordia Station
in 4esopotamia.
3.20        Specific items to be financed under the reseerch component include:
(a)   Wool:  laboratory and compLuting equipmert, corstruction, training,
and incremental operating expenses including . cremental, contracted
technical staff (US$2.3 million);
(b)   Biotechnology: remodeling of laboratories at, .astelar; laboratory,
administrative and computing equipment, furni ,.re and vehicles, and
incremental operating costs including the maivtenance of a critical
inventory of biological reagents for biotechnol, ;y research (US$2.7
million);
(c)   Post-harvest Physiology:  support to five research working groups
located at existing INTA research stations in the main fruit and
vegetable production areas.   This would require recruitment and
training of staff, procurement of equipment, suppLies, vehicles, and
construction of small warehouses with packing-house, cold rooms,
offices, and a small laboratory (US$3.4 million); and
(d)   Forestry  Research:    constru'cs-ion  of  research  facilities,  and
procurement of laboratory and office equipment, vehicles, a boat,



- 23 -
and training (three staff years overseas plus short-term local
seminars) (US$1.9 million).
The total cost of the research component is estimated at about US$10.3 million.
3.21        Iaformatiop, System {Annex 71.  The project would strengthen the
integration of SSAGyP's information systems to link existing independent
federal/provincial public and private sources to produce consistent and regular
information flows. System integration would be pursued by: (a) assisting the
technical units within SSAGyP in the collection and processing of information
using informatics (hardware, software and training); (b) assisting decentralized
institutions; (c) exchanging information with the Provinces; (d) cooperating and
exchanging information with other federal and provincial entities in both the
private and public sectors; (e) establishing a central repository for aggregated
information in the NDAP, which would process the information and present it in
suitable forms to decision-makers; and (f) establishing a central support unit
to assist other SSAGyP units in their use of informatics.  A decentralized,
micro-computer-oriented approach would be used. An Informatics Committee would
be created, composed of the major users of information in SSAGyP to ensure a
coordinated approach to information identification and definition, homogeneous
systems development, compatible hardware and software and economies of scale in
training for SSAGyP. This decentralized approach would facilitate third party
contracting, and therefore a minimum of four staff would be required. Equipment
would include mostly micro-computers but possibly local area networks and a
supermicro, the exact number and configurations of which would be determined
during the detailed design and analysis of each system. The estimated cost of
the component is about US$1.2 million.
3.22        Non-Traditional Zxnort Promotion Scheme {Annex 8$.  This component
would support the private sector in evaluating and penetrating new export
markets. Specifically, it would: (a) support mechanisms to exchange specialized
information on production, processing and marketing of nontraditional
agricultural products through seminars, publications and overseas visits. This
process would be complemented by the existing (and underutilized) network of
Commercial Attaches operating in Argentine embassies; and (b) provide financial
resources to individuals or groups of exporters out of a Promotion Fund to be set
up under the project which would finance up to 50% (with a maximum of US$30,000
equivalent)  for  the  following:    (i)  data  searches;  (ii) preparation  of
feasibility studies; (iii) technical advice on processes; (iv) pilot shipments
to test markets; and (v) monitoring of pilot shipments. These activities could
be carried out by the exporters themselves or by consultants. The first three
proposals would be sent to the Bank and IDB for review; thereafter, review would
be by sampling during supervision. The administration of the program would be
streamlined, efficient, and unencumbered by long review procedures.  It would
comprise an Executive Directorate with representatives from SSAGyP, the
Subsecretariat of Commerce and Industry (SSIC), BNA, and three individuals from
the agroindustrial sector. This Executive Directorate would be supported by a
Technical Secretariat.
3.23        Specific items to be financed include:   computer hardware and
software, office and communications equipment, incremental operating expenses,



- 24 -
and start-up resources for the promotion fund.  The cost of the component is
estimated at about US$8.3 million.  As a condition of effectiveness, SSAGyP
would: (a) sign the agreement with BNA-SSIC; (b) sign the contract with BNA's
non-profit Foundation to administer the funds; and (c) hire the Executive
Director and Technical Director.
Organization and luRlementation (Annex 1l
3.24        NDAP would establish a Central Coordination and Management Unit
(CCMU) to coordinate overall project activities.  Although the head of each
agency would be responsible for implementing its component, each would also
appoint a specific project coordinator for the respective component to serve as
a liaison between the agency and the CCMU.  In addition, a Project Advisory
Committee (PAC) would be created, headed by the Subsecretary of SSAGyP or his
designate, with the Director of CCMU acting as Technical Secretary.   This
Committee would meet at least three times a year and would comprise
representatives from SSAGyP's four National Directorates and one representative
each from SENASA, PPS, JNC, INTA, SIIAP, and the Export Promotion Program. The
main objective of the PAC meetings would be to resolve problems of an inter-
institutional nature and ensure effective liaison with the provinces and the
private sector.   The first PAC meeting would occur within 90 days after
effectiveness. The already-nominated Project Coordinator attended negotiations.
Establishment and full staffing of CCMU would be a condition of effectiveness and
of component management units (PMU) would be a condition of disbursement of the
respective components.
3.25        Each participating agency would prepare an Annual operating Plan
(AOP) that would be submitted to CCMU before October 30 of each preceding year.
The AOPs would outline program objectives for the year, quantify available
resources, describe how staff work programs would be implemented by task,
establish implementation schedules, identify sources of financing, and summarize
progress to date for the prevailing fiscal year. Ongoing AOP'B would be reviewed
in June of each fiscal year to allow for adjustments during the second semester
of that year. The CCMU would: (a) analyze and approve AOPB to ensure compliance
with project objectives; (b) consolidate all AOPs and prepare a project budget;
and (c) confirm the availability of counterpart funding and monitor key
indicators. The 1991 AOPs for each agency have been prepared, and all subsequent
AOPs would be reviewed with the Bank prior to finalization of each new year's
plan.
3.26        The legal mechanism to implement the project would be outlined in
Subsidiary Agreements between SSAGyP and the participating autonomous
institutions (INTA, SENASA and INDP), which would be responsible for their
respective shares of the debt service on the Bank and IDB loans. In the case of
other service agencies that are integral parts of SSAGyP, project implementation
and transfer of funds would be regulated by internal SSAGyP resolution through
the General Directorate of Administration (GDA).  The cost of institutional
strengthening and project coordination activities is estimated at about US$1.6
million for computing and facsimile equipment, technical and incremental
operating expenses,  and  studies.   CCMU  staff  needs would  be small:   a
coordinator, one financial analyst, one monitoring officer, an accountant, and



- 25 -
three administrators. As a condition of effectiveness, subsidiary agreements and
related SOP* would be signed and JNC would adopt a SOP satisfactory to the Bank.
3.27        A detailed analysis of key tasks necessary for successful project
implementation has been carried out during appraisal by management consultants
financed and supervised by the Bank.  These tasks and the schedule for their
completion have been compared with the existing staffing and skills mix of each
agency to determine any capacity gaps. Each agency has prepared a training and
staffing program to fill these capacity gaps.  The institutional development
activities included in the project are designed to support these initiatives and
thereby improve the efficiency, impact and productivity of these agencies. All
1991 training programs have been prepared.
3.28        To ensure compatibility with general institutional reform initiatives
being promoted in the public sector with Bank support, a draft agreement was
reached between project implementing agencies, SSAGyP, the Subsecretariat of
Hacienda and MINEC covering cost recovery and staffing aspects of the project.
This agreement commits agencies to reducing the net fiscal cost of providing
services and allows individual agencies such as PPS to increase staffing provided
there is no net increase in the overall complement of public employees in SSAGyP.
3.29        statements of Policy (SOPI.  To improve their management of public
resources, agencies would provide Statements of Policy (SOP) that would define
in detail:  (a) financial and technical objectives with monitorable indicators;
(b) a strategy to obtain the objectives that define the agency's relationship
with the private sector and the Provinces, and the degree to which its revenues
will cover its costs; (c) specific programs to implement the strategy; (d) the
contribution of the project to implementing these programs; and (e) the resulting
change in the size and structure of the agency. Each agency's SOP was reviewed
in draft at necotiations. These would form part of subsidiary agreements to be
signed as a condition of effectiveness. Assurances would be included in the loan
documents that these SOPs will be followed during the project.
3.30        At present, SSAGyP's General Directorate of Administration (GDA) and
the participating agencies do not have cost accounting systems that provide them
with the management information they need to control their costs or price their
services in a rational manner.   GDA uses the standard government chart of
accounts, which does not provide this information.  GDA and the independent
agencies, with the help of consultants, would Cevelop parallel cost accounting
systems to help them achieve the business objectives of their SOPs. The cost of
consulting advice, computer equipment, training and software to establish these
systems would be eligible for financing under the project.  A condition of
disbursement for individual comoonents would be the prior implementation of Bank-
approved cost accounting systems.
Costs
3.31        Project costs (net of taxes) are estimated at about US$82.7 million
in June 1990 prices, of which about 38% would be foreign exchange costs. Price
contingencies (about 9% of baseline costs), have been included at a rate of 3.6%
p.a. between 1991-95. Physical contingencies, (3% of baseline costs), have been



- 26 -
applied at a rate of 10% for civil works and equipment and 5% for vehicle- and
other goods. Project cost and financing data are given in Annex 11.
3.32        Incremental recurrent costs are estimated at about 30% of base coats.
The SENASA, PPS, INIDP, and INTA Wool Laboratory components would constitute the
bulk of poat-project incremental operating expense.. Cost estimates for these
components have taken into account the ability of these services to generate
sufficient income (through user-fees and licenses) to cover all operating costs
as well as debt servicing on the Bank and IDB loans. Consultant costs have been
calculated at a level of US$12,000 pe  man-month for international consultants
and US$3,000 per man-month for local consultants.
Financing
3.33        The proposed Bank loan of US$33.5 million equivalent (including
US$0.5 million to refinance PPF 119-AR) would finance about 40% of total project
costs including local currency expenditures. IDB would parallel finance US$30.0
million equivalent (36%) of total project costs.  Counterpart funding needs
amounting to US$18.7 million equivalent (23% of total) would largely be financed
or rofinanced by JNC, INTA, SENASA, PPS, INIDP, INTA wool revenues collected from
end-users through various mechanisms.  The Japanese Grant Fund would provide
US$0.95 million or (1% of total project costs), and would finance technical
assistance, training and studies in the forestry research (INTA) and fisheries
(NDP and INIDP) components. The Bank loan would be made to the Government at the
standard variable interest rate for a term of 17 years, including five years of
grace. To enable project executing agencies to prepare for an early start on
project implementation, project expenditures incurred after May 1, 1990 but prior
to loan signing would be eligible for retroactive financing up to US$1.5 million
equivalent.
3.34        F. x.i financing would cover:  (a) 100% of eligible civil works and
laboratory  equipment  expend.tures  in all  components except  animal  health
(SENASA), which would be covered by IDB; (b) 100% of eligible vehicle procurement
in all components; (c) 100% of technical assistance for the following: (i) local
consultants and studies in CCMU and SIIAP components, and private auditors costs
for all components, and (ii) international consultants including all needs of
INTA wool component, and relevant third party procurement services (para. 3.?5
(b)); (d) 100% of training for the following: (i) overseas training includil.g
all needs of the INTA wool component, and (ii) local training for SIIAP and for
CCMU in support of studies; (e) approximately 50% of eligible incremental
operating expenditures for all components on a declining basis of 100%, 80% 60%
40% of equal increments of US$2.0 million and 20% of the balance; and (f) in the
export promotion fund, in addition to eligible activities covered above, 100% of
eligible promotional costs, which represents 50% of total prormotional costs (para
3.22). Loan documentation would ensure that there would be no financing under
the Bank loan of expenditures financed by any international finance institution
or agency other than the Bank.



- 27 -
Procur- ent
3.35        Given the existing constraints to efficient contracting for good a*nd
services by public agencies in Argentina, SSAGyP and it. autonomous agencies
could elect to hire specialized international agencies to carry out this
procurement function. This would also facilitate the packaging of procurement
for such goods and services as vehicles, equipment, and consultant services.
These services would be procured in accordance with Bank guidelines (see below)
and would take the form of an annual contract. This option would only be an
interim measure that would be terminated when the overall public sector reform
program becomes operational. Thereafter, individual agencies would be able to
carry out these functions independently.  Procurement for all eligible Bank-
financed items would follow Bank guidelines as follows:
(a)   CivLl  Works.    Civil  works  costing  between  US$50,000  and
US$2.0 million equivalent, representing an estimated 37% of civil
works, would be procured under local competitive bidding procedures
(LCB) satisfactory to the Bank and through which:   (i) foreign
contractors would be allowed to bid on all contracts; (ii) a minimum
of 30 days would be allowed between the date of publication of the
last advertisement and the bid opening date; (iii) each bidding
would be advertised in a national newspaper for at least three days;
and (iv) bidders would be allowed to submit their bids by mail.
Civil works contracts above US$2.0 million equivalent (SENASA's
Central Laboratory totalling about US$6.0 million) would be financed
by IDB and would be procured under international competitive bidding
(ICB) procedures.
To minimize adverse impact on the environment during construction,
specifications in the bidding documents for the major works
(laboratories and quarantine stations) would include clauses under
which contractors would be required to prevent, minimize or mitigate
environmental damage.
(b)   g22js. Vehicles required for the project, estimated to cost about
US$4.9 million equivalent over five years, would be procured under
ICB procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines.  All vehicles
provided (about 400) would include a four-year service contract.
Laboratory   equipment   (US$7.5  million)   and   computing   and
telecommunications equipment (US$1.5 million) would be bulked as
necessary and procurement would include four-year service contracts.
Procurement of lots in excess of US$250,000 equivalent would be
procured under ICB procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines;
lots under US$25,000 by local or international shopping; and lots
between US$25,000 and US$250,000 by local competitive bidding
procedures acceptable to the Bank.  To the extent possible, the
acquisition of goods and vehicles should be packaged into contracts
estimated to cost US$300,000 or more.
(c)   Consultant Servicep. Consultants (US$1.8 million) would be selected
and retained in accordance with Bank guidelines.



- 28 -
3.36        Contract Review. All ICB procurement and all civil works contracts,
as well as the first two contracts of each kind (LCB and shopping) for goods
below the ICB limits would be subject to the Bank's prior review of procurement
documentation before invitation. to bid were issued and contracts awarded. This
review would result in a coverage of about 100% of the total estimated value of
works contracts and about 70% of goods contracts eligible for Bank financing.
The balance of contracts would be subject to expost-review by tha Bank after
contract award  A unified system of procurement with standard bidding documents
would be followed for all goods and, similarly, for all civil works, depending
on the bidding option (LCB or ICB). As a condition of disbursemnt for each
individual component tender documents for year 1 procurement contracts would be
presented to the Bank for review.
Procuremnnt Arranogments 1,
(USS million)
ICB    LCB    Other    Japanese       Total
Grant
Civil Works                        7.7    4.6                   -         12.3
0 )  (4.6)                          ( 4.6)
Equipment/Vehicles/Machinery    11.0    8.0        2.2          -         21.2
(6.0)  (2.8)   (1.0)                  ( 9.8)
Training/TA/Consultant2/            -             23.1         1.0        24.1
4.0)                 ( 4.0)
other J/                                          25.1          -         25.1
(14.6)                 (14.6)
Total                             18.7   12.6    50.4          1.0        82.7
(6.0) ( 7.4)  (19.6)                  (33.0)
1/ Values in parentheses show amounts to be financed by the Bank.
2/ Procurement in accordance with Bank guidelines.
3/ Includes recurrent expenditures and export promotion costs.
Disbursemnts and Special Accounts
3.37        Loan proceeds would be disbursed over eight years, consistent with
the standard profile  for agricultural  projects  in the LAC Region.   Bank
disbursement would be made against all components as noted in para 3.34.
Japanese Grant Funds would be used to finance technical assistance, training and
studies in the forestry research and fisheries components.



- 29 -
3.38        To expedite implementatlon,  SSAGyP would establish two special
accounts for the project in the Central Bank:   one each for Bank and IDB
disbursements.  Up to US$2.0 million would be deposited by the Bank into the
relevant account, equivalent to an estimated four months of average
disbursements.   The CCMU would manage this account and make withdrawals.
Disbursements would be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOE) for
civil works contracts valued at less than US$1.0 million equivalent and for goods
and equipment  contracts valued  at  lses  than US$150,000  equivalent.   The
documentation for these expenditures would not be sent to the Dank but would be
retained by S8AOyP and made available to Bank staff during supervision missions.
All other expenditures would be fully documented.
3.39        In accordance with relevant subsidiary agreements, each agency would
be responsible for debt service on its respective part of the loan. In addition,
each agency would create with its own resources a small revolving fund to cover
project-related expenditures for three months. After expenditures are made by
the participating agency it would forward a disbursement application to CCMU
which, in turn, would process reimbursement from the Bank loan. The CCMU would
request the Central Bank to: (a) disburse the funds directly to each agency from
the Special Accounts for the Bank and IDB loans; and (b) request the Bank and IDB
to replenish the respective Special Accounts.   The project closing date is
expected to be June 30, 1998.
Accountina and Audits
3.40        SSAGyP and service institutlons involved in the project would keep
separate accounts to record their expenditures.   SSAGyP would have overall
responsibility for project implementation.  All participating agencies would
submit their requests for reimbursement of project expenditures to CCMU which
would maintain separate project accounts and records for each project component,
consolidate them into the project accounts,  and prepare SOEs.   Supporting
documentation would be maintained by CCMU and made available to visiting Bank
missions and independent auditors, who at their discretion would make field
visits to implementing agencies for the purpose of the overall audit.
3.41        Project accounts, including the special account and SOEs, would be
audited annually in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied by external independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, with terms of
reference approved by the Bank. At present, SSAGyP is audited by the National
Court of Audits (Tribunal de Cuentas).  Certified copies of audits would be
submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the close of each fiscal
year. Conditions for the audit work were agreed at negotiatiois.
3.42        During appraisal,  it was determined that GDA does not have the
capacity to account properly for project expe.aditures in a timely manner.
Consequently, the GDA would hire consultants acceptable to the Bank to undertake
a diagnootic study in two parts. The first part would be to recommend changes
in procedures and personnel to improve GDA's project accounting capabilities and
the second part would cover GDA's general administrative requirements. These
studies would be eligible for retroactive financing under the loan.  GDA has
prepared  a  standard  chart  of  accounts  for  the  project.    Conditions  of
disbursmant for each component would be that:  (a) a cost accounting system



- 30 -
based on the National Court of Audits diagnostic recommendations concerning ODA
would be implemented; and (b) each agency has adopted the standard chart of
accounts.
Reggrtina
3.43        Monitoring of progress on implementation would be carried out by the
respective implementing agency; however, mid-term and eX-221t evaluation of the
impact of the project would be carried out by consultants contracted by CCXU.
A preliminary, agency-led evaluation would be carried out at the end of year 1
to identify areas in need of immediate adjustment.   During negotiations,
Government provided assurances that: (a) semiannual progress reports will be
sent to the Bank not later than two months after the end of each reporting
period; and (b) satisfactory terms of reference would be presented to the Bank
prior to the mid-term and ex-post evaluations, with reports sent to the Bank not
later than June 30, 1993 and June 30, 1997, respectively.  The June 30, 1993
report would, inter alia, contain an analysis of the impact of the JNC
Resolution No. 160 (para. 2.22) on improving transparency in allocating meat
quotas.
Cost Recovery
3.44        During project preparation and appraisal, SENASA, PPS and NDF (with
assistance from the Bank and IDB) developed illustrative models on cost recovery.
The latter confirmed that financial self-sufficiency is an achievable goal, not
only to cover operation and maintenance costs but also to meet debt service needs
on the Bank and IDB loans. Mechanisms to cover relevant project-related costs
would be adopted, including tariffs to be charged, ds a condition of disbursement
of the respective components (SENASA, INIDP, PPS, and INTA wool laboratories).
Thereafter relevant implementing agencies would be required to discuss annual
charges with visiting Bank supervision missions to ensure adherence to the
project's financial objectives on cost recovery namely to ensure a system of
generating revenues sufficient at least to cover debt service on the Bank and IDB
loan. To meet these financial needs, GOA will have to enable these agencies
legally to meet their cost recovery obligations under the project. An agreement
between MEC and SSAGyP implementing agencies covering, inter alia, cost recovery
has been reached (para. 3.28). In addition, SOPs would confirm that the long-
term objective would be to cover all operating costs and not only debt service
needs as required under the Bank Loan Agreement.   It is estimated that
approximately 80% of total project costs would be recovered from end users of
these various services.
Proiect Benefits
3.45         Project benefits would be derived from:   (a) an improvement of
services provided by participating institutions; (b) increase in the quality,
quantity and diversity of products available for export by the private sector;
and (c) greater export diversification. The overall strengthening of key SSAGyP
services would contribute to maintaining Argentina's comparative advantage as an
agricultural producer. A stronger SSAGyP would also be in a better position to
contribute to the formulation of sound public policies.



- 31 -
3.46        An economic rate of return has not been calculated since precise
quantitative estimates of bene'its are difficult to make in an institutional
development project.   However, animal disease control campaigns would bring
direct benefits in terms of reduction of losses, improved productivity and
increased access to export markets.  The impact of phytosanitary control is more
difficult to estimate, since statistics on potential losses due to crop pests
and/or rejected products (pesticide contamination) are not available in
Argentina. The magnitude of the potential problem can, however, be estimated on
the basis of experiences elsowhere. For example: (a) the introduction of fruit
fly to the Rio Negro valley (70,000 ha of apples and pears) could cause about
US$30 million per year in direct losses; and (b) the introduction of cotton
weevil into the northeastern Argentina would increase pesticide costs by raising
the number of applications from three up to about eight per growing cycle. In
addition, yields could decline by about 30%, as demonstrated when the weevil
appeared in previously uninfested areas of Brazil.
3.48        Without  the project,  Argentina would  incur  serious  losses  in
agricultural export markets.  Failure to comply with the increasingly strict
requirements of most importing countries on pesticides and other residues would
have an strong negative impact on exports. In addition, phytosanitary standards
in the EC will become even stricter after 1992 when Spanish regulations banning
fresh fruit imports from regions with fruit fly or citrus canker become the
standard for the entire EC. The opening-up of markets in Eastern Europe could
also be threatened if EC standards are adopted throughout Europe. With regard
to meat exports, though full control of FMD will not be possible during the
project implementation period, it is clear that the EC will increase pressure on
exporting countries to meet FMD-free status requirements. As regards wool, the
International Wool Secretariat establishes the industry certification standard,
unless Argentina can meet this standard, its wool will continue to fetch lower
prices in world markets.
Proiect Risks
3.49        In addition to Argentina's general macroeconomic uncertainty, the
most important risks stem from the availability of counterpart funds, the level
of managerial capacity and the low level of commitment by public servants due to
low salaries. The local funding risks, which affect all proposed Bank operations
in Argentina, would be mitigated to a large extent by the project's proposed cost
recovery mechanisms.  The lack of managerial capacity in public institutions
would be mitigated by the project's institutional strengthening programs. The
issue of inadequate compensation in the public sector is being tackled by
Government through public sector reform measures which are also being assisted
by the Bank in proposed new loans. Since project design encourages financial
autonomy, this should also provide means to support competitive staff salaries
over time.
3nviromnental Impact
3.50        The project would have a positive environmental impact.  The animal
health and phytooanitary components would provide mechanisms to control disease,
pesto and levels of chemical residues in all foodstuffs, not only those for



- 32 -
export. The fisheries *ubcomponent would prevent over-exploitation of maritime
resources.
IV *SUWARY Or AGREZNDNSS TO Al REACHED
4.01        The following were agreed at necotiations:
(a)   draft agreement on Export Promotion Component and contract with BNA
Foundation (para 3.23):
(b)   draft Statements of Policy; (para 3.29);
(C)   conditions for audit work; (para 3.41); and
(d    reporting procedures including key indicators (para 3.43).
4.02        Th- following would be conditions for effectiveness of the loan:
(a)   Zxport Promotion Component documents signed between BNA,  FBNA,
SSAGyP and SSIC; Export Promotion Fund established; and ED and TD
hired (para 3.23); and
(b)   CCMU established and staffed (para 3.24);
(C)   SSAGyP signed agreements including SOPs with autonomous agencies,
and that JNC has adopted an SOP satisfactory to the Bank (para
3.26).
(d)   IDB has approved its loan (para. 3.33); and
(a)   Action taken to permit procurement according to Bank Guidelines
(para 3.35).
4.03        The following would be conditions of disbursement of the resoective
oroiect components:
(a)   Sign agreements with provinces on PPS campaigns and Government make
available to SSAGyP funds collected by PPS from its phytosanitary
services (para 3.13);
(b)   Effective possession of lands for aquaculture centers at Bariloche
and in Corrientes (para 3.16);
(C)   Put into effect mechanisms to ensure INIDP, through a system of
fishing permits, is able to recover the costs of fishery resource
monitoring activities (para 3.16);
(d)   PHUs  in place  for  each  component  and  respective  coordinators
nominated (para 3.24);



- 33 -
(a)   Bank-approved cost accounting systems in place and mechanisms to
recover costs for indlvidual agencies including tariffs to be
cnarged (paras 3.30 and 3.44);
(f)   Tender  documents  prepared  for  all  first  year  contracts  (by
component) (para 3.36 and Annex 11, Tables)l and
(g)   Each agency has adopted standard chart of accounts; and National
Court of Audits' recommendations implemented by GDA (para 3.42).
4.04        With the above assurances, the proposed project would be suitable for
a Bank loan of US$33.5 million on standard terms for Argentina.
January 29, 1991



- 34 -                          AnMnx_1
AROCN$IN
AORICUL$URALi SERVICES AND INSTI$VTIONAL DEVELOPHMD PROJECT
ProIect-Supoorted Institutional Develo2gent Comoonent
A. Dackaround and Obiectives.
1.        The project supports an ambitious policy that aims to increase and
diversify agriculture exports for valuo-added, crop, horticulture, livestock,
forestry and fishery products into markets that have increasingly strict
regulations.   This objective has complex implications for SSAGyP and other
implementing agencies collectively responsible for providing quality agriculture
services such as animal health, plant protection, fishery resource management,
forestry resources information and management, meat export promotion and other
more general,  services such as information systems and market surveys.   An
institutional capacity analysis was carried out during project preparation using
the institutional capacity analysis system (ICAS), to help assess actual and
potential capacity gaps that could hamper implementation of this Project. As a
result, a consolidated list of institutional capacity gaps (ICGs) has been
established against project tasks as a basis for the design of this
project-supported institutional  development component  (PSIDC).   This annex
summarizes the identified ICGs and presents the strategy designed to increase
institutional capacity that would, in turn, ensure successful implementation in
the most cost-effective manner. Detailed information is available in Spanish in
the PSIDC working paper in the Project File; illustrative examples from Component
1, Animal Health, are provided in
Tables 1-7 of this Annex.
B. Institutional Capacitv Analysis System (ICASI.
2.      Institutional capacity assessment was carried out for all agencies with
a role  in implementing the project.   The eight main project components'
objectives (Form A: Table 1) have been disaggregated into their respective
activities/resources (Form B: Table 2), which, in turn, have been translated into
detailed tasks describing who would do what to ensure adequate implementation and
achievement of component objectives using available resources (Form C: Table 3).
An interinstitutional relationships map has been designed for every component.
The capacity assessment was carried out, task by task, from the following five
viewpoints: legislation; interinstitutional relationships; organization and
distribution of functions; personnel policy and reward system; and management,
professional, technical staff and beneficiaries' skills (Forms D (i) to D (v):
Table 4). The resulting identified ICGs were consolidated into capacity gaps by
category with PSIDC designed to include inputs that would systematically address
them (Table 5). In addition, ICAS led to the preparation of a useful management
tool that will be used to organize the distribution of the implementation work
and for project monitoring and evaluation.
C. Identified Institutional Capacitv Gaeos (ICor
3.        .islation.  In general, ICGe on legislation commonly include a lack
of legal capacity within implementing agencies to act independently of SSAGyP,



- 35 -                         Annx 1
despite deconcentration or decentralization. For example, Anima Health Services
(SENASA) cannot directly undertake construction or rehabilitation works because
Public Works Law 13064 (of 1947) stipulates that any constructioti work using
public funds must go through the Public Works Secretariat. In addition, SENASA
cannot legally mobilize resources it has generated to perform Its functions and
work programs.  Phytosanitarv Services (Sanidad Vegetal) faces similar legal
hurdles aggravated by its total lack of autonomy. Furthermore, the legislation
related to the use of pesticides (Law 3489/58, and related Decrees) are out of
date. In the Fishery Resources Subsector, INIDP has little legal capacity to
enforce established, albeit unclear, rules of the game to preserve fishery
resources at a satisfactory level of economic production.  There is also no
permit system to monitor the fleet and ensure adherence to maximum sustainable
fish catches.
4.        Interinstitutional Relationebigs.  Interinstitutional relationships
between implementing agencies, their administrative units and also with
provincial  administrations are not well defined.   Other deficits  include
cumbersome t-reacratic procedures and unclear procurement procedures.   In
phytosanitary campaigns the respective roloo of the provincial authorities and
the National Directorates are unclear and cause considerable delays.
5.      Oreanisation and Distribution of Functions.  Internal organization with
implementing agencies  is weak.   Key capacity gaps include:   (a) un-clear
distribution of functions e.g., in SENASA the role of central offices versus
SELAB (laboratory); and (b) general lack of clearly defined norms that would
describe procedures to be adopted throughout relevant sub- sectors, particularly
in animal health and plant protection, but also in the other subsectors. This
often makes it difficult for higher-level of technicians to understand what their
work programs and their contribution in crneral, should be, as in the case of
SENASA's inspectors, veterinarians and technicians who carry out vaccination
campaigns. Other organization problems include lack of sufficient personnel in
the Provinces, lack of resources to carry out field work, and even lack of
adequate support infrastructure.   In the Fishery subsector, the problem is
particularly difficult, and in the Forestry subsector, there is no formally
approved organizational structure.
6.          Personnel Policy. Under this category of institutional capacity
deficits, the problem is pervasive: very low salaries compared to the private
sector, absence of a career path, and a resulting high level of staff turnover
and low staff commitment. If this is not solved during the life of the project,
the risk also exists that i. )lementing administrations would not be able to
retain the necessary qualified personnel as in the case of INTA, the research
institute where highly qualified specialists are particularly in demand.
However, this problem will be tackled in the case of the nontraditional
agricultural export promotion component where a legal charter would enable it to
work as a private sector company, offering independent salary scales with firing
and hiring as needed.
7.         Skills.  There is a general lack of updated skille in management
procedures, organization, administration, financial management and computing
activities.   Most serious gaps are found in:   (i) animal health--sanitary
management, virology, epidemiologic analysis, diagnosis, modern laboratory
organization and management, quarantine techniques; (ii) plant protection--peost



- 36 -                         Annz_L1
diagnosis, pesticide legislation, vegetable products sampling; and (iii)
fishery--technical work organization; norms; related- legislation; cost-benefit
assessment; permit management; fishing activities control and administration.
D.  The Proiect-Supoorted Institutional Develooment Comooneut (PSUDC)
S.          Three categories of measures have been designed to address the
above-mentioned capacity deficits: (i) administrative or legal decisons made or
to be made, by GOA, measures that do not imply any particular financed input;
(ii) specialist assistance to carry out studies, design specific institutional
development  strategies,  or  provide  management  procedures;   and   (iii)
skill-upgrading activities at all levels of staff and beneficiaries. Theme are
briefly described in the following paregraphs. A more detailed presentation is
shown in the PSIDC working paper available in Spanish in the project file.
9.      OOA Decisions. In general, these include the reorganization of existing
administrative frameworks to be more in line with project needs (see para. 9
below) ane correcting identified rigidities.  Flexibility and exceptions are
granted tc the current budget contention rule. Most specific measures include:
(i; animal health: SENASA would now be able to undertake construction
activities (its laboratory and quarantine station in particular) without going
through the Ministry of Public Works; harmonization of relevant federal and
provincial legislation in key areas such as entry of animals; and norms allowing
bENASA personnel to travel overseas to study sanitary requirements set by
countries importing Argentine animal products; formal agreements with provincial
authorities to set up sharing of responsibilites; simplification of fund
transfers and control by the central financial authorities; and improvement of
internal organization by adding missing functions such as an epidemiology unit;
(ii) plant protection: norms for the quarantine station; same
arrangement as in SENASA for the corresponding administration to undertake its
own construction program; ruling about use of pesticides and control of residues
that would apply to the whole country; agreements with Provinces so as to ensure
harmony and compatibility of procedures and work programs; donation: of sites by
Port Administration for the construction of the quarantine station and by Mendoza
Province for the construction of the Cuyo Regional Laboratory;
(iii) fisheries:  INIDP staff would have a mandate and authority to
carry out inspections aboard fishing boats; a national fishery law or
Presidential Decree would be approved to formalize the new policy and ways and
conditions for its enforcement; specific agreements would be signed with
provincial authorities, as well as with Prefectura Nacional Marotima for the
establishment and conditions of granting fishing permits; Fishery Operating Units
would be created in the Port Administration; national and international
agreements would be signed to facilitate and promote the circulation of relevant
information; reorganization of the Fishery Administrative Unit within SSAGyP,
incluiding more flexibility and autonomy to make it possible to achieve the
modernization policy supported by this project;
(iv) meat export:   establishment of promotion office in Europe to
represent Argertine meat industry; and



- 37-                          &BSLL1
(v) researcht special legislation would be approved for patenting new
genetic devicesl specific agreements would be signed with professional
organisations to protect research results financed under the project.
10.        Pieat Coordination and Nanaaesent.  SSAGyP would issue a formal
resolution by which a Central Coordination and Management Unit (CCMU) would be
created in the National Directorato of Agriculture Policy. Its permanence would
be ensured beyond project life because It would assume the role of preparing and
implementing projects in general.  This would include the publication by the
Ministry of Economy of a policy in which SSAGyP's self-finane-d activities would
be maintained separate from budgetary itemc. In addition, procedures for tariff
determination such as for animal vaccination or issuing permits, etc., collection
frequency, modalitioe  of these income-generating activities would be defined am
well as the use by SSAGyP of the corresponding funds. Furthermore, a specific
decree would grant exceptions for the implementing administrative units to become
able to attract, hire, fire and better manage personnel, import key equipment,
increase operating budgets, as necessary, facilitating project-related trips
within and outside of the country including fellowships and provision of all
arrangements to facilitate and expedite construction programs. Finally, a clear
dLstrLbution of functions would be established in an updated interinstitutional
relationships map (Chart 1).
11.         The COWl would have the responsibility of coordinating project
activities, including:
(a)   supervising technically, economically, financially, legally
and administratively, project implementation by the
implementation subunits;
(b)   more direct responsibility of implementing PSIDC;
(c)   monitoring implementation and collect related information;
(d)   ensuring smooth functioning of established interinctitutional
relationships networks;
()   systematically consolidating and forwarding timely progress
reports to the Bank;
(f)   ensuring adequate, sufficient and timely flow of funds to the
sectoral implementation sub-units;
(g)   being responsible for carrying out (contracting) evaluation
services at mid-term and at the end of project
implementation;
(h)   reviewing specific S8AGyP projects that could be transferred
to the private sector; and
(i)   supporting SBAGyP's Directorate of Administration to enhance
its institutional capacity.



- 38 -                         AauX 1
12.         Sectoral  implementation sub-units would be established in every
subsector includ-d in the Project, namely in BZNASA, Phytomanitary Services, Heat
Board, INTA, and in Fishery Directorate.   A precise met of norms would be
prepared with the help of an organization specialist included in the technical
assistance program so am to inter-relate these sub-units with the central
implementation unit, facilitate coordination functions such as programing,
budgeting, fiown of funds, monitoring and evaluation. More specifically, these
sectoral sub-units would:
(a)   prepare and submit annual work programs (AOP) to CCMU after
obtaining agreement by their respective sectoral nanagement;
(b)   implement approved POAs including bidding processes,
supervision of works and services delivery, and other related
tasks;
(C)   prepare sectoral periodical reports in accordance with norms
and formats established in agreement with CCUU; and
(d)   contribute to CCMU's periodic review of institutional
capacity available among implementing agencies and the
institutional environment in which they operate so as to update the
consolidated list of ICG and PSIDC inputs accordingly.
13.      Technical Assistance.  PSIDC includes 142 staff/months of specialist
assistance in organization and management and in sectoral-related fields, for a
subtotal of US$1.7 million.  PSIDC also includes 653 staff/months of locally
hired consultants to strengthen CCMU, SENASA, Phytosanitary Services, INIDP, and
SIIAP for a subtotal of US$1.96 million. Both international and local consultants
would have the exclusive objective of helping to eliminate and/or mitigate
identified capacity gaps, adding those that would appear as the project is
implemented.   Detailed terms of reference for all the technical assistance
specialists would be submitted to the Bank for information during project
negotiations. (Table 6 includes a detailed description of specialists included
in PSIDC).
14.     Trainina Activities. PSIDC includes training activities abroad an well
as others in Argentina. All activities have been designed in accordance with
identified skill gaps among the management, staff, and the beneficiaries.  A
detailed training plan is shown in Table 7. Total cost of this component amounts
to US$1.83 million for foreign training and US$1.07 million for local training.



Table 1
ARGENTINA
AGRICULTURE SERVICES AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPHEN? PROJECT
PROJECT-SUPPORTED INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPHENT COMPONENT
institutional Capacity Analysis : Illustrated Model
Form A: Component Obiectives
Component  Objective Description      Quantitative Indicators         Expected Impact                     Beneficiaries
Name&Code                                                                                         Description       Location
01 Animal Efficient animal health  Raise from 602-10OZ number   Reducing by 802 disease   Livestock farmers  Areas not yet
Health system. Control FMD and  of cattl.  protected;          incidence.                                     under strict
other animal diseases.   Adequate sanitary inspection                              Private sector:    control;
Control 1002 animal       of every animal entering      Reduction of 5 to 602 of  vets, labs, priv.
entries.  Hake services  the country;                   other diseases;            industry;
accessible to all         Increasing demand for servi- Increased areas under       Importers and ex-  National
farmers.                  ces from farmers L priv.ind. control.                    porters; farmers.
02 Phyto- Respect phytosanitary    Increase samples from 4.52   Substantially increased   Exporters in gene- National
sanita codes of potential mar-  of exports to 252 by 1995    control capacity by 1995  ral.
ry Ser kets; ensure quality      for cereals and  from 0.52   and, as a result. increa-
vices  products for exports;    to 202 for fruits and vege-  se exports revenues.
prevent new pests enter- tables; analyze 5000 samples
ing the country, improve (national) and 2000 (regio-
pe   cide use & effects. nal) for pesticide residues.
03 Fishe- Resource assessment;      Reassigning fishing rights   Annual surveys describing Private industry;  National
ry De- technology development;  completely by 1995; 1002       resource availability L   Policy makers;
velop. and resource develop-    licensing by 1995.             acceptable devel. plans;  INIDP Control
& Res. ment.                                                   Reorganize permit systems agencies L staff.
Protec                                                         Enhance sectoral control.
t ion
04  etc..
0 x



-40-                                 Annex 1
Table 2
ARGENTINA
AGRICULTURE SERVICES AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT-SUPPORTED INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
Institutional CaDacity Analysis: Illustrative Model
Fonm B: Activities/Resources
Activity/  Description of Resources   Expected Outputs    Implementing
Res. Code      Activity       in US$                              Agency
01 01    Central Labora-              New Lab ready to    SENASA Project
tory construc.              be equipped by 1993 Unit
01 02    Quarantine Sta-              Modern station rea- SENASA Project
tion construct.              dy by 1995           Unit
01 03    Oil-Added                    Increased vacc.       SELSA
Vaccine Fund                 campaigns
01 04    Lab   uipment                Lab ready to opera- SELAB
acqui.,ition                 te by 1993
01 05    Quarantine Sta.              Station in opera-   DP&C
equip. acquisit              tion by 1995
01 06    Sanitary Camp.               Field staff adequa- SELSA
equip. acquis.               tely equipped        DADM
01 07    Cor,puter                    Ensure communicat.  SELSA
acquisition                 with field staff    DADM
01 08    Furniture,etc.               Enable local offic.
for local offic             to carry tasks(95)
01 09    Vehicle                      All field staff       Project Unit
Purchase.                   with cars by 1955   DADM/SELSA
01 10    Central Lab.                 Operation organized SELAB
Operation                    and carried out
01 11    Quarantine St                Sanitary protection SELSA
Operation                    for incoming livst.
01 1?    Sanitary Camp.               FMD under control.  SELSA
Local commit.
01 13    Project Unit                 Adequate Project    Project Units
Functioning                  coordin. & mangt.



- 41 -
Annex 1
Table 3
ARGENTINA
AGRICULTURE SERVICES AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT-SUPPORTED INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
Institutional Capacity Analysis: Illustrative Model
Furm C: Tasks
Task Code       Task Description           Task Output      Date Resp.Staff
01 01 001 Reach agreement with MOP    Function decentra-- 11/  AARQ
to allow SENASA to under-   lized so as 'n im-    90
take and manage its         plement fastL., and
construction program        more efficiently
01 01 002 Prepare needs assessment    Requirements list   10/  AARQ
and plan: first elements of ready for bidding      90 SELAB
bidding documents
01 01 003 Prepare preliminary designs Prel. designs ready 12/  AARQ
for approval                and approved           90 SELAB
01 01 004 Put together all bidding    Bidding documents   01/  AARQ
package                      ready                 91 SELAB
01 01 005 Organize and implement the  Bidding underway    01/  AARQ/DADM
whole bidding process                             91  MRREE
SENASA
01 01 006 Awarding to winning firm    Award completed      03/  DADM
91
01 01 007 Supervise construction       Norms and specifi-  10/  AARQ
works                        cations respected     91 SELAB
01 01 008 Receive and approve comple- Lab available        09/  SELAB
ted works                                          92
01 02 001 Prepare preliminary designs Preliminary designs 07/  AARQ
for the construction of the available              90 SELSA
quarantine station                                    SENASA
01 02 002 Technical approval of pre-  Preliminary designs 09/  AARQ
liminary designs            approved               90 SENASA
01 02 003  etc...
I                                                               _-_______________ _________________________________________________



ARGENTINA
AGRICULTURE AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT-SUPPORTED INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
Institutional Development Analysis
Forms *D-: Institutional Capacity Saps
Illustrative Examples from Component 01
I n s t i t u t i o n a 1   C a p a c i t y   G a p s  ( ICGs)
Tasks
Codes   ICGs:Laws, Decrees. and Interinstitutional       Organization and Distri- Personnel Policy and   Management. Professio-
other Rules of the Game Relationships            bution of Functions       Reward System           nal.Beneficlary skills
01 01 001 Agency in charge and    Agencies/administrati- AARQ does not have          Compensation system    Project design and
to     its administrative       ve units in charge      clearly assigned respon- and current levels       bidding-related skills
01 01 008 units not legally able  (HOP, SSAGyP. AARQ)    sibilitiesifunctions to  make it difficult for  are obsolete or
to undertake construc-  do not have a common   undertake its newly         implementing agencies  missing in AARQ
tion works              understanding about    assigned proiect-related to attract, retain and                DADM
their respective roles tasks.                    motivate competent                  SENASA
Incompatible national,  in building new labs.  Also, M RQ personnel        professional staff
provincial and muni-                             attached to Admin.
cipal legislation                                Directorate without
professionally hiera-
chical linkage
01 02 001 No normsor specific      No clear relationship  New functions only          idem                   No staff experience
to     legislation for the      between Implementing   vaguely defined                                    with desing of
01 02 006 admittance of animals   administrative           within implementing                               modern quarantine
through Ezeiza Inter-   units (AARQ, SELSA,    administrative unit                                 stations
national Airport where  SENASA).
the Quarantine Station
will be built
01 03 001
etc..



- 43 -
Annex 1
Table 5
ARGENTINA
AGRICULTURE AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT-SUPPORTED INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
Institutional Capacity Analysis
Component Inputs to Eliminate Identified Capacity Gals
Illustrative Examples frce Component 01
Identified ICGs Decisions Made by Specialist Assistance Training Activi-
& affected tsks Government of Arg. (Consultants)            ties
Legislation-    Give SENASA by
related weak-   decree right to
nesses           undertake own
(0101001toOO8)  construction
program
Incompatible                         Consultant to review
national &                           related legislation
provincial                           and recommend alter-
legislation                          native solutions
(0101002)                            (See attached
consultant program
Obsolete techni                       for Component 01)    Related training
cal and adminis                                             programs
trative skills                                               (see attached
training progr.
for ComponentOl)
etc.



- 44 -
Annex 1
Table 6
ARGENTINA
AGRICULTURE SERVICES AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT-SUPPORTED INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
Technical Assistance
Component  Sector-Related Specialists  Internation.    Local            Total
Code                                   man/m US$000 man/m US$000  US$000
01     Animal Health                   12      144    97    291       435
02     Phytosanitary Services          30.5   366    83    249        615
03     Fisheries                       -       -      80    240       240
05     Meat Industry                   27.5   330    30       90      420
06A    Post-Harvest (Research)          2       24    -      -         24
06B    Textile Fibers (Research)        2       24    -      -         24
06C    Forestry (Research)              4       48    -      -         48
07     Export Promotion                44      528    -      -        528
08     Information Systems             -       -     140    420       420
09     Coordination Unit and
Institutional Development       20     240   223    669       909
Totals:      142   1,704   653  1,959   3,663



- 45 -                                  Annex I
Table 7
ARGENTINA
AGRICULTURE SERVICES AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT-SUPPORTED INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
Training Activities
(US$ '000)
Component  Sector-Related Training  International         Local       Total
Code                                  Training         Training
01      Animal Health                   237              332         569
02      Phytosanitary Services          694              303         997
03      Fisheries                          _             192         192
05      Meat Industry                      _              40          40
06A     Biotechnology (Research)        396                _          396
06B     Post-Harvest (Research)         252                           252
06C     Textile Fibers (Research)         74               _           74
06D     Forestry (Research)              177                          177
07      Export Promotion                   _             158          158
08      Information Systems                _              40           40
09      Coordination Unit and
Institutional Development         -               _            _
Totals:                1,830           1,065        2,895



- 46 -
Anne x I
Chart
AGRXCULTURAL URVICZUS AND XNBT!TUTSONAL DEVELOPMNT PROJZCS
Overview of iSAivP Service Institutions in Proleat
Present
Subsector         Activity          Agency              Adi". status       Funding
(Future) 1/
1.  Livertock     a. Animal Health      SZNASA              Autonomous    Fees/Budget (fees)
b. Research           INTA               Autonomous    Zxport Tax
c. Meat Marketing    JNC                 Autonomous    Fees
2. Crops          a. Phytouanitary      C.D. Plant          Dependency    Budget (fees)
Control           Health and
Quality Control
b. Research           INTA               Autonomous    Export Tax
c. Seeds             SENASE              Semi. Auto.   Budget/Foee  (fees)
3.  Fisheries     a. Administration    NDF                  Dependency    Budget
b. Res./Monitoring   1NDP                Dependency    Budget (fees)
4.  Forestry      a. Research           INTA                Autonomous    Export Tax
I/ Values in parentheso-  indicate revised status with project.



- 47 -                               Annex 2
MAREINA
AORICULTURAL SERVICES AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
nimial Health Services
The Livestock Resource and Animal Disease
1.          Livestock provides about one-third of the agricultural sector's GDP.
Cattle are by far the most important species numbering about 45 million head,
down from 59 million in 1977. Beef consumption is the highest in the world and
has rarely fallen below 70 kg/capital as a consequence meat for the domestic
market represents about 14% of the domestic cost-of-living index. Only about 10%
of  production  is exported.    Sheep  production  mainly  for  wool  has  also
traditionally been important however cattle and crops have displaced sheep from
the Pampas to Patagonia, today Argentina's flock numbers only 24 million head,
down from a peak of 80 million in the late 1800s.  Poultry and pigs are of
secondary importance in Argentina.
2.          Argentina's cattle production is based on pasture. The main cattle-
raising area is located to the north of the Negro and Colorado rivers in northern
Patagonia.   For the purpose of animal health control, tne country has been
divided into five regions with distinct epidemiological features: endemic, low-
risk endemic, epiendemic, paraendemic and FMD free (see Chart). Their existence
implies considerable volume of animal movements between the breeding and
fattening areas for stock; this in itself means a high risk of spreading
infections and parasitic diseases.
3.          Animal  diseases  prevent  livestock  from  realizing  their  full
productive potential, represent a hazard to public health and also affect the
value of livestock products that are exported.  The main cattle diseases in
Argentina are: rabies, brucellosis, tuberculosis, mange, tick-borne diseases and
foot-and-mouth  disease  (FMD);  for  sheep:   mange;  for  pigs:  trichinosis,
brucellosis and Aujesky's disease; for horses: infectious anaemia, influenza and
encephalomyelitis. The actual losses due to animal disease are very difficult
to estimate accurately mainly because morbidity not mortality is the outcome with
major reduction in production efficiency. The National Animal Health Service
(SENASA) undertook a study to estimate the value of the losses in 1984, and
concluded that about US$400 million to US$500 million could be saved if the main
diseases for cattle, sheep and horses could be eradicated. Almost 30% of the
value of these losses was attributed to FMD, which causes lesions on the feet and
in the mouth reducing movement and the ability to forage, with a resulting loss
of production.
4.          The presence of FMD virus (which affects cattle, sheep, pigs and
goats) is also used as a non-tariff barrier to trade by importing countries.
Today, Argentina's high quality beef cannot be sold to the USA, Japan, and some
other high income countries (unless it is deboned, cooked and canned).  The
premium for FMD-free meat on exports of chilled beef is about 30%.



-48 -                               ADnLx 2
5.          Argentina's off icLal FMD-control campaign began in 1963 and was based
on compulsory vaccination of the entire cattle population three times a year in
selected areas. As a result the number of outbreaks fell from about 10,000 to
about 1,700 (in 1988), 60% of which occur in the Pampas region. The quality of
the vaccine is controlled by SENASA's Central Veterinary Laboratory, (SELAB).
Recently a new oil-based vaccine has been successfully tested in pilot areas.
The new vaccine has the following advantage: (i) it reduces outbreaks caused by
mutant viral strains; (ii) and the longer period of immunity it confers reduces
the number of vaccinations p.r year from three to two and eventually one. This
reduces the costs of rounding up cattle, which is A major constraint to effective
FMD control at present.  Pilot campalgns using the new vacclne have been well
accepted by the farming communlty and the degre, of protection has improved.
Animal Health lervices
6.          Vaccine production and veterinary pharmacuuticals are produced by
about 60 private companies and sold by private retailers. Veterinary services
are available from private professionals and by both provincial authorities and
by SENASA. There are some 10,000 private veterinarians in Argentina and eight
universities with veterinary science facilities add some 700 veterinarians per
year to the nation's pool.  There are, however, no post-graduate degrees in
veterinary science in Argentina.
7.          SENASA is an autonomous body within SSAGyP as of October 1990.  It
is responsible for the control of animal health, the quality of animal products
and by-products as well as the quality of pharmaceutical and biological products
used in animal production. SENASA's 3,200 staff positions are divided among its
tAtree national directorates and the units that cover oparations, administratior,
and legal procedures.  The National Directorate for Animal Disease Campaigns
(SELSA) provides nationwide coverage of disease control campaigns mainly for:
FMD, mange, ticks, brucellosis, tuberculosis and rabies as well as pig, poultry
and horse diseases. SELSA has 20 professional staff and 40 administrative staff
at headquarters.   For field campaigns the country has been divided into 22
regions, each headed by an Inspector General. Some 190 vets, 670 technicians and
310 adminiutrative staff complete SELSA's staff. About 70% of the work centers
around FMD control.  For quarantine control and health inspections at cattle
markets such as Liniers, SELSA has an additional 20 vets, 60 technicians and 15
administrative staff. The main handicaps facing the Directorate today are a lack
of trained epidemiologists and statisticians and the lack of an efficient
information  system.   The National  Directorate  for Diagnosis,  Control  and
Laboratory Methodology (SELAB) manages a Central Laboratory in Buenos Aires and
14 small regional laboratories.   This Directorate has 50 veterinarians,  60
technicians and 90 administrative staff. A new laboratory is required since the
present one is ill-equipped and small.
8.          SENASA's third directorate is the National Directorate for the
Inspection of Animal Products (SIPA). It is the largest service, and its task
is to provide veterinary inspection. SIPA has about 1,700 staff of which about
10% are veterinarians, 70% are technicians and the remainder are administrative
staff. SENASA is well funded, since about 80% of its operating budget (US$19



- 49 -                              Agn6.L.2
million) originates from levies co'.lected by its services for meat inspection as
well as field and laboratory services. In addition, with the project, SENASA
would begin to charge for all its services on a cost plus overhead basis.
Immediately it would introduce new service charges for fish inspection, cattle-
truck inspection and vaccination certification.  These three fees should add
about 22% to present income and will help finance the debt arising from thio
project.
9.          The main conduit for relations between SENASA and other private and
public institutions is the National Commission for Animal Health (CONASA). This
commission was created in 1984 by agreement between SENASA and Provincial
Governments  and  coirprises,  in  addition  to  the  latter  two  entities,
representatives   from   farmers'   associations,   professional   associations
(veterinarians, agronomists) and other state institutions such as the National
Instit'zte for Agricultural Technology (INTA).  SELAB, itself, also maintains
close links with the Veterinary Faculty of the University of Buenos Aires as well
as the Center for Research on Zoonosis (CEPANZO).
10.         INTA itself has the Center of Veterinary Scierce Research (CICV) that
carries out research programs in bacteriology, virology, molecular biology,
pathology, parasitology and meat technology.  CICV also supplements some of
SENASA's advance diagnosis activities such as the identification of FMD virus
strains. INTA also has ten regional research units for animal health throughout
the country and its Molecular Biology Institute carries out research into new
types of bioengineered FMD vaccine.
Animal Health Policy
11.         Due to the high quality of Argentine beef and its "organic" ("grass-
fed") production method, there is considerab'e marketing potential for beef
products in environmentally-concerned countrie   Although past initiatives have
made an impact on FMD incidence, it still ru.nains the main export marketing
constraint for Argentine beef.   Further progress to control and ultimately
eradicate FMD will require advances in the organization of the official
veterinary service to increase its technical efficiency. To achieve this will
require investments in training, information systems and to a limited degree in
infrastructure.
12.         Beginning  in 1984,  SENASA carried out a series of  successful
campaigns with oil-added vaccines in:  the Province of Rio Negro between the
rivers Colorado and Negro; the municipality of Federacion in Entre Rios (part of
Mesopotamia); the municipality of Ayacucho in the Province of Buenos Aires (the
Salado river watershed); and 100 kilometers north of the present FMD sanitary
barrier of the rivers Barrancas and Colorado, covering various departments in the
Provinces of Buenos Aires, La Pampa and Mendoza. The use of oil-added vaccine
has reduced the number of necessary vaccinations for mature cattle to once a year
between March-May; animals less than two years old revaccinated between October
and December. Private laboratories have already been approved for the production
of oil-added vaccines.



- 50 -                              annex 
13.         Gradually, the country intends to expand succe-sful pilot programs
(on southern Buenos Aires province) to control not only FMD but also mange, tick,
brucellosis and tuberculosis (para 12).  SENASA intends to expand the use of
reliable epidemiological information for planning, monitoring and evaluation as
well as campaign management and disease survo'llance. It also intends to more
effectively integrate farmers into the implerv. station of the campaigns that have
been successfully tested in pilot areas.
Proposed Pro1ect
14.         ThA objectives of the animal health component would be to promote the
institutional strengthening of SENASA and to provide the service with the
necessary equipment and infrastructure to allow it to reduce the impact of animal
disease on production.   Specifically,  the project would center on three
subcomponents:
(a)   new strategies for disease campaigns;
(b)   strengthening field services; and
(c)   strengthening SENASA headquarters.
Proiect Activities
15.         The proposed strategy for animal disease campaigns would be based
upon seeking to more effectively integrate the diverse efforts of farmers,
industry,  provincial  agencies,  INTA,  private  veterinarians,  faculties  of
veterinary science and SENASA. The new strategy would seek to institutionalize
each group's participation and to assure their continuity in planning and
executing the necessary steps designed in each campaign. In essence, campaigns
would be based on: (i) programming and control by SENASA with participation of
other agencies; (ii) vaccinations given and financed by farmers; and (iii) in the
case of FHD campaigns, expanding the use of oil-added vaccines. In addition, the
regions that incorporate vaccination with oil-added vaccines (namely,
Mesopostamia, the Salado river basin in the Province of Buenos Airas, and the
Northeast Region) would also gradually undertake disease campaigns for mange,
ticks, brucellosis and tuberculosis using the systems set up for FMD control.
16.         Gradually, the country intends to expand successful pilot projects
(i.e. , in southern Buenos Aires Province) to control not only FMD but also mange,
tick, brucellosis and tuberculosis (para 15). SENASA intends to expand the use
of reliable epidemiological information for planning, monitoring, and evaluation
as well as campaign management and disease surveillance. It also intends to more
effectively integrate farmers into the implementation of the campdigns that have
been successfully tested in pilot areas.
17.         The specific regional vaccination strategy will depend on the
epidemiological zoning within the country (see Chart). Emphasis would be placed
on primary endemic areas (where the FMD virus exists) and on paraendemic areas
(where the FMD virus is occasionally introduced by cattle coming from endemic



- 51 -                              Annex 2
areas). Specifically, campaigns will target on: 100% of the cattle that move
from one epidemiologic region to another; 100% of disease outbreaks identified
by farmers; and all strategic vaccination campaign areas.   The aim is to
vaccinate 100% of cattle with oil-added vaccine, raising the number of doses
required from 4.4 million to 45 million by project completion, thereby beginning
the process of having zones declared free of FMD beginning approximately the year
2002.
18.         The campaigns for other important disease. (mange, tick, brucellosis
and tuberculosis) would center around FMD vaccination campaigns so as to make
efficient use of the same personnel. The target would be to reduce mange by 60%
on infected farms. The strategy to be used in the case of mange would be to:
(i) identify affected farms; (ii) study the cause of outbreaks; (iii) provide
technical assistance to farmer groups; (iv) design a management plan for the farm
or area and recommend the sanitary measures to be taken; (v) monitor the
implementation of control measures and inspect the cattle herd and sheep flock
during the FMD vaccination campaigns; (vi) apply measures to keep "clean" farms
free of mange and (vii) constantly evaluate the disease in specific areas and
declare the area mange-free after one year of no outbreaks.
19.         The objective in the tick control program is to reduce infection from
50% to 10% in the area to be controlled for FMD. The strategy used would be to
control infection of "clean" areas by monitoring cattle movements and by drafting
health plans that taks into account the reproductive cycle of the tick. Work
would consist of explaining to farmers technical matters such as plans for the
construction of dips, the use of drugs for ticks, use of dipping and the
parameters used in studying the epidemiological situation of the farms.
20.         The target for the control of brucellosis would be:   (i) 90%
vaccination of female calves to the north of the rivers Barrancas and Colorado;
(ii) reduction of the herd prevalence from 8% testing positive to 5% and (ii)
separating animals that test positive and eliminating them. The vaccine, known
as "strain 19" ("Cep_ 19") exits in sufficient quantity within the country.
Initially, vaccination certification and tattooing would be undertaken by SENASA;
however, at a later stage t. -ae tasks would be delegated on to producer
organizations.
21.         Tuberculosis is prevalent in Argentina, especially in the dairy
areas.    Initially,  the  campaign  would  concentrate  on  establishing  an
epidemiological survey system with information coming from farms and meat
packers. To certify cattle as being free of tuberculosis it would be necessary
to have two tests separated by a 60-day interval, both wouLd have to show that
the cattle wcre free of tuberculosis for them to be declared free. Certification
would be based on voluntary system.



- 52 -                               A_p- 
Strengthenina of SENASA's Field 8ervices
22.         Strengthening of SENASA's field services would concentrate on three
functions: information, field mobility, and customer service. A computerized
information system would be set up linking headquarters with the 22 regional
Inspector Generals' offices to improve epidemiological surveillance. To improve
staff mobility in the field, 350 vehicles would be provided for staff under a
payback system. To improve customer services SENASA's local offices which would
continue to be rented, would be upgraded and office equipment and furniture would
be purchased.
Strenathenina of SENASA at Headauarters
23.         The strengthening of SENASA at headquarters would  involve the
following: (i) strengthening of organization, administration and operational
capability; (ii) construction and equipping of a quarantine station:
(iii) construction and equipping of a Central Laboratory; and (iv) staff
training.
24.         Strengthening of  SENASA's  Oraaniuation.   This would  focus on
establishing a permanent Epidemiology and Training Unit (ETU), a temporary
Project Management Office (PMO) for the duration of the project, and reinforming
the National Council for Animal Health to improve SENASA's relationship with
other  agencies.   The  latter comprises representatives  from SSAGyP,  INTA,
university veterinary faculties, private vets, industry, farmers and provincial
authorities.   It aleo would assist SENASA through its executive secretariat
(CONASA) in planning and controlling animal health programs. The ETU would have
five  subunits:    programming,  epidemiology  and  statistics,  economics  for
veterinarians, information systems and human resources and social sciences. It
would establish institutional policy, analyze SENASA's present structure and
propose modifications if necessary, develop procedural manuals, plan the gradual
introduction of a fees system for services rendered, monitor the use of funds,
develop information systems on animal health, analyze the impact of the health
programs and prepare the institution's training program. The unit would consist
of a director plus five unit chiefs each in charge of a subunit plus four
professionals.
25.         A PMU would be created as a temporary unit of SENASA's General
Administration and would be the main contact between SENASA and the Project
Central Coordination Management Unit (CCMU).   PMU's main tasks would be to
prepare annual operating programs, contract construction of the Central
Laboratory and the quarantine station, procure equipment and vehicles, monitor
the fulfillment of the contracts and in coordination with the ETU monitor the
implementation of the disease control campaigns. The PMU would consist of nine
new staff to cover:  project management, construction, finance, epidemiology,
computer systems and administrative support. To improve the effectiveness of
SENASA it would concentrate efforts to rally support for animal health programs
by involving other institutions.



- 53 -                                  _wku-_
26.         SENASA's administration would not be reorganized but would be
supported by technical assistance in control procedures, finance, personnel
management and information systems.   SENASA's operational capability would
improve through better definition of it. legal framework, improved vaccine
control and monitoring of cattle movements and better data collection and
analysis,   especially  epidewiological   data.       The  development  of  the
epidemiological information system would assist in decision-making on disease
prevention and control of outbreaks.
27.         Qarantine Station. Most animals that are introduced into Argentina
at present arrive by air. Therefore, SENASA would construct a medium security
quarantine station at Izeiza's International Airport. The facilities are to be
constructed on SENASA's own land at the end of one of the main runways. The
facilities would cover 1,600 m2 and would consist of two separate buildings; one
for large animals (cattle and horses), and another for small or exotic animals.
The building for large animals would have capacity for 24 horses and 32 head of
cattle in individual boxes.  In addition, there would be two rooms for sick
animals, two storage rooms, a workshop and a truck cleaning facility.  The
building for small animals would have a large aviary and two small ones; two
rooms for small animals and three storage rooms. A third area of the quarantine
station would have office space, a small laboratory, (which could also be used
for semen storage) an animal holding area to receive animals, a morgue and an
area for storing organic material. The auarantine station could be upgraded to
maximum security level if health measures required it. No additional personnel
are required to staff the facility.
28.         Control Laboratorv.  A new central laboratory for SENASA would be
constructed and equipped at INTA's Castelar Research Center outside Buenos Aires,
where CICV is located.  The laboratory (11,000 m2) would become the National
Reference Center for the network of veterinary laboratories. It would be used
as a reference center by regional private, public and provincial laboratories.
In addition to control functions, the laboratory would also undertake other
activities such as diagnosis, laboratory training and advisory functions as well
as the provision of standardized reagents and antigens to be used by regional
laboratories.   About 50% of the laboratory area would comprise areas for
virology, bacteriology, parasitology, pathology, pharmacology, basic chemistry
and food analysis. The remaining area would be used for breeding guinea-pigs and
for holding pens for large animals under testing.
29.         Trainina.   Most veter1nary faculties  in Argentine universities
concentrate on clinical medicine with little emphasis on preventive medicine.
Interdisciplinary interchange with other subject matter and field veterinarians
is infrequent, and training is needed in epidemiology, veterinary economics and
the management of information. At the central level there is little experience
in planning and evaluating disease campaigns while laboratory veterinarians
require training in more advanced diagnosis and laboratory routines. The main
objectives of the training program for field veterinarians would be basic and
applied epidemiology of the most important animal diseases in Argentina.  In
addition, same veterinarians would be trained in computerized information systems
to   improve   epidemiological   analysis,   disease   campaign   planning   and



-54-                                Aso aL
implementation, and extension methodology. For SENASA's headquarter' * staff, the
main objective would be to improve planning capability and to train trainoru.
SELA8's staff would be trained in more sophisticated laboratory techniques.
30.         An integrated training exercise would be planned to ensure that the
individual's training meets SENASA's requirments. Training would consist of
different forms using both audiovisuals and published materials. A total of 20
trainers, 210 voterinarians, 720 technicians, and 100 computer operators would
be trained during project implemntation.



ANNEX 2
- 55 -                                       Chart 1
CHILEOL                        - III
q                         15II
S c H, L E 7    NA  
I S     SANTIACO I
- .1LA. ItlOJA %                                 h       B #%%5
-  se. ruu^               "o                      ,
Z  ,-      y 'SW              FE _____                   ,
|                                             A;50 I OR GELNUT   NA
\    (  !_ La tlOJa'AGRICLTURAL  ERVICESPROJEC
2    \  tS,  "          )   *>~^*.,, URUGUJAY 
1R~ ~~~~M EPIDEMIOLOGLISCAL!lA,EAS
3s(ee, 'l boundary
ml              rL rpiendimlo
%~~~~~
ttatraoiltso~t narrg/mnnngara
{}  )     CmUWL0T                            A R G       E    N T I N A
*'^>   >  |V  >                ~~~~AGRICULTURAL SERvICES PROJECT
C1)  g   r                       ~~~~~~~ANIMAL MEALTH SER4VICES
4  ~~~~~~~ t ~FMD EPIDEMIOLOGICA L AREAS
HILE                -
/ v~SNT                                        International boundary
S        ~~~CRUZ                       -    --Provincial boundary
9       s                    .......... ~~~~~~Area IimiVg
.nF   /                          I    ~~~~~~~~~~Primary *ndernic
5    (                           t~~~~~~~~~1   Low-rilk primary end$Mir,
t w    i;7~~ltR  OILE                     Call movom ntns from brooding
w ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                 200  *00  0,0 Ktt



- 56 -                              Annx 3
AROSNT1I
AGRICULTURAL SZRVICES AND INSTITUTIONAL DFVZLOPKENT PROJECT
Phvtosanitarv Services and 8eeds
A *PYTOSANITARY SERVICES
1.          Argentina can be divided into five phytosanitary regions an shown in
Chart 1. Disease/peot infestation impairing yields and/or access to key export
markets affects fruit and vegetable crop. in most of theme regions, as shown in
Table 1. The prevailing strategy is to eradicate quarantine pests and isolate
the major fruit producing area in Patagonia (Region V) and provide increased
protection to other areas that are specific disease/pest-free to gain such
certification  from  importing  countries.        Phytosanitary  problems  take
institutional, legal, and technical forms.
Institutional Aspects
2.          SSAGyP's phytosanitary services comprise the Plant Protection Service
(PPS), the Plant Inspection Service (PIS) and a Microbiology and Chemical
Laboratory. The PIS is primarily involved in preparation of legislation but not
its application. PPS is located in Buenos Aires and coordinates activities of
24 provincial delegations, as listed in Table 2. At the state level, Provincial
Plant Health services that depend on local governments, perform separate sanitary
functions and ficcalize provincial regulations.  Operational linkages between
national and provincial services are generally weak, although some programs and
functions are delegated to provinces. National, provincial, and private sectors
are represented in a Federal Plant Health Commission (formed '.n 1987) whose
primary function is to: advise the National Plant Health Protection Service; act
as a forum for analysis and discussion of regional and nat;onal problems, and
facilitate coordination of sanitary programs.
3.          In the early 1980s, the Plant Health Protection Service (Sanidad
Vegetal) was drastically reduced as part of an attempt to cut overall public
sector spending and all user-paid service fees (inspection, etc.) linked to plant
protection, except for laboratory analyses, were eliminated by the Government.
This system would be revived under the project.
4.          PPS currently lacks staff, equipment, and infrastru_;ture to comply
with its mandate: laboratories are largely inoperative, there is no quarantine
station in the country, and the field services have been decimated and can deal
only with the most urgent problems. Coordination between federal and provincial
services is also weak and key data flows--such as those generated in disease/pest
monitoring, export inspection and sanitary barriers--are all manually proce-sed.



- 57 -                              Annex 3
5.          Overall staffing of phytosanitary services is am followzs
Prof.       Tech.        Adin.        Gen. Sert.  Total
Central
Admin.*              16                       2             24         46
Laboratory           16        11            13              1         41
Provincial
Delegations          44         4            59             71         178
TOTAL                76        17            96             76        265
* Includes field staff in the Buenoo Aires Province.
The service is becoming increasingly short of staff, as vacant positions
resulting from resignation and retirement are permanently frozen, according to
law.  A substantial number of employees (84) will retire over the next five
years. No laboratory staff member has had formal post-graduate training. As a
result, their coordinating capacity in technical matters (specific disease
control programs, etc.) is severely restricted.
Laboratoriez
Phvtooatholocv
6.          At  present,  Argentina's  plant  disease  laboratory  is  largely
inoperative due to lack of human and financial resources and inadequate
infrastructure, and is only used for analysis of plant material and agricultural
products imported through the port of Buenos Aires.
Residue Analysis
7.          Central Laboratory. This laboratory in Buenos Aires performs regular
testing of active ingredients in agrochemicals (fertilizers, pesticides, etc.).
As regards pesticide residues in fruit and vegetables, it provides testing
services only when requested. There are no routine analyses, although there is
an installed capacity of 10 samples/day for the detection of pesticide residues.
Although not officially a national reference laboratory, it has this function due
to the long-term experience of the technical staff.  In practical terms, the
laboratory evaluates residues only in industrial crops, such as tobacco, cereals,
and oilseeds (peanut, sunflower, and soybean). Although specified by legislation
(Ley de Residuos No. 20418/73), residue ansiysis in fruit and vegetable crops are



- 58 -                              IAuR"
only sporadically performed. The building presently occupied by the laboratory
was not designed for this specific purpose and in not fully adequate.
8.          I=.  Outside the scope of SSAGyP, the National Institute for
Industrial Technology (INTI) maintains a center (CIATI) in Rio Negro where
pesticide residues can be analyzed on a routine basis. In 1987, a contract was
signed between the Argentine Chamber of Integrated Fruit Growers (CAFI) and CIATI
for the evaluation of approximately 400 fruit samples, at an eatimated cost of
US$80/sample. In March 1988, the Swedish National Food Administration officially
accepted the residue results generated by CIATI; thus, Rio Negro Valley exporters
are now able to locally test apples/pears for pesticide residue levels.
9.          Central Market.  The Buenos Aires Central Market (Corporacion del
Mercado Central de Buenos Aires), manages 80% of the fruit/vegetables sold in the
Buenos Aires city area (12 million inhabitants). The Central Market laboratory
routinely evaluates 4-6 samples/day for the presence of phosphorous or chlorine
based-pesticides. Although totally oriented towards the internal market, this
is the only laboratory that has been doing routine work for the past three years.
10.         Private  Laboratories.    Small  private  laboratories  (such  as
PROANALISIS and CONTROL ANALITICO, both in the Province of Buenos Aires) exist
and could be officially approved by SSAGyP subject to periodic review and
recertification.
Plant Ouarantine
11.         There is no quarantine station to handle potentially risky plant
material entering the country. The certificates presently issued are exclusively
based on "in situ" inspection without any backstopping from a laboratory. In the
early 1980s the Government of Spain offered to support the establishment of a
quarantine station but it did not come to fruition due to budgetary and
institutional constraints.
Main Activities
12.         SSAGyP's main plant protection services are:
(a)   Plant Health Monitoring:  in-field programs to the detect insects,
diseases, weeds, etc., and determine levels of infestation of fruit fly, citrus
canker, cotton weevil, grasshopper (locust), and nematodes;
(b)   Phytosanitary Defense:  Quarantine barriers (internal check points
and import controls for): (i) nematodes (inter-prcv.ncial transport restrictions
for potatoes, onions and garlic); (ii) cotton weevil (import prohibition or post-
entry inspection and quarantine treatment for seeds or product from Brazil and
Paraguay); (iii) citrus canker (inter-provincial and import restrictions); (iv)
inspection of nurseries and basic or certified seed growers;
(c) Disease/Pest Control/Eradication Campaigns, mainly of citrus canker and
fruit fly;



- 59 -                               Ana"3
(d) Inspection:   Fresh produce/soeds/plant matorial export inspection/
certification for diseases, pest and quality;
(e) Residue Analysis: (L) testing for active ingredients and quality in
agrochemicals (fertilizers, pesticidoe); registers and authorizes comercial
distribution of all agrochemicals; (Li) valuation of residues in industrial
crops; (iii) pesticide residue analysis for fresh fruit and vegetables; and
(f) Quality Control
13.         Some of the above activities are executed by PPS with the assistance
of international organizations or in association with neighboring country public
agencies, such as the quarantine program for the cotton weevil (PAO) and a
proposed citrus canker monitoring and control program (Government of Uruguay and
FAO).   In a numbor of other cases, PPS has participated in programs with
provincial Plant Health Services, occaaionally associated with INTA and/or
universities, such as with the Mediterranean fruit fly campaign in the Rio Negro
Valley (INTA/Province of Rio Negro, 1973-78) and the citrus canker monitoring
program in the northwest (INTA/Province of Tucuman/National University of Jujuy).
14.         Working  conditions  for  phytosanitary  field  staff  are  poor.
Provincial delegations occupy buildings that are either rented or loaned by
provinces. Due to SSAGyP'r budget constraints, some of these delegations lack
laboratory equipment, vehicles, and even telephone communication. Others have
been required to regularly change their officers and no systematic training is
provided to the technical personnel.



- 60 -                               Anuh"
Key Phvtosanitarv Problema by Reaion
15.         The  following  table  highlights Argentina'.  main  phytosanitary
problems by Region (Chart):
Region      Main Crops                      Phytocanitary Problems
1           citrus              (a)  Presumed free of citrus canker, therefore
pulses                  need to demonstrate, declare, maintain free
tomatoes                and   gain    disease-free    international
recognition (EC approval of "freem status
given September 1990).
(b)  Fruit  fly  present--two  types:  Cratitic
caoitata and Anautr-eha *pp.
II          citrus              (a)  citrus canker endemic.  Disease is under
tomatoes                control.
(b) Fruit fly present.
III         grapes              (a)  Fruit fly has become a major limitation to
apples                  exports.
stone fruit        (b)  Nematode (Ditylenchue  pp), of which
tomatoes                onions, potatoes and garlic are
potatoes                carriers; need to isolate from other
onions                  cropping areas and quarantine before can
export.
(c) Golden Nematode: so far not been detected;
need to demonstrate, disease-free and gain
G. Nematode-free international recognition.
IV          grains                   Fruit fly and cancrosis present but areas
potatoes                mostly  under  grain  production which  are
peaches                 unaffected.
V           apples                   Fruit fly detected in urban areas but not
pears                   in production zones. As this is major fruit
zone  in  Argentina  need  to  eradicate,
disease-free    and    gain    pest-free
international recognition,



- 61 -                               Aez 3
Losses due to Phvtosanitarv Problems
16.         Although local statistics on real or potential losses attributable
to poets are not available, it is pozsible to estimate the potential impact of
the fruit fly and cotton weevil in the pest-free ar-as, as well as fruit fly
control costs in one region where the peat is endemic, am followas
I.    Fruit fly-free area - The main apple/pear growing region in Argentina
in the Rio Negro Valley, with 52,000 ha planted to apples and 18,000 ha to pears.
If the pr-eent fruit fly urban infestation expands into the cropping areas,
direct losses (decrease in productivity) would be close to 20%, representing
about US$30 million/year. Since the region is not recognized as a fruit-fly-free
area by importing countries, fruit shipments to the US have to be subjected to
a special quarantine treatment (prolonged, monitored cold storage, and/or
fumigation). This involves not only additional costs but is also detrimental to
fresh fruit quality.
ii.   Cotton weevil - In 1987,  the total area planted to cotton in
Argentina was 487,000 ha, with an average yield of 1.4 ton/ha.  Although the
country is presently free of this pest, it has been a problem in neighboring
Brazil since the early 1980. In Brazil, as a result of the weevil, the total
area planted to cotton in the Northeast was reduced from 2,500,000 ha to 500,000
ha from 1983 to 1988.   Production  costs also increased,  since pesticide
applications increased from 3-4 to 8 per growing cycle; even with a higher number
of applications,  yields decreased on average by 30%.   In Argentina,  the
introduction of the pest would most certainly have a major economic and social
impact; cotton production in the Chaco is mainl' a small farmer crop. If the
peat is introduced, several agronomic measures, such as lim.4ted law-enforced
planting dates, would be necessary.
iii. Fruit fly-infested area - In the Argentine Mesopotamia region,
oranges and mandarins are produced on about 92,000 ha; fruit fly is present in
the region and it constitutes a major peat problem. Each insecticide application
for fruit fly control costs approximately US$17/ha, and there are usually 3-4
applications/year. Thus, each application costs the region about US$1.6 million.
Phytosanitary service control costs could be greatly reduced if several
appropriate measures were taken.
17.         From the above examples, it is evident that a strong, active and
well-coordinated Phytosanitary Service, at Federal and provincial levels, is
necessary to protect peat-free zones from infestation as well as to organize
control/eradication campaigns for existing or new pests.



- 62 -                              A"bM
Trade Restrictions
18.         The following countries restrict entry of products originating in
areas with phytosanitary problems:
Phytosanitary Problem             Country with               Condition for
Restriction               Entry
1.    Fruit fly (fresh fruits)
-  citrus                      USA                      SQT *
Spain**                  prohibited
-  table grapes                USA                      SQT
Japan/Far East           prohibited
-  stone fruit                 Z=                       SQT
Japan/Far East           prohibited
-  apples/pears                USA                      SQT
Spain/Italy              prohibited
-  vegetables                  USA                      SQT
2.    Citrus canker                  USA                       SQT
Spain                    prohibited
3.    Nematodes
-  potatoes                    Canada                   prohibitea
-  garlic                      Chile                    prohibited
-  onions                      Chile                    prohibited
-  others                      Far East                 prohibited
*     SQT: Special quarantine treatment (e.g., prolonged, monitored cold storage
and/or fumigation with methylbromide).
**    After 1992, EC standard will be unified and rules set by Spain will be
applied throughout the EC.
19.         Given that the two most serious problems are Mediterranean Fruit Fly
and Citrus Canker as well as the constraint of EC standards in 1992, it will be
essential for Argentina to demonstrate, declare, and maintain areas free of
canker in Zone 1 (northwest) and eradicate urban outbreaks of fruit fly in the
Rio Negro Valley (Zone V) maintaining the zone disease-free and avoiding



- 63 -AWzAIX_
reinfestation. Likewise in the northeast (Zone SI) a joint PAO, SSAGyP and HAG
Uruguay will operate a canker program.
20.         To enforce these actions, legal backing will be needed and two
coosLione will have to be reactlvateds the National Comission for Prevention
and Control of Canker (Res. 223/81), and the Regional Commission for Control of
the Fruit Fly (Re. 1103/88).
21.         Leislation.       xtensive,  although  fragmented  and  frequently
inadequate legislation regarding plant health protection and pesticides exists
in Argentina.   Intricate regulations affect procurement and limit needed
operational flexibility.  Most phytosanitary regulations are not suitable to
tackle present day problems and require improvement and/or updating. This is
particularly important for the import quarantine system, the interprovincial
transit of products and plant material, and the official and private
laboratories.
22.         Argentina was one of the pioneering countries in establishing
legislation on pesticides and their residueal the first decree dates back to 1986
(Decree 647).   There has also been a trend, which began in 1987, for the
provinces to establish their own legislation on the matter: Entre Rios, Sante
Fe, and Chaco, among others.  The province of Rio Negro, has approved a law
(2175/87) that specifies all aspects of pesticide residues for agricultural
products exported from the province to internal/external markets.   However,
provincial and federal legislation differs in some respects.
23.         The national pesticide legislation is very complex and has not
totally kept up with the worldwide changes and requirements observed in terms of
tolerances, controlled sales, applications, etc. Partly due to the difficulty
of implementing legislation at the Fed ural level, Rio Negro Province
independently enacted its own law (para. 23). Most probably, this will create
interprovincial barriers to agricultural products.  At the present time, the
impact different provincial legislation will have on agricultural production
strategies has not been evaluated.
24.         A computerized data base with the relevant pesticide information is
being organized by the Central Laboratory staff. In the near future, this would
be used to expedite evaluation and registration of agrochemicals.
25.         Key Operational Needs include:
(a)   Restructure the phytosanitary service, laboratories and inspection
service to meet operational needs and international standards;
(b)   Build-up and professionalize technical personnel, both central and
on-field;
(c)   Redefine the country's phytosanitary regions to meet operational
realities;



- 64 -                                annhL-3
(d)   Improve coordination with the provincial services and decentralize
certain tasks;
(0)   Consolidate t'.e Federal Phytosanitary Commission;
(f)   Cover service costs from end-users;
(g)   Improve the Plant Health Monitoring Subsystem;
(h)   Set up a National Quarantine Subsystem;
(i)   Improve the capacity of the Central Phytopathology Laboratory (Plant
Health Diagnosis Subsystem); and
(k)   Improve the capacity of the Central Residues Laboratory (Residues
Analysis Subsystem).
26.         Specific Phvtosanitarv N-eds include:
(a)   Focus on priority regions and develop a phased strategy to deal
with:
(i)   Citrus canker   -  Northeast
- Northwest
(li)  Fruit fly       -  Rio Negro Valley
- Northeast
- Cuyo (San Juan, San Luis, Mendoza,
Catamarca)
(iii) Cotton weevil   -  post-entry quarantine and internal
check points;
(b)   Set out national plans for other quarantine diseases/pests, such as
nematodes; and
(c)   Develop an organizational structure with provincial and private
assistance to control/eradicate diseases/pests.
27.         Sub-S-etoral  Policies.   Government's  aim  is to  increase non-
traditional exports by:
(a)   providing agriculture9 with appropriate phytoeanitary protection
und.r internationally recognized standards;
(b)   upgrading the quality of fruit and vegetables;
(C)   providing safe, adequate use of agricultural chemicals to ensure
adherence to permitted residue levels of importing countries;



- 65 -                              Amnex
(d)   integrating  the  country  strategy  with  that  of  international
organizations involved in phytomanitary functions; and
(e)   improving market access to importing countries through both bi- and
multilateral  negotiations  aimed  at  gaining  recognition  of
disease/pest-free zones and removal of trade restrictions.
futmarv of Main Institutional Constraints
28.         The major  institutional  constraints  of  SSAGyP'a  Phytosanitary
Services are:
(a)   low staff number, with inadequate training;
(b)   inadequate central and provincial facilities;
(c)   lack of a plant quarantine station and system; and
(d)   inadequate laboratory system--including phytopathology and residues-
-in terms of infrastructure and equipment.
29.         The key legal constraints are:
(a)   fragmentation of relevant laws;
(b)   lack of regulations to establish an import-export quarantine systam
to suit present trade regulations and needs;
(c)   outdated legislation on pesticides, especially tolerance limits; and
(d)   overlap between provincial and Federal legislation.
D. TRZ PROJEC
General Description
30.         This component is aimed at stzengthening plant health protection,
residue analysis and produce quality control services in Argentina. By improving
these services, Argentine agricultural products would achieve better market
access or increased acceptance by importing countries.  A better comparative
advantage would also result from reduced production unit costs, as higher yields
would be obtained in disease/pest controlled cropping areas. As for the internal
market, higher product quality and production would have an impact on consumer
health and possibly food prices.
Subaco Dononts
31.         The five subcomponents are:  (a) Quarantine Station; (b) central/
Delegation Services, (including Phytopathology Laboratory); (c) Laboratory for



- 66 -                              Annex 3
Pesticide Residue Analysis; (d) Citrus Canker Provention Campaign in the
Northwest; and (e) Fruit Fly Control and Eradication Campaign in the Comahus
Region (Rio Negro Valley).
32.         Upgrading under the first three subcomponents would specifically
allow Argentina tot (a) properly control the phytosanitary quality of incoming
and outgoing plant material by the use of quarantine facilities; (b) execute, at
federal and provincial levels, the proper monitoring, controls and proposed
campaigns (subcomponents (d) and (a), as well as the quality control of produced
and exported agricultural supplies; and (c) control food quality, especially of
fruits and vegetables, in terms of pesticide content, for both internal and
external markets. Key activities to be supported include: (i) incremental staff;
(ii) training (specialized, post-graduate or in-service); (iii) civil works; and
(iv) equipment, furniture, vehicles and supplies. Government's objective in the
fruit and vegetable sector is to increase production with items that satisfy
international phytonanitary and quality standards, including levels of chemical
residues.
(a)   QUARANTINE STATION 1OS5
33.         Incremental Staff: Presently, there are no qualified staff in SSAGyP
who could be transferred to the proposed QS. Thus, QS staffing will be totally
incremental.   At full development there would be seven professional,  seven
technical, two administrative and seven general service staff.  The director
would be responsible for overall administration as well as emission of
phytosanitary certificates and other specific documents; the technical
coordinator would have few administrative duties, but would directly supervise
professionals and their work. Thus, the coordinator should be an experienced
professional  on  phytosanitary matters.   The  specialists  in the  area  of
entomology, plant pathology and seeds would have the support of the staff
allocated to the greenhouse complex, which would be responsible for soil
preparation, plant management, etc.
34.         Post-Graduate Trainin: Post-graduate (M.Sc. level) training would
be provided to three professional staff: two in plant pathology (possibly one
in virology/bacteriology) and one in entomology. This would be necessary due to
the many different techniques that have been developed -n detect/index pests in
plant materials.
35.         Constructio: The QS in Buenos Aires would be composed oC two units:
the main building (administration, offices, laboratory and support room) and the
greenhouse complex (headhouse, glasshouse and greenhouse). The main building
would have an area of approximately 410 m2, including two cold rooms (total area
22 m2). The greenhouse complex would have a 200 m2 headhouse (soil deposit and
preparation, storage, etc.) with a 90 m2 scroenhouse. Both the main building and
the greenhouse complex would be modular so that future expansions would require
minor changes in layout and structure.
36.         Eauimsnt. rurniture, Vehicle and Suolies: The equipment proposed
will enable the QS to fully operate in terms of basic detection procedures for



- 67 -                               &mmaL.Z
the different pests. Specific and costly equipment (such as needed for ELISA)
has not been included, since the QS in its initial stages (fiv- years) would be
involved in developing basic detection techniques adapted to local conditions.
(b) CEUTRALIDWRLGATION SRRVXCES (CDS)
37.         Increm-ntal Staff:  A substantial number of incremental staff will
be required at all levels (Table 3). To determine needs, it was assumed that
each of the existing provincial delegations required a minimum of two
professional, one technical, one administrative and one general services staff.
Delegations with sections (Cordoba, Corrientes, Mendoza, Posadas, and
Resistencia) would need staffing beyond the minimum; this would also be the case
in delegations that have different ports under their jurisdiction. Of major
concern is that a substantial number of employees will retire over the next five
years and replacements must be taken into consideration. Two new delegations
would also be created--Rio Gallegos and Neuquen.
38.         The Central  Services  responsible  for the  coordination  of  all
activities and specific programs, in addition to the inspection services of the
Port of Buenos Aires and the Phytopathology Laboratory, would require an increase
of seven professional, seven technical and one administrative staff.  Thus a
total of 37 professional, 37 technical, 15 administrative, and 23 general service
staff members would be required for this activity. As shown in recent years,
without this cadre it would be impossible to operate an effective field service
since the existing service has been decimated by budget cuts.
39.         Construction:  Civil works would be limited to major repairs and
refurbishing required for the Central Phytopathology Laboratory.
40.         Eouivment. Furniture. Vehicles, and Supolies:  Computers plus other
office equipment, vehicles, and minor laboratory equipment currently unavailable
would be required for all delegations. Additional laboratory equipment would be
required for the Central Phytopathology Laboratory.  Data generated at each
delegation on issuance of certificates, inspection of imports, field monitoring
data, etc., would be sent to the main office on   diskette for use by the
respective coordinating officials. Three of the microcomputers go to Central
Services.  Each delegation would be equipped with only a stereo-microscope and
minimum administration equipment.
(c) LADORATORY FOR PESTICID2 RtSIDUES XALYSIS
41.         Incremental Staff: To upgrade the central laboratory to a national
reforenco laboratory for pesticide residue analysis would require an increase of
three professional, four technical, one administrative, and thr-e general service
staff.
42.         Post-araduateSo8ecialiued  Traininat    Post-graduate/specialized
training would be required for three professionals on detection of pesticide
residues.



- 68 -                               Amu"
43.         Construction: A complete refurbishing of the residues laboratory is
required to upgrade it to a national reference facility.
44.         EauiMent. Furniturs. Vehicles and Supplies: The central laboratory
would require equipment (gas and liquid phase chromatographs, etc.) for the
detection of pesticide residues within presently accepted tolerance levels.
Approximately 70% of the cost for this item represents equipment and supplies
(reagents,  pesticide standards,  etc.).   Three vehicles would be required
basically for the collection of samples. The computers would be used to keep a
record of the analyses performed and to maintain the National Data Dank on
Pesticides.
(d)  CITRUS CANMMR PRZVENTIOX CaPaigN in TIM NORTBICST
45.         The Northwest region (NOA), which comprises the provinces of Jujuy,
Salta, Tucuman and Catamarca produces about one third of the citrus produced in
Argentina (i.e., 1. 5 million tons total) including lemon, orange, grapefruit and
mandarin. The region exports fresh fruit as well as processed product. Exports
from the Region total about 10.3 million cases, 45% to EC countries, Canada,
Czechoslovakia and Hong Kong.
46.         Citrus canker (Xanthomonas cam estri p.v. citri)  is permanently
monitored in the NOA by INTA, the phytosanitary services of the Tucuman Province
and SSAGyP. The bacterium has not been detected in the area nor are there any
symptoms of the disease.   SSAGyP and recently the EC (September 1990) have
declared the zone "canker-free". The region is favored by mountainous terrain
which acts as a natural barrier to the entry of the disease, which is endemic in
northeast Argentina and throughout Uruguay and Paraguay.
Proiect Obiective and Activities
47.         The primary project objective iz to maintain the NOA free of citrus
canker and gain and/or maintain international status as a "fruit-canker-free"
zone for the region. Entry of contaminated plant material or crating would be
impeded by setting up eight quarantine barriers as follows: in Salta Province
(1) at Puerto Morrillo; in Tucuman Province (3) at Las Cejas, Termas de Rio
Hondo, and Arboles Grandes; and in Catamarca Province (4) at Chumbiche, La
Salina, Cruco Rutas 60 y 167, and San Martin.
48.         Project actions would also includes  (a) increased control of in-
bound international traffic at customs checkpoints on international routes, ports
and airportr; (b) upgraded disease monitoring and sample analysis; and (c) a
coumunications campaign conveying information and recoamendations about the
disease addressed to producers, packers, truckers, and the general public. Six
professionals distributed in three eight-hour shifts would be required for each
of the *ight quarantine barriers.
49.         PPS would be responsible for project execution. The provinces would
provide the pest monitoring services through their provincial plant health
services, with the participation of the National University of Jujuy. INTA would



- 69 -                               asamaa
perform the laboratory analyses for asymptomatic detection of the bacterium. The
National Comission for the Prevention of Citrus Canker, which played a leading
role in the northeast Argentina canker campaigns during the early 1980. would be
revitalized to coordinate foderal, provincial and private sector actions.
50.          uuiOmn     Furniture, Vehciles and lunolies:  The participating
Provincial Delegations (Jujuy, Salta, Tucuman and Catamarca) plus the Los Puestos
checkpoint would require one vehicle each to operate the eight quarantine
barriers. Bach barrier would be equipped with one offlce trailer and mobile
communications equipment. Four fixed communications statlons would be installed
in each delegation's provincial headquarters.
(a) _Ull  FLY         L ED31C&IOM CAMPAIG  IN TE  CAM_  lEGIoN
51.         The focus of the fruit-fly program would be the Comahue Region
including: the Provinces of Rio Negro, Neuquen and part of La Pampa. This is
the major fruit producing zone of Argentina. A canal system derived from the
Linay and Neuquen rivers provides irrigation to 65,000 ha., diverse crops
covering 95% of this area in 1986. The fruit crops are apples (33,000 ha), pears
(11,000 ha), peaches (3,000 ha), cherries (1,000 ha), plums (960 ha) and grapes
(10,000 ha). Exports are shipped through the Patagonian ports of San Antonio
Rate and Madryn to the EC (8 million boxes in 1987) and the USA (1 million boxes
in 1987).
52.         Mediterranean fruit fly (Ceratiti1 ca3itata) was first detected in
1973 in urban areas of the Rio Negro valley where microclimatic conditions
allowed the fly to complete its cycle. Due to the presence of the pest, the
region's fruit and vegetable export crops face import restrictions ranging from
ad-hoc quarantine treatment (USA) to outright prohibition (Japan, other Far East
countries and Spain).
53.         Obi.ativest  The objective of the project is to eradicate the pest
from the area and gain international recognition as a "fruit-f li-free" zone. The
project would set up a monitoring network covering 95,000 ha using standard
"Jacksoni  and "McPhail" traps.  Five quarantine barriers would be set up to
control in-bound vehicles for infested produce. The barriers would be installed
on major highways: Nationally 3 at Pedro Luro, 151 at Colonia 25 de Mayo, 152
at Puelches, 154 at Alda or Rio Colorado and 40 at Barrancas.
54.         To compl e  nt these actions a major communications effort would be
launched to educate producers, truckers, and the general public on the dangers
of introduclng this pest and on preventive measures.   The project would be
executed in a coordinated effort by SSAOyP, the Provincial Fruit Entity of Rio
Negro (Into Provincial do Fruticultura de Rio N-aro), the Provincial Ministries
of Neuquen and La Pampa and the private sector, under the Regional Commission for
the Fruit Fly Control.
55.         InSreMktal staft: Three additional professionals would be required
to lead the (existing) federal and provincial staff that would be teamed up to
tend the monitorLng network. Setting up the necessary checkpoints would involve



- 70 -
an addLtional 40 quarantine agents and three professionals to supervise the
effort.
56.             Elko&,mtrniture. Vahicle. and   Iis: The monitoring network
would requlre flve vehicles, insect traps and entomology laboratory equlpment to
ldentify intercepted specimens.  The fiveo chockpoints would each require one
vehicle, comounicatLons equipment, and one office-trailer.
Pre act  ast          -oe hmrv  ehm
57          As mentioned above, service fees were eliminated by the Government,
except for the Residues Laboratory, which collected approximately US$100.000 in
1989. Phytosanitary officLals expect to have other fees gradually roestablished,
as the project permits improved coverage and quality of services ove time. The
exporting private sector is in agreement with this strategy. The tentative fee
structure and rates are given belowt
(a)   Phytosanitary inspection of export/import products:
Fruits/vegetables                         US$0.030 -0.15/case
Grains/fodder/oilseeds/other              US$0.003 -0.10/ton
(b)   Quarantine material monitoring            $420.00/product
(c)   Residues analysis                         $ 80.00/analysis
(d)   Pesticides formulation analysis           $ 65.00/product
(e)   Fertilizers formul. analysis              $ 20.00/product
(f)   Registration of new agrochemicals         $140.00/product
(g)   Registration of agrochomical producers   S 80.00/firm
(h)   Annual re-registration of agrochemicals  $110.00/product
58.         The proposed fees would be indexed to maintain real values and
revised annually to secure appropriate coverage of sorvice cost and
competitlvene-s with private sector services. SSAGyP officials estimate US$2.1
million will be collected in 1991, export inspections being the main revenue
source ($1.5 million).  Increased export volumes over the project life would
raise this figure to $3.9 million in year 5 and $4.3 million in year 10.
Legislation (a Presidential Decree) related to a new tariff base including proper
Lndexing for laboratory analysis and firm/product registration has been prepared
for submlttal to the Ministry of Iconomy/Presidency.   Reinstating export
inspectlon fees requlres only a aSACyP Resolution.
59.         The proposed fe e would allow PPS to gain financial autonomy as long
as it li allowed to keep a separate account. Administrative autonomy in the form
of a decentralized institution such as SENASA would be desirable and has been



- 71 -                               Awls"
considered by SSAGyP.  However, political conditions and a long legislative
process in Congress would prevent this option from being implemented in the short
term.
a  Sold IndustrE
60.         The mood industry in Argentina evolved to meet tho needs of its
grain,  especially wheat production.   Today,  Argentina's  moed industry  is
diversified with extensive participation of international firms. It currently
produces about US$300 million dollars of output, of which about 10% is exported.
Argentina excels in the production of mais-, sorghum, sunflower, soybean and
wheat seed both in quantity and quality.  'owever, the quality of seed of most
of the non-Pampean crops such as fruit, vegetables, aromatics, cotton and forest
trees needs improvement. The benefits of biotechnology and genetic engineering
as well as Argentina's location in the southern hemisphero to produce seed in the
off-season to the northern hemisphere offers the possibility of significant
sector growth.
61.         The National Seed Service (SINASE) in SSAGyP regulates and promote.
the seed trade. It's regulatory fu;ictions are established by National Law No.
20247 promulgated in 1973 and further elaborated in 1978 by Decree No. 1995. The
law protects breeders by granting rights to those who develop new cultivars or
varieties (75% INTA, 25% private). It also creates norms for seed production,
certification and marketing.   The present legal framework needs updating,
although its basic principles are sound.
62.         SENASE lacks qualified staff and equipment, though it can raise
funds,  they  are  returned  directly  to  the  Treasury.    There  exists  good
communication between the private sector and Government through representation
on the National Seed Council  (CONASE).   SENASE simply requires an initial
injection of capital to allow it to offer a proper service to the private sector.
Cost ricovery mechanisms, once updated, would guarantee its continued improvement
through self-financing. This cost recovery would originate from the fees charged
for the registration of cultivars, proprietorship of cultivars, seed
certification and seed laboratory services.
The geods Uubcoamonent
63.         Three consultants would be hired in years 1 and 2 to train staff and
the  private  sector  on:    (a)  seed  quality  control,  as  required  by  the
International Seed Testing Association (ISTA); (b) plant breoders rights, as
required by UPOV (Union Prooriet6 Obtencion V-oetal); and (c) seed certification,
as required by OECD.
64.         Four teams of local consultants would be contracted, (two in year 1
and two in year 2) to studys (a) development of a National Seed Plan; (b)
modernization of the National Seed Service (SENASE); (c) undertaking a study to
explore the potential of the seed import and export market for Argentina; and (d)
updating the legal framework of the import and export market for seeds. Local



- 72 -                               Annex 3
consultancies are based on teams made up of a senior consultant and a junior
consultant working together for six months on each subject.
65.         In addition to the above, four teams would be contracted in year 1
to develop specific computer software for: eed quality control, plant breeders
rights, seed certification, and for the administrative and legal data processing
unit.
international Trainine
66.         International training would consist of short, two-month trips to
cover the following topics in the respective countries: (a) ieed certification
(Spain, France, Germany, and USA); (b) plant breeders rights (UPOV in
Switzerland) or seed quality control (Australia, Denmark, Spain, Germany, United
Kingdom, and Francq).
Local Trainino
67.         Local training would consist of seminars, workshops, short courses,
and in-service training (a total of 10 per year were estimated for years 1-4) for
seed inspectors, seed analysts, technical directors of private and public seed
companies, and staff from seed quality control laboratories. Four themes would
be covered: (a) seed certification (field visits and genetic identification);
(b) seed quality control; (c) evaluation of uniformity, stability and
determination of plant breeders rights; and (d) novelty and agronomic value for
variety registration.
68.         Equipment needs would include:  (a) computers (8 for registration
activity); laboratory equipment and materials to support work on seed purity,
germination and viability, and varietal identification; (c) office equipment and
supplies.



- 73 -
AKNNX 3
Table I
iAGRICLTMURL UURvIczs AND 132ITUTIONLD'.PUNT PROJUCT
Ouarantine DiseaselPest infestation by Phvtosanitary Reaion
REGION                  DISEASZ                         STATUS
I
Northewest (NOA) (Jujuy, Salta        -Mediterranean fruit fly        endemic
Tucuman, Catamarca)                    Ceratitis canitata
Anastranha sov.
-Citrus canker
Northeast (NRA) (Formosa, Chaco,    -Citrus canker                    endemic, controlled
Santa Fe, Hisiones, Intre Rion,
Corrientes, NE S. Aires)              -Mediterranean fruit fly        endemic
III
Cuyo (San Luis, San Juan Mendoza,   -Mediterranean fruit fly          endemic, major
La Rioja)                                                             limitation to exports
-Nematodes                     endemic
-Ditylenchus so22.             not detected, but not
-golden nematode               internationally
recognized as
"disease-free"
IV
Central/Pampean (Santiago del    -Citrus canker                       endemic
Estero, Cordoba, La Pampa,         -Mediterranean fruit fly           endemic
Buenos Aires)
V
Comahue and South                  -Mediterranean fruit fly           endemic
(Neuquen, Rio Negro, Colonia                                          in urban areas
25 de Mayo, Chubut, southern
Buenos Aires)



- 74 -                                 ANNEX 3
Table 2
AGRICU   RLEIicEU AND IM3TITUHUI  DVOITpawUC
NA!IOUAL PLAN! P3OTUC!IOU 33RV!CU  PROVXNCXAL AND C RAL AC!IVI!I33
Provincial    Uxp/AUp  Cotton  Citrus  Fruit   Locust Nuraery Detect. AV. prod Seeds
DelegatLon    inspect. weevil  canker   fly                 laspect.new d/p inspect.inspect.
I BShLa Blanca       *                          *                                   *
2 Necochea           *                                                     * 
3 Catamarca                            *                 *                 *        *
4 Comahue            *                          *                 *        *        *
5 Concordle                            *        *        *        *        *        *
6 Cordoba            *                                                     *        *
7 Corrientes                  *        *        *                 *        *        *
8 Formona            *        *        *        *        *                 *        *
9 Jujuy              *                 *                          *        *        *
o La Rioja                                                                 *        *
i Mendoza
2 Parana             *                 *        *                 *        *        *
3 Paso d.Libres    *                   *        *                          *        *
4 Pergamino          *                 *        *                 *        *        *
5 Posadas            *        *        *        *                 *        *        *
6 Resistencia        *        *        *        *                          *        *
7 Rosario            *                                                     *
8 Salta              *                 *                          *        *        *
.9 San Juan                                     *                          *        *
o Santa Fe           *                                                     *        *
1 Santa Rosa                                    *                          *        *
22 Stgo.d.ZFtero                                          *                 *        *
3 Tucuman            *                 *                 *        *        *        *
'4 Villa Mnrcedes                               *                          *        *
5 Rio Gallegos       *                                                              *
6 Neuquen            *                          *                 *        *        *
Central Service       *        *        *        *        *        *
------------------------------------------------------------------------___ -__ ----------



MICulUAL SUMES MU InSTIFIHL
Plt  Pretectiun Serv
Incremental Sff b    a       _cominmn
Ycrr                      1                   2                   3                    4                   S
P    T   A    S    P    T   A    S    P    T   A    S    P    T   A    S    P    T   A    S    Total
1 Ouar ntin. Station      3                   7         1         7    7    2    7    7    7    2    7    7    r   2    7        23
2. Central Service S
Delegation          15  15   7   8    37   37   18  21   37   37  1u  21   37  37    S   21   37   37   18  21    113
3. ReidueLabs L           3    4    1   3    3    4    1   3    3   4    1   3    3   4    1   3    3    4    1   3              11
4. Citrn Canker           0    0    0    0    a    0    0    0    0    0    0    o    o    o    o    0    0    0   0   a          0
S. Fruit Fly              6              40   6              40  6               40   6               40   6              40    46
TOTAL INCEl!!wTAL         27   19  8    51   53   41   20  64   53   48   21  71   53  48   21   71  53   48   21  71   193
P a Professional
T a Technical
A * Adinfrtratfve
S * Suapprt Staff
/ Central Lab onty. Regional Lab uauld require 2-2-2-2.
Ii



- 76 -
ANNEX 3
Table 4
AROUNTIN
AORICULTURAL SEtVICES ANID INSTITUTIONAL KVOL.tPT PfO.EC
PPS. C00%ral Servico  and D.l"is.oneo  Sbcomoon t. tIcre otal Stof
Provinclal                                                       Total
Delegatlon             Profes. Techn.   Admin.   0. Sere.  Inerem_ntel
A.  CENTRAL SERV.               7         7         4        3           21
B. DELEGATIONS                 30        aS        14       13           92
1 Bahla Blanco                                    1         1            2
2 Necochos                     1         1         1        1            4
3 Catamarca                    1         1                  8            5
4 Comehuo                                2                  1            3
5 Concordla                    1         2                               3
; Cordoba                      1         1                  2            4
7 Corrient..                   1         2                               a
9 Formosa                      2         1         1                     4
9 Jujuy                        1         1                               2
to La Rioto                     2         1                               8
11 Mendozo                                3         2        3            R
12 Parana                       1         1                               2
13 Paso d.Libres                1                            1            2
14 P*rgamino                    1                                         1
16 Posedas                      1         2         1        1            5
16 Roslatencia                  2         2        8         1            8
17 Rosario                      2         1         1                     4
Is alts                         2         i                               3
9 San Juan                      1         1                               2
20 Santa F-                     2         1         1                     4
21 Santa Rosa                             1                  1            2
22 Stgo. d.Estero               1         1         1                     3
23 Tucuman                      1         1                               2
24 Villa Mercedes               1         1                  1            3
26 Rio Gmll.goa                 2         1         1        1            5
Neuquen                      2         1        1         1            5
SUBCOMPONENT TOTAL             37        37        18       21         113



7 7  ~~~~~~~ ~Annex 3
\  \      90~BLIVIA       /|Chnart
P^s,,1 C;1~~~ARA
CHL A.P>,,  u"sss
/ *- - P,",~~~~~~BAZL__ 
a    . -- A N                     t.--,j' 
J ~~~~~~~~~~~~, M  . w.-
. t s- n . ! l lV t~~UENOS AIRtEz
\uut I    __                              ___z^lc o
R_8 ItO NECRO   qj
**    4   _!!                     ~~~~. A R G E N\ T   
if    S   /                      ~~~~~~~~AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
CHILE5                                LOCATION OF PLANT PROTECTION
<  2                                  ~~~~~~SERVICES..
v;N   I                    N           N   Pnnwin~~~~~~~~~~entrl unintle
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 |                         rv'els Ose*l *Itlon to be.
Uf { k pxTIERRAt OIL
t._<7CO                 ~~~~Phytosaniteary Regions I - V



- 78 -
Annix 4
ARGENtINA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICZS AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJZCT
Fisheries
Fish Resources
1.          Argentina's geographic location is ideal for exploitation of the fish
resources of the Southwest Atlantic Ocean. Total catches expanded dramatically
between 1982 and 1987, rising from 1.4 to 2.2 million ton per year. Over the
same period, catches by extra-reqional fleets rose from 0.3 to 1.0 million tons
while Argentine catches rose from 0.46 to 0.55 million tons, an incre&se of only
20%. Despite this growth fish biologists consider that, with a few exceptions,
the majority of those resources cont.nue to be underexploited.
2.          Frorn; the standpoint of availability of marine resources,  it in
reasonable to assume that, with the necessary investment, Argentina could double
its catch over the medium or lorio '--m.  However, if such growth is to be
rational and sustained, the country will first need to redouble its efforts in
the areas of research and resource monitoring, and to improve management to avoid
future overexploitation.
3.          Traditionelly, tha Argentine fishing industry, like the Urugua& an,
has concentrated its effort on the Southwest Atlantic hake (Merlucci. hubbal)
inside the Argentine EEZ and the binational fishing area shared by the two
countries. The overall annual hake catch averages around 360,000 tons. There
have been signs in re:ent years that this may be the Maximum Sustainable Catch
(MSC), or very close to it. However, other species accompanying hake, though in
lesser abundance, are generally of higher value.  Overall catches of these
species are on the order of 120,000 tons.  The National Institute of Fishery
Resources and Development (INIDP) estimates a potential MSC of 250,000 tons.
4.          In the -xtreme south, both inside and outside the Argentine EEZ,
there is a large biomass of southern species, including southern blue whiting
(polaca), granaderos, aerluza de cola, -inrluza austral, and Patagonian toothfish
(uerlusa negra).  INIDP eatimates the overall MSC for these species at around
450,000 tons. Up to now, they have been fished principally by foreign fleets
outside the Argentine EEZ and by vessels of the Soviet and Bulgarian fleet
through "Framework Agreements" authorizing them to conduct controlled operations
within the Argentine EEZ.
5.          One resource with great potential is squid tca.Iamtr), which in caught
both inside and outside the EEZ. in 1987, foreign fleets caught 694,400 tons,
and the Argentine fleet 51,300 tons. It is not possible to establish the MSC for
this species since it has a one-year life cycle and dies after spawning. Large-
scale fluctuations of the biomass occur, depending on the natural conditions
prevailing during the year.  Another resource with a one-year cycle of great
econom.c importance to the country is the Argentine red Fhrimp (langostino--
Pleoticus muelleri), found off the coasts of the provinces of Santa Cruz and
Chubut in the Gulf of San Jorge. Its biomass and catch vary widely from year to



- 79 -
Annex 4
year depending on natural conditions and fishing effort.  Another species is
anchoita, of which the MSC in the Argentine EFZ and the binational area could
reach 800,000 tons a year, according to INIDEP.
Public Institutions &Ad the Private Sector
Public Sector
6.          SSAGyP'a  National  Fisheries  Directorate  (NDF)  comprises  the
Department of Maritime and Continental Fishing and the Department of Fishery
Research. NDP is a weak institution. The National Fisheries Research Institute
(INIDP) is an SSAGyP agency with decentralized management located at Mar del
Plata, where its facilities include laboratories and research vessels. Its staff
comprises 87 professionals, 73 technicians, and 110 other employees providing
management  and  support  services  for the  vessels.   The  National  Fishery
Concentration Market is located at Mar del Plata, and its function is to manage
sales by auction and to provide services to the coastal, roadstead, and estuary
fishing ^leet (flota de rada y ria) operating in the port. In addition to the
above-mentioned central government agencies, the four provinces with an ocean
coastline have their own institutions to handle matters relating to the fishery
sector at the provincial level.
Private Sector
7.          All Argentine industrial facilities in the fishery sector and the
fishing fleets are private.   The one common characteristic of the entire
Argentine fleet is its age (over 20 years) and high degree of obsolescence, which
affects its efficiency and pushes up operating costs.  According to a census
taken in 1987 by INIDEP, the industrial facilities consisted of 63 fish
processing and filleting plants whose end-product is frozen fish, 17 canning
plants; and 17 plants for undried salted fish. Most of the plants are located
in Mar del Plata, with some at Puerto Madryn and Puerto Deseado in Patagonia,
where the new fish cold-storage plants have been installed.  In general, the
industry is capable of producing good-quality products, and the installed
capacity is adequate to aboorb any expansion of the catch over the short term.
However, money needs to be spent on equipment and machinery that will ensure the
placement on the market of better finished products with a higher value-addee.
Exports of marine products in 1988 totaled US$276 million, frozen products
accounting for 92%, both in value and in weight. Of the total, 49% in weight and
35% in value were accounted for by hake.
Factors Restrictina D-velopment of the Sector
8.          The difficulties faced by the sector since it became export-oriented
some 30 years ago have given it the reputation of being very unstable, yet it has
managed to survive and grow.    The main constraints are macroeconomic, with a
scarcity of long-term financing that discourages investors from the funds necessary
to stimulate the sector's g:owth.



- so -
THZ PROJtTZG
Overall Obiective
11.         The component aims to achieve more rational exploitation of the
country's fish and aquacultural resources through an evaluation of their potential
and prospects for development, constant technological updating, improved catch
regulation, and streamlining of the functions of inspection and monitoring of
activities related to the fishery cycle. The project would therefore help create
favorable conditions for a sustained increase in the country's fishery exports.
12.         Project components include:  (i) Evaluation of fishery resources  (Lii)
Institutional strengthening of the NDP; (iii) Development of a Center for the
Development of Warmwater Aquaculture in Corrientes; and (iv) Development of a
Salmon-Growing Center in Neuqu6n.
13.         Evaluation of fish resources:  This subcomponent would:
(a)   Estimate the Maximum Sustainable Catch (MSC) of the fish resources of
the Argentine Maritime Spaces, with a view to facilitating rational and
efficient exploitation of those resources;
(b)   Identify spawning and juvenile-rearing seasons and areas with a view
to creating catch-rationalization instruments, such as restricted areas
and temporary or permanent fishing bans;
(c)   Establish relationships and interdependencies between each of the
resources surveyed and its ambient ecosystem, with a view to achieving
equilibrium among the different resources making up the catch
(especially trophic interdependence);
(d)   Determine the status of exploitation of each of the resources, through
fish pressure measurements, results, and impact on the resources, with
a view to delivering to DNP the neceasary tools for fishery management
and regulation; and
(-)   Improve the general knowledge of the ecosystem and the biological
characterization of the resources under study, with a view to
facilitating the development of artificial cultures and the
implementation of measures to prevent contamination, pollution, etc.
14.         To carry out this task INIDP's two recent vessels would operate a total
of 400 sailing days/year for five years; sampling analyses and reprocessing on land
of the information obtained.  The Nnnual Work Plan (AOP) will be as follows,
subject to any changes necessitated by circumstances arising during its
implementation.



- 81 -
9.          Other constraints include:
(a)   Karkating:  excessive dependency on hake exportt  to the major European
and US markets. In these markets hake in of less value since it take.
the place of the traditional cod, so that Argentina's exports
substantially depend on the annual fluctuations of cod in the fishing
grounds of the northern hemisphere;
(b)   Local  biological  factors:    the  normal  annual  fluctuations  of
Argentina's fish resources, particularly red shrimp and squid, which
further aggravate the sector's instability;
(C)   Fishery legislation:   the absence of a National Fisheries Law to
provide a stable, long-term legal framework for the sector is another
limiting factor;
(d)   Research:  budget constraints have led to poor deployment of INIDP's
physical and human resources in fishery research.   A particularly
serious aspect is the reduction in the number of days of operation of
the research vessels, which need to collect updated scientific
information on the status of the fish resource to provide the
authorities with a well-documented basis for the preparation of
measures affecting exploitation and preservation.  In 1989, the two
vessels (Dr. Eduardo Hornberg and Capitan Oca Balda) were at sea a
combined total of only 82 day.;
(-)   Technological factors: The fact that shipboard and land personnel have
little access to state-of-the-art catching and processing technologies
also restricts the sector's development; and
(f)   Infrastructure:   The  large distances between  Patagonia  and  the
country's more populous centers have held up the development in that
region of the support groups and infrastructures necessary to enable
the Argentine fishing sector to achieve its full potential.
Fishery Policy and Leaislation
10.         The present Goverrment's fishery policy is designed to ensure that the
country derives the greatest benefit from the sustained exploitation of all living
resources inhabiting Argentine waters axtending 200 miles from the coast and
including the continental shelf.  This policy is oriented towards stimulating
private-sector participation in fishery research and fish resource management, and
permitting access by fishing vessels flying a foreign flag to NSC surpluses not
exploited by the Argentine fleet.  However, there is no National Fisheries Law
incorporating in a single instrument every aspect relating to the sector.



- 82 -
es 4
Resourceu to be evaluated                          Vessel davalvear
Demersal resources
Hake and accompanying fauna                               120
Dynamics of schools of squid                               60
Southern species                                           45
Pelaaic resources
Ancholta and mackerel                                      45
Coastal resources in Sonaeren,se rea
Croaker, weakfish, common sea bream
and Brazilian flounder                              40
Patagonian coastal red shrimp                              45
Environment/fisheries interaction                          45
Total              400 days/year
15.         Activities complementary to the research campaigns, include:  (4)
stationing of observers on board the commercial fleet, for which 15
paratechnicians would be hired for 200 days a year for five years; and (b) the
evaluation of commercial fleet landings based on the statistical record of the
catch, reflected by the fishing vessel reports sent to all the fishing ports.
16.         The Study Methodology includes the following:
(a)   Research vessel campaigns.   It is proposed to use the fishery
research vessels "B/I CapitAn Oca Balda" and "B/I Doctor Eduardo L.
Holmberg," both owned by INIDEP, each one sailing for 200 days a
year over a 5-year period, the length of time considered necessary
to achieve an acceptable degree of reliability in the evaluation of
Argentina's principal maritime resources, which are characterized
by definite geographic seasonality and by their migratory nature,
distributed over a total of more than one million square kilometers.
(b)   Observations on board the commercial fleet.  The observations made
on board the various vessels of the commercial fleet are intended to
expand the overall spectrum of observation, although their findings
will be less accurate than those of the research vessels. In this
case, it would be important to develop a general overview of the
findings and determine some of the causes and effects of what will
later be obtained from the landing samplings.   This would also
identify the measures, observations, and notes to be taken by the
personnel on board, as a basis for preparation of the fishing
reports.   The  present  program  provides  for  the  inclusion  of
paratechnical observers who will carry on this task during the five
years of the present program. Specific parameters to be measured
include: catch per Unit of Effort (CPU); comparative analysis of
yields of the different types of fishing methods; climate and ocean



- 83 -
ae 4
measurements together with size of catch (lances), as well as
samplings of the aquatic environment for analysis on land; and
monitoring of landings.
(C)   Supervision of landings. Widespread supervinion of commercial fleet
landings is an essential complement to direct research and on-board
observations.  For this reason, the drafting of fishing reports,
prepared by the owners of the vessels and delivered at the time of
arrival, will be obligatory, non-compliance being subject to a stiff
penalty. This supervision is even lese accurate than the on-board
observations, but it covers the entire fleet, with a view, after
selection of the information obtained, to providing a statistical
sampling with a low margin of error.   Landing supervision will
comprise:
-     Monitoring of volumes and species landed in an attempt to
obtain through the fishing reports a representative idea of
the abundance, seasonality, location and yield ratios of the
fishery resources in all of the country's fishing ports.
-     Biological measurements through landing samplings at the ports
of Mar del Plata, Madryn and Deseado, particularly in relation
to sexual maturity, age, and size-weight ratio.
(d)   Processing of basic information.  Processing at INIDEP of all data
obtained from the research vessels, the on-board observers, and the
commercial landings and samplings, for purposes of biomass
estimates, MSC, and CUE indexes, distribution, etc.
17.         Strenctheninc of National Directorate of Fisheries (tDF):  This
subcomponent would strengthen the NDF in two fundamental areas. The first area
is technical cooperation on tasks of: sectoral policy instrumentation; plan,
program and project formulation; preparation of project evaluation methodologies;
evaluation of fishery research programs; sector reorganization; reallocation of
fishing rights (permits); administration of fishery resources and information
systems.   The second area comprises training and technology transfer for
government workers in the public fishery sector and private-sector operators at
their various levels.
18.         The institutional strengthening subcomponent includes the following:



- 84 -
Aex  4
(a)   Technical Cooperation (TORs on file)
Activity                                Duration
Fiuhery policy, planning and economics.               36 continuous man/months
Fish resource administration
Planning and execution of SSP reorganization          24 continuous man/months
project. (INIDEP, fishing permits, etc.)
Evaluation of fishery research programs               12 intermittent man/months
Creation of a National Fishing Data Network            8 intermittent man/months
(b)   $raining
19.         Public and Private Maritime Fishery Sector.  Four seminar-workshops
would be conducted every year for two years, for government workers on the staff
of the NDF, INIDP and the Provincial Governments, and for members of the private
sector (management level), on the following topics: fishery policy and planning;
fish resource administration; preparation and evaluat'on of fishery projects at
the global level; fishing data and statietics. Two seminar-workshops would also
be conducted every year for four years for government workers and private-sector
operators  (middle management)  on the  following  topics:   preparation  and
evaluation of investment projects; organization of fish production and personnel
managoment; technology and quality control of fish products.
20.         Public and Private Fish-Farming Sector. Two seminar-workshops to be
conducted every year for tour years for government workers and private-sector
operators  (middle management)  on the  following  topics:    preparation  and
evaluation of investment projects; organization of fish-farming production and
management of farms with mixed production; technology, quality control and
icthyopathology of fish-farming products.
21.         Fishing Data System.  A national network with participation of NDF,
INIDP, Provincial Governments, and the private-seetor operators would be
established. To support this, computers and fax machines for the information
system would be supplied to NDF agencies, and to its Operating Units at the
country's major ports.
Center for the Development of Waruwater AMuaculture -- tCEDAAC)
22.         This subcomponent would support the development of aquaculture in
ArgentinaIs bodies of warm water in the northeast. Specific objectives include:
technology transfer to producers; provide interested producers with the initial
"seed" organisms suitable for culture; carry out the tasks of training,
extension, evaluation, market surveys, etc. ; and develop aquaculture with export
potential.



- 85 -
&uA 4
23.         A new aquaculture center would be constructed in Corrientes, on the
east bank of the Parani River, on land transferred by the Province to INIDEP to
replace the present center on the Salto Grande dam on the Uruguay River. The new
location in an area of higher temperatures would make it possible to develop
cultivation of the Freshwater Jumbo Shrimp (Camardn giganto do agua dulao --
Macrobrachium rosenbergii). This center would be representative of conditions
in Corrientes, Chaco, Formosa, Misiones and north of Santa Fe. The Provincial
Governnent of Corrientes has offered to transfer 20 ha of land and to construct
the access road and power lines at no cost to INIDP.
24.         Designs  have  been  prepared,  and  include  930m2 of  structures,
comprising a "hatchery," incubation room, research center, store-house, and
housing for the director, the technicians, and for scholarship holdors; a total
of 8.3 ha of earthen ponds in various sizes; water supply and drainage systems;
roads and parking areas; electricity, light, and drinking water; and all the
equipment and machinery necessary for operation of the center. In addition, a
pickup truck would be purchased for general use and two pickups for use by the
extension workers. The execution timetable will call for legalization of the
transfer of the land from the Province to NDF in the program's first year.
During that year, the final design will be completed and calls for bids issued
for construction of the plant.   In the second year,  construction will be
completed and the vehicles, equipment, and machinery purchased, and the Center
will enter into operation.   During the next three years,  activities will
gradually be stepped up until full capacity is reached in the fifth year. The
facility ultimately would be self-financing through: (i) sales of commercial-
size shrimp and catfish to the local market and seed of those species to
producers in the area; and (ii) fees charged for technical assistance and
training courses.
National Salmon-Growing Center at Neuou6n
25.         The  National  Salmon-Growing  Center  would  support  aquaculture
activities for the Andean-Patagonian regions. Specifically it would: develop
strategies designed to orient and stimulate salmon growing in the region; and
provide technical data on ecological aspects of fish culture in the Region. A
Coldwater Aquaculture Development Plan would be supported by three programs;
namely, for Planning, Aquaculture Development, and Fish Health.
26.         The Planning Program would prepare baseline studies to establish a
strategy to develop overall policy and monitor and supervise private projects in
the area.  The Fish-Farming Development Program would aim to: optimize the
production processes by developing technical packages to reduce operating costs
and encourage existing producers to modernize, and increase production through
the use of available technology; and strengthen work on genetic improvement and
selective rearing of brood stock, with a view to obtaining quality lines for
meat, high fertility, and rapid growth
27.         The Fish Nealth Program subactivity at the Salmon Center would aim
to protect the cultivates organizms and the inhabitants of the aquatic
environment from contagious diseases. For this, it will be necessary to import
trout or salmon yolk-sac fry (huevoo embrionados) or juveniles from abroad. This



- 86 -
Anx 4
program, the only one of its kind in the country, would comprise: regular health
inspection icthyopathological certification of eggs, juveniles and adults;
icthyouanitary certification of buildings and transportation facilitites;
environmental control (hygiene, prophylaxis, disinfection); monitoring of
treatments undertaken after a disease has been reported; immunization
(vaccination, other methods), during the treatment of diseases, changes in
isolation methodology, culture, identification of pathogens, etc.; contribution
of data for the application of regulations concerning selection of suitable areas
for culture, varieties selected, quality and type of feed supplied, chemicals,
etc.; and health management of the farm in general. Arrangements would also be
made with the public authorities (provincial and federal) for the ongoing
monitoring of follow-up action in cases of parasitic, bacterial, fungal and/or
viral outbreaks capable of damaging the stability of the activity and
contaminating the environment.
28.         The new Salmon Center would be located on the Traful River, close to
its confluence with the Limay River, 70 kilometers from San Carlos de Bariloch-.
The location was selected since it had good quantity and quality of water,
suitable land is available from the National Parks Service and it is the natural
epicenter of aquaculture in the region.  Construction of the new Center is
necessary because the present center has an insecure supply of water. Designs
for the new facility have been prepared, comprising:   660 square meters of
construction, comprising a plant with a closed-circuit water circulation system
for quarantine purposes, a multiple-use "hatchery," a feed storehouse, an office
and a housing unit; access roads and parking areas; water supply and drainage
channels and a decantation pond; circular tanks for rearing juveniles;
rectangular earthen tanks for fattening and brood stock; a lighting system and
drinking water supply. The preliminary design also includes machinery for feed
production, laboratory equipment, auxiliary equipment, fi d-trip equipment, and
two vehicles, a 1,500-kg pick-up truck with double cabin and four-wheel drive and
a light freight truck.  Ope::ating costs would be recovered out from the fees
charged for the services of icthyopathological and egg certification, and out of
the proceeds of sales of eggs and juveniles to producers in the area.



- 87 -
Anx 
ARGENTINA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
National Institute for Aericultural Tochnoloq
aoricultural Technoloov in Araentina
1.          Agricultural research in Argentina is carried out by both the public
and private sectors.   In the public sector it is dominated by the National
Institute for Agricultural Technology (INTA). In addition there are research
programs such as those run by CONICET, the Secretariat for Science and
Technology, agroindustrial research carried out by the National Institute for
Industrial Technology (INTI), research by universities, and food research done
by the National Commission for Atomic Energy.  Some 3,000 professionals are
linked to either the generation or the diffusion of research. Within the private
sector there a.e three main sources of research:   farmers, associations,
industries and other entities such foundations or consultants.  Although the
public sector predominates in the generation of the research, it is the private
sector that predominates in the transfer of technology.
2.          INTA was created in 1956 to carry out agricultural research and
extension as a nonprofit, public entity with its own budget. INTA is not allowed
to inspect or control agricultural production, rather, its mandate is to
undertake: (a) research on natural resources and production technology and the
storage and transformation of agricultural products; (b) agricultural extension,
including ways to improve a farmer's socioeconomic conditions; and (c)
development plans to promote specific technology for targeted farm enterprises.
3.          INTA is a decentralized institution.  At the national level. its
Board is formed by a president, vice president (both named by the Subsecretary
of Agriculture, Livestock, Fisheries, SSAGyP) and eight committee members. Only
one of the eight committee members is named by the Subsecretary, (SSAGyP); the
other seven are named by farmers' groups and by representatives from the
faculties of Agriculture and Veterinary Science of the national universities.
The Board delegates day-to-day management to the national director supported by
four national managers responsible for: operations, planning and control, human
resources, and general administration.
4.          At the provincial level,  INTA has 15 Regional Centers, with 39
research stations, and 262 extension agencies.   Each Regional Center has a
regional council as well as a line manager, the regional director. The Regional
Council is an important decision-making body since it approves the work program
and use of the approved budget. The Council is formed by representatives from
the respective provincial Ministers of Agriculture, farmer groups, and other
regional scientific organizations. INTA also has three research centers at the
Caatelar complex outside the city of Buenos Aires, concentrating on natural
resources, soil sciences, and research in veterinary science and biotechnology.
Each center has its own council and representatives from the National Board,
professionals from Regional Centers, and the scientific community.



- 88 -
Annex 5
5.          Financially, INTA ham a secure though varying income, since it is
financed through a 1.5% tax on most agricultural exports (except fruit and
vegetables and certain regional products). Therefore, as the value of exports
varies so does INTA's income; however, to partly mitigate this problem, INTA can
take on debt. At present, it is completing implementation of a project financed
by the Inter-American Development Bank and is responsible for debt service on the
loan.
Aaricultural Research Policy
6.          To determine an overall agricultural research policy, INTA's Board
has approved the following six medium-term institutional objectives in research
and extension:
(a) modernization of the agricultural sector taking into account the
quality changes in both internal and external demand for
agricultural products;
(b)   improveme.t in the sustainable management of natural resources;
(c)   encouragement of the diversification of agricultural production
taking into account regional comparative advantages;
(d)   development of technology for the most important production systems
taking into account socio-economic factors;
(e)   improvement of both  farmers and rural communities'  social  and
economic environment; and
(f)   development of the capability to export technical know-how to other
developing countries.
7.          In accordance with these six objectives, INTA has developed four main
areas of activity. The first is conservation and improvement of existing farm
animal and plant species.   This includes their conversion into industrial
products and marketing. Five research programs cover this work: biotechnology,
animal health, plant physiology and pathology, agroindustries, and rural
economics and sociology.
S.          The second work area is natural resources focussing on sustainable,
productive potential. Four programs are included: water and weather, fauna and
flora, soils, and genetics.  The third work area integrates applied and adaptive
research into six programs centered around product groups, namely: cereals and
oilseeds, fruit, vegetables, industrial crops and forestry and animal prodLction.
The latter three work areas and related 15 programs provide information for use
throughout the country. The fourth work area consists of activities that adapt
research to the local, regional needs. This work takes place at the Regional
Centers and consists of activities that concentrate applied and adaptive research
as well as on rural extension.



- 89 -
Annex 5
The Pro1-ctj
9.          The proposed research component covers four priority activities all
of which are export-oriented: biotechnology, post-harvest research on fruit and
vegetables, wool classification and foristry management and development. It has
been approved in principle by INTA's Board since it involves accepting additional
debt. Project Activities includes
10.         biotechnology.   This  "cutting-edge"  science wi,) oe extremely
important to a country that depends heavily on its agricultural sector as an
engine for growth.  It is also important in Argentina because some areas of
research (such as improved FMD vaccines) are simply not of interest to other more
developed countries that do not have this disease. INTA's biotechnology program
would be carried out, as it has since it started formally in 1989, at the
Institute for Molecular Biology at the Center for Research for Veterinary Science
(CICCV) and also at the Institute of Genetics for Research in Agricultural
Science. Other INTA research stations would also be involved such as those at
Cordoba and Concepci6n del Uruguay. The entire program would be led by the head
of INTA's Advanced Biotechnology program.
11.         The Biotechnology program would receive financial support for work
on animal health,  plant pathology,  and plant breeding and L S such would
complement other componento of the project. In animal health, research would
concentrate on obtaining antigens from the FHD virus through genetic engineering
techniques that could lead to producing an innocuous vaccine that would be stable
and of low cost. In work on Brucellosis, efforts would concentrate on developing
diagnostic methods to differentiate vaccinated animals from those with
brucellosis and improving the quality of the vaccine itself. The research on
plant pathology would center on obtaining potato plants that are resistant to
virus, genetic control of insects to reduce certain pest populations, and on
obtaining diagnostic reagents for virus epidemiology on maize. In the field of
plant breeding, research would center on hybrid vigor and its improvement as well
as genetic manipulation to improve maize, rice, cotton, and sunflower as well as
Increase genetic variability in wheat.
12.         Staff needed would increase by seven professionals six of whom be
based in Castelar) and one technician.  Training would be made available for
post-doctoral work (one to two years) for a total of eight specialists.  In
addition, 18 short-term trips (2 to 3 months) are included plus funds to allow
foreign technicians to assist in teaching laboratory techniques.
13.         Construction remodelling would be limited to the Genetics Institute
(400 m2) and equipment and vehicles for the laboratories. The other large item
important for the biotechnological program is the chemical supplies since these
are mostly enzymes that are perishable and costly (US$0.6 million). The total
baseline cost for the biotechnology subcomponent is estimated at about US$2.4
million.
14.         Horticulture Post-Harvest Physiology.  Argentina has considerable
potential to increase its exports of horticulture products (fruit and
vegetables). However, to do so, it must improve its post-harvest handling and



- 90 -
4knnex 5
knowledge of plant and fruit physiology once the crop is ready for harvest.  The
post-harvest physiology research program would be developed around regional
activities and specific crops. In northern Patagonia, research would concentrate
on pears, apples, and table grapes, and mainly on programs related to chemical
residues and fungicides used to control disease during refrigeration.   In
Mendoza, research would concentrate also on fruit such as peaches, nectarines,
plums, cherries and melons as well as vegetables such as peppers, garlic, and
onions. However, the problems researched would be similar in nature to those of
Patagonia. In the Tucuman Santiago del Estero area, research in the use of cold
storage is required for citrus, subtropical fruit, and vegetables such as
tomatoes, peppers, and sweet corn.  In the northern part of the Province of
Buenos Aires research would concentrate on the conditions of refrigeration
(mostly temperature and humidity) needed to preserve fruit such as peaches,
nectarines, plums, oranges, and kiwis. In the southern part of the Province of
Buenos Aires, near Balarce, research would concentrate on chemical residues on
both   fruit  and  vegetables  as  well  as  the  necessary  quality  for
agroindustralization. Finally, in Concordia, research on the use of cold storage
would focus principally for citrus. The project would finance staff training,
consultants, small construction, equipment, and materials for the post-harvest
research program at an estimated base cost of US$3.0 million.
15.         Wool  Classification.    The  project  would  support  INTA's  wool
classification laboratory system at its central laboratory in Bariloche and a
satellite laboratory in Rawson (Province of Chubut). The aim would be to use
objective measures in the production, preparation and classification of wool.
These measures would have the following advantages: (a) improved knowledge of
wool quality by farmers; (b) better input for improved sheep breeding programs
to improve fleece quality; (c) better marketing of wool to stimulate competition
for  exports;  (d)  better  data  for wool  research  programs;  and  (e)  the
establishment of a national reference wool laboratory at Bariloche to develop
standards for other regional laboratories. The project would finance staff ng,
staff training, civil works, and the purchase of equipment for the wool
classification laboratory system at an estimated coat of US$2.0 million.
16.         Forest Research.   Argentina currently has about 900,000 ha of
plantation forests, 68% of which is estimated to be growing in MesopotLmia
(region located between the Parana and Uruguay rivers in the Provinces of
Misiones, Corrientes, Entre Ri6s and the deltas of the Paran5 and Bonaerentse).
Mesopotamia alone has a total of 1.5 million ha that could potentially be planted
to forestry; a number of industries are already installed there, producing a
diversity of products. However, despite high growth rates (30-35 cubic meters/ha
in eucalyptus and 20-30 cubic meters/ha for pine), problems do exist.
17.         The main techn4cal problems facing plantation forestry in Argentina
are: (a) lack of appropriate genetic material; (b lack of norms to identify
sites as well as standardizing forestry husbandry; (c) lack of mechanization in
forestry; and (d) lack of species diversification.   In addition, there are
marketing problems mostly connected with the lack of .ransparency in pricing,
atomized supply and a lack of producers' organizations,



- 91 -
Anex 
la.         rho proposed forestry component would be directed by the Concordia
Experimental Station in Entre Rios, where current reoearch is mostly on pine and
eucalyptus. The Concordia station would also coordinate work being carried out
at the following stationst Monte Carlo in Misiones (dedicated to work on pine,
araucaria, and medlia species); Bella Vista in Corrientes (dedicated to pine and
eucalyptus); and the delta of the Rio Parani Experimental Station in Entre Ri6s,
(dedicated to research on populars). Project activities would be coordinated
with other agencies both public and private. There would be direct participation
by the National Forestry Institute (IFONA), INTI, and the universities and
forestry directoratem of the Provinces of Corrientes, Misiones, and Entre Rl6o.
19.         The general objectives of the forestry research component are to
increase forest production, yields, wood quality, and to improve marketing in
Mesopotamia.    The  research would  be  applied  and would  concentrate  on:
(f) obtaining better knowledge of soils in Mesopotamia to Improve site knowledge;
(g) increasing physical yield3, wood quality, and economic yields; and (h)
studying market structure and marketing channels.
20.         INTA's extension activities would concentrate on adapting and
dif'ising the technology. The specific targets for the forcntry research and
ex    'on program would include:  yield increases of 30% for eucalptus and
populars and 5% for pines, making available clones of poplars that are resistant
to disease (mainly yellowing), and definition of site curves and yield curves for
the different species, and establishment of nurseries for Eucalvptus arandis,
Pinus taeda and elliottii, and Tranadria anousti'olia.
21.         The subcomponent would finance construction of sheds, greenhouses,
laboratories, and offices totaling of 420 m', as well as equipment for the
laboratory, forest, and wood measurement and simple field experiments. A small
amount of office equipment is included plus financing for four pickups, two cars
and a boat for river work. Communications equipment such as overhead projectors,
facsimile, and photocoping equipment would elso be included.  Funds are also
included for short-term training mainly for extension and fire prevention. Post-
doctoral training, for six candidates is included (plant genetics, silviculture
and wood technology).   The estimated total baseline costs amount to US$1.7
million.



- 92 -
Annex 6
ARGENTINA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES AND INSTITUTIONAL DE%ELOPNENT PROJECT
Forestrm
Resource 8asL
1.          Argentina's forest resources comprise natural and plantation forest.
The indigenous forests are located mostly in the north and west of the country.
They are of low productivity, have some environmental constraints, and, most
importantly, their coverage is not fully known. Although at the beginning of the
century there were about 105 million ha, today's estimates vary between 35-45
million ha of indigenous forested land. Argentina's plantation forests (mostly
pine, eucalyptus, and poplars) are concentrated in the northeast. They have very
high productivity and cover about 0.9 million ha. In brief, both Araentina's
existing forest resource (54% of which is privately owned) and its forest
industry provide a maturing resource base that is capable of quickly generating
new export income.
2.          Exports of wood products are still modest at about US$30 million (58%
as pulp, 31% as paper, and 11% as nechanized wood products), but tha net value
of imports is declining and today is approximately US$100 million (42% as
sawnwood, 40% aa paper and 18% as pulp). The forest industry has the capacity
to process about 11.0 million tons of logs/year but it operates with antiquated
and inefficient machinery. However, an important developing trend is the export
of eucalyptus roundlogs to be used for making spacialized paper, mainly for
computer and photocopying uses.
3.          Although forestry's contribution to GDP currently is small (averaging
0.2% since 1980) ,the im,pact of the forestry plantation grants awarded in the mid-
70's will soon lead to large volumes of wood coming on stream over the next
decade which may reverse importing trends and generate significant export
earnings. However, both physical and administrative infrastructure need to be
strengthened if this is to be properly exploited.
4.          The National Forestry Institute (IFONA), created in 1973, administers
the national forests, but responsibility for overseeing provincial forestry
resources rests with the provincial governments.  IFONA's functions include:
policy implementation; law enforcement; planning; forest management; ecorbomics;
administration of the planting subsidy scheme; extension and publicity; forestry
for social development; and, through its field offices, research and fire
protection. It is seriously constrained by inadequate staff, low salaries,and
low operating and research budgets. As of this writing, IFONA's future is in
doubt under the public sector reform.
5.          Forestry  and  wood  research  are  carried  out  by  a  myriad  of
institutiors.   IFONA concentrates on indigenous  forest management but the
provinces and universities also undertake some research on both indigenous
forests and plantations. INTA also carries out forestry research (Annex 5),
mostly on plantation forests, while INTI concentrates on wood research.   In



- 93 -
Annez 6
addition, there is the Wood Technology and Research Center, the Wood Pulp and
Paper Research Center, and the Forestry Research and Experimentation Center--all
of which heavily involve the private sector. There are also national committee's
for Forests, ("Quebracho", Poplars, Prosopim) and the Interprovincial Committee
for the Northwestern Region.  Finally, the Argentina Federation for the Wood
Industry is probably the most important private sector group in the wood
industry.
6.          Although Argentina has imnortant state-owned forest rescurces and
also large wood pulp plants (Government's share was partly bought out recently
by two banks in debt/equity swaps), the private sector is the main driving force
behind both forest and wood production.   However, the private sector does
legitimately require government assistance in research that should be
consolidated--preferably in INTA since it already receives revenue of 1.5% on the
export of roundlogs. A detailed analysis of the forestry sector is given in the
June 1989 Aoricultural Sector Retort
constraints to Forestry Devolo2nnt
7.          The main aspects of existing forestry policy are: (a) increase output
from the forestry secto , and increase exports as well as domestic demand;
(b)improve the rational use of forest products as well as their transformation
by industry; (c) preserve the cenetic resources of the indigenous forests; (d)
encourage private investment in the sector; and (e) itprove employment in the
rural areas.
S.          The main constraints to forestry development are:  (a) inadequate
information on the extent and composition of forest resources, especially
indigenous forest resources  (EC grant  funds are being procesqed for this
purpose);   (b) inadequate plantation management that needs to be improved to
diversify the product produced to accommodate the mechanized wood products
sector; (c) the limited capacity of public institutions, both federal and
provincial, to administer forest resources properly is limited, which should be
strengthened; (d) better coordination of research between IFONA, INTA and other
private and public bodies is weak; and (s) a levy system (stumpage fees) should
be imposed for all forests, as well as annual licenses for wood-using industries
to finance research, fire protection and possibly plantation schemes; inadequate
provision of training to middle management and shop-floor workers to improve the
quantity and quality of industrial output.
9.          The strategy to meet policy objectives will consist of: (a) finding
practical ways to help the private sector lower costs and be able to increase the
forest extraction rate, which in turn, will improve price transparency and better
forest marketing, and thus encourage forest plantation; (b) consolidation of
forestry and relevant socioeconomic data to facilitate better national forestry
planning; (c) improving forestry extension and training for forest workers; and
(d) strengthening public forestry institutions to improve research, protect the
resource base, and improve coordination among institutions.



- 94 -
Annex 7
AGRICULTURAL SIRVICES AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPENT PROJECT
National ^Sit Board
Heat in th- 3cono v
1.          The meat industry represents almost 2% of GDP and beef constitutes
over 90% of the sector's output. About 2.5 million tons of carcass equivalent
are produced in Argentina every year. The 110 meat packing plants (of which
about 60 are licensed to export) employ about 45,000 people.   In addition,
Argentina has the highest rate of beef consumption in the world (about 70 kg per
capita).
2.          Since World War II, Argentina has declined significantly an a meat
exporter. Itw share of the world beef export market fell to little over 6% of
the total or 260,000 tons carcass weight equivalent (CWE) between 1984-87 i.e.,
down from an average of 550,000 %Cww% between 1970-79. The reasons for this
decline are varied but stem mainly from markets being captured by other exporters
such as the EC and Brazil. the lowering of cattle stock numbers, and the
maintenance of a high leveLt -,f local. consumption.  However, the beef export
markets that were lost were usually for low-value cuts (manufacturing-type beef),
whereas the markets that wcre retained were those of high value (boneless cuts,
corned beef or cooked/frozen). The latter now account for over 90% of the total
value of Argentine beef exports.  In addition, Argentina's markets have also
changed so today there are basically two types: (a) traditionally important,
higher-priced markets of the EC and USA plus smaller markets of Israel, Canary
Islands, and Switzerland; and (b) a se ies of marginal markets such as USSR,
Egypt, Iraq, Iran, and Brazil which buy of cheaper meat products.
3.          Despite this recent decline, Argentina has definite comparative
advdntages as a beef producing and exporting country. It already possesses an
international image as a quality producer of "naturally" grown (grass-fed), low
coat beef. Its meat packing industry is capable of responding to export markets
both in the EC and Japan which will gradually open up in the future. However, a
quick change in export volume can only result from lowering of the domestic
consumption of beef. For example, if Argentina were to reduced its per capita
consumption of beef by about 8 kg. supplies of beef for export would double.
4.          In brief the constraints to Argentina increasing its beef exports
are: high domestic consumption, reduced stock numbers, Foot-and-Mouth Disease
(FMD), and the lack of a coordinated and consolidated international marketing
approach to its export trade.
The National Heat Board
5.          The National Meat Board (JNC) is regulated by Law 21740 of 1978,
later modified in 1983 and 1984.  It operates as an autonomous agency within
SSAGyP and is directed by a board comprising seven representatives from the
private sector (four agricultural sector representatives, one from meat packers,



- 95 -
Annex 7
one from labor, one from livestock associations) and three from the public
sector.   JNC's organizational  structure  includes:   a Board of Directors,
Executive Presidency and (Vice-Presidency), a General Manager, Legal Counsel, and
Regional Management. There are *Ix management areas that depend on the General
Manager: Administration, Personnel, Meat Grading and Quality Control, Economic
Studies, Promot'.on and Regietration of the industry.   JNC also coordinates
closely with the following public institutions:   SSAGyP, SENASA,  INTA, and
Subsecretary of Comerce and Trade (SSIC). Within the private sector, JNC's most
important ties are with the following entitius: farmers' associations, livestock
agents associations and three meatpackers associations.
6.          The National Meat Board (JNC) promotes and regulates the production,
storage, industrialization, transport and marketing of all types of meats. Its
duties are normative, informative, and research and promotion-oriented. However
although JNC's law establishes that 40% of its income (which originates from a
1% levy on the value of meat sold on the domestic market) should be spent on
promoting meat, this has not been effective. In addition, the JNC has not
maintained a leadership role in the sector. It's operations have concentrated
on meat grading (a major source of its income); little has been done on market
research, meat promotion or even in maintaining basic statistics. This weakness
has been compounded by a decline in the quality of staff.
7.          The priorities for JNC in the future are to:  (a) improve the export-
oriented meat packing plants' prospects of participating in the domestic market
by promoting vacuum-packed cuts of beef; (b) promote the consumption within
Argentina of meats other than beef; (c) focus on promoting beef, mutton, and port
exports; (d) promote the development of new export products; (e) consider the
need for a new beef grading csytem that better reflects the demands of the export
market; and (f) improve JNC's staff through training.
Proooced Proiect
8.          The main objective of this component would be the institutional
development of JNC to support its focus on developing the priorities outlined
above.   Of special  importance would be those activities that directly or
indirectly increase meat exports. The project would consist of the following
activities: (a) promotion of vacuum-packed beef; (b) increase the consumption
of meat other than beef to reduce consumption of the latter; (c) research on
meat; (d) development of a ieat classification system; (f) development of a meat
information system; and (g) undertaking a special promotional campaign in foreign
countries.
Proiect Activities
9.          The marketing of cuts of beef, rather than sides of beef, is the
modern trend. By vacuum packing cuts of beef, the need for further handling at
the retail outlet is greatly reduced; in addition, less refrigerated space per
kg of meat is required both in trucks and at butcher shops. More importantly,
vacuum packed meat can be kept longer than chilled or frozen meat. JNC proposes
to encourage meatpackers to vacuum pack cuts of beef and to start selling this
product on the domestic market as well as on fcreign markets. The encouragement
provided by JNC would be mainly promotional. Encouraging exporters to penetrate



- 96 -
Annex 7
the domestic market will upgrade the quality of beef being offered to the
Argentine housewife.   This would also reduce wastage at the retail level.
Howevor, at the same time clandestine slaughtering and evasion of veterinary
inspection will have to be stopped to allow the present domestic market to
appreciate  the value  of  vacuum-packed  meat.   Encouragement  to  exporting
meatpackers to compete on the domestic market will help consolidate the export
trade.
10.         Meat Substitution. JNC would promote the consumption of poultrymeat,
pork, and lamb on the domestic market on a substitute for beef. The mediua-term
view is that once the economy begins to stabilize, and also because the
international price for beef is gradually rising, cattlemen will soon begin to
rebuild herds. This will increase the price of beef on the domestic market as
cows are retained on the farms rather than being slaughtered. This should add
to the effectiveness of campaigns to promote substitute meat products.  The
estimated base cost is US$2.7 million.
11.         Research. JNC will promote research on meat through a contract with
the Center for Technology and Research on Meat (CITECA) within the National
Institute for Industrial Technology (INTI). The research would concentrate on
improving meat quality to build CITECA's reputation as a quality certification
institution. In addition, although almost no chemicals are used in fattening
cattle in Argentina, the laboratory would also be used to undertake research on
chemical residues in meat. Of the estimated US$1.0 million proposed under the
project, half is expected to be spent on equipment for quality control.  The
equipment would be used for analysis of product composition (mainly proteins,
fats, water, and heavy metals) residues (chlorates, hormones, heavy metals, and
antibiotics) and for sensorial analysis (is., tenderness).  About 40% of the
funds are to be used to purchase equipment for sample taking.  The remaining
funds are to be used for minor rehabilitation of laboratories.
L2.        Meat Classification. The development of a modern meat classification
aeystem that is based on cuts of beef rather than on sides of beef is recognized
by some parts of the industry as a necessary future step in the marketing of beef
in Argentina.  However, exactly how this system should be developed is still
undefined and is likely to remain so until a consensus within the industry can
be reached. Before developing a modern meat classification system, a broad-based
study of the cattle industry would be undertaken that begins with the production
of the calf and ends with sale of meat abroad. The estimated cost is US$4.2
million.
13.         Information System. The development of a market information system
is viewed as a necessity by the JNC.  Although the work ~.ould initially be
carried out by a consultant firm; part of their task w-u.d be to train JNC
employees to keep the system operational.   Three differea: areas would be
studied.   The immediate task would be to develop an up-to-date, day-to-day
information system on markets and topics of commercial interest. Finally, the
component would develop a baseline marketing study in support of a ten-yea-
marketing strategy. Initially, the baseline study would concentrate on the EC
(mainly Germany, United Kingdom, France, Italy and Spain), North America and
Southeast Asia (principally Japan, Korea, Hong Kong, Singapore, and Taiwan). At



- 97 -
Annex 7
a later stage, the study would concentrate on the Middle East (mainly Egypt,
Iraq, Iran, Saudi Arabia, and Syria) and Latin America (mainly B-azil, Peru,
Venezuela, and the Caribbean). The subcomponent is estimated to cost a total of
US$0.2 million.
14.         Overseas Promotion. Germany (formerly West Germany) alone accounts
for about 60% of Argentine beef to the ZEC. More importantly Germany usually
buys the expensive cute such as tenderloin and rump. This has led JNC to focus
on international trade fairs in AMUGA in Cologne, IKOFA in Munich, IFFA in
Frankfurt, and the "Green Week" in Berlin. JNC now feels that a more aggressive
publicity campaign for Argentine meat in Germany is justified especially given
the competition from other meat suppliers. Argentine meat would be promoted on
the basis that it is grass fed and free of chemicals. Publicity would center
mainly on meat intermediaries rather than on the final consumer.  Publicity
resources that would be developed are: (a) development of an Argentine country-
wide brand; (b) press releases and free trips for specialized journalists; and
(c) brochures, bumperstickers, videos, and a JNC newsletter. The estimated cost
im US$1.1 million. Domestic promotion estimate to complement these figures is
US$1.9 million.



- 98 -
Annex 8
:' AGNTIN
AGRICULTURAL SZRVICES AND INSTITUTIONAL DZVELOPMENT PROJECT
Aaricultural Information Systm Comoonent
A. INFORMATION SYSTM
Inforeation in the Aericultural Sector
1.          The  National  Institute  of  Statistics  and  Census  (INDEC)  is
responsible for official agricultural/animal/forestry statistics; however, lack
of resources has severely limited INDEC's capacity to provide the public and
private sectors with suitable and opportune information for decision-making.
Public organizations, both federal and provincial, and private organizations have
thus developed their own information systems by combining INDEC information with
more readily available unofficial data.
2.          A number of SSAGyP's dependencies and decentralized institutions
(e.g., JNG, JNC, IFONA, etc.) obtain necessary data through independent surveys
and more often from their own regular fiscal duties. A similar situation occurs
at the public provincial level. Private organizations, such as CAFI, FEDECITRUS,
and others generate their own statistics; a major shipping agency ("Gabriel") is
the source of timely information on fruit and vegetable export shipments.
3.          Information linkages among SSAGyP's own dependencies, or between
federal and provincial levels, are very weak or even nonexistent. Statistical
methods and procedures are heterogeneous, tasks are duplicated, and data
processing equipment and software, if available, are often incompatible. This
causes delays, fragmentation, and inconsistencies, which result in a dearth of
quality infurmation needed for sector monitoring and evaluation of policy
options.
Bank Involvemnt in Aoricultural Information
4.          The Land Tax Study Group financed under the ASL (ARG 85/019) which
assesses the economic impact of agricultural land taxation, and the Technical
Assistance Loan (ARG 86/RO1), which addresses SSAGyP's agricultural and fisheries
planning, have both contributed to introduce partial systematization and improved
federal/provincial coordination. These projects have permitted: (a) updating
unctional storing of provincial cadastral data; (b) processing unutilized
agricultural/animal surveys; (c) designing a farm model system; (d) designing a
database (using DBase IV) for agricultural time-series for general use by diverse
SSAGyP units using their own PCs; and (c) designing and imp_ementing compatible
information subsystems for fisheries, agricultural/animal costs, production
estimates, and others.



- 99 -
AnnexS 2
3. PROJZCT PROPOSAL
General DescriDtion
5.          The project would support the establishment or strengthening and the
integration of information systems in SSAGyP, with the main objective of linking
existing independent federal/provincial public and private sources to produce
consistent and regular information flows permitting improved monitoring of
developments in the sector and to allow SSAGyP to evaluate policy options in the
sector. The component would build on the experience of the Bank-financed Land
Tax Study Group and the Technical Assistance L,an. A unit (ISU) under the
National Directorate of Agricultural Economics (DNEA) would be responsible for
project implementation, which would take two years.
Activities
6.          The ISU would pursue system integration through:
(a)   Assisting the technical units within SSAGyP in the collection and
processing of information by the use of informatics (hardware,
software, and training);
(b)   Similarly assisting the agricultural/animal/forestry/fishery
decentralized institutions;
(C)   Assisting and exchanging information with their SSAGyP counterparts
in the Provinces;
(d)   Seeking the cooperation and exchange of information with other
federal and provincial entities in both the private and public
sectors.
(5)   Establish a central repository for aggregated information in the
DNEA, which will process the nformation and present it in
suitable forms to the various users of this information for
decision-making.
(f)   Establish a central support unit to assist the various units in
the SSAGyP in tneir use of informatics.
Th Aooroach
7.          A decentralized, microcomputer-oriented approach was selected for the
following reasons:
(a)   The various information sources operate mostly independently of each
other.
(b)   The sizes of the databases concsrned is not very large.



- 100 -
Annx 8
(C)   Exchanges of information are period -ally required but generally are
not very frequent, thereby permittin:g transfer by diskette or local
area network, kut eliminates the need for a central computer and
unique database.
(d)   Introduction of technology in this way w&.ll in this case be eased
by a user/owner approach instead of centrally driven, and controlled
computer center.
(e)   Growth can be examined on a case-by-case basis, since microcomputer
technology permits growth (through local area networks and
supermicrocomputer) nearly to mainframe levels, at a greatly reduced
cost in upgrades.
(f)   Independent (although coordinated) development of systems using
third-party contractors is facilitated.
8.          To ensure that a coordinated approach to information identification
and definition, homogeneous systems development, compatible hardware and software
and economies of scale in training are achieved, a Committee for Informatics will
be created, composed of the major users of information in the Undersecretariat.
This Committee would oversee the introduction of information technology, decide
on priorities for systems development and hardware acquisition, and in particular
those identified through this project, detc-ine policies for the management of
information in the Undersecretariat, agree    common software packages (e.g.,
word processing, statistics, graphics, spreadsheets) for the SSAGyP, etc.
Aristance to Units within BSAOvP
9.          The ISU will assist existing units within SSAGyP to define their
requirements for setting-up or modifying their existing information systems to
suit their individual needs and to allow for exchange of information with other
units. Specifically, the ISU will assist units in:
(a)   Identifying the data collected and required, with measures of volume
of storage, data capture and update efforts, and criticality ((e g ,
must have, can live without, would be nice, do not need).
(b)   Determining the processing required (e.g., input/output on a
database, statistical analyses, graphical presentation, etc. ) and
the  software  approach  required   (contracting  implementation,
acquiring off-the-shelf software, etc.), and in the case of
custom-developed application software, assisting in the preparation
of the design, selection and supervision of contractors, partial and
final testing of the products (see Support Unit, below).
(c)   Identifying the data required from other units and that which could
be provided to the DNEA; determining the flow of this information
and its volumes, and the transmission medium (e.g., diskettes,
tapes, local area networks (iANs), etc.).



- 101 -
an.S 
(d)   Specifying the hardware requirements, both current and anticipated.
(a)   Determining training, support, and staff required for continuing
operation of each system.
(f)   Propose cost astimtes for hardware and software, creation of the
database, and others deemed appropriate.
(g) Propose a tentative implementation schedule.
10.         The following are contemplated as units withi  the SSACyP:
Units                         Responuible Institution
Pesticides and Fertilizers    National Directorate of Plant Health
and Plant Quality (PHQ)
Seeds                          (PHQ)
Fruits and Vegetables          (PHQ) - Department of Fruits and
Vegetables
Cotton                         National Directorate of Regional
Production and Natural Resources (PHQ)-
Department of Cotton.
Tea and Herbs                  (RPN) - Department of Tea and Herbs
Assistance to Decetralized Institutions
11.         Similar assistance as that proposed under (9) would be offered to the
agricultural sector's public decentralized institutions. System design,
interinstitutional coordination, and regular generation of subsectoral
performance reports would be stressed in this case.



- 102 -
Annex 8
Units                           Responsible inatitution
Orains                          JNG and SSAGyP's Department of Rural
Economy and Sociology
Meat                            JNC and SSAGyP'o Department of Rural
Economy and Sociology
Dairy Products                  National Service of Cattle Product
Laboratories
Fcrestry                        IFONA and SSAGyP'a Department of Rural
Economy and Sociology
Fisheries *                    National Directorate of Marine
Fisheries
- Assistance would additionally include design and training of personnel for
the Directorate to carry out an aquaculture and continental fisheries
survey.
Coordination and Assistance to Provinces
12.     ISU would seek increased exchange of information and system coordinatLon
between federal and provincial agricultural Institutions. This would be achieved
through the design of appropriate procedures and formats and the determination
of appropriate media and timing of data exchange. Formal agreements between
SSAGyP and its provincial counterparts would have to be reached.
Coop ration .And Zxchanae of Information with Other Entities.
13.     Similarly, ISU would seek increased information exchange between SSAGyP
and other private/public entities. This would be achieved through the design of
appropriate procedures and formats and the determination of appropriate media and
schedule for data exchange.
Establish Central Re2ository of information
14.     The information identified and so obtained will be aggregated and stored
in a database running on a powerful microcomputer (or LAN) at the DNEA, who will
process this information using statistical and automated reporting tools for
presentation to senior management and to other users of information (including
source units).  To this end, the ISU will identify the detailed information
requirements of potential users, as well as timeliness of information required,
schedule, and form of presentation, etc.



- 103 -
Establish a central Sunggrt Unit
15.       The decentralized approach adopted eliminates the need for a central
computer center; nevertheless, a central support unit would be necessary, both
during the implementation of the project and later to ensure mustainability, with
all or some of the following personnel and functions3
Analystse
System design, preparation of terms of reference for third-party
contractors, assistance in evaluation of offers, preparation and use of the test
plan for products offered, (i.e., software), participation in the analysis of the
system and monltoring (through partial tests) of the progress of the contractor,
verification of the operations and programming manuals for systems produced, and
their update.
Progra ierst
Responsible for routine maintenance of systems, and second-line assistance
to users.
Systme programers:
Responsible for routine operation of the hardware (not software);
installation and testing of all new equipment. In charge of security and backup
for all systems in the Undersecretariat.
Support personnels
In charge of user training (other than that given by third-party
contractors and software/hardware vendors) and their daily support in the use of
the equipment and systems, supported in turn by the programmers and eystems
programmers.  In charge of verification and acceptance of user manuaL- prepared
by third-party contractors as well as updating and distribution of the manuals.
Staffina Needs
16.       The decentralized approach will facilitate third-party contracting,
thus, the project staff will not be increased substantially. Hcwever, a minimum
of four staff of various levels would be required to permanently fulfill the
functions described in para. 15.
mquLo nt
17.       The establishment of the described systems will require equipment --
mostly microcomputer but possibly (LANz) and a supermicro -- the exact number and
configurations to be determined during the detailed design and analysis of each
system. SSAGyP would ensure maintenance and supplies, beginning the next fiscal
year, and would have to make budget entries to this effect.



- 104 -
Annex 9
AQRICULTURAL IERVICZS AND INSTITUTIONAL DV3IOP3T PROJECT
zxooXt Promotion Coannent
Bacekround
1.          Argent'na has a long history of producing horticulture crops (fruit
and vegetables). A large and affluent domestic fresh market ha. historically
absorbed most of the horticultural production, although some crops have been
exported fresh or processed.  Sustained growth of exports has not occurred,
except for citrus, as shown in Table 1. Because Argentine producers had scant
interest in exporting, they did little to respond to changing market conditions
of importing countries. In face of discriminating consumer-driven markets, their
export supply has remained undiversified, varieties have not been renewed, and
fruit handlinqjprocessing methods, equipment, and infrastructure have not been
modernized.
2.          After witnessing the fresh winter fruit consumption boom of the 1970a
and the successful Chilean experience in that market, Argentine growers as well
as other investors started to give serious consideration to the fresh/processed
fruit business in the Northern Hemisphere. Recent Government policies favoring
liberalization of the economy and eventually reducing domestic consumption have
further stimulated interest in seeking new businese opportunities in the export
markets. However, the repeatedly expressed interebt of producers in the fruit
and vegetable export business has been slow in materializing the necessary
investments or operatioral decisions.
Exoort Promotion Institutions and Activities
3.          The Undersecretariat of Industry and Trade (SSIC)  is officially
responsible for export promotion in Argentina.  SSIC operates:  (a) a promotion
fund (FOPEX), which is replenished yearly through a 0.5% levy on imports (The
fund has had a low rate of disbursement since its establishment in 1985 used by
slow processing of applications and endless waiting for disbursement that
discouraged exporters from using it. FOPEX funding was frozen in 1989 as one of
the measures of Government fiscal discipline); (b) a network of (underutilized)
overseas commercial offices to assist exporters with information and provide
business contacts; and (c) a computerized commercial information system fed by
its overseas commercial representatives. Most activities organized by SICE have
been oriented to the industrial sector.
4.          Other.  Export promotion activities have expanded significantly
beyond those of SSIC over the last four years, fruit and horticultural exports
occupyi.:g a prominent place within this effort.  Commercial banks, business
chambers and other trade-related operators frequently sponsor seminars and talks
on the export potential or fruit/vegetable produce.  Bilateral agencies and
business chambers representing overseas equipment suppliers, marketing, and port



- 105 -
AnnDx 9
fac'lities organize promotional events.   Private service  tirms  have been
established to offe- market information and conaulting services to exporters.
5.          The vast array of activities lacks coherence and generally fails to
provide investors with specific answers to their main concern.
Key Prohlms Liaitina No -2raditianal karicultural EmeRrts
6.           aOSOMic POlicv.   The single most  important deterrent to
expansion and diversification of fruit and vegetables exports has been the
permonent export-discriLAinatLng bias ard instability of macroeconomic policy.
Investment in the subsoctor is long-maturing (four to seven years) and requires
favorable, stable macroeconomlc conditions over tima and clear signals of
Government support.
7.          Bureaucracy il the Public External Trade SysteM. Export and import,
as well as other trade-related operations are subject to excessive, mostly
unnecessary, time-consuming controls by various GoverrAent agencies. This is a
major hindrance to export'rs handling perishables and particularly to entrance
of new operatoro. An in-depth study of tnis problem contracted by the Government
several years ago (the "SIMPLEX" study) revealed, for example, that it takes a
minimum of 24  steps for an exporter to obtain support  from FOPEX.   The
recommendctions of this study have not been implemented.
S.          Phytosanitarv Situation. Most Argentine cropping areas are infested
by quarantine diseases/pests affecting fruit and vegetable crops. This problem
sets significant constraints to the country's immense natural advantage for
export diversification, since importing countries generally restrict entry of
fresh produce from infestad zones. Programs addressing Argentina's phytosanitary
problems are included separately in the project (Annex 10).
9.          Lack of Exoosure to International Markets. Producers and processors
generally lack exposure to international marketing and markets and are r,ot up to
date with prevailing development in new varieties, new products and quality
standards overseas to adequately evaluate risks and profitability of business
alternatives. Risk aversion, limited access to information and expertise that
effectively meet business practical needs and lack of direct contact with
mainstream business realities is causing cnt'y and unnecessary delays in
preparation for actior in the irternational arena.



- 106 -
Annex 9
Pronosed Non-Traditional Zx2ort Promotion Sch-me
General Description
10.         This component would support the private sector in identifying,
evaluating, and penetrating new export markets through creation of:
(a)   mechanisms to exchange specialist informat.on on markets, marketing,
production, handling and processing of non-traditional agricultural
and aquacultural products.   Activities would include seminars,
organization of producer-working groups, business group vislts to
market and production hubs oversas, and publications. This process
would be supported by SSICE's underutilized network of overseas
commercial offices and computerized commercial information system.
All activities would be concentrated in the first two years of
program implementation as a way of delivering a critical mass of
support and achieving a high level of motivation for exporters.
(b)   a Promotion Fund would provide financial resources to individuals or
groups willing to evaluate the business prospects of a specific
product and/or take additional exploratory steps towards setting up
a export operation. The Fund would finance a non-reimbursable basis
up to 50% (with a maximum of US$30,000) of the following activities
(among others):   (i) data searches;  (ii) consulting services on
market and marketing; (iii) technical advice on processes; (iv)
simulation of post-harvest or agroindustrial processes; (v) pilot
shipments to test produce condition on arrival; (vi) market testing
including technical advice, shipment, and promotional support; and
(vii) technical monitoring of first commercial shipment.   These
activities would be carried out 'Ly the exporters themselves or by
consultants. The operational details and basic regulations for th-'
Promotion Fund are presented in Appendix 1.
Beneficiaries and Bliaibilitv
11.         Uliaible  Items  include  agricultural,   animal,   forestry  and
aquacultural products for which exports have not exceeded US$10 million on
average over the last five years, as per SSIC'S trade reports.
12.         Kliaible Beneficiaries would include individual or incorporated
producers, processors, exporters, consortia and cooperatives, as well as business
chambers and other organizations grouping producers or exporters. Eligibility
of Individual business firms for Promotion Fund financing would be limited to
those who exported less than an US$l million (FOB value) of any product in each
of the previous three years.
OrQauisalion
13.         SAGyP, SSIC, and the Bank of the Argentine Nation (BNA) would set up
the legal/institutional framework for program organization and implementation
through a tripartite agreement. Fundacion Banco Nacion (FBNA), a private non-



- 107 -
AnneL 9
profit organization dependent on BNA, would be contracted to administer the
program. Administratively, the program would comprise an txecutive Secretariat
and a Technical Secretariat.
Executive lecretariat (Cominisiont
14.         Consitin anLd Generation. The Executive Secretariat (Commission)
would have representatives from SSAGyP, SSICE, BNA and three prominent
individuals from the agroindustrial private sector. It would be presieed over
by SSAGyP. The public sector representatives would be directly appointed by the
institutions they represent; the private sector representatives would be selected
by the official institutions from a short list proposed by the Chamber of
Exporters of Argentina, the Professional Council of Agricultural Engineers and
associations of producers and processors. All Directors would be appointed for
a two-year term; continuation of their functions for an additional three-year
term until program completion would be subject to official reconfirmation.
15.         Juncktions.  The Commission would define the program activities and
approve its budget through a yearly Plan of Operations, and would approve funding
for eligible proposals submitted by the exporters and oversee program execution.
Commission decisions would be taken upon agreement of two-thirds of its members.
Technical Secretariat l8ecretariat 
16.         Staff.  The Secretariat would be headed by a Technical Secretary and
would have three additional professionals during the first two years, to be
reduced to one professional for the remaining three years of program
implementation.  Contracting of additional short-term specialists instead of
permanent personnel is considered to better suit the program's objectives. The
Secretariat would also require one administrative, two secretarial and one
general services staff. Short-term training overseas for two professionals would
also be needed.
17.         Functions.  The Secretariat would:  (a) prepare the yearly Plan of
operations and budget based on a structured consultation process with the
exporters; (b) be responsible for direct or force account implementation of the
program activities; (c) assist exporters in preparing their proposals for funding
support; (d) process and submit proposals for consideration of the Commission;
and (a) monitor execution.
Private Sectr and Provincial Partic$iation
18.         The program would execute its activities both at its headquarters in
Buenos Aires and in provinces that have promising fruit and vegetables cropping
potential. Consequently, agreements would be reached with provincial or regional
private/public entities to establish an operational relationship facilitating the
organization of regular meetings, seminars,and other activities. The program
would encourage setting up working groups to liaise between the Secretariat and
the producers and exporters in the Provinces for the purpose of identifing and
designing program activities through discussion of specific problems encountered
as part of the production-exporting process.



- 108 -
Ann-x 9
Comonent  l =onitorin
19.         The following indicators would be used to assess project progress:
(a)   Number of meetings with producers, processors and exporters by
product, subject matter, and geographical area; number and type of
events by product, subject matter, and geographical area; size and
type of firms participating in events amd position of participants
in thoco firms.
(b)   Number und type of presented and approved proposals involving
Promotion Fund support; type and size of firms requesting support;
products and doetination markets involved; and number of suceossful
export projects.



- 109-                                              AE
AGfSCULTUAAL SWVXCIS AU RNSTTDUTIONAL OEVELOPWET PWOJ!CT
Expert Pr'motlo C.mA w t
pr"* Fruit 1=0r2 1tX"e
VNThS Ofr  e Tons)
Product        1976      1975      i9t       1961      19        1993      1964      *ns       19o      1997    1996
Apples          200       246       266       220       233       214       178       29       184       296      20f
Pears            3o        Ss        48        so        63        79        52        77        51       9?      1l6
Citrus            2        26        37        51        79        62        75       143     17        187      164
Other            19         4         4         2         t         4         4         2         a         6       9
TOTAL           250       8n9      3u7        817       371       379       319       422      295       441      497



- 110 -
Appendix I
AROMMI ~     ~     AP 4A 
AEcuLTuUhAL SENVICES AND INUTITUTONL  VLONEU  PROTCT
Doerational Reaulations for the Prosotion Fund
1.          Axcimh&tio-  To gain access to financial support from the Promotion
Fund, the exporter would have to submit an "Export Project Proposal* (EPP) to the
Program through its Technical Socretariat. An EPP would be a proposal outling
a sequence of dated interrelated steps aimed at identifying the market potential
of a specific product and/or to asuessing the feasibility of producing it and/or
placing it in an overseas market.
2.          selection Criteria. The Executive Coonission would meet periodically
to consider the EPP* submitted by the exporters. Zligible applications will be
ranked according to following criteria, with equal weight (O or 1 points).
(a)   Applicant business firm:
(i)   Intornal/external  commercial  experience  (e.g., sales)  of
agricultural products.
(Ui)  Internal/external commercial experience of non-agricultural
products.
(iii) Availability of produce conditioning/processing equipment.
(iv)  Availability of cropping land.
(b)   P1P
(i)   Degree of progress towards setting up a commercial oporation
of the product involved in the application.
(1i)  Contribution to product diversification.
(iii) Contribution to market diversification.
(iv)  Contribution to (internal) regional supply diversification.
(v)   Technical feasibility/consistoncy of the EPP.
3.          Disburs mnt.  Funds will be made available to selected EPPr only
after each approved stop has been completed and mutually agreed evidence of
expenso in presented by the exporter to the Technical Secretariat.  Expenses
would be subject to random auditing, a contractual condition to which the
exporter would have to agree.



- ill -
Appendiz 1
4.          Other points would be:
(a)   zxporters would be entitled to present and execute only one UPP at
a t ime
(b)   Fund support will not be granted to repeat projects for the same
product, even if a differont not of steps is proposed; nevertheless,
funding would be considered to support subsequent steps of a
successfully completed UPP.
(c)   Ixporters would be entitled to propose changes in ZPP-planned
actions during execution. Changes would be limited to a maximum of
25% of the originally approved funding, the new total not to exceed
US$30,000. Proposed changeo would have to follow the same approval
procedures as for new applications.
(d)   An NPP would be considered completed when (i) all proposed *teps
were completed by exporter; (Li) its proposed execution deadlines
have expired; (iii) when the exporter decides to discontinue it and
gives written notice to the Secretariat of his intention; and (iv)
when the Ixecutive Comission decides to discontinue tt on well
founded reasons and gives written notice to the exporter of its
decision.



- 112 -
sz 2
Appendixi 2
AGRICULTURAL IZRVICZC AND INIMITUSIOUAL DZVZLOPHENT PROJECT
Ezuort Promotion Common-nt
Profilo of Technical s-cretar-
Titl1a  Technical Socretary.
Acadamic Oualifications: Agriculture related fiold.
Post Graduate Oualificationm: Agricultural Trade courses and/or Foreign trade,
3valuation and Formulation of Invastment and Foreign Export Project.
Lannauasse Spanish, English and French or Italian.
Othr Skillz: Efficiency in wordprocessing.
-4inimum years of experience in his profession:  10 year.
Minimum years of experience in his specialization: 5 years
Deucription of the required characteristics am experience:
Five Yeare:       In public service in the areas of Import and
Export Commercialization of Agricultural Non-
Traditional Products.
In private sector in the area of Import and
Export Commercialization  of Agricultural  Non-
Traditional Products.
Handling   of   technical   equipment   and   in
coordination with working teams.
Experience at top-level management in relation
with Non-Traditional Agrleultural Sector.
Three Yxaar       Participation   in  international  negotiations
related to the Agricultural Sector.



- 113 -
Anngkx 10
ARGENT IA
AURICULTURAL SERVICES AS  INSTITUTIOMAL DEWLOPENT PROJECT
Key Indie tor
Towr
Pwrforence Indicators                               I       2       3       4        5
Laboratory nd Quarantine Station
(i) Status of Construction CX)                                20       60     100
(Ci) Equipment MX)                                                     30     100                -
Cattle vaccinated for F1D (million)                           28       28      20      20       20
NLber of outbreaks of F1D (C000)                             1.2      0,5     0.3    0.1         +
Total level of SEMASA self-financing CX)                      70       80      90      90      90
Phytoammitary Servic
Central Quarantine Station
Ci) Construction CX)                                         20       100       -
Cii) Equipwent (X)                                                     60     100
Additional staff recruited                                  180        30        -               -
Central Laboratory
(i) Construction CX)                                         80       100       -       -
Cii) Equipment  CX)                                          40       100       -
Region l Laboratory
Ci) Construction CX)                                         80       100       -
Cii) Equipment CX)                                                     80     100
Citrus Canker Barriers (2)                                    8         8       8       8        8
Ned. Fruit ily Barriers                                       5         5       5       5        5
Total level of PPS self-financing                             -        30      50      70
Fiaherles Sucxwt
INIOP vessels:
Total nuber of days at sea                                  400       400     400    400      400
Level of annual maximun sustainable catches
for main comercial species (COOOt)                          600       700     700    700      700
Status of construction of two aquaculture
facilities CX)                                               10        90     100       -
Nuer of courses organized by NDF                              4         4               2        2
Number of fishery licenses granted                          400       S00     600    650      650
Level of INIDP self-financing CX)                                      40      60      80      90



- 114 -
Ane 10
Tow
Perfomance Indicatow                                 1        2       3        4       5
Nt rowd  (JC)
Mudbr of fairs and me kets at which JNC
represented                                                   5         5       3       5        2
Advance of beef ciassification system (X)                                25    100         -
Volum  of mest exports IOOOt)                                400       425    450       475     500
Value of mat exports (USS wiltion)                            700       So      920    1000    1150
Percent of meat sold on the domestic market
that is vacuum packed                                        SS        a5    100         -
Percent meat exported with quality steop                       25        S0      75      100
Ie        (INTA)
Eariloche Wool Laboratory
(i) Construction (X)                                           70       100                -
Cii) Equipment (X)                                             10        70    100
Rawson Wool Laboratory
i) Construction MX)                                            10        s0    100                  -
(ii) Equipment (X)                                                       10    100                  -
No. of wool smples tested ('000)                                -                30       40      50
CasteLar:
Status of biotechnology Laboratory
Ci) Construction CX)                                           40       100
tii) Equipment (X)                                             20        70      aS      100
Studies in biotechnology                                        4         6       6        8       8
Construction of post-harvest research
facilities in fruits and vegetables CX)                      40        90    100        8
Studies in post-harvest research In fruit
awd vegetables                                                1         6       6       6        6
Construction of forestry research
facitities at Concordia                                                60    100
Muwber of mnagement packages for eucalyptus
and pine                                                      1         2       3                -
Inrfor tion Swstem
SSAGyP units inteorated into system                             6         7       -                 -
Non-SSAGyP agencies In system                                   5         3                -
Xor-Trsditior I Export Pr wtion Sdh
Nt.Wer of sponsored  vents                                     10        15      15       10       10
Number nd type of project proposals
received                                                     45        60     60       80       60
Number and type of approved projects                           15        20      20       20       20
NuWber of products and export mrkets
covered                                                      10        15      20      20       20



- 115 -                        AnanLJ*
AROETINA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
Cost Tables and Disbursement Table
1.    Project Cost Summary
2.    Project Components by Year
3.    Summary Accounts by Year
4.    Susmary Account by Project Component
5.    Animal Health Component (1)
101   SENASA Central Service
102   Field Service Equipment
103   Central Laboratory
104   Quarantine Station
105   Executing Unit
6.    Plant Protection Component (2)
201   Carcrosis Program
202   Fruit Fly Program
203   Residue Laboratories
204   Quarantine Station
205   Institutional Development
206   SEEDS:  SENASE
7.    Fisheries (3)
301   Resource Evaluation
302   Institutional Development
303   Aquaculture:  Salmon Center
304   Aquaculture Research:  Corrientes
8.    Meat Marketing (4)
401   Food Fairs
402   Meat Classification
403   Overseas Promotion
404   Studies and Information System
405   Export Quality Improvement
406   Provision of BeefSubstitutes
407   Meat Classification:  Staff
9.    INTA Research (5)
501   Biotechnology
502   Wool Laboratories, Bariloche, Rawson
503   Post-Harvest Physiology of Fruits/Vegetables
504   Forestry
10.   Information Component:  601
11.   Non-Traditional Export Promotion Component:  701
12.   Central Coordination Unit (CCMU):  801
DishursAUe
13-   Disbursement Table



ARGENTINA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES AND INSTITUTIONAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Suumry
USS 000                         USS 000                     X Total
------------------------------    ---------------------------  X Foreign    Base
Local  Foreign    Total        Local Foreign   Total    Exchange    Costs
A. ANIMAL HEALTH
1. CENTRAL LAB                4558.2   4102.4   8660.6        4558.2  4102.4  8660.6         47.4      11.7
2. QUARANTINE                  412.0    293.8    705.9         412.0   293.8   705.9          41.6      1.0
3. FIELD SERVICES              2322.2   4477.2   6799.4       2322.2  4477.2  6799.4          65.8      9.2
4. CENTRAL SERVICES            1128.2    228.1   1356.3       1128.2   228.1  1356.3          16.8       1.8
Sub-Total                        8420.6   9101.6  17522.2        8420.6  9101.6  17522.2         51.9     23.7
B. PLANT PROTECTION
1. QUARANTINE                  1078.1    644.7   1722.9       1078.1   644.7  1722.9          37.4      2.3
2. INST. DEVELOPMENT          3592.0   1320.5   4912.5        3592.0  1320.5  4912.5          26.9      6.7
3. RESIDUE ANALYSIS            1248.2   1372.4   2620.6       1248.2  1372.4  2620.6          52.4      3.6
4. SANITARY BARRIERS           2031.3    413.8   2445.1       2031.3   413.8  2445.1          16.9      3.3
s. SEED - SENASE                516.1    358.9    875.0        516.1   358.9   875.0          41.0      1.2
Sub-Totat                        8465.7   4110.4  12576.1        8465.7  4110.4  12576.1         32.7     17.0
C. FISHERIES RESEARCH
1. RESOURCE EVALUATION        5639.6   3221.0   8860.7        5639.6  3221.0  8860.7          36.L     12.0
2. AQUACU0LTURE                1179.4    292.5   1471.9       1179.4   292.5  1471.9          19.9      2.0
3. INST. DEVELOPMENT            595.9     90.4    686.3        595.9    90.4   686.3          13.2      0.9
Sub-Total                        7414.9   3603.9  11018.8        7414.9  3603.9  11018.8         32.7     14.9
0. MEAT MARKETING
1. FOREIGN PROMOTION           333.5    666.5   1000.0         333.5   666.5  1000.0          66.6      1.4
2. DOMESTIC PROMOTION          1620.0    180.0   1800.0       1620.0   180.0  1800.0          10.0      2.4
3. GRADING SYSTEN               915.8   2833.2   3749.0        915.8  2833.2  3749.0          75.6      5.1
4. INFORMATION SYSTEM           156.0     64.0    220.0        156.0    64.0   220.0          29.1       0.3
5. NEAT PACKING                 571.4    348.0    919.4        571.4   348.0   919.4          37.9       1.2
6. BEEF SUBSTITUTES            2430.0    270.0   2700.0       2430.0   270.0  2700.0          10O       3.7
Sub-Total                        6026.7   4361.7  10388.4        6026.7  4361.7  10388.4         42.0     14.1
E. AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH
1. BIOTECHNOLOGY               1232.9   1160.9   2393.8       1232.9  1160.9  2393.8          48.5      3.2
2. WOOL GRADING                1069.1    906.0   1975.1       1069.1   906.0  1975.1          45.9      2.7
3. POST-HARVEST                1440.7   1596.7   3037.4       1440.7  1596.7  3037.4          52.6      4.1
4. FORESTRY                     935.6    736.2   1671.8        935.6   736.2  1671.8          44.0       2.3
Sub-Total                        4678.4   4399.8   9078.1        4678.4  4399.8  9078.1          48.5     12.3
F. EXPORT PROMOTION              5344.5   2029.0   7373 5        5344.5  2029.0  7373.5          27.5     10.0
G. INFORMATION SYSTEM             857.3    247.4   11 4.7         857.3   247.4  1104.7          22.4      1.5
H. COORDINATIN6 UNIT             456.1    275.5   4731.6         4456.1   275.5  4731.6           5.8      6.4
Total BASELINE COSTS            45664.2  28129.3  73793.5    45664.2  28129.3 73793.5            38.1    100.0
Physicat Contingencies         1087.7   1098.5   2186.2       1087.7  1098.5  2186.2          50.2      3.0 o0
Price Contingencies            4276.1   2465.6   6741.7       4276.1  2465.6  6741.7          36.6      9.1                                        > X
Total PROJECTS COSTS             51028.1  31693.3  82721.4      51028.1  31693.3  82721.4        38.3    112.1
1S0S*_9S                                       SS_S-S 1S6SSSSSZS S-
10/2911990 16:35



ARGENTINA
AGRIaULTURAL SERVICES AND INSTITUTIONAL
DEVELOPMENT PRJECT
Projects Cow2orwnts by Year
Totats Including Contingencies                             Totals Inctudifig Contiogm  ies
us  000                                                     iMm0
1991     1992     1993     1994     1995    Total          1991     1992     1993     1994      1995    Total
A. ANINAL HEALTH
1. CENTRAL LAB                  1497.8  3348.5   4922.3    191.9    214.1  10174.6        1497.8  3348.5  4922.3   191.9   214.1  10174.6
2. QUARANTINE                    174.8   345.5    300.2       5.0      9.2   834.7         174.8   345.5   3040.2       5.0      9.2    834.7
3. FIELD SERVICES               4777.1   1579.0    901.2    134.8    62.8  7454.9         477.1   1579.0   901.2    134.8    62.8   7454.9
4. CENTRAL SERVICES              351.3    451.7    262.1    238.5   192.3  1495.8          351.3   451.7   262.1    238.5    192.3  1495.8
Sub-Total                          6801.0   5724.7  6385.9    570.2   478.3  19960.1         6801.0   5724.7  6385.9    570.2    478.3  19960.1
B. PLANT PROTECTION
1. aQUARANTINE                   132.7  1308.3    227.3    182.3    134.2  1984.8          132.7  1308.3   227.3    182.3   134.2  1984.8
2. INST. DEVELOPMENT            1483.8   1308.4    958.6    848.0   869.0  5467.8         1483.8  1308.4   958.6   848.0    869.0  5467.8
3. RESIDUE ANALYSIS              672.0   1132.6    522.8    327.7   334.6  2989.6          672.0   1132.6   522.8    327.7   334.6   2969.6
4. SANITARY BARRIERS             867.6   439.0   454.8   471.2   488.2  2720.8             867.6   439.0   454.8    471.2   488.2   2720.8
5. SEED - SENASE                 448.7    209.3    141.0    107.0     51.0   957.0         448.7   209.3   141.0    107.0    51.0   957.0 
Sub-Total                          3604.7  4397.6  2304.5  1936.2  1877.0  14120.0           3604.7  4397.6  2304.5  1936.2  1877.0  14120.0
C. FISHERIES F%ESEARCN
1. RESOUIRCE EVALUATION         2852.6  1750.a,  1813.4  1878.7  1946.4  10241.6          2852.6  1750.4  1813.4   1878.7  1946.4  10241.6
2. ASJACUJLTURE                  233.3  1224.9    78.4    86.6    89.7  1712.9             233.3  1224.9    78.4    86.6    89.7T  1712.9
3. INST. DEVELOPMENT             289.2   199.6   130.9    87.1    41.1   747.9             289.2   199.6   130.9    87.1    41.1   747.9
Sub-Total                          3375.1   3174.9  2022.7  2052.4  2077.2  12702.4          3375.1  3174.9  2022.7  2052.4  2077.2  12702.4
D. AEAT MARKETING
1. FOREIGN PROMOTION             195.4   288.6   230.9   210.3   186.8  1112.0             195.4   288.6   230.9   210.3   186.8   1112.0
2. DOMESTIC PROMOTION           1039.4   538.4   334.7        0.0       0.0  1912.4       1039.4   538.4   334.7        0.0      0.0   1912.4
3. GRADING SYSTEM                910.7    816.4    912.8    945.6    572.6  4158.1         910.7    816.4    912.8    945.6    572.6   4158.1
4. INFORMATION SYSTEM            105.0    53.8      55.8    23.1        0.0   237.7        105.0    53.8    55.8       23.1      0.0   237.7
5. HEAT PACKING                 ?A7.7    401.5    257.7       0.0       0.0   1006.9       347.7   401.5   257.7        0.0      0.0   1006.9
6. BEEF SUBSTITUTES             1704.6   936.8   212.0         0-0      0.0  2853.3       1704.6   936.8   212.0        0.0      0.0  283.3
Sub-Totat                          4302.7  3035.6  2003.8  1179.1   759.3  11280.5           4302.7  3035.6  2003.8  1179.1   759.3  11280.5
E. AGRICUJLTUIRAL RESEARCH
1. BIOTECHNOLOGY                 864.9   532.7    508.6   468.3   339.0   2713.5           864.9   532.7   508.6   468.3   339.0   2713.5
2. WOOL GRADING                  599.2   815.9   348.3   239.9   248.5  2251.9             599.2   815.9   348.3   239.9   248.5  2251.9
3. POST-HARVEST                 1807.5    861.1    318.4    265.8    183.4  3436.2        1807.5   861.1   318.4   265.8   183.4  3436.2
4. FORESTRY                      456.4   1028.5    150.1    128.9    124.6  1888.4         456.4   1028.5   150.1    128.9   124.6  1888.4
Sub-TotaL                          3728.1  3238.2  1325.4   1102.9   895.5  10290.0          3728.1  3238.2   1325.4   1102.9   895.5  10290.0
F. EXPORT PROMOTION                1163.4   1620.9   1723.4   1868.'  1905.7  8281.8         1163.4   1620.9   1723.4   1866.4   1905.7  8281.8
G. INFORM4ATION SYSTEM              683.7   453.8       14.2     14.7    15.2   1181.6        683.7   453.8    14.2       14.7    15.2   1181.6                 *
N. COORDINATING UNIT               2306.5   959.5   883.9   385.2   36,9.9  4905.0           2306.5   959.5   883.9   385.2   369.9  4905.0 
TotaL PROJECTS COSTS              25965.2  22605.2  16663.7  9109.0  8378.3  82721.4    25965.2  2260.2  16663.7  9109.0  8378.3  82721.4                    X.
-- -- -- - -- -- - -- -- -- - -- -- - -- -- - -- -- -- - -- -- - -- --l-- -=-- - -- -- - -- -- -- - -- -- - -- -- - -- -- -- - -- -- - -- -- -



ARGEGTINA
AGLICLLTURAL SERVICES AM ISTITUTICOAL
DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Suwry Acaounts by Tear
Totals Including Conti neiies                           Totals Includfun OCmti Smiies
1991    1992    1993    1994    1995   Total            1991    1992    1993    194    1995   Total
1. INVESTPENT COSTS
A. CONSTRUCTION                  3507.0  5750.2  2994.5       0.0      0.0  12251.7     3507.3  5750.2  2994.5      0.0      0.0  12251.7
B. EQSJIPENT
1. LSORATORY                  2410.8  3346.6  2446.F   161.2   123.0  8487.9         2410.8  3346.6  246.5   161.2   123.0  8487.9
2. OFFICE                      561.8   331.4   199.1       0.0      0.0  1092.3       561.8   331.4   199.1      0.0      0.0  1092.3
3. COMPUT. & TELECOM           939.3   373.9   336.2    30.3        0.0  1679.7       939.3   373.9   336.2    30.3       0.0  1679.7
4. OTHER                       775.1   154.3    14.1    14.6    15.1   973.1          M.1   154.3    14.1    14.6    15.1   973.1
Sub-Total                        4687.0  4206.2  2995.8   206.1   138.0  12233.1        4687.0  4206.2  2995.8   206.1   138.0 12233.1
C. EQUIPMENT SERVICING              0.0   191.0   393.8   564.3   594.8  1744.0            0.0   191.0   393.8   564.3   594.8  174.0
0. VEHICLES                      4702.3   230.6      0.0      0.0      0.0  4932.9      4702.3   230.6      0.0     0.0      0.0  4932.9
E. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. INTERNATIONAL CONS.         517.6   471.6   506.5   246.2   153.3  1895 1          517.6   471.6   506.5   246.2   153.3   895.1
2. LOCAL CONS.                 792.6   707.5   374.8   110.9   129.3  2115.2          792.6   707.5   374.8   110.9   129.3  2115.2
3. OVERSEAS TRAINING           761.0  1013.7   808.2   652.0   421.4  3656.Z          761.0  1013.7   808.2   652.0   421.4  3656.2                0
4. LOCAL TRAINING              28Z.5   310.7   246.6   153.6    66.9  1060.3          282.5   310.7   246.6   153.6    66.9  1060.3
Sub-Totat                        2353.8  2503.4  1936.1  1162.7   770.9  8726.9         2353.8  2503.4  1936.1  1162.7   770.9  8726.9
F. MANACEMENT SERVICES            392.9   407.0   313.2   318.3   308.2  1739.6          392.9   407.0   313.2   318.3   306.2  1739.6
G. PRONOTIONAL SERVICES          3632.6  2398.0  1482.6   900.3   548.4  8961.9         3632.6  2398.0  1482.6   900.3   548.4  8961.9
H. PROCUREMENT SERVICES          1921.0   628.0   420.0   123.0    66.0  3158.0         1921.0   628.0   420.0   123.0    66.o  3158.0
1. OTHER                          932.4  1474.6   874.5   324.1   257.9  3863.4         932.4  1474.6   874.s   324.1   2s7.9  3863.4
Total INVESTMENT COSTS          22129.0  17789.1  11410.6  3598.8  2684.2 57611.6    22129.0  17789.1  11410.6  3596.8  2648.2  57611.6
-za       xzlssaaa                       =Z=auzzazzza'33 nzz ss--===-uzs=-==  asma.a
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. INCREMENTAL STAFF
1. PROFESSIONAL                406.1   624.1   658.2   705.9   731.3  3125.7          406.1   624.1   658.2   705.9   731.3  3125.7
2. TECHNICAL                   119.1   225.6   283.0   293.2   303.8  1224.7          119.1   225.6   283.0   293.2   303.A  12?4.7
3. ADMINISTRATIVE              135.9   214.2   264.2   279.7   289.8  1183.7          135.9   214.2   264.2   279.7   289.8  1183.7
Sub-Tot&l                         661.1  1063.9  1205.4  1278.9  1324.9  5534.1          661.1  1063.9  1205.4  1278.9  1324.9  5534.1
S. TRAVEL
1. ALLOWANCES                  522.5   603.8   643.7   610.3   554.4  2934.7          522.5   603.8   643.7   610.3   554.4  2934.7             .o D, >
2. VEHICLE OEM                 154.0   182.8   189.4   199.7   208.7   934.7          154.0   182.8   189.4   199.7   208.7   9_:..7           
3. AIR TICKETS                 122.4   135.0   130.5   135.2   137.9   661.1          122.4   135.0   130.5   135.2   137.9   661.1                l  
ED ** 
Sub-Total                         799.0   921.7   963.7   945.2   901.'i  4530.6         799.C   921.7   963 7   945.2   901.0  4530.6
C. EXPORT PROMOTION FUND          363.8   753.8   892.4  1040.1  1077.6  4127.7          363.8   753.8   892.4  1040.1  1077.6  4127.7             0    -
D. SHIP OPERATION                 1441.7  1493.6  1547.3  1603.0  1660.8  7746.4        1441.7  1493.6  1547.3  1603.0  1660.8  77464                 w
E. BUILDING MAINTENANCE             0.0      0.0    25.7    72.9   121.8   220.4           0.0      I 0    25.7    72.9   121.8   220.4
F. OTHER                          570.6   583.3   618.6   570.1   608.0  2950.6          570.6   583.3   618.6   570.1   608.0  2950.6



Total RECUORENT COSTS           3636.2  4816.2  5253.1  5510.3  S694.1 25109.8      3636.2  4816.2  5253.1  5510.3  S694.1 25109.5
Total PROJECT COSTS            25965.2 22605.2  16663.7  9109.0  8378.3 82721.4    25965.2 22605.2 16663.7  9109.0  8373.3 82721.4
.. w ga. swst=s swnsssssssssnss..ss    sgs.ss.aua      snss nm             su
10/29/1990 16:21
a -
'0
to.
l. 



ARGENTIIIA
AGRICUlLTtURAL SERVICES AIN INESTITUTIOEA
DEVELOPMENT PRECT
Simary Account by Project Compant
UsS 000
INST.                              fESOE                INST.   FOREIGN
CENTRAL QUARANTI   FIELD   CENTRAL WtARANITI DEVELOPH  RESI1UE SANITARY  SEED -  EVALIUTI ASMCILT  DEVELOPH PR(TIO
LAB      Nf    SERVICES SERVICES    NE         ENT   ANALYSIS BAURIERS  SEIASE       ON       URE       ENT       N
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CONSTRUCTION                   5121.5    616.7       0.0      0.0    7M.6    100.0    512.9         0.0       0.0      0.0    955.7       0.0       0.0
B. EQUIPMENT
1. LABORATORY                    2706.3     52.0    156.0       0.0    254.0      56.5   1079.4      12.0      52.0    571.0    138.8       0.0       0.0
2. OFFICE                           0.0      0.0    510.0      22.8       0.0    150.0      24.6      0.0    100.0       0.0       0.0      0.0      20.0
3. COIUJT. & TELECOM                0.0      0.0    603.0      37.5       5.0    135.0      15.0     27.4    100.0      65.8       0.0     86.9       0.0
4. OTHER                            0.0      0.0      31.5      0.0      17.0     60.0       0.0    160.0       0.0    482.1      66.1      0.0       0.0
Sth-total                         2706.3     52.0   1300.5      60.3    276.0    401.5   1119.0    199.4    252.0   1118.9    204.9         86.9      20.0
C. EQUIPNENT SERVICING             310.0      7.8    117.7       10.7     38.8     65.5    165.3      13.5      41.0    223.8      33.2     17.4       0.0
0. VENICLES                          0.0      0.0   3500.0       0.0      14.0    378.0      42.0    210.0       0.0      0.0      88.7      0.0       0.0
E. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. INTERNATIONAL CONS.             24.0      0.0      60.0     60.0      54.0    144.0      96.0      0.0      72.0      0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
2. LOCAL CONS.                      0.0      0.0       -.J    291.0       0.0      9.0       0.0      0.0    240.0       0.0       0.0    240.0       0.0
3. OVERSEAS TRAINING              152.1     22.6      50.2    108.1      75.0    463.6      45.0      0.0    110.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
4. LOCAL TIDANING                   0.0      0.8    237.0        0.0      2.4    183.6      56.6      0.5      60.0      0.0       0.0    192.0       0.0
Sub total                          1?6.1     22.6    347.2    -69.1    131.4    800.2    197.6         0.5    482.0       0.0      0.0    432.0        0.0
F. MAUAGEIET SERVICES                0.0      0.0       0.0    387.0       0.0    376.2       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0    150.0        0.0
G. PROMOTIONAL SERV!CFS              0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0    690.0
N. PR0CUREHENT StEVICES              0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
1. OTHER                           290.0      0.0   1474.0      14.0       0.0      0.0    243.7    278.0    100.0        0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Fotal INVESTNENT COSTS            8603.9    699.1   6739.4    931.1   1248.9   2121.4   2280.5    701.4    875.0   1342.7   1282.5    686.3    710.0
II. EOCRREET COSTS
A. IICREMENTAL STAFF
1. PROFESSIONAL                     0.0      0.0       0.0    'k$.9    120.9    635.7       89.7    117.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      90.0
2. TECHNICAL                        0.0      0.0       0 4      C.       SR.6    423.8      72.8      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
3. AONINISTRATIVE                   0.0      0.0       -.e      G O       JJ.7    285.6     78.4    286.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Sub-totat                            0.0 3               .0    248.9    219.2   1345.1    240.9    403.0         0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      90.0
8. TRAVEL
1. ALL01UlCES                       0.5      0.0       0.0     87.0    150.0    149.5        3.3   1148.7       0.0    613.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
2. VEHICLE OK                      D.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0    528.0      63.5    192.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
3. AIR TICKETS                      0.0      0.0       0.0      89.4      0.0    450.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0   ,.
S^b total                            0.0      0.0       0.0    176.4    150.0   1127.5       66.8   1340.7       0.0    613.0       0.0      0.0       0.0   Q 'a 0
C. EXPORT PROMOTION FUHD             0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0    0 s X
0. SHIP OPERATION                    0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0   6605.0       0.0      0.0       0.0  '-
E. BUILDING MAINTENCE               56.6      6.8       0.0      0.0      14.8      4.5      13.2      0.0       0.0      0.0       9.4      0.0       0. 
F. OTHER                             0.0      0.0      60.0      0.0      90.0    314.0      19.2      0.0       0.0    300.0    180.0       0.0    200.0
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - . . - - . . - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



Total RECURRENT COSTS             56.6      6.8     60.0    425.3   474.0   2791.1   340.1   1743.7       0.0   7518.0    189.4      0.0    290.0
Total BASELINE COSTS            8660.6   705.9   6799.4   1356.3   1722.9  4912.5   2620.6   2445.1    875.0   886.7   1471.9   686.3   1000.0
Physical Contingencies         647.5    64.3    240.0       3.0    93.4    49.0    109.3    20.5    12.6   386.2    110.2           4.3     1.0
Price Contingencies            866.6    64.6    415.5    136.5    168.6   506.3    259.7   255.2    69.4    994.7    130.8    57.3    111.0
Total PROJECT COSTS            10174.6   834.7   7454.9   1495.8   1984.8   5467.8   2989.6   2720.8   957.0  10241.6   1712.9    747.9   1112.0
Taxes                            00       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
Foreign Exchange              4801.7   346.0   4913.6    250.7   739.2   1446.5   1569.4   454.9   400.1   3707.1    331.6    99.2   740.6
10/29/1990 16:06
l
I03 



ARGENTI A
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES AND INSTITUTIONAL
DEVELOPNET PROJECT
Sunmry Account bV Project Ccqianmnt
US$ 000
DONESTIC           INFOUSAT             KEF                                            EXWPT  IFOuAT  COOUINA
PROMOTIO  GRADING      ON     NEAT   SU STITU  SIOTECE   WOOL   POST-MAR              PROMMTIO     oN      TING
N     SYSTEM   SYSTEM   PACKING    TES        OLOGY   GRADING   VEST   FORESTRY       S      SYSTEM    UNIT
.0SiS .ZS  ...nhSZSSUUSSUhUSS..3.SSZ.USUSS.SSUSJKSSSUUUS.......... USS.3. .  _S_
1. INVESTNENT COSTS
A. CONSTRUCTION                      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0    113.7    486.6   1196.0    468.6         0.0      0.0       0.0
B. EGUIPMENT
1. LAORATORY                        0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0    609.5    654.7    899.7    246.2        0.0       0.0       0.0
2. OFFICE                           0.0       0.0     20.0       0.0       0.0     19.0       0.0     1a.5      53.0     40.0       0.0       0.0
3. CUPUT. 4 TELECOM                 0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0     36.0      52.5      0.0      67.0      30.8    228.5      33.0
4. OTHER                            0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0     40.0       0.0     26.0       0.0
Sub-total                            0.0       0.0     20.0       0.0       0.0    664.5    687.2    918.2    406.2        70.8    254.5      33.0
C. ESIIPNENT SERVICING               0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0     96.3      92.0    143.6      66.5      13.6     50.2       6.6
D. VENICLES                          0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0     30.0      45.0     84.0    106.0       15.6      0.0       0.0
E. TECINICAL ASSISTANCE
1. INTEtNATIONAL CONS.              0.0    150.0       0.0    180.0        0.0      0.0      24.0     30.0      48.0    S52.0       0.0    264.0
2. LOCAL CONS.                      0.0       0.0      0.0      89.4       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0    421.2    669.0
3. OVERSEAS TRAINING                0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0    395.9      74.0    252.0    177.0   1318.6        0.0       0.0
4. LOCAL TRAINING                   0.0       0.0     40.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0    158.0      40.0       0.0
Sub-total                            0.0    150.0      40.0    269.4        0.0    395.9      96.0    282.0    225.0   2071.6    461.2    933.0
F. MANAGEMENT SERVICES               0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0    194.4    462.0
G. PROMOTIONAL SERVICES           1800.0   2996.0    100.0        0.0   2700.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
H. PROCUREMENT SEtVICES              0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0   3158.0
I. OTHER                             0.0       0.0     60.0    620.0        0.0      0.0       0.0     27.5       0.0    420.0       0.0       0.0
.--    -  -  - -  -  - -  -   - - - -  -   --  -  -  - - -  -  - -  -  -  - -  - -  - -   - -  - -  -  - - -  -  -
Totat INVESTMENT COSTS            1600.0   3148.0    220.0    869.4   2700.0   1300.4   1406.8   2653.3   1274.3   2591.6    960.3   4592.6
It. AENUPRENT COSTS
A. INCREMENTAL STAFF
1. PROfESSIONAL                     0.0    191.0       0.0       0.0       0.0    239.2    176.8    124.8    206.0    S40.0         0.0       0.0
2. TECHNICAL                        0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0     32.5    266.5       71.5     97.5      66.0      0.0       0.0
3. ADNINISTRATIVE                   0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0    114.4       62.4     78.0    102.0       0.0       0.0
.------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------- ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------
SUb-totat                            0.0    191.0       0.0       0.0       0.0    271.7    557.7    258.7    383.5    706.0         0."       0.0
S. TRAVEL
1. ALLOIMACES                       0.0    410.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      5.0       0.0     23.1       0.0       0.0     21.0      21.0
2. VEHICLE OSN                      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      15.0      0.0      36.4      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
3. AIR TICKETS                      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      3.0       0.0      12.0      0.0       0.0     20.0      1a 0
Sub-total                            0.0    410.0       0.0       0.0       0.0     23.0       0.0      71.5      0.0       0.0     41.0      39.0      P
C. EXPORT PRONOTION FUHD             0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0   3650.0       0.0       0.0        *
0. SNIP OPERATION                    0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0 0
E. BUILDING NAINTENANCE              0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      4.7       8.6     53.9      14.1       0.0      0.0       0.0
F. OTNER                             0.0       0.0      0.0      30.0       0.0    794.0       0.0      0.0       0.0    424.5    103.4    100.0            _
Total RECURRENT COSTS                0.0    601.0       0.0      30.0       0.0   1093.4    566.3    384.1    397.6   4782.5    144.4    139.0          0'



Tota( ASELINE COSTS            1800.0  3749.0   220.0   919.4  2700.0  2393.8  1975.1  3037.4  1671.8  7373.5   1104.7  4731.6
Physicat Contingencies          0.0      0.0      1.0    19.0      0.0    77.3    86.6   169.9    72.5         4.3    12.7      1.6
Price ContingncIes            112.4   409.1    16.7    68.5   153.3   242.4   190.3   228.9   14.1   904.0    64.2    171.7
Total PROJECT COSTS            1912.4  4158.1   237.7  1006.9  2853.3  2713.5  2251.9  3436.2  iSU.4   6281.8   1181.6  4905.0
Taxes                           0.0      0.0     0.0    33.0       0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Foreign Exchang               191.2   3141.0    68.1   383.6   285.3   1307.2   1033.4  1810.6   836.0  2262.7   271.9   301.9
10/29/1990 16:06
o )



ARGENTINA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES AND INSTITUTIONAL
DEVELOFPENT PROJECT
Sumiry Account by Project Coponmnt
USs 000
Physical          Price
Contingencies     C  lingencies
Total       X    Aowut        X  Amownt
I- INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CONSTRUCTION                    10362.3      10.0   1036.2    8.2    e53.2
B. EWJIPNENT
1. LABORATORY                     7488.1       5.0    374.4    8.4    625.4
2. OFFICE                          977.9        5.0     48.9    6.7       65.5
3. COMPUT. & TELECOM               1503.4      5.0      75.2    6.7    101.2
4. OTHER                           882.7       5.0      44.1     5.2      46.3
Sub-total                          10852.1      5.0     542.6      7.7    838.4                                                                                1
C. EaUIPMENT SERVICING              1515.5      0.0       0.0    15.1    228.5
D. VEHICLES                         4512.7       5.0    225.6    4.3       194.6
E. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. INTERNATIONAL CONS.            1731.0       0.0       0.0    9.5      164.1
2. LOCAL CONS.                     1959.6       0.0       0.0     7.9    155.6
3. OVERSEAS TRAINING              3314.1       0.0       0.0    10.3    342.1
4. LOCAL TRAINING                  970.2       0.0       0.0    9.3       90.1
Sub-total                           7974.9      0.0       0.0    9.4      752.0
F. MANAGEMENT SERVICES              1569.6      0.0       0.0    10.8    170.0
G. PROMOTIONAL SERVICES             8288.0      0.0        0.0    8.1    673.9
H. PROCUREMENT SERVICES            3158.0        0.0      0.0     0.0        0.0
I. OTHER                           3527.2       0.5      19.0    9.0    317.2
Total INVESTMENT COSTS            51760.3        3.5   1823.5     7.8   4027.8
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. INCREMENTAL STAFF
1. PROFESSIONAL                   2782.0        0.0      0.0   12.4    343.7
2. TECHICAL                        1085.2      0.0       0.0   12.9    139.5
3. ADNINISTRATIVE                  1050.5      0.0       0.0   12.7    133.2
Sib-total                          4917.7       0.0       0.0   12.5    616.4                                                                           la
B. TRAVEL                                                                                                                                               0Q la a
1. ALLOWANCES                     2631.6       0.0       0.0    11.5    303.1                                                                                n
2. VEHICLE OGI                     834.9       0.0       0.0    12.0      99.8
3. AIR TICKETS                     592.4       0.0       0.0   11.6       68.7
-.----------------------  ----------------------------                                                                     Fo
Sib-total                          4058.9        0.0      0.0    11.6    471.7
C. EXPORT PROMOTION FUND           3650.0        0.0      0.0   13.1    477.7
0. SHIP OPERATION                   6605.0       5.0    330.2    12.3    811.1
E. BUILDING MAINTENANCE              186.6      0.7        1.3    17.5     32.6
F. OTHER                           2615.1       1.2      31.2    11.6    304.3
Total RECURRENT COSTS             22033.2        1.6    362.7    12.3   2713.9



Annex l11
- 125 -                                                   Appendix 4
Page 6 of 6
,- ,#,-N
_     .1_1 
*  N
*  N
<    0N 0X 
*       N
*   N
N* N  O  
*                  lN '
E_   *   N   
*             :
_      N       I     
*      N
*         



ARGENTIIA
ACRIOJLTURAL SERVICES AID INSTITUTIONAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 101. AMIPAL NEALTH CMPOEINT 1
SENASA Central Service
Detailed Cost T ble
US 000
Quantity                                  Bae Costs
1991  1992  1993  1994  1995 Total         1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  Total
1. IVESTMENT COSTS
A. CENTRAL OFFICE EQUIPMENT
Coq2uting Equipent               -      -     -      -      -      -      37.5   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  37.5
Plamning Office                  -      -     -      -      -      -       15.8   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  15.8
Sub-otal                                                                   53.3   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  53.3
B. EWIPMENT SERVICING                 -     -      -      -      -      -       0.0   2.7   2.7   2.7   2.7  10.7
C. OVERSEAS TRAINING <2>              -     -                    -      -       0.0  68.9  18.4  20.8   0.0  108.1
D. TECMNICAL ASSISTAICE <2>
International Consultants        0      3      2      0      0     c       0.0  36.0  24.0   0.0   0.0  60.0
Local Consultants                46    45      4      2      0    97      138.0  135.0  12.0   6.0   0.0  291.0
------   ------   ------   ------   ------   ------
Sub-Total                                                                  138.0  171. 1   36.0   6.0   0.0  351.0
E. LIBRARY & OOCCtIJENS               -     -      -      -      -      -       2.0   2.)   3.0   2.0   2.0  11.0
F. TRAINING MATERIAL                                                            3 -  -  -  -  -  3.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   3.0
Total INVSTMENT COSTS                                                            196.3 244.6  60.1  31.5   4.7 537.1
It. RECURRENT COSTS
A. AIR TRAVEL <3                     37    75    75    75    75   337           7.4  15.0  15.0  15.0  15.0  67.4
C. TRAVEL ALLOWANCE <3>              200   400   400   400   400  1800          8.0  16.0  16.0  16.0  16.0  72.0
C. INCREMENTAL STAFF <4
Director                          7    13    13    13    13    58          3.3   6.6   6.6   6.6   6.6  29.5
Professional Level 23            33    65    65    65    65   292          13.7  27.5  27.5  27.5  27.5  123.7
Professional Level 22            26    52    52    52    52   234          9.2  18.4  18.4  18.4  18.4  82.8
Administrative                   13    26    26    26    26   117           1.4   2.8   2.8   2.8   2.8  12.8
Sub-Totat                                                                  27.7  55.3  55.3  55.3  SS.3 28.9
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                             43.1  86.3  86.3  86.3  86.3  388.3
33---- 33----  333333 man'" 3     _
Total                                                                         239.4 330.9  146.4  117.8  91.0 925.3
<1> Details in Technical File.                                                                                                                      zD . 
<2> Short course.
<3> Includes training related travel.
<42 Mln-months (13 per War).                                                                                                                         _ cI.
10/29/1990  16:27                                                                                                                                  O X



AUTIM
AURIgULlAL SVICES A  IUTITUTIOAL
DEWLUUET PRECT
TA,te 102. MINKL ELTU         T
Field Sw ifee: Eqiplmmt
Detalled Cost Tabte
ntity                                    oSe CoSts
1991  1992 1993 1994  1995 Total     1991   1992   1993   1994   1995  Total
1. INfSIIEIT COSTS
A. LOCAL TRAINIS                   -    -96.7   74.-   30.3   13.7   14.5  237.0
B. TRAIEIUG/EXTENSIOU EUIP.        -    -    -        -        -        0.0   31.5    0.0    0.0    0.0   31.S
C. VEUICLES                       350    0    0    0    0  350    3500.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0 3SOO.O
D. COUUTIUG EWUIPHEET 01-                     -          -    -       201.0  201.0  201.0    0.0    0.0  603.0
E. OFFICE EQUIPMET                 -         -                 -       40.8   40.8   40.8    0.0    0.0  122.4
F. OFFICE FUIIITUIE                     -    -    -    -    -         129.2  129.2  129.2    0.0    0.0  387.6
6. FIELD VET/ EGUIPIENT                    -       -                   78.0   78.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  1S6.0
N. FIELD VET/JStPLIES                   -    -           -    -        72.0   72.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  14.0
1. ESEUGEC VACCIE FU                    -    -    -                   200.0  600.0  200.0    0.0    0.0 100.01
J. TECuICAL ASSISTWMCE 2           2    2    1    0    0    5          24.0   24.0   12.0    0.0    0.0   60.0
K. TRAININ MG                      -    -    -     -                    0.0   17.1   33.1    0.0    0.0   S0.2
L. LIWMUY & OOOEUTATION            -    -    -    -    -                 S.0    5.0    5.0    4.0    0.0   19.0
N. TRAINI/EXTESION MAT.            -    -    -    -    -    -          30.0  125.0   30.0   56.0    0.0  291.0
N. SOFTWARE                        -    -    -    -    -    -           5.0    7.5    7.5    0.0    0.0   20.0
0. EUIPIEN SERVICING
Cmter                               -    -    -    -                .0   10.0   20.1   30.1   30.1   90.4
Veterinary                    -          -    -    -    -          0.0    3.9    7.8    7.8    7.8   27.3
Ssu-Total                                                           0.0   13.9   27.9   37.9   37.9  117.7
Total INVESTIMET COSTS                                                 4383.7 1419.8  766.6  116.6   52.4 6739.4
11. IEOarT COSTS
A. COMUTER SUPPLIES                -    -         -     -     -        1S.0   22.S   22.S    0.0    0.8   60.0
Total REOaJREIT COSTS                                                    15.0   22.5   22.5    0.0    0.0   60.0
Total                                                                4396.7  142.3  7189.3  116.6   S2.4 67"9.4
41' Details in Tech fite.
42 mm-month of interntlonsl coutants.-tt
10/29/1990 16:27
US
U'



ACENT IHA
AGNICUWLTURAL SERVICES AND INSTITUTIONAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TabLe 103. AMIMAL HEALTH COMPONENT
Central Laboratory
Detailed Cost Table
US$ 000
Quantity                                   Ease Costs
1991  1992  1993  1994  1995 Total      1991    1992   1993   1994   1995  Total
1. IWNESTMENT COSTS
A. LAB SUPPLIES                      -    -         -        -    -          0.0   20.0   20.0    0.0    0.0   40.0
B. LAB EQUIPMENT
Domstic                          -    *                                 0.0  300.0  707.0    0.0    0.0  1007.0
Iported                        -    -    -    -        -    -          0.0  568.0  1091.3    0.0    0.0  1659.3
Sub-Total                                                                0.0  868.0  1798.3    0.0    0.0 2666.3
C. EQUIPMENT SET-UP                  -    -      -    -    -                 0.0    0.0  270.0    0.0    0.0  270.0
D. LIBRARY & DOCU4ENTATION           -    -      -    -                      5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    0.0   20.0
E. TRAINING ABROAD                   -    -      -    -    -    -           39.0   48.0   48.5   13.6    3.0  152.1
F. INTERNATIONAL CONSULTAMTS <1'      1    0      1    0    0       2       12.0    0.0   12.0    0.0    0.0   24.0
G. EQUIPMENT SERVICING               -    -      -    -      -               0.0    0.0   43.4  133.3  133.3  310.0
N. ENGINEERING * DESIGN              -    -      -    -    -    -          315.3   43.2   43.2    0.0    0.0  401.7
1. LABORATORY CONSTRUCTION
Aduinlstration F ilities         -    -    -    -       -              58.2  116.5  116.5    0.0    0.0  291.2
Biotry                          -    -                                 39.5   79.1   79.1    0.0    0.0  197.7
Lab Units                       -    -    -    -    -    -            696.0  1392.1  1392.1    0.0    0.0 348a.2
FND Vaccine Testing/Serv.       -    -      -    -    -    -          150.1  300.3  300.3    0.0    0.0  750.7
Sub-Total                                                              943.8  1888.0  1888.0    0.0    0.0 4719.8
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                       1315.1  2872.2  4128.4  151.9  136.3 6603.9
II. RECRIRENT COSTS
A. S  LDING MAINTENANCE 43           -     -     -    -    -    -            0.0    0.0    0.0   14.2   42.5   56.6
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                           0.0    0.0    0.0   14.2   42.5   56.6
3Z33333 3333 333333  3333  3333.33 3
Total                                                                     1315.1  2872.2 4123.4  166.1  178.8 8660.6
'1>' Mm-mnmths.
e2, Calculated at 5 of equipmnt, starting Year 2.
<3' Calculated at 1.5X of comtruction, starting Year 3.
10/29/1990 16:27
o X 



AECENTINA
A&RIOltUtRAL SERVICES AND INSTITUTIONAL
DEWELOPHENT PROJECT
Table 104. MNIML HEALTH COFWONENT
Quorantin. Station
Detailed Cost Toble
US$ 000
Sase Costs
*SS.------.----.SS..SStasnfiSas.SasSS.msS
1991   1992   1993   1994   1995  Total
I. IWVESTMENT COSTS
A. COUSTRUCTI0N               113.3  226.6  226.7    0.0    0.0  566.6
8. DESIGN & ENGINEERING        39.6    5.2    5.3    0.0    0.0  50.1
C. EQUIPMENT                    0.0   28.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   28.0
D. LAO. MACHINERY               0.0  24.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   24.0
E. EaUIPMENT SERVICIN'G
Equipant                   0.0    0.0    1.4    1.4    1.4    4.2
MAchinwry                  0.0    0.0    1.2    1.2    1.2    3.6
Sub-Total                   0.0    0.0    2.6    2.6    2.6    7.8
F. OVERSEAS TRAINING            0.0   11.3  11.3    0.0    0.0   22.6
Total INVESTHENT COSTS           152.9  295.1  245.9    2.6    2.6  699.1
II. RECUIRENT COSTS
A. DUILDING MAINTENANCE         0.0    0.0    0.0    1.7    5.1    6.8
Total RECURRENT COSTS              0.0    0.0    0.0    1.7    5.1    6.8
ass-  sman S.....as snmnS  ----- ------
Total                         152.9  295.1  245.9    4.3    7.7  M7.9
S5SnSSSSSStSSnaSSWSUsnsSsstl-SstazS..sa.S=.sSnSn.sna=ssnnn..s=
10/29/1990 16:37
0   0
o X
Mba 
UA



ARGENTINA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES AMS INSTITUTIONAL
SEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Table 105. AuIAL HEALTH COMPNUENT
EXECUTING UNIT
Detailed Cost Table
USS 000
Qmntity                                  Base Costs
33332233323333333223232    222223232223 33as                33322333232xX-   33... 
1991  1992  1993  1994  1995 Total      1991   1992  1993  1994   1995  Total
1. INVESTHENT COSTS
A. FURNITURE                       -           -     -     -     -       4.6    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   4.6
8. OFFICE EOUIPNENT                   -    -         -     -     -       2.4   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   2.4
C. NANAGEMENT SERVICES 013
Coord. Adviser                12   12   12   12   12   60          24.0  24.0  24.0  24.0  24.0  120.0
Professional                 36    36   36    36    24   168       54.0  54.0  54.0  54.0  36.0  252.0
Aduinistration                12   12   12   12   12   60           3.0    3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0  15.0
Sub-Total                                                           81.0  81.0  81.0  81.0  63.0 387.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                     88.0  81.0  81.0  81.0  63.0  394.0
II. RECURRENT COSTS
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I.
A. TRAVEL ALLOWAICE               75   75   75    75   75  375           3.0   3.0   3.0    3.0   3.0  15.0                                                O
8. TRAVEL                         23   23   23   23    18  110           4.6   4.6   4.6   4.6   3.6  22.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                       7.6   7.6   7.6   7.6   6.6  37.0
ax====  ams .......... --X.  --zz ZZZZxx........
Total                                                                   95.6  88.6  88.6  W8.6  69.6  431.0
<1 Nan-m -nths.
10/29/1990  16:28
X la
o .
U'



ARGENTINA
AGRICULTURAL SFRVICES AMD INSTITUTIONAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 201. PLMNT PROTECTION COMPONENT
Cancrosis Control Progrm in the Northwest
Detailed Cost Table
US$ cIIO
Quantity                                              *sa  Costs
.      2      .     33s=sssr =s:                          3333S323r333333z33S33333S333flS33fl 33fl333f
1991     1992     1993     1994      1995    Total       1991    1992    1993    1994    1995   Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. MOILE UNIT <1>                       8        0        0        0         0        8       80.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    80.0
B. VEHICLES <2>                         5        0        0        0        0         5       70.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    70.0
C. EWIPMENT <3>
Fixed Radios                      4         0        0        0        0         4        6.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     6.0
Portable Radios                   8         0        0        0        0         8        6.4     0.0    0.0      0.0      0.0     6.4
Sub-Total                                                                                 12.4     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    12.4
D. EQUIPMENT SERVICING                                        -        -                       0.0     0.6     0.6      0.6     0.6     2.5
E. DISINFECTION UNIT <4>                1        0        0        0         0        1        2.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     2.0
F. LAB MATERIALS                                -        -        -                  -        14.6   14.6   14.6    14.6    14.6   73.0
G. LOCAL TRAINING                           -        -        -        -        -              0.2     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.2                     _
H. EDUCATIONAL MATERIALS                        -        -                  -        -        20.0    20.0   20.0    20.0    20.0   100.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                          199.2   35.2   35.2   35.2   35.2   340.0
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. CONTROL PROGRAN <5>
Fuel                          78000    78000    78000    78000    78000   390000         23.4    23.4   23.4    23.4    23.4   117.0
Travel Allowances                          -        - -                -        -       140.3   140.3  140.3   140.3   140.3  701.5
S.b-Total                                                                                163.7   163.7  163.7   163.7   163.7  818.5
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                           163.7  163.7  163.7  163.7   163.7  818.5
Total                                                                                        362.9   196.9  196.9  196.9   198.9  1158.5
<1> For inspectors.
<b Dies*l pickup.
<33 Four per each delegation.
4> For disinfecting used containers.
45> To support field staff: 6 professionals (2 per 8 hr shift) per station.
11/7/1990 15:09
O X
.qh



ARGENTINA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES AND INSTITUTIONAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 202. PLANT PROTECTION COMPONENT
Fruit Fly Progrr_ - Comhue
Detailed Cost Table
USS 000
Quantity                                            Bae Costs
23222222222sr==s==s2==          2     =       2z2322Z2   22z2z2=====s2222===r    g     2=2z=22z22222w..
1991     1992    1993      1994     1995    Total      1991   1992    1993   1994   1995   Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. MOBILE UNITS tl>                    5        0        0       0         0        5      50.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   50.0
B. VEHICLES <2>                      10        0        0        0        0        10     140.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  140.0
C. EQUIPMENT
Communication <3>                         -        -        -                 -       10.0    0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0   10.0
Laboratory                       -        -        -       -         -        -       10.0    0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0   10.0
Computer                         -        -        -                 -        -        5.0    0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0    5.0
Traps                            -        -        -        -        -        -       30.0    0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0   30.0
Sub-Total                                                                              55.0    0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0   55.0
D. LAM MATERIALS                      -        -        -        -        -        -         1.0    1.0     1.0     1.0    1.0    S.0
E. LURES                              -        -        -        -        -        -        5.0    5.0      5.0    5.0    5.0   25.0
F. EDUCATIONAL MATERIALS             -         -       -        -         -       -        15.0   15.0   15.0   15.0   15.0   75.0
G. EQUIPMENT SERVICING                                  -        -        -        -        0.0    2.7    2.7    2.7    2.7   11.0
H. LOCAL TRAINING                    -         -        -       -         -        -        0.4    0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0    0.4
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                       266.4   23.7   23.7   23.7   23.7  361.4
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. CONTROL PROGRAM
Trovel Allovwnes <4>          6880     6880    6880    6880       6880    34400       89.4   89.4    89.4.    89.4   89.4  447.2
Fuel S>                      50000    50000   50000   50000    50000   250000          15.0   15.0   15.0   15.0   1S.0   75.0
Professional Level 22 a6>        78       78      78       78        78     390       23.4   23.4   23.4    23.4    23.4   117.0
General Services Agent <6>     520       520     520      520       520    2600       57.2   57.2   57.2   57.2   57.2  286.0
Sub-Total                                                                              185.0  185.0  185.0   U.0   185.0  92S.2
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                         185.0  185.0  185.0        0   18S.0  925.2
Total                                                                                     451.4  208.8   206.8  206.8  206.8  1286.6
<1> For inspectors.
*2> Five each for barriers and monitoring.
(3) Vulkie-talkies.
<4  Days.
(5> Liters.
<6> Men-months (13 per year).                                                                                                                            d
10/29/1990  16:32
o. a



ARGENT .NA
AGRICILTUAL SERVICES AND INST1TUTICIUL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 203. PLANT PROTECTION CtEIENT
Central/Regional RfsidL Anmlysis Laboratories
Deta Ied Cost Table
us$ 000
Quantity                                 Ease costs
auuuuuauainu.uussumuuuuuaaaa         3uinUUU* _  u
1991  1992  1993 1994  1995 Total      19N1   1992   199    1994   1"95  Totat
1. EVSTIEUT COSTS
A. LANORATRT CONSTUCTICN
luince Aires Central Lab.            -    -    -         -           0.0  364.6    0.0    0.6       .6   34.6
m  - TucaM                                                           0.0    0.0  148.3    0.0    60.  146.3
Sub-Total                                                             0.0  364.6  148.3    0.0    0.0  S12.9
*. EWIPWNT 01p
Central Lab                               -426.2   82.8   82.8   82.8   32.8  757.4
Regioal LEb                     0    1    0    0    0    1           0.0  322.0    0.0    0.6    0.0  322.0
NIcro-Couter                    2    1    0    0    0    3          10.0    5.0    0.0  - 0.6    0.0   1S.0
Typeriter                       2    0    0    0    0    2           2.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    2.0
SWP"l -e                               -    -    -    -              0.0    7.6    0.0    0.0    6.0    7.6 
Furniture                            -    -    -    -    -           8.0    7.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   15.0
Sub-Totat                                                           46.2  424.4   82.8   82.8   82.8  1119.0                                   W
C. EWIPIENT SERVICING               -    -    -    -                      0.0   22.3   43.S   47.7   51.8  16S.3
0. VEHICLES                          2    1    0    0    0    3          28.0   14.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   42.0
E. OVERSEAS TRAINING                 0    0    3    0    0    3           0.0    0.0   45.0    0.0    0.0   45.0
F. LOCAL TRAINING                   -    -    -    -    -    -           11.?   13.0   10.9   10.5   1.OS   S6.6
Z. INTERNLATIONAL CONS.              4    3    0    1    0    8          48.0   36.0    0.0   12.0    0.0   96.0
H. SUPPLIES                              -    -    -    -    -           50.5   48.3   4.3   48.3   48.3  243.7
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                     584.4  922.6  378.8  201.3  193.4 2286.5
It. RECtRENT COSTS
A. TRAVEL ALLOWANCE   >             -    -    -    -            -         1.1    1.1    1.1    0.0    0.0    3.3
B. VEHICLE OR5 R                               -    -    -    -           8.0   12.0   12.0   15.0   16.5   63.S
C. SERVICES & UTILITIES                  -    -    -    -    -            0.0    4.8    4.5    4.8    4.5   19.2
0. SUDG NAINTEICAE
lusnas Air"s Lab               -    -    -            -    -         0.0    0.0    0.0    5.5    5.5   10.9
Tueun Lab                      -    -    -    -    -    -            0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    2.2    2.2
Sub-Total                                                             0.0    0.0    0.0    5.5    7.7   13.2
E. INCREENTAL STAFF '31
Professionals                  39   65   65   65   65  299          11.7   19.5   19.5   19.5   19.5   89.7
Technicins                     52   78   78   78   78  364          10.4   15.6   15.6   15.6   1S.6   72.8
Genaral Service                39   65   65   65   65  299           4.3    7.1    7.1    7.1    7.1   32.9
Administrative                 19   71   71   71   71  303           2.9   10.6   10.6   10.6   10.6   4S.S                                 * .i  5
* --  *-     -- ---     ------   -- -- -   -- - -   -- - - *0 _  _e          X
Sub-Toxal                                                            29.3   S2.9   52.9   52.9   52.9  240.9                                 @ 0 
Total REECURENT COSTS                                                      38.4   70.8   70.8   78.2   81.9  340.1                                 0 X
X-----   -- * - -s -   -- --= -   -- --- X.   -   --   -- -               m
Total                                                                   622.8  993.4  449.6  279.4  275.3 2620.6                                 0% ch
'1> Detailed in Tech File.



AONTIMA
ACRICULTURAL SERVICES AND IUSTITUTIONAL
DfEWELOPET PROJECT
Tek4e 204. PUIf PIOTECTION COWONENT
Ousruntin Station
Detail d Cast Tab(e
us$ 000
Quantity                                  Base Costs
1991  1992  1993  1994  1995 Total     1991   1992   1Q93   1994   1995  Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. LADONATORY CONSTRUCTION
Site Develepmnt                  -    -        -    -    -          0.0   75.8    0.0    0.0    0.0   75.8
Buitding                      -    -    -    -    -    -            0.0  311.7    0.0    0.0    0.0  311.7
Design and Engineering        -    -    -    -    -    -           34.3    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   34.3
Sub-Total                                                           34.3  387.5    0.0    0.0    0.0  421.8
R. QUARANTINE STATION
Engineering 4 Design                -    -    -    -    -          22.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   22.0
Adoinistration                -    -    -    -    -    -            0.0    7.8    0.0    0.0    0.0    7.8
Construction                     -       -    -    -    -           0.0  337.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  337.e
Sub-Total                                                           22.0  344.8    0.0    0.0    0.0  366.8                                          1
C. EQUIPMENT
Laboratory                    -    -    -    -    -    -            0.0  254.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  254.0
CeWuting                      -    -    -    -    -                 0.0    5.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    5.0                                         41
Sub-Totat                                                            0.0  259.0    0.0    0.0        D,u  259.0
D. EQUIPMENT SERVICING             -    -    -    -    -    -            0.0    0.0   12.9   12.9   12.9   38.8
E. FURNITURE                       -    -    -    -    -    -            0.0   17.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   17.0
F. VEHICLES                        0    1    0    0    0    1            0.0   14.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   14.0
G. TRAINING ABRWD-NS. 01'          0    1    1    1    0    3            0.0   25.0   25.0   25.0    0.0   75.0
H. LOCAL TRAINING                  -    -    -    -    -    -            0.0    0.7    1.4    0.3    0.0    2.4
1. INTERNATIONAL CONS.            -    -    -    -    -    -            54.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   54.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                    110.3  1048.0   39.4   38.3   12.9  1248.9
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. INCREMENTAL STAFF 2>
Professionals                 39   91   91   91   91  403           11.7   27.3   27.3   27.3   27.3  120.9
Technicians                    0    0   91   91   91  273           0.0    0.0   18.2   18.2   18.2   54.6
Adoinistrative                 0   13   26   26   26   91            0.0    1.9    3.9    3.9    3.9   13.6
Genaral Services               0    0   91   91   91  273           0.C    0.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   30.0
Sub-Totsl                                                            11.7   29.2   59.4   59.4   59.4  219.2
B. STAFF MOSILIZATION              -    -              -        -        0.0   50.0   75.0   25.0    0.0  150.0
C. BUILDING MAINTENANCE                                                                                                                           et 3
Laboratory                    -    -    -    -    -                 0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    4.7    4.7                                  J4 O 
ouarantine                    -    -    -            -               0.0    0.0    0.0    5.1    5.1   10.1                                  ( S   X
Sub-Total                                                            0.0    0.0    0.0    5.1    9.7   14.8                                     1.'
D. OTHER OPERATINGICOOSTS          -    -     .-    -    -    -          0.0    0.0   30.0   30.0   30.0   90.0
-------    ---- -- -   ---- -- -  -- -----   -- -- - --  - -- - - - -
Total RECAURENT COSTS                                                      11.7   79.2  164.4  119.5   99.1  474.0
Tzz2zz 12 .0127Z . z3 z 2 zzz0 z 1S7.7 33 11.  12.
Totat                                                                  122.0  1127.3  203.8  157.7  112.1  1722.9



ARENTINA
AGRICUNTIUAL SERVICES AII INSTITUTIONAL
DEVLOPNEMT PJECT
Table 205. PLANT PIROTECTION CPOKEINT
nstitutfanl Doewlmnt
Detailed Cost Table
Us$ 000
auantity                                       Sase Costs
_ - &UUUUUUUZUUSU33UUUSUU.uUuU3uUuumUu. uanu.z   a._ _ _ _ _ _, _
1991   1992   1993   1994   1995  Total         1991   1992   1993   1994   1995  Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CNTUCTION  1                     -      -       -      -                      100.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  100.0
8. EQUIPMENT
Laboratory                     -      -       -              -      -         0.0   56.5    0.0    0.0    0.0   56.5
Central Offfee                -      -                                      20.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   20.0
Delegations                    -      -       -       -      -       -      115.0   15.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  130.0
Ca~uters                       -      -                                      60.0   45.0   30.0    G.0    0.0  135.0
Other                          -      -               -              -       12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   60.0
Sub-Total                                                                    207.0  128.5   42.0   12.0   12.0  401.5 S
C. VENICLES 43,                    24       3       0      0       0     27      336.0   42.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  378.0
D. LOCAL TRAINING                   -      -       -                              23.9   71.0   81.4    6.4    0.9  183.6
E. OWERSEAS TRtAINING               -      -       -      -       -      -       214.8  194.0   29.8   14.0   11.0  43.6                              u
F. UMANGEMENT SEltVICES 4),        12      12      12     12      12     60       77.4   77.4   77.4   72.0   72.0  376.2                             1
G. TECHNICAL ASSISTAICE
International                  -      --             -       -      -        24.0   84.0   12.0   12.0   12.0  144.0
Local                          -      -       -      -               -        6.0    3.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    9.0
Sub-Total                                                                     30.0   87.0   12.0   12.0   12.0  153.0
H. EQUIPNENT SERVICING             -          -           -       -      -         0.0   10.3   16.8   18.9   19.5   65.5
Total IWNVSTMENT COSTS                                                              989.1  610.2  259.4  135.3  127.4 2121.4
II. RECIURENT COSTS
A. OPERATION OF VEHICLES           24      27      27     27      27    132       96.0  108.0  108.0  108.0  108.0  S28.0
B. BUILDING MAINTENANCE             -      -       -      -       -                0.0    0.0    1.5    1.5    1.S    4.5
C. AIR TRAVEL                     300    300    300    300    300   1500          90.0   90.0   90.0   90.0   90.0  450.0
0. TRAVEL ALLOWANCE               2300   2300   2300   2300   2300  11500         29.9   29.9   29.9   29.9   29.9  149.5
E. CENTRAL OPERATING COSTS c23 ,           -       -      -                       20.0   20.0   20.0   20.0   20.0  100.0
F. DELEG. OPERATING COSTS -2)      .       .       - -            -      -        42.8   42.8   42.8   42.8   42.8  214.0
G. INCREMENTAL STAFF <53
Professional Lewel 22         195    481    481    481    481   2119         58.5  144.3  144.3  144.3  144.3  635.7
Technicians                   195    481    481    481    481   2119         39.0   96.2   96.2   96.2   96.2  423.8
Administrative                 91    234    234    234    234   1027         13.6   35.1   35.1   35.1   35.1  154.0
General Services              104    273    273    273    273   1196         11.4   30.0   30.0   30.0   30.0  131.6
Sub-Total                                                                    122.6  305.6  305.6  305.6  305.6 1345.1
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                               401.3  596.3  597.8  597.8  597.8 2791 .b 1 
Total                                                                           1390.4  1206.6  857.2  733.1  725.2 4912.5                        0 x
LA Ci_
<1> Lab rehabilitation.                                                                                                                           o X-
<2> Detailed in Tech File.                                                                                                                       '-'a
<3' Diesel pickups.
(4)  Neths.



ARtENTINA
AGRIaLTURAL SERVICES AND INSTITUTIONAL
DEWELOPMENT PROJECT
Toble 206. PLMNT PROTECTION COMPONENT: SEEDS
Strengthening of SEUMSE
Detailed Cost Toble
Ussoco
Quantity                                 Base Costs
ssss...w=sas.sssxs ............n..h....ZS..3.3....3..U..  ZUUUZUZUZWZSZSZUUZUBSZS3US 'tsssss
1991  192  1993  1994  1995 Total      1991   1992   1993   1994   1995  Total
1. IVWSTNENT COSTS
A. EQUIPNENT
Hardware and Software         1     1    4      2     0      8      12.5  12.5  50.0  25.0    0.0  100.0
Central Laboratory           -     -     -      -     -     -       52.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  52.0
Office                             -            -     -     -      100.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  100.0
SkbrTotat                                                           164.5  12.5  50.0  25.0    0.0  252.0
B. TECHN!CAL ASSISTANCE
Internmtional Consultants     3     3     0     0     0      6      36.0  36.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   72.0
Local Consultants            56    24     0     0      0    80     168.0  72.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  240.0
Sub-Total                                                           204.0  108.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  312.0                                                 _
C. TRAINING
Abroad                        4     6     6      4     2    22      20.0  30.0  30.0  20.0  10.0  110.0                                                    0%
Local                        10    10    10    10      0    40      15.0  15.0  15.0  15.0    0.0  60.0                                                     1
SutrTotaI                                                            35.0  45.0  45.0  35.0  10.0  170.0
0. TRAINING/EXTENSION NAT.         -     .     -     -     -     -       20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0  100.0
E. EQUIPMENT SERVICING            -      -     -     -     -     -        0.0    8.2    8.8   11.3  12.6  41.0
Total INVESTNENT COSTS                                                     423.5  193.7  123.8  91.3  42.6  875.0
Total                                                                   423.5  193.7  123.8  91.3  42.6  875.0
10/29/1990 16:33
I0 la 0
3 X
o
0'



ARGENTINA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES AND INSTITUTIONAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 301. FISHERIES CONPONENT <1>
Resource EvalustIon
Detaited Cost Table
USS 000
Base Costs
uusuflzs.un..n..nn.nnssssssus..szsnzs---
1991    1992    1993    1994    1995   Total
1. IIMESTMENT COSTS
A. EWJIPNENT <2>
Laboratory Equipcmnt           571.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0   571.0
ComputingCoemunication          65.8     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    65.8
Monitoring Equipnmnt           482.1     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0  482.1
Sub-Total                      1118.9     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0  1118.9
D. EQUIPMENT SERVICING                0.0    55.9    55.9    55.9    55.9   223.8
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                1118.9    55.9    55.9    55.9    55.9  1342.7
11. REaJRRENT COSTS
A. SHIP OPERATION
GALLEY STORES                   96.0    96.0    96.0    96.0    96.0   480.0
SOArT REPAIRS AND SPARES        90.0    90.0    90.0    90.0    90.0   450.0
PORT FEES                       63.0    63.0    63.0    63.0    63.0   315.0
INSIRANCE                      130.0   130.0   130.0   130.0   130.0   650.0
DRY DOCK                       192.0   192.0   192.0   192.0   192.0   960.0
FUEL AND LUBRICANTS            750.0   750.0   750.0   750.0   750.0  3750.0
Stb-Total                      1321.0  1321.0  1321.0  1321.0  1321.0  6605.0
B. ONBOARD PERDIEM <3>              122.6   122.6   122.6   122.6   122.6   613.0
C. OBSERVERS CaNIER. FLEET           60.0    60.0    60.0    60.0    60.0   300.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                 1503.6  1503.6  1503.6  1503.6  1503.6  7518.0
*--=-== -===s=  S=====  ==s=5== a===== s====g..
Total                              2622.5  1559.5  1559.5  1559.5  1559.5  8860.7
.sss=ss.fllsfls3ss=sf.sfzs=f3s==st===g=sssszs =3ss -:s= ==s==n ==s-ss-r-=s.ns
<1> Calculated on the basis of 400 incr. days of ship research per year.
42' Details In nnex 4: Fishing doctmnt
<3> Equivalent to 109 research technicians at USS 20/day per campIgn.
10/29/1990 16:39
O' la x
o M



ARGENTINA
AGRICIJLTUIRAL SERVICES AND INSTITUTIONAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 302. FISHERIES COMPONENT
Institutionol Developnant
Detailed Cost Table
US$ 000
Quentity                                 Base Costs
3333333333=3233333333333u33333333333   3233323a333333  33    33    o 
1991  1992  1993  1994  1995 Total      1991   1992   1993  1994  1995  Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE <1>
Fisheries Expert              12    12   12      0     0    36      36.0  36.0  36.0   0.0    0.0  108.0
Resource Management            3     3     3     3     0    12       9.0   9.0   9.0   9.0    0.0  36.0
Institutional Dev.            12    12     0     0     0    24      36.0  36.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  72.0
Inforuuion Systems             4     2     2     0     0     8      12.0   6.0    6.0    0.0    0.0  24.0
Sub-TotaL                                                            93.0  87.0  51.0   9.0    0.0  240.0
S. SENINARS                         8     8     4     4     0    24      64.0  64.0  32.0  32.0    0.0  192.0
C. COMPUTING EOUIPHENT <2>               -           -                   86.9    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  86.9
0. EUJIPNENT SERVICING             -     -     -     -      -     -        0.0    4.3    4.3    4.3    4.3   17.4                                             1
E. MNAGEMENT SERVICES                    -     -           -     -        30.0  30.0  30.0  30.0  30.0  150.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                     273.9  185.3  117.3  75.3  34.3 686.3                                                 o
...u   x ssa   -- -    --. -   -- --   ------                                         I
Total                                                                   273.9  185.3  117.3  75.3  34.3  686.3
01> Mmn-months.
4 ' Detailed in Tech File.
10129/1990 16:30
00 X t
IL
O XJ



ARhTINU
AUIOXRATIAL SEWICES AND IUSTITUTIOIAL
EEII'IEt T PROJECT
Table 303s CSIEEIES  OUOUIIEHT
Aquutt  Salem Center
Detefl d Cost Table
,uss 000
lame Costs
1991  1992  193  1994  1995 Total
1. INSTMENT COSTS
A. DESIGN & EMIWEERIUG     26.7   9.4   0.0   0.0   0.0  36.1
B. EUILDIN                  0.0 314.0   0.0   0.0   0.0 314.0
C. EQUIPMENT
Laboratory & Mtertils   0.0  100.2   0.0   0.0   0.0  100.2
Technical              36.6   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  38.6
FIeld                  10.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  10.1
S h-Total               48.7  100.2   0.0   0.0   0.0  148.9
D. VEHICLES                35.6   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  35.6
E. EUIPMIENT SERVICING      0.0   2.4   7.4   7.4   7.4  24.8
Total IEMSTWIT COSTS         111.0 426.0   7.4   7.4   7.4 559.4
II. tEORNEIT COSTS
A. luildin Maintenace       0.0   0.0   0.0   4.7   4.7   9.4
B. OTHER                    0.0   0.0  36.0  36.0  36.0  108.0
Total ECRET COSTS              0.0   0.0  36.0  40.7  40.7 117.4
wuuuu   3 3 --   -----    ------    -S-- -
Total                     111.0 426.0  43.4  48.2  48.2 676.6
10/29/1990 16:39
I epI.
wa|
.33



ARGENTINA
ARICULTURAL SERVICES AND INSTITUTIONAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 304. FISIERIES COIENMMET
Aquaculture Reserch: Corrientes
Detailed Cost Table
US$ 000
Ouentity                               S1" Costs
1991  1992  1993  1994  1995 Total     1991  1992  1993  1994  1995 Total
1. INWSTIENT COSTS
A  ENGINEERING 9 DESIGN                       -    -           - -6.   16.3   0.0   0.0   0.0  62.S
0. BUILDIC I                               -        -    -    -         0.0  543.1   0.0   0.0   0.0 543.1
C. EQUIPMENT                         -    -    -          -    -        0.0  56.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  56.0
0. EQUIPNENT SERVICING            -    -    -    -    -    -            0.0   0.0   2.8   2.8   2.8   8.4
E. VENICLES <3>                    3    0    0    0    0    3          53.    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  53.1
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                    99.3 615.4   2.8   2.8   2.8 723.1
II. RECaRffNT COSTS
A. OPERATING COSTS                      -    -    -    -                0.0   0.0  24.0  24.0  24.0  72.0
Total RECORENT COSTS                                                       0.0   0.0  24.0  24.0  24.0  72.0
Total                                                                  99.3 615.4  26.8  26.6  26.6  795.1
10/29/1990 16:30
*0 
IA



ARGENTINA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES AND INSTITUTIONAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 401. NEAT MARKETING COMON ENT
Participation in Food Fairs
Detailed Cost Table
USS 000
tLnntity                                   Base Costs
1991  1992  1993  1994  1995 Total      1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. FAIRS                      -     -    -    -    -    -            97.0  197.0  149.0  149.0   98.0  690.0
S. OFFICE EQJIPNENT           -    -    -    -    -    -             20.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   20.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                 117.0  197.0  149.0  149.0   96.0  710.0
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. OPERATING COSTS               -    -         -    -    -          15.0   15.0   15.0   15.0   15.0   75.0
B. PROMOTION NATERIALS        -    -    -    -    -    -             37.0   38.0   25.0    0.0   25.0  125.0
C. PERSONNEL                  12   12   12   12   12   60            18.0   18.0   18.0   18.0   18.0   90.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                   70.0   71.0   5E.0   33.0   58.0  290.0
Total                                                               187.0  268.0  207.0  182.0  156.0  1000.0
10/29/1990  16:28
B~0
00S
-J



ARCENTIM
AmIaCLTUAL SEVICES AM ISTITUTIOML
EVELOPIET PAO ECT
T be 402. EAT NEETIIG C         T
last Cltssificetian
Detailed Cost Table
us$s00
Bae Costs
1991   1992   1993   1994   1995  Total
1. ItNESTNENT COSTS
.. . ... . ....
A. REPRESEUTATIOI            400.0  200.0   80.0    0.0    0.0  680.0
B. INSTITUTIONAL PUUICITY    300.0  140.0  120.0    0.0    0.0  560.0
C. SENIUARS/TRAIINGC         150.0   60.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  210.0
0. TECNOLOGV RESEaCN         150.0  105.0  100.0    0.0    0.0  3SO.0
Total IMESTNENT COSTS          1000.0  500.0  300.0    0.0    0.0  1800.0
mma..  sa ....a.......= a=== ==         ..a.==.==.
Total                       1000.0  500.0  300.0    0.0    0.0  1800.0
* aSUaSSU*Sa*aUaaaSaaSaSaSZSUUSSUZSaa-SS-SS-- Sa--   ..sssZa..SZ.SSaa.....ta   I
10/29/1990  16:37                                                                                                                                        ,
o a_
ON



A11t10.U,AL Ul.WICES M  ICSTItUtlClL
SEWLINUW   OJECT
Tdle 403. NUT  NIT BSC COWIWOEIIT
OSeram Priwttln
O tailed t4et Table
U#I 000
_ese Costs
91   192   1993   19         1995  Total
.. . . ..... .....   .. .. . . . . . . . . . . .
1. IMESTSEII WISTS
A. EU MPIEM COUIUITY
Repmstatlin           100.0  160.0  140.0  160.0   S8.0  638.0
Promotional  terlat    300.0  200.0  200.0  200.0  100.0 1000.0
Tcnmicat AuIsttaic     18.0    0.0   30.0    0.0   30.0   78.0
tub-Totat              418.0  360.0  390.0  360.0  188.0  1716.0
S. NIOOLE AbV FM EAST
*.pasm ntation        100.0  120.0  120.0  120.0   72.0  532.0
Prootionml Naotata    200.0  150.0  l50.0  150.O 100.0  750.0
Technictl AsIsstance   30.0    0.0   30.0   60.0   30.0  150.0
Stu-Total              330.0  270.0  300.0  330.0  202.0 1432.0
Total I*USTIET COSTS         748.0  630.0  690.0  690.0  390.0 3148.0                                                                           w
11. EOIECUT WOSTS
A. TRAVEL ALLoUACE          90.0   90.0   90.0   90.0   50.0  410.0
B. INCREMENTAL STAFF        38.2   38.2   36.2   38.2   36.2  191.0
Total REOCURENT COSTS         128.2  128.2  128.2  126.2   88.2  601.0
3  3-3-  32-3-  -33--    3    --32 -2   ----33
Total                      876.2  758.2  818.2  818.2  478.2 3749.0
10/29/1990 16:37
so > 
*   X
c o
CD



ARGENT IMA
AGRICULTIWAL SERVICES AID INSTITUTIONAL
SEVELOENT PROJECT
Table 404. NEAT MARETING COWONENT
Marketing Studies and Informtion System
Detailed Cost Table
uss 000
Base Costs
*------s----- -----3-s--=3333333333a333333
1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. PLANNING                 40.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  40.0
. MARKETING STUDIES          0.0  30.0  30.0   0.0   0.0  60.0
C. INFORMATION SYSTEM       40.0  20.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  60.0
D. OFFICE EIUIPMENT         20.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  20.0
E. TRAINING                  0.0   0.0  20.0  20.0   0.0  40.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS        100.0  SO.0  50.0  20.0   0.0  220.0
3S3s33  -=3--= -3=-=- 33=3=3 3533=3  33333
Total                      100.0  50.0  50.0  20.0   0.0  220.0
<1> EC, IUSA2 md Southest Asia.
<22 Niddle East wad Latin Aerica
10/29/1990  16:37
* 0
o X
Os



ARGENTINA
AGRICLTURAL SERVICES AID INSTITUTIONAL
DEVELEOPENT PROJECT
Table 405. NEAT NARKETING CGUONENT
Export Oulity Improvamnt
Detailed Cost Toble
US$ 000
Base Costs
us7msssauzramums sss        assssusss
1991   1992   1993  1994   1995  TotaL
I. INESTNENT COSTS
A. LAS StULIES              190.0  190.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  380.0
S. LAB SERVICES             120.0  120.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  240.0
Total INVESTIENT COSTS         310.0 310.0   0.0   0.0   0.0 620.0
II. RECUlRENT COSTS
A. ADNINISTRATIVE COSTS      15.0  15.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  30.G
Total RECRRENT COSTS            15.0  15.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  30.0
Za3== Zs=3==  Mazza3 = ==-- -=-=-- ---===-
Total                       325.0  325.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  650.0 O
a-   =  -Ma        -=g   - - ----s=-----        ---rr-s-rsas
10/29/1990  16:37
-J



MIENTINA
AINILMIAL URVICES AM  IlT1UTIOUAL
DEVELOtEM  POJCT
Ttbe 40. NUEAT NAIKETII   CONPOENIT
Promtlotn of lef Ss*stitutes
Detailed Coat Taobt
ust 000
Ios Costs
1991   1992   1993   1994   1995  Totel
1. IIWSTINIIT COSTS
A. UWTICIL ACTIVITIES
Poultry                900.0  480.0  120.0    0.0    0.0 1500.0
Pork                   470.0  260.0   70.0    0.0    0.0  800.0
She_p t                270.0  130.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  4000
Sah-Tottt              1640.0  670.0  190.0    0.0    0.0 2700.0
Total INWSTNEUT COSTS        140.0  870.0  190.0    0.0    0.0 2700.0
-----n    ------   s un,  suns....   sn. ....   ...x s
Total                      1640.0  870.0  190.0    0.0    0.0 2700.0
s    uuuu ss uu s                     uu u.- uussu.us_s_u_.nsuu.sun- ...........
10/29/1990 16:37
S-
0'
as



ARERTIA
AUIORCLJUAL SERVICES ANS INSTITUTtIONL
OEWELOPIT POECT
Table 407. NEAT MRETINI  CINPrUT
mast Claaification
Detailed Cost Table
usS ODO
Ourntity                               ane Costs
3333333338333  w.umuuuu38             833u838               -ss- -3
1991  1992 1993 1994 1995 Total      1991  1992  1993  1994  1995 Total
1. IMrTEsnNT cOSTS
A. IWUSTPY REVIEW
Internatioral Cons.      0    0    3    0    0    3          0.0   0.0  36.0   0.0   0.0  36.0
Local Cam.               0   12    0    0    0   12          0.0  16.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  18.0
Adin. Support            0    6    0    0    0    6          0.0   2.4   0.0   0.0   0.0   2.4
Sub-Total                                                     0.0  20.4  36.0   0.0   0.0  56.4
S. STRATEGV
lnteational Cons.        0    0    9    0    0    9          0.C   0.0  108.0   0.0   0.0  106.0
Local Cons.              0    0    9    0    0    9          0.0   0.0  27.0   0.0   0.0  27.0
Adin. Suort              0    0    9    0    0    9          0.0   0.0   3.6   0.0   0.0   3.6
Sub-Total                                                     0.0   0.0  138.6   0.0   0.0  138.6                                                 -
C. SYSTEN DEWELOPENT
Intentional Cons.        0    0    3    0    0    3          0.0   0.0  36.0   0.0   0.0  36.0
Local Canm.              0    0    6    0    0    6          0.0   0.0  18.0   0.0   0.0  18.0
Adin Support             0    0    6    0    C    6          0.0   0.0   2.4   0.0   0.0   2.4
Sub-Total                                                     0.0   0.0  56.4   0.0   0.0  56.4
D. DATA UE
Coordinator              0    1    0    0    0    1          0.0   3.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   3.0
Progr_r                  0    3    0    0    0    3          0.0   6.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   6.0
Data Bow Specialist      0    3    0    0    0    3          0.0   5.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   5.1
Analysts                 0    3    0    0    a    3          0.0   3.9   0.0   0.0   0.0   3.9
Sub-Total                                                     0.0  18.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  18.0
rotal INVESTMENT COSTS                                               0.0  38.4  231.0   0.0   0.0  269.4
38 3333   33233333833 - 33-----
Total                                                             0.0  38.4  231.0   0.0   0.0  269.4
<1> Man-months.
10/29/1990 16:28
0



ARGENTINA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES AND INSTITUITIOHAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Toble 501. INTA RESEARCH COMPONENT
*iotechnology
Detailed Cost Table
US$ 000
Quantity                                     Base Costs
sSaRssssssssxs..ss mzzSXsZ=4=&==          ttsSsSs=ssSSSSSsS-sfs3SSS
1991  1992  1993  1994  1995 Total        1991    1992    1993    1994    1995   Total
1. INESTNENT COSTS
A. RENODELLING                         -     -     -     -      -     -       104.7     0.0     0.0      0.0     C.0   104.7
B. DETAILED DESIGN                              -     -     -                   9.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     9.0
C. EQUIPMENT d1>
Laboratories                         -     -        -     -      -       315.0   135.0   75.0    50.0    15.0  590.0
Office equipent                   4      3     0     0     0      7        4.0    15.0     0.0     0.0      0.0    19.0
Sub-Total                                                                 319.0   150.0    75.0   50.0    15.0  609.0
D. VEHICLES                             2     0     0     0     0      2       30.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    30.0
E. NICRO-COMPUTER 01>                   3     2     1    0      0      6       18.0    12.0     6.0     0.0      0.0    36.0
F. LAS FURNITURE                       -     -     -     -      -     -         3.5     3.5    12.5     0.0      0.0    19.5
G. SPECIALIZED TRAINING                                                                                                                                         S
Post-Doctoral                      2     2     2     2     0      8       50.0    50.0   50.0    50.0       0.0   200.0
Special overseas training         4      3     5     4     2    18        34.6    26.0    43.3   34.6    17.3   155.9                                       1
Expert visits                     -     -     -     -                     10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0      0.0    40.0
Sub-Totel                                                                  94.6    86.0   103.3    94.6    17.3   395.9
H. EaUIPNENT SERVICING                       -     -     -      -     -         0.0    15.9    23.4    27.2    29.7    96.3
Totsl INVESTMENT COSTS                                                           578.8   267.4   220.2   171.8   62.0  1300.4
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. OUILD;H  MAINTENANCE                -     -     -     -      -     -         0.0     0.0      1.6     1.6     1.6     4.7
S. CHEUICAL SUPPLIES <1>               -     -     -     -      -     -       150.0   126.0   126.0   .-6.0   106.u   624.0
C. VEHICLE 01K                          2     2     2     2      2    10        3.0     3.0     3.0      3.0     3.0    15.0
D. INCRENENTAL STAFF <2>
Profossiorm1 - Casteler           13    39    52   6S    65   234         10.4    31.2    41.6    52.0    52.0   187.2
Professional - Regionrl           13    13    13   13    13    65         10.4    10.4    10.4    10.4    10.4    52.0
Tachnical - Castelar              13    13    13   13    13   65           6.5     6.5     6.5     6.5      6.5    32.5
Sub-Total                                                                  27.3    48.1    58.5    68.9    68.9   271.7
E. TRAVEL ALLOUACE                      1     1     1     1      1    5         1.0     1.0      1.0     1.0    1.       5.0
F. AIR TRAVEL                           2     2     2     2     2    10         0.6     0.6     0.6     0.6      0.6     3.0
G. OTHER OPERATING COST                -     -     -     -      -     -        34.0    34.0    34.0    34.0    34.0   170.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                            215.9   212.7   2Z4.7   225.1   215.1  1093.4
Total                                                                         794.7  480.1  144.9  396.9  277.1  2393.81                                   a la .
41> Details In Tech File.                                                                                                                                     me3 
,23 Nan-mnnths (13 per year)
10/29/1990  16:29                                                                                                                                           oN 
'4D



ARGENTINA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES AND INSTITUTIONAL
DEVELOPENET PROJECT
Table 502. INTA RESEARCH CON ONENT
Ubol Labs: Bari loche nd Ramson
Detailed Cost Table
USS 000
Quentity                                    ease Costs
1991  1992  1993  1994  1995 Total       1991    1992   1993   1994   1995   Total
I. INVESTNENT COSTS
A. BARILOCHE EQUIPhENT
Basic equlpment 0-                  - -   -     -                   245.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  245.0
Special equipment             -     -     -        -        -       120.7  118.2    0.0    0.0    0.0  236.9
Freight and Set Up            -     -     -                 -        1.0   57.5      0.0    0.0    0.0   56.5
Coaipter                      -     -     -    -      -    -          0.0   20.0      0.0    0.0    0.0   20.0
General Service               -     -           -                     0.0    16.5    0.0    0.0    0-0   16.5
Vehicles                            -                                 0.0   45.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   45.0
Sub-Total                                                           366.7  257.2    0.0    0.0    0.0  623.9
B. RAUSON EQUIPNENT
Special Equipont              -       -     -     -                   6.5   56.3    0.0    0.0    0.0   62.8
Other eoWipment               -           -     -     -    -          2.7   30.3    0.0    0.0    0.0   33.0
Info & Coam.                 -            -     -     -     -        0.0    12.5    0.0    0.0    0.0    12.5
Sub-Total                                                              9.2   99.1      0.0    0.0    0.0  106.3
C. EQJIPNENT SERVICING
Bsriloche                     -     -     -    -      -    -          0.0     0.0   18.3   31.2   31.2    80.7
Ramson                        -     -     -                           0.0     0.0    0.5    5.4    5.4    11.3
Sub-Total                                                              0.0     0.0    18.8   36.6   36.6   92.0
D. UOOL LAB. BARILOCHE             -    -      -     -    -    -         114.5   114.5    0.0    0.0    0.0   229.0
E. WOOL LAB. RAWSON                -     -     -     -           -         0.0   128.8   128.8    0.0    0.0  257.6
F. TRAINING
Training abroad '6>            1    0     0      0     0     1       26.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   26.0
Specific Courses c6           0      1     1     1     1    4         0.0    12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   48.0
Sub-Total                                                             26.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   74.0
G. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE            0     0      0     1     1    2         0.0     0.0    0.0    12.0   12.0   24.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                     516.4  611.6  159.6   60.6   60.6  1406.8
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. INCRENENTAL STAFF
Professional                  13   52    52   52    52  221          10.4   41.6   41.6   41.6   41.6  176.8
Technicat                    39   104   130   130   130  533         19.5   52.0   65.0   65.0   65.0  266.5
Adinistrative                  0    26    78   91    91   286         0.0    10.4   31.2   36.4   36.4   114.4                                  .d ,- 
Sub-Total                                                            29.9  104.0  137.8  143.0  143.0  5S7.7
S. UILDING MAINTEUANCE                                                                                                                                  1   x
Building                                  -    -                      0.0    0.0      1.7    3.4    3.4    8.6
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                       29.9  104.0  139.5  146.4  146.4  5663 
====== ==-  -=.=... x=-==  =a===.= 3=33=                                      40
Total                                                                    546.3   715.6   299.1  207.0  207.0  1975.1
.333.. 33.      3-.3........... . =.=....===== =......



aiENUTIA
aMRICIUTURAL SERVICES Am1 IUSTITUTIONAL
KVELOPHENT PtOJECT
Tsbt- 503. IOTA RESEARCN CtXG NT
Poet-Harwvst Physiotogy of Fruits *nd Vegetablo
Detailed Cost Toble
US$ 000
Cumnti ty                                   San" Csts
1991  1992  1993  1994  1995 Totat       1991    1992    1993    1994    1995   Total
1. IN ESTINT COSTS
A. CONSTEUCTIo  *1>                -     -     -     -      -     -      1196.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0  1196.0
B. EWUIPNEMT
Laboratory                    -     -     -     -     -      -       273.1  526.6  100.0    0.0        0.0   899.7
Office                        -     -     -     -      -     -         0.0    18.5     0.0     0.0     0.0    18.5
Library                       -     -     -     -     -      -        5.5      5.5     5.5     5.5     S.S   27.5
Sub-Total                                                             278.6  550.6  105.5    5.5        5.5   945.7
C. VEHICLES <2>                    -     -     -     -      -     -        28.0   56.0      0.0     0.0     0.0    84.0
D. TRAINING AIRAD- -                     -           -            -        60.0   93.0      9.0    32.0    0.0   194.0
E. STUDY ToW S                     -     -     -     -      -               0.0     6.0   24.0    27.0      1.0   S8.0
F. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE d3>        -     -     -     -     -      -         0.0     0.0    12.0   18.0    0.0   30.0
C. EJUIPMENT SERVICING             -     -     -     -      -     -         0.0   13.7   40.0   45.0   45.0   143.6
Total INVESTNENT COSTS                                                      15M.6  719.3  190.5   127.5   51.5  2653.3
II. REaRIENT COSTS
A. UUILDING MAINTENANCE            -     -      -     -     -     -         0.0     0.0    18.0   18.0   15.0   53.9
B. VEHICLES MAINTENANCE            -     -      -     -     -               2.8     6.4     8.4     8.4     0.4    36.4
C. INCREENTAL STAFF <4?
Proftessional                 26    26    26    39    39   156        20.8    20.8    20.8    31.2    31.2   124.6
Technical                     13   13   39    39    39   143           6.5     6.5    19.5    19.5    19.5    71.5
Adainistrative                13   26    39    39    39   156          5.2   10.4    15.6    15.6   1S.6   62.4
Sut-Total                                                              32.5    37.7   55.9    66.3    66.3   25S.?
0. OTHER
Air Tickets                   -     -      -     -     -               1.6     1.6     3.2     3.2     2.4    12.0
Travel Allowence              -    -      -            -     -         2.7     2.7    4.5      6.6     6.6   23.1
Sub-Total                                                               4.3     4.3     7.7    9.8      9.0   35.1
Total REaRRENT COSTS                                                          39.6   50.4   90.0   102.5  101.7  364.1
z...       ..= nu...f.    s.nw..... U.ssSfl ......
Total                                                                    1604.2  769.7  280.5  230.0  153.2  3037.4
SSSaSS SUUSU--*-S-SUSSUSuS*ZflmuuuflflsSu*gfitsuuufluus-ssssfsususnn=uu=sssnsnasuuussusus.uun.n.asa. n.unu.n
<1 Design completed.
<2> Pickup with fruit crates, 1-1.2 ton capKcity.
<3' Experts in *pples/peers. toble gropes, stone fruit and citrus.
<4 Mn-months (13 per year).                                                                                                                                  oo la n
10/29/1990  16:34                                                                                                                                          w     X
I.o-
'0 



RENTINI
AaiLOTURAL SERVICES AND INSTITUTIOAAL
DEMLOPNENT PROJECT
TabL* S04. INTA RESEARCN COONPCET
Forstry
Detailed Cost Table
US$ 000
Quantity                                  Dess Costs
UU-UU*SUZUUUSUUSSZZZSUUUUUZUUUU    ZZUUUUUgUUUUUgSUSUUU axS.. .  .- -.. -..-..
1991 1992 1993  1994  1995 Total       1991   1992   1993   1994   1995  TotaL
1. INWSTINET COSTS
A. UILDING  1                                -        -    -    -          0.0  468.6    0.0    0.0    0.0  468.6
B. EWUIPNENT *1
Laboratory                      -    -    -    -    -    -            0.0  174.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  174.0
Technical                       -    -    -    -    -    -           63.7    8.5    0.0    0.0    0.0   72.2
Coeuting                        -    -    -           -     -        67.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   67.0
Office                          -    -    -    -    -    -            0.0   53.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   S3.0
Other (Field)                                                         2 -    -    -    -    -  20.0   20.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   40.0
Sub-Totat                                                             150.7  255.5    0.0    0.0    0.0  486.2
C. vENICLES
Cars                             2    0    0    0    0    2           15.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   15.0
Pickip                           2    2    0    0    0    4           33.0   33.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   66.0                                        U
Bats                             1    0    0    0    0    1           25.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   25.0
Sul-Total                                                              73.0   33.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  106.0
0. EQUIPMENT SERVICING                  -       -    -    -    -           0.0    7.5   20.3   20.3   20.3   66.5
E. TRAINING
Post-Doctoral                    1    3    2    0    0    6           15.0   45.0   30.0    0.0    0.0   90.0
Special Courses                  0    1    1    1    0    3            0.0    7.5    7.5    7.5    0.0   22.5
Short Cowseus                   -    -    -    -    -    -            64.5    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   64.5
$Lb-Total                                                              79.5   52.5   37.5    7.5    0.0  177.0
F. INTERNATIONAL CONSULTAMTS          4    0    0    0    0    4          4.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   45.0
Total INWSTIENT COSTS                                                       3S1.2  817.1   S7.8   27.8   20.3  1274.3
II. RECURENT COSTS
A. DUILDING MAINTENANCE              -    -    -    -    -    -             0.0    0.0    0.0    7.0    7.0   14.1
S. INCREMENTAL STAFF *2>
Profemsiontl                    52   52   52   52   52  260           41.6   41.6   41.6   41.6   41.6  205.0
Administrative                  39   39   39   39   39  195           15.6   15.6   15.6   15.6   15.6   76.0
Gewral Services                 65   65   65   65   65  325           19.5   19.5   19.5   19.5   19.5   97.S
Sub-Total                                                             76. 7   76.7   76.7   76.7   76.7  3635
Total RECERIENT COSTS                                                        76.7   76.7   76.7   63.7   83.7  397.6
Total                                                                    427.9  893.8  134.5  111.5  104.0  1671.6 0                                    la :U
# s"ss-# # s # s # # s ~~~~~~~~~~-                        - - - - - - - --   - -s------rt -ssws-lsssss-tstss-   
01W Detailed in Tech File.
2  Ibn-months (13 per year).                                                                                                                            O
10/29/1990  16:30                                                                                                                                      O,
Hm



ARGENT INA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES AND INSTITUTIONAL
DEVELOPNT PROJECT
Table 601. INFORUATIOU COUOUENT
Detailed Cost Table
USS 000
Quantity                                    Base Costs
nsgsflssssssssss=s==  =5. sssfl   z =s.r=r= ansss tSESSZS SSSSSSSfSfSUSS--SSSZS
1991  1992  1993  1994  1995 Totat       1991   1992    1993    1994    1995  Total
1. INVESTNENT COSTS
A. EQUIPMENT
Nardvare                 -      -     -     -     -     -       173.2    0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0  173.2
Softure                   -     -    -      -     -     -       41.1   14.2      0.0    0.0    0.0   55.3
Other Equip               -     -     -     -     -    -         26.0    0.0     0.0      0.0    0.0   26.0
Sub-Total                                                        240.3   14.2    0.0    0.0    0.0  254.5
B. EQUIPMENT SERVICING               -                                0.0   12.0   12.7   12.7   12.7   50.2
C. EXECUTING UNIT
Coordinating Advisor      12   12    0      0      0    24      21.6   21.6    0.0       0.0    0.0   43.2
Professionra  A          24   24      0     0      0    48       36.0   36.0      0.0    0.0    0.0   72.0
ProfessionaL I            12   12    0      0      0    24       15.6   15.6      0.0    0.0     0.0   31.2
Administration           60   60      0     0      0   120       24.0   24.0      0.0    0.0    0.0   48.0                                               1
Sub-Total                                                        97.2   97.2      0.0    0.0    0.0  194.4
0. TECNNICAL ASSISTAhCE        -    -      -     -     -     -       213.6  207.6      0.0    0.0    0.0  421.2
E. TRAINING                    -     -     -     -     -     -        20.0   20.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   40.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                 571.1   351.0    12.1   12.7   12.7  960.3
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. COMPUTER MATERIAL           -     -     -     -     -     -        54.2   49.2      0.0    0.0    0.0   103.4
S. AIR TICKETS                 -    -      -     -     -     -        10.0    10.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   20.0
C. TRAWEL ALLOWANCE            -     -     -     -     -     -        10.5    10.5     0.0     0.0    0.0   21.0
Total kECURRENT COSTS                                                   74.7   69.7       0.0    0.0    0.0   144.4
Total                                                                645.8  420.7    12.7   12.7   12.7  1104.7
10/29/1990 16:31
a.
Xe
0



ARGENTINA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES AND INSTITUTIONAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 701. NON-TRADITIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROMOTION COMPONENT
Detsiled Cost Table
US$ 000
auantity                                  Uose Costs
1991  1992  1993  1994  1995 Totat     1991   1992   1993   1994   1995  Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. EQUIPMENT
Computing <13                     -    -    -    -    -           24.3    3.5    0.0    0.0    0.0   27.8
Office                      -    -    -    -    -    -            23.0    7.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   30.0
Copier                      -    -    -    -    -    -            10.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   10.0
Facsimite & Made.           -    -    -    -    -    -            3.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    3.0
sub-Total                                                         60.3   10.5    0.0    0.0    0.0   70.8
S. VEHICLES                       1    0    0    0    0    1           15.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   15.0
C. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE <12
Expert Visits               -    -    -    -    -    -            33.2   99.6   99.6   99.6   99.6  431.6
Meetings Abroad             -    -    -    -    -    -           165.0  196.0  196.0  198.0  198.0  957.0
Consultants                    -    -    -         -    -        150.0  150.0  100.0   75.0   50.0  525.0
Materials                   -                                      4-    -    -    -  8.0   84.0   84.0   84.0   84.0  420.0                     1
Training                    -                                     38.0   30.0   30.0   30.0   30.0  156.0                                       I
Sub-Totat                                                         470.2  561.6  511.6  486.6  461.6 2491.6                                       w
0. EQUIPMENT SERVICING           -    -          -     -      -         0.0    3.0    3.5    3.S    3.5   13.6
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                  545.5  575.1  515.1  490.1  465.1  2591.0
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. OPERATING COSTS <1            -    -    -    -    -                 78.5   88.1   88.1   84.9   84.9  424.5
B. STAFF <2-
Technical Secretary         12   12   12   12   12   60           36.0   36.0   36.0   36.0   36.0  180.0
Technicians                 36   36   36   36   36  180           72.0   72.0   72.0   72.0   72.0  360.0
Controller                  12   12   12   12   12   60           13.2   13.2   13.2   13.2   13.2   66.0
Administrators              12   12   12   12   12   60            9.6    9.6    9.6    9.6    9.6   48.0
Admin. Assistants           12   12   12   12   12   60            7.2    7.2    7.2    7.2    7.2   36.0
Assistants                  12   12   12   12   12   60            3.6    3.6    3.6    3.6    3.6   18.0
Subr-Total                                                        141.6  141.6  141.6  141.6  141.6  106.0
C. PROMOTION FUND                -    -    -            -    -        350.0  700.0  800.0  900.0  900.0 3650.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                   570.1  929.7  1029.7  1126.5  1126.5  4782.s
Total                                                                1115.6  15o4.8  1544.8  1616.6  1591.6 7373.5
<1> Detailed in Tech File.
Q2 Man-months.
10/29/1990  1631                                                                                                                                    
X.



ARSENTINA
AlUtIOALTURAL SERVICES AhD INSTITUTIONAL
DEVEtWLINT PROJECT
TleAo 001. CENTRAL CODINATIN UNIT
Detaie d Cost Table
US$ 000
Quontity                                  Base Costs
...UUUUUUSUUZUUU3UUUUUZUUURmamms   mass=.. -                     .UEU.... .....
1991  1992  1993  1994  1995 Total     1991   1992   1993   1994   1995  Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. EW0IPUENT
Computer                      -    -                 -    -         16.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   16.0
Facsimile                     -    -           -    -               2.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    2.0
DGA-SSAGyP  1>                -    .    .    -    .    -            15.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   15.0
Sub-Total                                                           33.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   33.0
B. EOUIPMENT SERVICING             -    -          -     -    -    -     0.0    1.6    1.6    1.6    1.6    6.6
C. TECNNICAL ASSISTANCE
Institutional Expert          6    6    6    2    2   22           72.0   72.0   72.0   24.0   24.0  264.0
Other Specialists             12   12    8    0    0   32           36.0   36.0   24.0    0.0    0.0   96.0
Swb-Total                                                           108.0  108.0   96.0   24.0   24.0  360.0
D. COPDINATING UNIT STAFF                                                                                                                                  -
Coordinator                   12   12   12   12   12   60           24.0   24.0   24.0   24.0   24.0  120.0
Arme Coordinators             36   36   36   36   36  180           54.0   54.0   54.0   54.0   54.0  270.0
Administrative Supiport       36   36   36   36   36  180           14.4   14.4   14.4   14.4   14.4   72.0
Sub-Total                                                            92.4   92.4   92.4   92.4   92.4  462.0
F. STUDIES
Privitizatimn                 30   20   20    0    0   70           90.0   60.0   60.0    0.0    0.0  210.0
other                          0    0   30   21   20   71            0.0    0.0   90.0   63.0   60.0  213.0
Sib-Total                                                            90.0   60.0  150.0   63.0   60.0  423.0
F. EVALUATIO                        0    0   10    0    10   20          0.0    0.0   30.0    0.0   30.0   60.0
G. P    EOOMENENT SERVICES         -    -    -    -    -    -          1921.0  628.0  420.0  123.0   66.0 3158.0
N. AUDIT SERVICES                  6    6    6    6    6   30            18.0   18.0   13.0   18.0   18.0   90.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                   2262.4  906.0  m.o  322.0  m.0  4592.6
It. EOURECtMT COSTS
A. SUPPLiES                        -    -           -           -       20.0   20.0   20.0   20.0   20.0  100.0
S. Alt TRAVEL                      12   12   12   12   12   60           3.6    3.6    3.6    3.6    3.6   18.0
C. TRAVEL ALLOWUCES               84   64   84   84   84  420            4.2    4.2    4.2    4.2    4.2   21.0
Ttetal REoauNT COSTS                                                       27.8   27.6   27.6   27.6   27.3  139.0
Total                                                                 2290.2  935.8  835.8  349.8  319.6 4731.6
1> Acinietrat itln Dept. of the Sec. of Agriculture.
10129/1990  16:31
33H



- 155 -                                 Annex 11
Appendix 13
ARCINTIN
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES AND INSTITUTIOA  DEWRLOPIEEU? PROJECT
Eaimated BcedueofSnkDeUSrunte
(USS million)
Disbur ement       Cumulative         Balance of
FY Fnd of Samoater         Dgrina Semcmter    -AMut-                -Loz
FY 1991                              1/
June 30, 1991                     3.5              3.5                 30.0
FY 1992
Docember 31, 1991                 1.4              4.9                 28.6
June 30, 1992                     1.4              6.3                 27.2
TY 1993
December 31, 1992                  1.9              8.2                25.3
June 30, 1993                      2.0             10.2                23.3
FY 1994
December 31, 1993                  2.5             12.7                20.8
June 30, 1994                      3.0             15.7                17.8
FX 1995
December 31, 1994                  3.2             18.9                14.6
June 30, 1995                      3.6             22.5                11.0
FY 1996
Docember 31, 1995                  3.6             26.1                 7.4
June 30, 1996                      3.3             29.4                 4.1
FY 1297
December 31, 1996                  1.4             30.8                 2.7
June 30, 1997                      1.2             32.0                 1.5
FY 1998
December 31, 1997                  0.9             32.9                 0.6
Juno 30, 1998                      0.6             33.5                 0.0
I/    Includings  Initial Depocit in Special Account-USS2.0 million, and
refinancing of PPF-US$0.5 million.



ShIZATIM  mWT E  IM M910kAL                  Ji
0 .I,t.   i,c..e         0  oort             f        O  co..         D D-t.eco..    D .t~t.           0. . tor..          ..a         Dn..ai.i   -...oI            Cn.
rsUi-sof.Xtyl~o
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ L|--                                                 A. |C
of  of        of L.,I       A.'ic..Ito..~~I 4..I U. *od    If PI..             f      f                    Dir.t.t-          .~~.    Di..oto.sta. ,oo
at                         A.                         Cotrol of                             o                              Ofof
A.i-I               -                                                                                        C. ni ol  P  bwl
ht;o*-l                                       O;r c oratz                                Dir-c ora.cti                                O;raLi ordo
t.~~~~0
0D-02/OS-OS r2-0602-1 e2-1402-1                 OSS A l  0at            Fhw_                           rul0
!* ~ ~ ~ ~   ~        ~        ~        ~       ~        ~       ~       ~ ~ ~ **
Di"b" ~ ~ ~  ~          ~          ~          ~         ~          ~         ~         ~        ~         "
l  l  l                         l ~~~~~~~~~cm'l                02- _ /02-ii 
I~~~~~~~ I                      F  iel                                                               I|                         I                         |0
L :                               ~~~~~~~~~~1-0/0-12c    02 2/-1                                            F0a  16da                                                         .t I  I
o ol. o^|  F;irl1|02X/e2ll| 02-l/2_11l           |e    |        1
-lo  gLsv;s-ll02/lall02l7{02lal   1aS<a.1   g   |           g    -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I-
101-02/02-031 |02-es/02-lll |02-14/02-lb| | INTA | | JIIC a Io   t.



-157-                                        Annex 12
Chart
Page 2 of 2
L         I
lii) I 1 aH ff~~~~I 0f c  



- 158 -
AGRICUT       SZLKRVICEU AND INITITUTI NLDZVZLOPI  PROJECT
List of Documents in the TeChniCal Pu.O
1. Argentina:  Agricultural Services Project (3 volumes),
Report No. 90/89-CP/ARG 12PD, dated 8 June 1989, FAO/World Bank
Cooperative Programme, Investment Center
2.    "P=?oyecto de Credito Global para la Modernizacion del Sector Pesquero"
(6 volumes), dated September 1989, Convenio SAGyP/IICA
3.    "Anexos Tecnicos  (8)", Secretaria de Agricultura, Ganaderia y Pesca,
Subsecretaria de Economia Agraria. Mayo 1990. Entitled "Salud Animal;
Sanidad Vegetal; Desarrollo Institucional; INTA; IFONA; Junta Nacional de
Carnes; Sistema de Informacion; Promocion do Exportaciones (PROMEX).



aNx 14
- 159 -
ARGENTINA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJZCT
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYM$
AOP         Annual Operating Plan
(Plan Operativo Anual)
A8L         Agricultural Sector Loan (Ln. 2675-AR)
(Pr6stamo Sectorial Agropecuario)
BNA         Bank of the Argentine Nation
(Banco de la Naci6n Argentina)
BANADE      Argentine Development Bank
(Banco Nacional de Desarrollo)
CAFI        Argentine Chamber of Integrated Fruit Growers
(Clmara Argentina de Fruticultores Integrados)
cCWU        Central Coordination and Management Unit (Project)
(Unidad de Coordinaci6n)
CIATI       Rio Negro Industrial Research Center (INTI)
(Centro de Investigaci6n y Tecnologia Industrial)
cICV        Veterinary Disease Center (INTA)
(Centro de Investigaci6n y Tecnologia de Carnes)
CIEF        Forestry Research and Experience Center
(Centro de Investigaci6n y Experiencia Forestal)
CITECA      Center for Technology and Research on Meat (INTI)
(Centro de Investigaci6n y Tecnologia de Carnes)
CITEMA      Wood Technology and Research Center
(Centro de Investigaci6n de Tecnologia de Madera)
CHS         Maximum Sustainable Fish Catch
(Cobecha MAxima de Peoca)
CONASA      National Animal Health Commission
(Comisi6n Nacional de Sanidad Animal)
CONASE      National Seed Council
(Comisi6n Nacional de Semillas)
DICOM       National Directorate for Diagnostic Control and Methods (SENASA)
(Direcci6n Nacional de Diagn6stico, Control y M6todos)
EC          European Community
(Comunidad Europea)
WUm         Epidemiology and Training Unit (SENASA)
(Servicio Nacional de Sanidad Animal)
PAO/WS CP   Food and Agriculture Organization/World Bank Investment Center
(Centro de Inversi6n FAO/Banco Mundial
PHD         Foot and Mouth Disease
(Aftoca)
ODA         General Directorate of Administration (SSAGyP)
(Direcci6n General de Administraci6n)
ICa         International Competitive Bidding
(Licitaci6n Internacional)



AMEX 14
- 160 -
IDS         Inter-American Development Bank
(Banco Interamericano de Deaarrollo)
IFONA       National Forestry Institute
(Instituto Forestal Nacional)
Zica        Inter-American Institute for Agricultural Cooperation
(Instituto Interamericano de Coopersci6n para la Agricultura)
INIDP       National Fisheries Research and Development Institute
(Instituto Nacional de Investigaci6n y Desarrollo Pesquero)
INTA        National Institute for Agricultural Technology
(Inatituto Nacional de Tecnologla Agropecuaria)
INTl        National Institute for Industrial Technology
(Inatituto Nacional de TecnologSa Industrial)
IPN         Integrated Pest Management
(Manejo Integral de Control de Plagas)
JNC         National Meat Board
(Junta Nacional de Carnes)
LCB         Local Competitive Bidding
(Licitaci6n Local)
NBC         Ministry of Economy
(Ministerio de Economia)
NDAP        National Directorate of Agriculturai Policy
(Direcci6n Nacional de Politica Agropecuaria)
NDAS        National Directorate of Agricultural Service.
(Direcci6n Nacional de Servicios Agropecuarios)
NDF         National Directorate of Maritime Fisheries
(Direcci6n Nacional de Posca Maritima)
NDNR        National Directorate of Natural Resources
(Direcci6n Nacional de Recursos Naturales)
PAC         Project Advisory Committee
(Comit6 de Asesoria para el Proyecto)
PANAFTOSA   Pan American Foot-and Mouth Disease Center, Rio de Janeiro
(Centro Panamericano de Fiebre Aftosa)
PiU         Project Component Management Units
(Unidad Ejecutora)
PIs         Plant Inspection Service
(Servicio de Inspecci6n Vegetal)
PPp         Project Preparation Facility
(Servicio de Financiamiento para Preparaci6n de Proyectoe)
PPS         Plant Protection Service
(Direcci6n Nacional de Commercializacion y Fiscalizacion Agricola)
8SLAN       National Animal Laboratory Service
(Servicio Nacional de Laboratorios Pecuarios)
SILSA       Animal Disease Control Field Service
(Direcci6n Nacional de Luchas Sanitarias)
SENASA      National Animal Health Service
(Servicio Nacional de Sanidad Animal)
SIIAP       Agriculture and Livestock Information System (SSAGyP)
(Sistema Integrado de Informaci6n Agropecuaria y Pesquera)
SIPA        Livestock and Meat Sanitary Inspection Service
(Servicio de Inspecci6n Sanitaria Pecuaria)



AN  14
- 161 -
8NKySR      National Economics and Rural Sociology Service (SSAGyP)
(Servicio Nacional de Economia y Sociologia Rural)
soz         Statement of Expenditure
(Declaraci6n de Gastos)
SSAOyP      Subsecretariat of Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries
(Subuecretaria de Agricultura, Ganaderia y Pesca)
SOP         Statement of Policy
(Plan de Estrategias)
8SIC        Subsecretariat of Commerce and Industry
(Subsecretaria de Industria y Comercio)






IBRD 22436
' 0        BOLIVIA          /       '- V                                  -
\  LmdmTh*  ocsi1 . ,2I  
L.-JUJcUY\,9         
Co  I  (,  (J   1   ;   '  PARAGUAY
. LT   SALTAX /      ORMOSSI               /  B R A Z I L
ATAMA RC   TucMAN         HAC3L
.-b , /     SANTIAGO I RI95TINCi  hdi     iONES
| r J/SA SAN
=  U     R     U     G     U     A      Y    12UUGUA
CHILE               SAN.
SAt   RlONTAR AAGRICULTURESERVICES
z      C   v$z>^                   ~AND
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
 \   P9@ooorlrnzPROJECT
t)~~~~~~~~~  gs - -
i,     Fi,,O                                   Arm at_ OwP
* 1W    E1W~ ~ ~~~lw r                                     lw*"lowf
>5\SANTA 
~~ b 1W            ~~~TIERRA DEL
,.,,. 1W -wE
FUEGO
WIE 1W S1W         -                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~l(ILOMITESS 0  S  0
-  w                                                                                   -
JUNE 199O



