Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3297 AR
(Agricultural Services and Institutional Development Project)
between
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
 INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated August 13, 1991
LOAN NUMBER 3297 AR
 LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated August 13, 1991, between THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Inter-American Development Bank 
(IDB) a loan (the IDB Loan) in an amount equivalent to at least thirty million dollars 
($30,000,000) to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth 
in an agreement (the IDB Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and 
IDB; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 
deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
      (a)   "BNA" means Banco de la Nacion Argentina, the Bank of the Argentine Nation 
of the Borrower;
      (b)   "CCMU" means the central coordination and management unit to be 
established within SSAGyP (as hereinafter defined) pursuant to Section 6.01 (e) of 
this Agreement;
      (c)   "EPF" means the export promotion fund referred to in Section 3.09 of this 
Agreement;
      (d)   "ETU" means the epidemiology and training unit within SENASA referred to 
in Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
      (e)   "FBNA" means Fundacion Banco de la Nacion Argentina, the non-profit 
foundation established and maintained by BNA;
      (f)   "INTA" means Instituto Nacional de Tecnologia Agropecuaria, the National 
Institute for Agricultural Technology of the Borrower;
      (g)   "INIDP" means Instituto Nacional de Investigacion y Desarrollo Pesquero, 
the National Fisheries Research and Development Institute of the Borrower;
      (h)   "JNC" means Junta Nacional de Carnes, the National Meat Board of the 
Borrower;
      (i)   "NDF" means Direccion Nacional de Pesca Maritima, the National Directorate 
of Maritime Fisheries of SSAGyP;
      (j)   "Participating Agencies" means collectively BNA, FBNA, INTA, INIDP, JNC 
and SENASA;
      (k)   "PMU" means each of the temporary project management units to be 
established in accordance with Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
      (l)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated March 18, 
1988 and May 4, 1988 between
the Borrower and the Bank;
      (m)   "PPS" means Direccion Nacional de Comercializacion y Fiscalizacion 
Agricola, the Plan Protection Service of SSAGyP;
      (n)   "Province" means one of the Provinces, a political sub-division of the 
Borrower;
      (o)   "SENASA" means Servicio Nacional de Sanidad Animal, the National Animal 
Health Service of the Borrower;
      (p)   "SENASE" means Servicio Nacional de Semillas, the National Seed Service of 
SSAGyP;
      (q)   "SELSA" means Direccion Nacional de Luchas Sanitarias, the Animal Disease 
Control Field Service of SENASA;
      (r)   "SNEySR" means Servicio Nacional de Economia y Sociologia Rural, the 
National Economics and Rural Sociology Service of SSAGyP;
      (s)   "SOP" means the statement of policy of each Participating Agency, 
satisfactory to the Bank, referred to in Sections 3.01 (b) and 3.12 of this Agreement;
      (t)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
Page  3
this Agreement;
      (u)   "SSAGyP" means Subsecretaria de Agricultura, Ganaderia y Pesca, the 
Subsecretariat of Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries of the Borrower;
      (v)   "SSIC" means Subsecretaria de Industria y Comercio, the Subsecretariat of 
Industry and Commerce of the Borrower; and
      (w)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means the agreements to be entered into 
between the Borrower and INTA, INIDP and SENASA pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules to each of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of thirty three million five 
hundred thousand dollars ($33,500,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds 
of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such 
withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall
thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
           (ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 
Page  4
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of 
this Section.
          (iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice to 
the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the 
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest 
Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c)  (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 
1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on March 
15 and September 15 in each year. 
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through SSAGyP with the assistance of SSIC and the Participating 
Agencies as described in the Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement, with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and 
engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   The Borrower shall onlend part of the proceeds of the Loan to INTA, INIDP 
and SENASA, for purposes of carrying out Parts F, D and A of the Project, 
respectively, under Subsidiary Loan Agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, to be 
entered into between the Borrower, through SSAGyP, and INTA, INIDP and SENASA, 
respectively, such Subsidiary Loan Agreements to include, inter alia, the
obligation of SSAGyP, INTA, INIDP and SENASA to carry out their activities in 
accordance with each respective SOP.
      (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under any of the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements or any provision thereof.
      (d)   The Borrower shall take all action necessary to enable INTA, INIDP and 
SENASA to carry out their obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements, including, 
but not limited to, the obligation to repay their respective loans.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
      Section 3.03. In order to assist SENASA in carrying out of Part A of the 
Project, the Borrower shall cause SENASA to maintain a planning unit and an 
Page  5
epidemiology and training unit (ETU), with staff and functions satisfactory to the 
Bank.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall establish within PPS and SNERySR and thereafter 
maintain, and shall cause SENASA, INTA, JNC and INIDP to establish and thereafter 
maintain, a project management unit (PMU), with staff and functions satisfactory to 
the Bank.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, through SSAGyP, enter into an agreement, 
satisfactory to the Bank, with BNA and FBNA, for the purposes of setting up the 
responsibilities of each of the parties and of SSIC in the carrying out of Part H of 
the Project, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive such agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause SSAGyP to: (i) maintain a central 
coordination and management unit (CCMU), with staff and functions satisfactory to the 
Bank, such unit to be responsible for the coordination of the carrying out of the 
Project; and (ii) establish and thereafter maintain a project advisory committee 
(PAC), to be headed by the subsecretary of SSAGyP and to meet at least three times 
during any specific calendar year, the first meeting to take place not later than 
ninety days after the Effective Date, such PAC to be responsible, inter alia, for 
resolving the problems related to the coordination of the carrying out of the Project 
among SSAGyP, SSIC and the Participating Agencies.
      Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause, through SSAGyP:
            (i)
each of the Participating Agencies to prepare and present to CCMU, 
by not later than October 30 of each year, until the Project has 
been completed, an annual operating plan in form satisfactory to 
the Bank; and
          (ii)
CCMU to present to the Bank, by not later than November 30 of each 
year, any such plan, and to review with the Bank, and to revise in 
agreement with the Bank, if necessary, by not later than June 30 
of each year, any such plan.
      Section 3.08. The Borrower shall, without limitation to its obligations under 
Article IX of the General Conditions: (i) by not later than August 31 and February 28 
of each year, beginning in 1991, prepare and present to the Bank a report, 
satisfactory to the Bank, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the calendar semester immediately preceding; and (ii) by  not later than June 
30, 1993 and June 30, 1997, prepare and present to the Bank a report, satisfactory to 
the Bank, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project up to that 
respective date; such reports to include, inter alia, the progress achieved in meeting 
the performance targets referred to in Annex II to Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.09. The Borrower shall, for the purposes of carrying out Part H of the 
Project, and until the Project has been completed, maintain an export promotion fund 
(EPF), under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
      Section 3.10. The Borrower shall, through SSAGyP, make available to the 
Provinces and to either federal or provincial entities in the public or private 
sector, the information collected and analyzed under Part G (iii) of the Project.
      Section 3.11. The Borrower shall:
      (a)   establish and thereafter maintain a system for the generation of revenues 
for SSAGyP, satisfactory to the Bank, which shall allow SSAGyP to cover its financial 
needs to service the disbursements made under the Loan and the IDB Loan for the 
carrying out of the activities described in Parts B and C of the Project;
      (b)   cause SENASA, INTA, INDIP and JNC to establish and thereafter maintain a 
system for the generation of revenues for such entities, satisfactory to the Bank, 
which shall allow any such entity to cover its respective financial needs to service 
the Loan and the IDB Loan;
      (c)   review with the Bank, by not later than November 30 of each year, starting 
on November 30, 1991, the effectiveness of such system; and
      (d)   by not later than January 1 of the year following any such review, take 
all actions necessary to implement the changes in the system as agreed between the 
Borrower and the Bank.
Page  6
      Section 3.12. The Borrower shall cause JNC to carry out its activities in 
accordance with a statement of policy satisfactory to the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained separate 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
           (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
           (ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
          (iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
           (iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals. 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, provided, however, that if the event 
specified in paragraph (c) below shall have occurred and be continuing, the suspension 
of the Borrower's right to make withdrawals from the Loan Account may be limited by 
the Bank to withdrawals in respect of the Project expenditures related to the 
Participating Agency affected by such event:
      (a)   The IDB Loan Agreement shall have failed to become effective by six months 
after the Effective Date, or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided, however, 
that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to 
the satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for the Project are available to the 
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of 
the Borrower under this Agreement.
Page  7
      (b)   (i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
 
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
grant or loan made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated 
in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement 
providing therefor, or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
           (ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused 
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations 
under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement.
      (c)   INTA or INDIP or SENASA shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under each respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
      (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment or the suspension of the operations 
of any Participating Agency.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) or (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur;
      (b)   the event specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (d) (ii) of that Section; 
and
      (c)   the event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
      (a)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower, through SSAGyP, and INTA, INIDP and SENASA, respectively;
      (b)   the agreement referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement has been 
executed on behalf of the Borrower, through SSAGyP, and BNA and FBNA;
      (c)   EPF has been established and the executive director and the technical 
director responsible for the administration of the activities under Part H of the 
Project have been hired by SSAGyP, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank;
      (d)   the IDB has approved the IDB Loan;
      (e)   CCMU has been established and has been staffed, to the satisfaction of the 
Bank;
      (f)   all actions have been taken by the Borrower in order to permit the 
procurement of goods, works and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred to in this Agreement; and
      (g)   JNC has adopted an SOP satisfactory to the Bank.
      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
Page  8
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
      (a)   that each of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements has been duly authorized or 
ratified by INTA, INIDP and SENASA, respectively, and is legally binding upon the 
Borrower and INTA, INIDP and SENASA, respectively, in accordance with its terms;
      (b)   that the actions referred to in paragraph (f) of Section 6.01 of this 
Agreement have been taken;
      (c)   that the agreement referred to in paragraph (b) of Section 6.01 of this 
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by all parties thereto, and is legally 
binding upon the Borrower and BNA and FBNA in accordance with its terms;
      (d)   that EPF and CCMU have been duly established; and
      (e)   that the SOP referred to in Section 6.01 (g) of this Agreement has been 
duly adopted by JNC.
      Section 6.03. The date November 12, 1991 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministerio de Economia
            Hipolito Yrigoyen 250
            Buenos Aires, Argentina
            Cable address:                  Telex:
                  MINISTERIO ECONOMaA       121952
                  BAIRES
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                  Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                 197688 (TRT)
                  Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                             82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Buenos Aires, Argentina, as of
the day and year first above written.
                  THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
                  By /s/ Domingo Cavallo
Page  9
Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                  By /s/ Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works,               4,600,000        100%, net of taxes
    except for
    expenditures
    incurred by
    SENASA
(2) Laboratory                 4,900,000        100%, net of taxes
    equipment,
    except for
    expenditures
    incurred by
    SENASA
(3) Vehicles                   4,900,000        100%, net of taxes
(4) Consultants'               5,400,000        100%, net of taxes
    and Auditors'
    services
(5) Studies                    1,000,000        100%, net of taxes
(6) Training                   1,300,000        100%, net of taxes
(7) Recurrent                  9,107,500        100%, (net of
    costs                                       taxes) up to
                                                an aggregate
                                                amount of
                                                $2,000,000;
                                                80% up to an
                                                aggregate
                                                amount of
                                                $4,000,000;
                                                60% up to an
                                                aggregate
                                                amount of
                                                $6,000,000;
                                                40% up to an
                                                aggregate
                                                amount of
                                                $8,000,000 and
                                                20% of such costs
                                                thereafter
(8) Expenditures               1,800,000        100% of dis-
    made by EPF                                 bursements made
    under Part H                                by EPF
Page  10
    (ii) of the
    Project
(9) Refunding of                 492,500        Amount due pur-
    Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
    tion Advance                                2.02 (c) of this
                                                Agreement
         TOTAL                33,500,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "recurrent costs" means payments 
made for incremental operating costs, to the extent that such costs are incurred for 
purposes of the Project.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
      (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except 
that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $1,500,000, 
may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after 
May 1, 1990;
      (b)   payments made for expenditures under:
            (i)
Part B of the Project, unless the Bank has received signed 
agreements entered into between the Borrower and each of the 
Provinces which shall participate in the respective campaigns and 
that the Borrower has taken all measures necessary to make 
available to SSAGyP the funds collected by SSAGyP for its 
phytosanitary services, to the satisfaction of the Bank;
           (ii)
Part D (v) of the Project, unless INIDP has acquired the effective 
possession of the lands necessary for the construction of the 
facilities referred to in such Part of the Project, to the 
satisfaction of the Bank; and
          (iii)
Part D (i) of the Project, unless the Borrower has put into effect 
mechanisms, satisfactory to the Bank, to ensure to INIDP the 
possibility of recovering its costs related to its fishery 
resource monitoring activities through a system of fishing 
permits;
      (c)   payments for expenditures made by the Borrower, through SSAGyP, unless 
SSAGyP:
            (i)
has adopted a cost accounting system and a standard chart of 
accounts for its PPS activities, satisfactory to the Bank;
           (ii)
has established and staffed two PMUs, one within PPS and another 
within SNEySR, and has appointed their coordinators, to the 
satisfaction of the Bank;
          (iii)
has presented to the Bank, for its review, the tender documents 
for the procurement of the civil works, goods and services 
referred to in Part A and in paragraph 1 of Part B of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement for the first year of the execution of the 
Project; and
           (iv)
has adopted mechanisms, satisfactory to the Bank, to recover the 
costs of the activities related to the Project carried out by PPS 
and SENASE, in order to achieve the objectives stated in its SOP.
      (d)   payments for expenditures made by SENASA, INTA or INIDP, unless any such 
entity:
            (i)
has adopted a cost accounting system (an accounting system in the 
case of INIDP), and a standard chart of accounts, satisfactory to 
the Bank, provided, however, that they shall cover only the wool 
laboratory analysis activities in the case of INTA;
           (ii)
has established and staffed a PMU and has appointed its 
coordinator, to the satisfaction of the Bank;
Page  11
          (iii)
has presented to the Bank, for its review, the tender documents 
for the procurement of the civil works, goods and services 
referred to in Part A and in paragraph 1 of Part B of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement for the first year of the execution of the 
Project; and
           (iv)
has adopted mechanisms, satisfactory to the Bank, to recover their 
costs related to the Project, in order to achieve the objectives 
stated in their respective SOP;
      (e)   payments for expenditures made by JNC; and
      (f)   payments for expenditures for goods or works supplied under a contract 
which any national or international financing institution or agency other than the 
Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to improve the Borrower's capability to 
develop an effective system for the export of agricultural products and to coordinate 
more effectively with the Provinces the provision of agricultural services.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:     Animal Health Services
            (i)
strengthening of SENASA's central services through the 
establishment and staffing of ETU and PMU and the provision of 
training and the acquisition and utilization of equipment;
           (ii)
strengthening of SELSA's field services, through the provision of 
training and the acquisition and utilization of equipment and 
vehicles, and carrying out of specific disease control campaigns 
by SELSA;
          (iii)
constructing and equipping a central veterinary laboratory on the 
grounds of INTA's Castelar Station, and providing training and 
technical assistance for the staff at such veterinary laboratory; 
and
           (iv)
constructing and equipping a medium-security animal quarantine 
station at Ezeiza's Airport, in Buenos Aires.
Part B:     Phytosanitary Services
            (i)
constructing, equipping and staffing a central quarantine station 
and diagnostic laboratory in Buenos Aires, and providing training 
for the staff at such laboratory;
           (ii)
constructing and equipping small office facilities for PPS and 
acquisition and utilization of equipment and vehicles for PPS; 
          (iii)
remodelling of an existing laboratory building in Buenos Aires and 
constructing, equipping and staffing one new regional laboratory 
for pesticide residue analysis in the province of Tucuman, and 
providing training for the staff at such regional laboratory; and
           (iv)
carrying out of phytosanitary barriers and disease prevention 
campaigns by PPS.
Part C:     Seeds
      Strengthening of SENASE's capabilities in the certification and registration of 
seeds, provision of technical assistance and training and acquisition and utilization 
of equipment for such purposes.
Part D:     Fisheries
Page  12
      Strengthening of the Borrower's fishery sector to expand the industry and 
exploit the Borrower's southern continental shelf, ensuring that populations of the 
main economic species are sustained at productive levels, through:
            (i)
setting up of a program in INIDP to monitor fisheries resources 
and determine maximum sustainable fish catches for the main 
commercial species, including the acquisition and utilization of 
fishing and scientific equipment; 
           (ii)
reorganizing NDF in order to improve its capacity in strategic 
planning, control and support to the private sector;
          (iii)
restructuring INIDP;
 
           (iv)
establishing the requirement of fishery licensing in order to 
cover the costs of fisheries research; and
            (v)
constructing and equipping two aquaculture centers for INIDP, one 
in Bariloche and another in Corrientes.
Part E:     Meat Marketing
      Strengthening of JNC's capabilities in promoting meat exports, vacuum-packed 
meats and substitute meat products, in changing its meat classification system and in 
analyzing financial aspects of the meat market through the carrying out of studies and 
the provision of technical assistance and the acquisition and utilization of equipment 
and materials to aid in promotional activities.
Part F:     Research Activities
            (i)
expanding of INTA's wool technology laboratory at Bariloche and 
constructing and staffing a satellite, provincial laboratory at 
Rawson, including the acquisition and utilization of laboratory 
and computing equipment and the provision of training;
           (ii)
supporting INTA's biotechnology research capacity through 
remodelling of laboratories at Castelar, including the acquisition 
and utilization of laboratory, administrative and computing 
equipment, furniture and vehicles;
          (iii)
supporting five research groups working on post harvest technology 
of fruit and vegetable products at existing INTA research stations 
in the main production areas through the acquisition and 
utilization of equipment, supplies and vehicles, provision of 
training and construction of small warehouses and one small 
laboratory; and
           (iv)
development of techniques to improve forest plantation management 
and varieties at INTA's Concordia Station in Mesopotamia, through 
the construction of research facilities, the acquisition and 
utilization of laboratory and office equipment, vehicles and one 
boat and the provision of training.
Part G:     Information System
      Strengthening of SSAGyP's information systems to link existing independent 
sources in order to produce consistent and regular information flows, through:
            (i)
assisting the technical units within SSAGyP in the collection and 
processing of information via informatics;
           (ii)
assisting decentralized institutions in the provision and 
coordination of information flows;
          (iii)
collecting and analyzing basic statistical information on the 
agricultural sector;
           (iv)
establishing a central repository for aggregated information in 
SNEySR; and
            (v)
establishing a central support unit to assist other units of 
Page  13
SSAGyP in their use of informatics.
Part H:     Non-Traditional Export Promotion Scheme
            (i)
establishment of mechanisms to exchange specialized information on 
production, processing and marketing related to non-traditional 
agricultural products through seminars, publications and overseas 
visits; and
           (ii)
provision, through EPF, of financial resources for exporters or 
groups of exporters for (a) data searches; (b) preparation of 
feasibility studies; (c) provision of technical advice; (d) making 
pilot shipments to test markets; and (e) monitoring of such pilot 
shipments.
Part I:     Institutional Development of SSAGyP
      Strengthening of the institutional and administrative capabilities of SSAGyP in 
providing agricultural services, including, inter alia, SSAGyP's procurement 
capabilities and the strengthening of CCMU.
*   *   *   *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.
ANNEX I TO SCHEDULE 2
Agencies Executing the Project
Part of the Project                 Agencies
      A                             SENASA
      B                             SSAGyP
      C                             SSAGyP
      D                             SSAGyP and INIDP
      E                             JNC
      F                             INTA
      G                             SSAGyP
      H                             SSIC, SSAGyP, BNA and FBNA
      I                             SSAGyP
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due 
                         (expressed in dollars)*
 
On each September 15 and March 15
     beginning September 15, 1996
     through   September 15, 2007               
1,395,000
 
On March 15, 2008                               
1,415,000
 
Page  14
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                        
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a 
percentage per annum) applicable 
to 
the Loan on the day of prepayment 
multiplied by:
Not more than three years                       
0.18
     before maturity
More than three years but                       
0.35
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                         
0.65
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                  
0.88
     more than fifteen years
     before maturity
More than fifteen years before                  
1.00
     maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), and through the use of bidding 
documents, satisfactory to the Bank, which shall be consistent with the "Sample 
Bidding Documents: Procurement of Goods", published by the Bank in March 1986 and the 
"Sample Bidding Documents: Procurement of Works", published by the Bank in September 
1985.
Page  15
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for laboratory, computing and 
telecommunication equipments shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $300,000 or more.
Part B:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $2,000,000 per 
contract and goods, except vehicles, estimated to cost the equivalent of less than 
$250,000 but more than $25,000 per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank, such procedures to include, inter alia, that: (i) foreign 
contractors shall be allowed to bid for all contracts; (ii) a minimum of thirty (30) 
calendar days shall be allowed between the publication of the last advertisement and  
the opening of the bids; (iii) each bidding shall be advertised in a national 
newspaper for at least three days; and (iv) bidders shall be allowed to submit bids by 
certified mail.
2.    Goods, except vehicles, estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or less per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price 
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Bank.
Part C:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
      (a)   With respect to all contracts for civil works and vehicles and the first 
two contracts for goods to be procured under the procedures set forth or referred to 
in paragraphs B.1 and B.2 of this Schedule, respectively, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for 
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be 
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank 
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such 
contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals on the basis of 
statements of expenditure.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts F, G, H and I of the 
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and 
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants 
shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the 
Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories (except Category (9)) 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
Page  16
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
           (ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
Page  17
as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
