Report No. PID6365
Project Name                     China-Renewable Energy Development Project
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Sector                           Energy-Renewable
Project ID                       CNPE46829
Borrower                         People's Republic of China
Implementing Agency
State Economic and Trade Commission
Renewable Energy Division
Energy Conservation and Resources Utilization
Department
26 Xi Da Jie, Xuan Wu Men
Beijing 100053
People's Republic of China
Tel: 86-10-6319-3470
Fax: 86-10-6319-3460
Shanghai Municipal Electric Power Company
Department of Planning and Development
181 Nanjing Road East
Shanghai 200002
People's Republic of China
Tel:   86-21-6329-1010
Fax: 86-10-6324-8586
Environment Category             B
Project Appraised                June 28, 1998
Board Date                       June 8, 1999
Project Restructured             June 14, 2001
Date PID Updated                 November 16, 2001
1.      Country and Sector Background
Development of renewable energy is regarded by the Government of
China (GOC)as an important means to reducing the power sector's
heavy reliance on coal, which is essential to reducing
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions as well as emissions of TSP, NOx
and S02. Energy is the largest source of GHG emissions
worldwide, and China accounts for 10t of global GHG emissions
from energy use. China's share will grow if rapid rates of
economic growth continue well into the next century, as
predicted. However, macro-economic and energy modeling work
show that an aggressive program to promote energy conservation
and renewable energy could limit the increase in GHG emissions
between 1990 and 2020, under a high economic growth scenario,
from a three-fold increase to less than two-fold. Reducing
local environmental damage is also important, as annual health
and agricultural losses associated with coal-related air



pollution in China are estimated to be as high as 6 percent of
GDP.
Renewable energy is also a critical component of China's long-
term energy strategy for rural development. China has strongly
supported small hydropower(<25 MW), biogas, and small wind
turbines over the past 35 years, to provide energy and
electricity to isolated rural populations. In 1995, the GOC
voiced new commitment to renewable energy, as outlined in the
New and Renewable Energy Development Program, 1996-2010,
developed by the State Economic and Trade Commission (SETC) and
the former State Planning Commission (SPC) and State Science and
Technology Commission (SSTC). This program aims at improving
the efficiency of renewable energy technology applications,
lowering production costs and enlarging the contribution of
renewable energy to overall energy supply. The 1995 Electricity
Law also extends GOC support to solar ,wind, geothermal and
biomass energy for power. Recognizing the need for a strategic
orientation to renewable energy development, the GOC, with
Bank/GEF assistance, has undertaken sectoral analyses which has
culminated in a strategy document and two detailed sector
studies.
The project design is based on these studies, which conclude
that China needs a market-driven approach to renewable energy
development which: (i) focuses on promoting commercial or near-
commercial applications; (ii) combines international advances in
technology with demonstrated Chinese low-cost production
capabilities; and (iii) taps the large potential demand by
lowering costs and improving products, system reliability, and
consumer service. Following the recommendations of the above
sector studies, the China Renewable Energy Development Project
supports the development of the two most promising renewable
energy technologies, grid-connected wind farms and solar
photovoltaics (PV) for rural applications.
2.      Objectives
The project aims to foster development of a sustainable market
for PV technologies and demonstration of the viability of
commercial wind development in the coastal regions. In
achieving its objectives, it would use state-of-the-art and
cost-effective wind and PV technologies to supply electricity in
an environmentally sustainable way and to provide modern energy
to dispersed rural households and institutions.
The project consists of: (a) installation and operation of grid-
connected wind farms on two sites Shanghai, totaling 20 MW of
installed capacity; (b) supply of about 10 MW of PV systems to
300-400,000 households and institutions in remote areas of six
Northwestern provinces; and (c) support for technology upgrading
to improve the performance and reduce the costs of solar PV
technologies in China. Institutional strengthening is an
integral part of the project, to remove barriers to market
development and commercialization of the technologies.
3.      Description
The Project consists of three components:
Wind Farm Component. For the investment in the wind farms,
Shanghai Municipal Electric Power Company (SMEPC) would form a
special purpose wind farm company. The wind farm company would
- 2 -



be owned 35t by SMEPC, 33t by State Power Corporation of China
(SPCC) and 32t by Shanghai Power Investment Corporation (SPIC, a
subsidiary of SMEPC). The wind farms will be developed on a
commercial basis, using power purchase agreements (PPAs) that
will pave the way for private sector participation in future
wind power projects. The wind farms will be sited at Chongming
and Nanhui, Shanghai and be 14MW and 6MW of capacity,
respectively. The sites in Shanghai are small and are expected
to have relatively low capacity factors. They are intended as
highly visible demonstration projects for the coastal areas of
China, to provide evidence of the municipality's environmental
objectives and as a way to start developing a wind equipment
supply industry.
The wind farm component also includes GEF-assisted technical
assistance (TA) and capacity building would be provided to staff
of SMEPC, the wind farm companies, and others to overcome
barriers to wind farm development in areas including:
Study tours and training;
Strengthening of organizational and institutional capacity,
in the areas of finance and operations;
Wind resource assessment and wind power development
planning;
Public information and outreach.
PV Component. A direct grant would be provided to PV system
companies to assist them to market, sell, and maintain 10 MWp of
PV systems, an estimated 300-400,000 systems, in Qinghai, Gansu,
Inner Mongolia, Xinjiang, Xizang, western Sichuan and adjacent
areas. The systems are expected to be purchased mainly by
households and institutions in isolated rural areas without
access to electricity. They will be used to power lights,
radios, TVs, and other appliances. The companies will receive a
GEF grant of $1.50per Wp of PV capacity, per system with a
capacity of 10 Wp or greater. This financial support would
assist companies to: (a) improve PV product quality; (b) improve
warranties and after-sales service; (c) strengthen business
capabilities; and (d) increase marketing efforts. Competition
among companies would encourage them to reduce system costs and
improve service.
The direct grants will be complemented by support to the
companies to assist PV market development. A Project Management
Office (PMO) will manage the Program, which will overcome
barriers and develop markets for PV systems, through activities
including:
A public information campaign to give consumers objective
information about PV systems;
Capacity building to increase the commercial capabilities
of staff of PV companies;
A study to investigate the opportunity for payment
mechanisms to increase affordability (including trade-ins,
consumer financing, barter trade, etc.),development of an
action plan, and provision of financial assistance from the
GEF to implement the plan;
Market monitoring, obtaining feedback from consumers and
companies, and consumer protection activities; and,
Other activities such as small scale demonstrations in high
- 3 -



visibility locations.
While indicative budgets have been established for each of the
above activities to provide a framework, the program is flexible
and will be responsive to market developments. It will be
defined in detail on an annual basis, within a strategic
framework.
To strengthen institutional capabilities for PV quality
assurance and project management, the following TA will be
provided: (a) capacity building for product quality assurance
including establishing national PV testing and certification
centers; establishing national PV component and system
standards; and improving quality control procedures of PV
equipment suppliers; and (b) project implementation and
management, including project monitoring and evaluation.
Technology Improvement Component. The technology improvement
(TI) component supports the objectives of reducing cost and
improving quality of PV systems. It will do so by providing
financial assistance to the PV industries through:
Grant-assisted technology improvement projects. Grants
will be provided to share up to 50 percent of the costs of
investment projects. Beneficiaries will be selected
competitively, based on proposals submitted by companies or
institutions, in response to invitations that would be
issued periodically by the PMO. Proposals will be
evaluated and ranked by technical experts (including
international experts), and selected by the PMO based on
the ranking, subject to the GEF/Bank's no objection;
Grant-assisted small technology improvement projects.
There will be a quick response fund with a limited budget
that would be administered by the PMO for grant amounts for
small cost-shared projects that would provide grants of up
to $10,000 per project;
Production investment projects assisted by loans.
Concessional loans will be available to companies, through
commercial banks and assisted by SETC, for purchase of
production equipment, follow-up investments to grant-
financed activities, or other investment activities.
TA will also be provided for (a) program management, including
monitoring and evaluation, and preparation of an annual plan;
and, (b) institutional strengthening activities such as
improving capacity of staff in manufacturing companies in areas
such as contracting and legal aspects of technology transfer
agreements, and carrying out special studies needed to better
implement the project.
4.      Financing
The project costs are summarized in the table below.
Component
IBRD
Funding
million)
GEF
Funding
million
-4-



equivalen
t)
Other
Sources
million)
Total
million
Wind farm
Investment
TA
Subtotal
13.0
13.0
1.5
1.5
9.4
0.8
10.2
22.4
2.3
24.7
PV Market
Development
Investment
TA
Subtotal
15.0
7.0
22 .0
129.9
4.0
133.9
144.
9
11.0
155.
9
Technology
Improvement
-5-



Investment
TA
Subtotal
2.7
0.8
3.5
20.7
0.6
21.3
23.4
1.4
24.8
Total
13.0
27.0
165.4
205.
4
5.      Implementation
Implementation Period. The project will be implemented over
five years, from January 2002 to December 2006.
The construction of the wind farms is to be supervised by a
special purpose wind farm company to be established by SMEPC
which will also own and operate them. The wind farm technical
assistance is aimed to assist the special purpose wind farm
company and will be undertaken largely by its staff and those
assigned to work with it. The delivery of the PV component will
be by the private sector dealers participating in the project,
who will be responsible for the marketing, installation and
maintenance of the systems. The TI component will be undertaken
by the participating firms, selected by competitive bidding.
Monitoring, Evaluation and Coordination. The wind farm
component will be monitored and coordinated by SMEPC, working in
conjunction with the Planning and Investment Department of SPCC.
A Project Management Office (PMO), already operating under SETC,
is responsible for coordination of the PV and TI components,
assisted by other agencies at the central and provincial level.
The PMO is chaired by the Deputy Director General of the Energy
Utilization and Resources Conservation Department and managed by
the Project Manager in the Renewable Energy Division. SETC will
convene a group of leaders from: the Departments of Basic
Infrastructure and Foreign Capital Utilization of the State
Development and Planning Commission (SDPC); the Ministry of
Finance (MoF); the Hydropower and New Energy Development
Department of SPCC; the Department of Industries of the Ministry
of Science and Technology (MST); the Department of Environment
and Energy, Ministry of Agriculture; and, the State
Environmental Protection Agency to provide policy guidance when
- 6 -



necessary for the PV and TI components.
6.      Sustainability
Long-term sustainability of wind farms requires cost reduction,
quality improvement, as well as strengthening market mechanisms
and business capabilities. The project will contribute to this
through demonstration of procuring equipment through
international competitive bidding, and by promoting domestic
production of equipment, installation and operation in areas
where local businesses have a comparative advantage.
Sustainability of wind farm development is also promoted by
providing technical assistance to support the management of the
wind farms and technical preparatory work for further
development of large coastal sites.
For solar PV systems for rural use, sustainability is addressed
by improving product quality and after-sales service, in
addition to lowering costs and increasing affordability through
appropriate payment mechanisms. The project would require that
suppliers meet quality standards for both products and service.
To reduce costs, and improve equipment quality the project
relies on strengthened competition among suppliers and
technology improvement to support local production of high
quality, low cost modules and system components.
7.      Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
While energy sector projects in China have satisfactory or
highly satisfactory ratings, lessons learned include: (a) the
need to set specific and achievable objectives for power sector
reform; (b) the need for a systematic approach to procurement
including capacity building of implementing agencies; and, (c)
the need for early government approval of projects. These
lessons, especially those about the need for specific goals and
for a systematic approach to procurement, have been taken into
account during project design and preparation. Capacity
building of the PMO and implementing agencies in procurement has
been carried out during project preparation, and will continue
during project implementation, as needed. Also, an international
consultant has advised SP on preparation of the technical
specifications for bids and pre-qualification of suppliers in
the wind farm component.
Most of the renewable energy projects supported by the World
Bank and GEF are in the early stages of implementation.
However, lessons have been drawn from older Bank projects and
from international experience, including:
Wind Farms. The project design builds on the Bank's experience
with conventional power sector projects in China, which have (a)
achieved significant cost reduction through economies of scale
and local production of components in thermal and hydro plants;
and (b) financed utility-owned projects as a first step to
prepare PPAs and other commercial documents leading toward
private investment. The project design also incorporates
recommendations of the China: Financial Incentives Policy for
Renewable Energy Technical Assistance. The study summarized the
experience of six leading countries in wind power development.
It indicates the importance of contractual frameworks that
provide a financial incentive based on production levels (e.g.,
a premium price) combined with competition, to encourage
-7 -



efficiency and the convergence of wind power and conventional
power costs.
PV Systems. Lessons from the India: Renewable Resources
Development Project have been incorporated into the project
design including: (a) the need to strengthen the commercial
capabilities of PV companies and other participants such as
testing centers before project start-up; (b) the need to allow
use of commercial procurement practices rather than ICB, given
the small transactions involved; (c) the ineffectiveness of
providing a line of credit where there are not yet informed
consumers; (d) the need to provide financial resources directly
to PV distribution companies to expand their sales and service
networks; and (e) the importance of quality assurance procedures
and ensuring consumer satisfaction. Lessons incorporated from
other Bank projects in Indonesia and Sri Lanka are: (a) the
concerns of the key participants - PV companies and consumers -
must be taken into account; and (b) flexibility must be built
into project design so that it can be adapted to changing market
conditions during implementation. This project has been
designed in close collaboration with the PV system companies, to
allow maximum flexibility to the companies to respond to market
conditions. In addition, lessons learned from other non-Bank
projects are being incorporated in project design.
Local Adaptation and Production of Technology. The project team
noted the successful programs for renewable energy technology
development in the Netherlands, European Commission (EC), USA
and Japan. These programs all incorporate competition and cost-
sharing with industry as principles. Key lessons learned are:
(a) the importance of clear, quantified and time bound goals;
(b) the need for an active approach to solicitation of
proposals; (c) the need for constant dialogue with industries on
priorities and targets; and (d) the importance of careful
monitoring of results.
8.      Poverty Category
While the project does not explicitly address poverty
alleviation, it is expected to provide electricity services to
rural households and institutions that would otherwise not
receive services, in six provinces with substantial minority
populations and per capita rural incomes well below the national
average.
9.      Environmental Aspects
In accordance with OD 4.01 (Environmental Assessment), the
project has been assigned a Category B status by the World Bank,
and Environmental Management Plans (EMPs) have been prepared by
the Beneficiary of the Bank loan for the wind farm investment
project. The EMPs were prepared in strict accordance with World
Bank requirements. Although an Environmental Assessment (EA)
was not required, environmental analysis was performed for each
investment project by Shanghai Investigation, Design and
Research Institute as part of the wind farms' feasibility
studies.
The EMPs and environmental analysis presented in the feasibility
studies have been reviewed by the World Bank. It has been
concluded that all environmental aspects are satisfactorily
addressed and in compliance with all Chinese and World Bank
- 8 -



environmental regulations, policies and procedures. The project
has been designed and will be implemented in accordance with
modern concepts of environmental management. As part of the
EMP, a monitoring program has been prepared to assure sustained
integrity of the mitigation program.
Possible negative social impacts of wind farms were investigated
as part of the Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs) for each site
and were determined to be minimal. The two wind farm projects
would (i) require permanent acquisition of about 3.9 hectares
and temporary acquisition of about 2.5 hectares, and (ii) affect
no persons due to impact from land loss.
10.     Program Objective Category
Environmentally Sustainable Development
Contact Point:
Noureddine Berrah
Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 473-1132
Fax:   (202) 522-1648
Email: nberrah@worldbank.org
For more information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:   (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending November 30,2001
-9-



