Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4488 CHA
Project Agreement
(Renewable Energy Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SHANGHAI MUNICIPAL ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY
Dated June 26, 2001 
LOAN NUMBER 4488 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 26, 2001, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and SHANGHAI MUNICIPAL ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY (SMEPC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the People’s 
Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available 
to the Borrower an amount equal to thirteen million Dollars ($13,000,000), on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that SMEPC 
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this 
Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and SMEPC, the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made 
available to SMEPC on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement; 
(C)
by the GEF Grant Agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and 
the Bank, acting as an implementing agency of the GEF Trust Fund, GEF has agreed to 
provide a grant to the Borrower in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to twenty 
one million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 21,300,000);
(D)
by a subsidiary grant agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and SMEPC, a portion of the proceeds of the grant provided for under the GEF Grant 
Agreement will be made available to SMEPC on terms and conditions set forth in said 
Page  2
Subsidiary Grant Agreement; and
WHEREAS  SMEPC, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan Agreement 
and the GEF Grant Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations 
set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) SMEPC declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
Parts A and B of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, environmental and technical 
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and SMEPC shall otherwise agree, SMEPC shall carry out Parts A 
and B of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for Parts A and B of the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan or the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) SMEPC shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement 
and Parts A and B of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, SMEPC shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Bank and SMEPC, a plan for the continued achievement 
of the objectives of Parts A and B of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
SMEPC on said plan.
Section 2.04. SMEPC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement and the Subsidiary Grant Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, SMEPC shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of 
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or Subsidiary 
Grant Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) SMEPC shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations 
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Subsidiary Grant 
Page  3
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan and GEF Trust Fund 
Grant.
(b)
SMEPC shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan or GEF Trust Fund Grant, or the performance by SMEPC of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and 
Subsidiary Grant Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SMEPC
Section 3.01. SMEPC shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, engineering, environmental, financial and public 
utility practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. SMEPC shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, environmental, financial and technical practices.
Section 3.03. SMEPC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) SMEPC shall maintain and shall cause the Windfarm Company to 
maintain, records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices its operations and financial condition and to register separately the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
SMEPC shall:
(i)
(A) have its records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
above for each fiscal year audited, and (B) cause the Windfarm 
Company to have its records, accounts and financial statements 
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each year audited, in each case in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of said records and accounts and said Windfarm 
Company financial statements, reflecting the records and accounts 
referred to in paragraph (a) above, for such year as so audited 
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, SMEPC shall ensure 
that the Windfarm Company shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of its 
revenues and expenditures shows that the estimated net revenues of the Windfarm 
Company, for its first full fiscal year of operation and for each fiscal year 
thereafter during the term of the debt to be incurred, shall be at least 1.5 times its 
estimated debt service requirements in such year on all its debt including the debt to 
Page  4
be incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness maturing by its terms more 
than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on 
the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been 
entered into.
(iii)
The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
and net non-operating income, and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in 
lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for depreciation, 
other non-cash operating charges and interest and other 
charges on debt.
(iv)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above.
(v)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments (including sinking fund payment if any) of, and 
interest and other charges on, debt.
(vi)
The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by the 
Windfarm Company, not earlier than twelve months prior to the 
incurrence of the debt in question, which both the Bank and the 
Windfarm Company accept as reasonable and as to which the Bank has 
notified SMEPC of its acceptability, provided that no event has 
occurred since such notification which has, or may reasonably be 
expected in the future to have, a material adverse effect on the 
financial condition or future operating results of the Windfarm 
Company.
(vii)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency 
is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of 
servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis 
of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, SMEPC shall ensure 
that the Windfarm Company shall earn an annual return of not less than 10% of the 
average current value of the Windfarm Company’s equity for its first full fiscal year 
of operation for each of its fiscal years thereafter. 
(b)
Before June 1 in each of its fiscal years, SMEPC shall ensure that the 
Windfarm Company shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the Windfarm Company and 
satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next following fiscal year and shall 
furnish to the Bank, through SMEPC, the results of such review upon its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that the Windfarm Company would not meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section for the fiscal years covered 
by such review, SMEPC shall ensure that the Windfarm Company shall promptly take all 
necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the structure or 
Page  5
levels of its tariffs) in order to meet such requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The annual return shall be calculated by dividing the Windfarm 
Company’s net income for the fiscal year in question by one half 
of the sum of the current book value of its equity at the 
beginning and at the end of that fiscal year.
(ii)
The term "equity" means the sum of the total unimpaired paid-in 
capital of the Windfarm Company not allocated to cover specific 
liabilities excluding consumer contributions.
(iii)
The term "net income" means the sum of total operating revenues 
and net non-operating income less the sum of total operating 
expenses and interest payments and other charges on debt.
(iv)
The term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all 
sources related to operations.
(v)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between: 
(A) revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and (B) expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu 
of taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above.
(vi)
The term "total operating expenses" means all expenses related to 
operations, including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes 
and payments in lieu of taxes, and provision for depreciation on a 
straight-line basis at a rate of not less than 5% per annum of the 
average current gross value of the Windfarm Company’s fixed assets 
in operation, or other basis acceptable to the Bank, but excluding 
interest and other charges on debt.
(vii)
The term "net fixed assets" means the gross value of the fixed 
assets of the Windfarm Company less the amount of its accumulated 
depreciation, and "gross value of the fixed assets" means one half 
of the sum of the gross value of fixed assets at the beginning and 
at the end of each fiscal year.
Section 4.04. SMEPC shall cause the Windfarm Company to prepare and submit to 
the Bank no later than June 30 in each year commencing June 30, 2002, a rolling eight 
year financial plan, including projected income statements, funds flow statements and 
balance sheets for such Windfarm Company for each of the following eight years.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of SMEPC 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify SMEPC thereof.
Section 5.03. All provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Page  6
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or facsimile to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For SMEPC:
Shanghai Municipal Electric Power Company
181 Nanjing Road East
Shanghai
People’s Republic of China
Facsimile:
86-21-6324-8586
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of SMEPC, may be 
taken or executed by its President or such other person or persons as its President 
shall designate in writing, and SMEPC shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of 
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Authorized Representative
SHANGHAI MUNICIPAL
  ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY
By /s/ Wu Ping
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement 
Page  7
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Prequalification
Bidders for the supply of wind turbines under Part A of the Project shall be 
prequalified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the 
Guidelines.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower (other than 
goods manufactured in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the Borrower).
(c)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods under Part A of the Project, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for goods under Part B of the Project, the 
following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, 
the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report on the comparison 
and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
Page  8
specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for training related to technical, financial and managerial aspects of 
windfarms under Part B of the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services for collection, analysis and dissemination of data on windfarms under 
Part B of the Project estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract, 
may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Page  9
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and 
approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
SMEPC shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, 
the carrying out of Parts A and B of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about March 15 and September 15 in each year, commencing March 15, 
2002, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, within thirty days of submission to the Bank or 
such later date as the Bank shall request, the reports referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
2.
(a)
In carrying out Part A of the Project, SMEPC shall make a portion of the 
proceeds of the Loan available to the Windfarm Company, under an implementation 
agreement to be entered into between SMEPC and the Windfarm Company, under terms and 
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank.  Such terms and conditions 
shall include the following:
(i)
the principal amount of the loan to the Windfarm Company shall be 
repaid by the Windfarm Company in Dollars to SMEPC over a period 
not exceeding twenty (20) years, including a grace period not 
exceeding five (5) years;
(ii)
the principal amount of the loan repayable by the Windfarm Company 
shall be the equivalent in Dollars (determined as of the date, or 
respective dates, of repayment) of the value of the currency or 
currencies withdrawn from the Loan Account in respect of the 
Windfarm Company; and
(iii)
the loan to the Windfarm Company shall be charged: (a) interest on 
the principal amount thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time, at a rate equal to the rate payable by the Borrower from 
time to time pursuant to Section 2.06(a) of the Loan  Agreement; 
and (b) a commitment charge on the principal amount thereof not 
withdrawn from time to time at a rate equal to three fourths of 
one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
SMEPC shall exercise its rights under the implementation agreement with 
the Windfarm Company in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower, the 
Bank and SMEPC and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Borrower 
Page  10
and the Bank shall otherwise agree, SMEPC shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive 
the implementation agreement with the Windfarm Company or any provision thereof.  
(c)
The subsidiary loan to the Windfarm Company shall be made on terms 
whereby SMEPC shall obtain, by written contract with the Windfarm Company or by other 
appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank, the 
Borrower and SMEPC, including the right to:
(i)
require the Windfarm Company to carry out Part A of the Project 
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound 
technical, financial, managerial and environmental standards and 
practices and to maintain adequate records;
(ii)
require that: (a) the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan shall be procured in accordance with Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement, and (b) such goods shall be used exclusively in the 
carrying out of Part A of the Project;
(iii)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank if 
the Bank shall so request, such goods and the operation thereof 
and any relevant records and documents;
(iv)
require that: (a) the Windfarm Company shall take out and maintain 
with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and 
in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business 
practice; and (b) without any limitation upon the foregoing, such 
insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan to the place of use or installation, any indemnity 
thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by the 
Windfarm Company to replace or repair such goods;
(v)
obtain all such information as the Bank, the Borrower or SMEPC 
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the 
administration, operations and financial condition of the Windfarm 
Company and to the benefits to be derived from Part A of the 
Project; and
(vi)
suspend or terminate the right of the Windfarm Company to the use 
of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by the Windfarm Company 
to perform its obligations under its contract with SMEPC.
3.
SMEPC shall:
(a)
ensure that resettlement and rehabilitation of Affected Persons under 
Part A of the Project is carried out by the Windfarm Company in accordance with the 
Resettlement Action Plans, acceptable to the Bank, in a manner satisfactory to the 
Bank;
(b)
prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank an evaluation report 
promptly upon completion of the resettlement and rehabilitation of Affected Persons as 
described in the Resettlement Action Plans; and
(c)
carry out the environmental monitoring and mitigation program pursuant to 
the Environmental Management Program, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
4.
SMEPC shall:
(a)
cause the Windfarm Company, within six (6) months of its establishment, 
but in any case no later than June 31, 2002, to enter into a power sales arrangement, 
satisfactory to the Bank, with respect to power generated or to be generated by the 
grid-connected windfarm installed by it under Part A of the Project; and
(b)
in carrying out Part B of the Project, develop (i) the program of 
institutional strengthening of the organizational structures, management practices and 
financial management systems of the Windfarm Company,  (ii) the program of studies and 
collection and analysis of performance data, and (iii) the program of promotion of 
private sector participation, all under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank 
and thereafter carry out such programs in accordance with a time-bound action plan 
satisfactory to the Bank.
Page  11
