Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4488 CHA
Loan Agreement
(Renewable Energy Development Project)
between
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 26, 2001
LOAN NUMBER 4488 CHA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 26, 2001, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
Parts A and B of the Project will be carried out by Shanghai Municipal 
Electric Power Company (SMEPC) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make the proceeds of the loan provided for in Article II 
of this Agreement (the Loan) available to SMEPC, as set forth in this Agreement; and
(C)
the Borrower has requested assistance from the resources of the Global 
Environment Facility (GEF) Trust Fund in the financing of the Project, the Bank has 
determined that such assistance would be in accordance with Resolution No. 94-02 of 
the Executive Directors dated May 24, 1994, establishing the GEF Trust Fund, and by an 
agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the Bank, acting as an 
implementing agency of the GEF (the GEF Grant Agreement), GEF is agreeing to provide 
such assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to twenty one million 
three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 21,300,000) (the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant); and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and SMEPC (the 
Page  2
Project Agreement);  
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings wherever used herein:
(a)
"Affected Person" means a person who on account of the execution of Part 
A of the Project had or would have his or her: (i) standard of living adversely 
affected; or (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises, 
agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or 
possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) business, occupation, work or place of 
residence or habitat adversely affected, and "Affected Persons" means collectively all 
persons who qualify as  an Affected Person.
(b)
"Environmental Management Plan" means the environmental management plan, 
acceptable to the Bank, prepared by SMEPC as part of its feasibility studies in 
respect of Part A of the Project, for the monitoring and mitigation of environmental 
impact, as said environmental management plan may be supplemented and amended from 
time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank.
(c)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and SMEPC of 
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement.
(d)
"PV Company" means a commercial enterprise to which the Borrower proposes 
to make or has made a PV Subgrant.
(e)
"PV Implementation Manual" means the manual, satisfactory to the Bank, 
adopted by the Borrower, through SETC, dated April 1999, for the purposes of making PV 
Subgrants to PV Companies, as the same may be revised from time to time with the 
agreement of the Bank.
(f)
"PV Project Area" means the Borrower’s Provinces of Qinghai, Gansu and 
Sichuan and Autonomous Regions of Inner Mongolia, Xinjiang and Xizang, together with 
counties, within the territory of the Borrower, immediately contiguous to any of such 
provinces or autonomous regions and any other rural areas within the territory of the 
Borrower as may be agreed by the Borrower and the Bank.
(g)
"PV Subgrant" means a grant made or proposed to be made by the Borrower 
out of the proceeds of the GEF Grant to a PV Company for a PV Subproject.
(h)
"PV Subgrant Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower and a PV Company pursuant to Paragraph 4 of Part II of Schedule 4 to the 
GEF Grant Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time.
(i)
"PV Subproject" means a specific investment project under Part C(1) of 
the Project for the sale of PV Systems within the PV Project Area to be carried out by 
a PV Company utilizing the proceeds of a PV Subgrant.
(j)
"PV System" means either a photovoltaic system or a photovoltaic-wind 
turbine hybrid system for power generation, consisting of one or more solar 
photovoltaic panels with a total photovoltaic peak generating capacity of ten watts or 
greater, a battery, a means for charge and discharge control and related components.
(k)
"Quick-response Matching Grant" means a TI Subgrant, as so defined, which 
qualifies as a Quick-response Matching Grant pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 2 
(b) of Part III of Schedule 4 to the GEF Grant Agreement.
Page  3
(l)
"Resettlement Action Plan" means the plan, acceptable to the Bank, dated 
August 1998, for the compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation of Affected Persons 
in respect of Part A of the Project, as said resettlement plan may be supplemented and 
amended from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank.
(m)
"SETC" means the Borrower’s State Economic and Trade Commission and any 
successor thereto.
(n)
"Shanghai Municipality" means the Shanghai Municipality, an 
administrative sub-division of the Borrower, or any successor thereto.
(o)
"SMEPC" means Shanghai Municipal Electric Power Company, a corporation 
established and existing under the laws of the Borrower in accordance with: (i) 
Business License No. 1200006260003, issued by the Shanghai Municipal Industrial and 
Commercial Administration Bureau; and (ii) the SMEPC Charter; and any successor 
thereto.
(p)
"SMEPC Charter" means the charter of SMEPC, dated September 9, 1989, as 
amended to the date of this Agreement.
(q)
"Subsidiary Grant Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and SMEPC pursuant to Section 3.02(a) of the GEF Grant Agreement, 
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to 
the Subsidiary Grant Agreement; and the term "Subsidiary Grant" means the grant made 
by the Borrower to SMEPC pursuant to the Subsidiary Grant Agreement.
(r)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and SMEPC pursuant to Section 3.01(c) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time; and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and the term "Subsidiary Loan" means the loan made by the 
Borrower to SMEPC pursuant to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(s)
"TI Company" means an enterprise to which the Borrower proposes to make 
or has made a TI Subgrant.
(t)
"TI Implementation Manual" means the manual, satisfactory to the Bank, 
adopted by the Borrower, through SETC, dated April 2000, for the purposes of making TI 
Subgrants to TI Companies, as the same may be revised from time to time with the 
agreement of the Bank.
(u)
"TI Subgrant" means a grant made or proposed to be made by the Borrower 
out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant to a TI Company for a TI Subproject.
(v)
"TI Subgrant Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower and a TI Company pursuant to Paragraph 4 of Part III of Schedule 4 to the 
GEF Grant Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time. 
(w)
"TI Subproject" means a specific investment project under Part D(1) of 
the Project for improvement of photovoltaic and wind power technology to be carried 
out by a TI Company utilizing the proceeds of a TI Subgrant.
(x)
"Windfarm Company" means the subsidiary corporation of SMEPC responsible 
for carrying out Part A of the Project pursuant to arrangements entered into between 
the Windfarm Company and SMEPC pursuant to Paragraph 2(a) of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement.
Section1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed to be a reference to SMEPC.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to thirteen 
million Dollars ($13,000,000).
Page  4
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2007 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
Page  5
arrears on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end:
(i)
shall, through SETC, carry out Parts C and D of the Project with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, engineering, environmental and financial 
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for said Parts of the Project; and
(ii)
without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall cause SMEPC to carry 
out Parts A and B of the Project and to perform in accordance with 
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of 
SMEPC therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all 
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and 
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable SMEPC to 
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken 
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through 
SETC, shall carry out Parts C and D of the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to SMEPC under a 
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and SMEPC, under 
terms and conditions which shall have been agreed by the Bank.  Such terms and 
conditions shall include the following:
(i)
the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid by 
SMEPC in Dollars to the Borrower over a period not exceeding 
twenty (20) years, including a grace period not exceeding five (5) 
years;
(ii)
the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan repayable by SMEPC 
shall be the equivalent in Dollars (determined as of the date, or 
respective dates, of repayment) of the value of the currency or 
currencies withdrawn from the Loan Account; and
(iii) the Subsidiary Loan shall be charged: (a) interest on the 
principal amount thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, at a rate equal to the rate payable by the Borrower from 
time to time pursuant to Section 2.06(a) of this Agreement; and 
(b) a commitment charge on the principal amount thereof not 
withdrawn from time to time at a rate equal to three fourths of 
one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Page  6
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, or cause to be prepared, on the basis of guidelines acceptable 
to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Bank, a plan for the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts A and B 
of the Project shall be carried out by SMEPC pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project 
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
SMEPC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that SMEPC will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in paragraph 
(a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 
60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
Page  7
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and SMEPC in accordance with Section 3.01(c) of this Agreement;
(b)
the GEF Grant Agreement has been executed and delivered and all 
conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals thereunder, except only the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement, have been 
fulfilled; and
(c)
the Windfarm Company which is intended to carry out Part A of the Project 
shall have been established under the laws of the Borrower and existing in accordance 
with a charter satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by SMEPC, 
and is legally binding upon SMEPC in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and SMEPC and is legally binding upon the Borrower and SMEPC in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People’s Republic of China
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
8610-6855-1125
Beijing
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
Page  8
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Zou Jiayi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
  12,870,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 75% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(2)
Fee
    130,000
Amount due under 
Section 2.04 of 
this Agreement
TOTAL
 13,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower, provided, however, that 
expenditures in the currency of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the 
People’s Republic of China for goods or services supplied from said region and 
expenditures in the currency of the Macau Special Administrative Region of the 
Borrower for goods or services supplied from said region shall be deemed to be 
"foreign expenditures"; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures that are not foreign 
expenditures.
Page  9
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to establish sustainable 
markets for wind and photovoltaic energy technologies in order to: (i) supply 
electricity in an environmentally sustainable manner; and (ii) increase access of 
isolated populations within the territory of the Borrower to electricity services.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Windfarm Development
Installation of grid-connected windfarms with an aggregate power generating 
capacity of approximately 20 megawatts (MW), at Chongming Island (14 MW) and Nanhui (6 
MW), Shanghai Municipality.
Part B:
Windfarm Institutional Strengthening
(1)
Development and implementation of a program of institutional strengthening for 
the Windfarm Company, including its organizational structure, management practices and 
financial accounting practices and reporting systems, and provision of training, 
including overseas study tours, to selected staff of SMEPC and the Windfarm Company in 
construction and operations and maintenance management, finance and windfarm 
technology and operations.
(2)
Establish procedures for and carry out Project engineering, construction 
management and operation and maintenance activities for the Windfarm Company, 
including review of detailed engineering, designs, drawings and specifications.
(3)
Collection and analysis of performance data for existing and planned windfarms 
within Shanghai Municipality and dissemination of such data within the territory of 
the Borrower.
(4)
Increase the Borrower’s capacity to promote private sector participation in 
windfarm development by undertaking legal, contractual and technical preparatory work, 
including resource assessment within Shanghai Municipality, for the development of 
large coastal windfarm sites, through the provision of training and consultant 
services.
Part C:
Solar Photovoltaic Energy Development
(1)
Financing of specific investment projects for the supply and after-sales support 
of about 10 MW of photovoltaic generating capacity consisting of approximately 350,000 
PV Systems in the PV Project Area, through the provision of PV Subgrants to PV 
Companies.
(2)
Carrying out in the PV Project Area of a program of photovoltaic market 
development activities, including: (a) carrying out a public information campaign; (b) 
provision of training to staff of PV Companies in financial management, contract 
management, technical and commercial practices, accounting and auditing; (c) carrying 
out of a study of options for consumer financing of photovoltaic systems and 
development and implementation of an action plan to implement recommended options; (d) 
carrying out of a program of monitoring of the photovoltaic market in the PV Project 
Area; and (e) developing and carrying out of specific market development activities in 
response to market conditions.
(3)
Carrying out of a program of institutional strengthening of SETC and the PV 
Companies, including: (a) product testing and certification by selected certification 
Page  10
laboratories; introduction of national standards for photovoltaic systems and 
components; and implementation of quality improvement and control measures; and (b) 
project management support for SETC in contract management, accounting, financial 
management and grant processing; updating the Borrower’s photovoltaic market 
development strategy; and monitoring and evaluation of Project implementation; with 
the provision of consultants’ services.
Part D:
Technology Improvement
(1)
Financing of specific investment projects to accelerate innovation in 
photovoltaic and photovoltaic hybrid technology, through the provision of TI Subgrants 
to TI Companies.
(2)
Carrying out of a program of institutional strengthening of TI Companies, 
including:  (a) awareness building workshops for industry on technology improvement, 
technology transfer mechanisms, quality control and technology certification; and (b) 
program management support for SETC in the carrying out of Part D(1) of the Project, 
including solicitation of technology improvement investment project proposals from 
industry; evaluation, ranking and selection of proposals; preparation and conclusion 
of contracts with investment project sponsors; and monitoring and evaluation of 
technology improvement investment project implementation; with the provision of 
consultants’ services.
(3)
Financing of specific investments to bring technology innovations supported by 
TI Subgrants into commercial production or application, through the provision of 
commercial loans to selected TI Companies.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2006.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)*
February 15, 2005
285,000
August 15, 2005
295,000
February 15, 2006
300,000
August 15, 2006
310,000
February 15, 2007
320,000
August 15, 2007
325,000
February 15, 2008
335,000
August 15, 2008
345,000
February 15, 2009
355,000
August 15, 2009
365,000
February 15, 2010
375,000
August 15, 2010
385,000
February 15, 2011
395,000
August 15, 2011
405,000
February 15, 2012
415,000
August 15, 2012
430,000
February 15, 2013
440,000
August 15, 2013
450,000
February 15, 2014
465,000
August 15, 2014
475,000
February 15, 2015
490,000
August 15, 2015
500,000
February 15, 2016
515,000
August 15, 2016
530,000
February 15, 2017
545,000
August 15, 2017
560,000
February 15, 2018
575,000
August 15, 2018
590,000
February 15, 2019
605,000
Page  11
August 15, 2019
620,000
___________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, 
except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Part I.
Project Management and Monitoring.
1.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about March 15 and September 15 in each year, commencing March 15, 
2002, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, within thirty days of submission to the Bank, or 
such later date as the Bank shall request, the reports referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
2.
The Borrower shall maintain throughout the period of implementation of the 
Project a Project Management Office in SETC with terms of reference and resources 
acceptable to the Bank, and with competent staff in adequate numbers.
Part II.
Solar Photovoltaic Development.
1.
The Borrower shall, through SETC, carry out Part C(1) of the Project in 
accordance with the PV Implementation Manual and with the provisions of this Loan 
Agreement.
2.
No PV Subproject shall be eligible for a PV Subgrant unless the PV Subgrant 
Agreement for such PV Subproject shall have been approved by the Bank.
3.
When presenting a PV Subgrant Agreement to the Bank for approval, the Borrower 
shall, through SETC, furnish to the Bank an application, in form satisfactory to the 
Bank, together with: (i) a description of the PV Company and an appraisal of the PV 
Subproject in accordance with the PV Implementation Manual; (ii) the proposed terms 
and conditions of the PV Subgrant; and (iii) such other information as the Bank shall 
reasonably request.
4.
PV Subgrants shall be made on terms whereby the Borrower shall obtain, by 
written contract with the PV Company (the PV Subgrant Agreement) or by other 
appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and the 
Borrower, including the right to:
(i)
require the PV Company to carry out the PV Subproject with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, 
financial, managerial and environmental standards and practices, 
and to maintain adequate records;
(ii)
require that PV System components shall be procured at a 
reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant 
Page  12
factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of 
the goods and availability of maintenance facilities and spare 
parts therefor;
(iii)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank if 
the Bank shall so request, such PV Company’s PV Systems and the 
installation thereof and any relevant records and documents;
(iv)
obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower shall 
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the 
administration, operations and financial condition of the PV 
Company and to the benefits to be derived from the PV Subproject; 
and
(v)
suspend or terminate the eligibility of the PV Company to receive 
the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant upon failure by such PV 
Company to perform its obligations under its contract with the 
Borrower.
5.
The amount of a PV Subgrant to a PV Company shall be equivalent to $1.50 per 
watt-peak (Wp) photovoltaic capacity for each PV System installed.  Payments of PV 
Subgrants will be made to each PV Company in accordance with the PV Implementation 
Manual.
6.
The Borrower, through SETC, shall: (a) carry out Part C(2) of the Project in 
accordance with a market development program framework acceptable to the Bank; (b) no 
later than October 31 in each year, commencing October 31, 2001, submit to the Bank 
for its review and approval, a detailed annual work plan for the following calendar 
year under the Borrower’s market development program framework; (c) no later than 
December 31 in each year finalize each such work plan taking into account the Bank’s 
comments thereon; and (d)  thereafter carry out said work plan in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank.
7.
The Borrower shall carry out Part C(3) of the Project in accordance with an 
institutional strengthening program acceptable to the Bank.
Part III.
Technology Improvement.
1.
The Borrower shall, through SETC, carry out Part D(1) of the Project in 
accordance with the TI Implementation Manual and with the provisions of this Loan 
Agreement.
2.
No expenditures for goods or services required for a TI Subproject shall be 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant unless: (a) for 
TI Subgrants other than Quick-response Matching Grants, the TI Subgrant Agreement for 
such TI Subproject shall have been approved by the Bank and such expenditures shall 
have been made not earlier than ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank shall 
have received the application and information required under paragraph 3 of Part III 
of this Schedule in respect of such TI Subgrant; or (b) the TI Subgrant for such TI 
Subproject shall have been a Quick-response Matching Grant for which the Bank has 
authorized withdrawals from the Grant Account and such expenditures shall have been 
made not earlier than ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have 
received the request and information required under paragraph 3 (b) of Part III of 
this Schedule in respect of such Quick-response Matching Grant. For the purposes of 
this Agreement, a Quick-response Matching Grant shall be a TI Subgrant for a TI 
Subproject in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
which, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall not exceed: (i) $10,000 
equivalent for each TI Subproject; or (ii) $1,000,000 equivalent, when added to all 
other Quick-response Matching Grants financed or proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant.
3.
When presenting a TI Subgrant (other than a Quick-response Matching Grant) to 
the Bank for approval, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form 
satisfactory to the Bank, together with: (i) a description of the TI Company and an 
appraisal of the TI Subproject in accordance with the TI Implementation Manual, 
including a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant and the expenditures financed or proposed to be 
financed by the TI Company from sources other than the GEF Trust Fund Grant; (ii) the 
Page  13
financed by the TI Company from sources other than the GEF Trust Fund Grant; (ii) the 
proposed terms and conditions of the TI Subgrant; and (iii) such other information as 
the Bank shall reasonably request.
4.
TI Subgrants shall be made on terms whereby the Borrower shall obtain, by 
written contract with the TI Company (the TI Subgrant Agreement) or by other 
appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and the 
Borrower, including the right to:
(i)
require the TI Company to carry out the TI Subproject with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, 
financial, managerial and environmental standards and practices, 
and to maintain adequate records;
(ii)
require that: (a) the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the TI Subgrant shall be procured at a reasonable price, account 
being taken also of other relevant factors such as time of 
delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and 
availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, 
and (b) such goods shall be used exclusively in the carrying out 
of the TI Subproject;
(iii)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank if 
the Bank shall so request, such goods and the operation thereof 
and any relevant records and documents;
(iv)
require that: (a) the TI Company shall take out and maintain with 
responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in 
such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business practice; 
and (b) without any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance 
shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation 
and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the TI 
Subgrant to the place of use or installation, any indemnity 
thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by the 
TI Company to replace or repair such goods;
(v)
obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower shall 
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the 
administration, operations and financial condition of the TI 
Company and to the benefits to be derived from the TI Subproject; 
and
(vi)
suspend or terminate the right of the TI Company to the use of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant upon failure by such TI 
Company to perform its obligations under its contract with the 
Borrower.
5.
The Borrower, through SETC, shall:  (a) carry out Part D(2) of the Project in 
accordance with an institutional strengthening program satisfactory to the Bank; (b) 
no later than October 31 in each year, commencing October 31, 2001, submit to the Bank 
for its review and approval a detailed annual work plan for the following calendar 
year; (c) no later than December 31 in each year finalize said work plan taking into 
account the Bank’s comments thereon; and (d) thereafter carry out each such work plan 
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
6.
The Borrower, through SETC, shall carry out Part D(3) of the Project in 
accordance with a plan acceptable to the Bank.
