Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF022642 CHA
GEF Trust Fund Agreement related to the Loan Number 4488 CHA
Global Environment Facility
Trust Fund Grant Agreement
(Renewable Energy Development Project)
between
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility
Dated June 26, 2001
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF022642 CHA
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 26, 2001, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting 
as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant 
funds provided to the GEF Trust Fund by certain members of the Bank as participants of 
the GEF.
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of 
the global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development;
(B)
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements are continued 
in place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank establishing the GEF Trust Fund;
(C)
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested assistance 
from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund in the financing of the Project, and the Bank 
has determined that such assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of 
Resolution No. 94-2 referred to above; 
(D)
the Recipient has also requested the Bank to provide additional financing 
towards the financing of the Project and by an agreement of even date herewith between 
the Recipient and the Bank, the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an 
aggregate principal amount equal to thirteen million Dollars ($13,000,000) (the Loan); 
and
Page  2
(E)
Parts A and B of the Project will be carried out by Shanghai Municipal 
Electric Power Company (SMEPC) with the Recipient’s assistance and, as part of such 
assistance, the Recipient will make available to SMEPC a portion of the proceeds of 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01 (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans of the Bank, dated May 30, 
1995 (as amended through October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth in 
paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (9), (10), 
(14), (17) and (21), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and 4.06;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 
6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04; 
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Sections 12.01 (c), 12.03 and 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to read 
as follows: 'the term "Special Drawing Rights" and the symbol 
"SDR" mean special drawing rights as valued by the International 
Monetary Fund in accordance with its Articles of Agreement';
(ii)
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (6) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Bank acting as an 
implementing agency of the GEF, except that in Section 6.02, the 
term "Bank" shall also include the Bank acting in its own 
capacity;
(iii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
(iv)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(v)
the term "Loan" and "loan", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant;
(vi)
the term "Loan Account", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account; and
Page  3
(vii)
a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph (p) in Section 6.02 
of the General Conditions, as follows: "an extraordinary situation 
shall have arisen in which any further disbursement under the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant would exceed the resources available for 
disbursement from the GEF."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Affected Person" means a person who on account of the execution of Part 
A of the Project had or would have his or her: (i) standard of living adversely 
affected; or (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises, 
agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or 
possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) business, occupation, work or place of 
residence or habitat adversely affected, and "Affected Persons" means collectively all 
persons who qualify as  an Affected Person.
(b)
"Environmental Management Plan" means the environmental management plan, 
acceptable to the Bank, prepared by SMEPC as part of its feasibility studies in 
respect of Part A of the Project, for the monitoring and mitigation of environmental 
impact, as said environmental management plan may be supplemented and amended from 
time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank.
(c)
"Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Recipient and the Bank for the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to 
time; and such term includes the "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, as amended 
through October 6, 1999, as applied to such agreement, and all schedules and 
agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement.
(d)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Bank and SMEPC, as such agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement.
(e)
"PV Company" means a commercial enterprise to which the Recipient 
proposes to make or has made a PV Subgrant.
(f)
"PV Implementation Manual" means the manual, satisfactory to the Bank, 
adopted by the Recipient, through SETC, dated April 1999, for the purposes of making 
PV Subgrants to PV Companies, as the same may be revised from time to time with the 
agreement of the Bank.
(g)
"PV Project Area" means the Recipient’s Provinces of Qinghai, Gansu and 
Sichuan and Autonomous Regions of Inner Mongolia, Xinjiang and Xizang, together with 
counties, within the territory of the Recipient, immediately contiguous to any of such 
provinces or autonomous regions and any other rural areas within the territory of the 
Recipient as may be agreed by the Recipient and the Bank.
(h)
"PV Subgrant" means a grant made or proposed to be made by the Recipient 
out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant to a PV Company for a PV Subproject.
(i)
"PV Subgrant Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between 
the Recipient and a PV Company pursuant to Paragraph 4 of Part II of Schedule 4 to the 
GEF Grant Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time.
(j)
"PV Subproject" means a specific investment project under Part C(1) of 
the Project for the sale of PV systems within the PV Project Area to be carried out by 
a PV Company utilizing the proceeds of a PV Subgrant.
(k)
"PV System" means either a photovoltaic system or a photovoltaic-wind 
turbine hybrid system for power generation, consisting of one or more solar 
photovoltaic panels with a total photovoltaic peak generating capacity of ten watts or 
greater, a battery, a means for charge and discharge control and related components.
(l)
"Quick-response Matching Grant" means a TI Subgrant, as so defined, which 
qualifies as a Quick-response Matching Grant pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 2 
(b) of Part III of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(m)
"Resettlement Action Plan" means the plan, acceptable to the Bank, dated 
August 1998, for the compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation of Affected Persons 
Page  4
in respect of Part A of the Project, as said resettlement plan may be supplemented and 
amended from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank.
(n)
"SETC" means the Recipient’s State Economic and Trade Commission and any 
successor thereto.
(o)
"SETC Special Account" means the account established for Parts C and D of 
the Project and referred to in Section 2.02(b)(ii) of this Agreement.
(p)
"Shanghai Municipality" means the Shanghai Municipality, an 
administrative sub-division of the Borrower, and any successor thereto.
(q)
"Special Accounts" means the SP Special Account and the SETC Special 
Account, collectively.
(r)
"SP Special Account" means the account established for Part B of the 
Project and referred to in Section 2.02(b)(i) of this Agreement.
(s)
"SMEPC" means Shanghai Municipal Electric Power Company, a corporation 
established and existing under the laws of the Recipient in accordance with: (i) 
Business License No. 1200006260003, issued by Shanghai Municipal Industrial and 
Commercial Administration Bureau; and (ii) the SMEPC Charter; and any successor 
thereto.
(t)
"SMEPC Charter" means the charter of SMEPC, dated September 9, 1989, as 
amended to the date of this Agreement.
(u)
"Subsidiary Grant Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Recipient and SMEPC pursuant to Section 3.02(a) of the GEF Grant 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules to the Subsidiary Grant Agreement; and the term "Subsidiary Grant" means the 
grant made by the Recipient to SMEPC pursuant to the Subsidiary Grant Agreement.
(v)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Recipient and SMEPC pursuant to Section 3.01(c) of the Loan Agreement, as 
the same may be amended from time to time; and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and the term "Subsidiary Loan" means the loan made by the 
Recipient to SMEPC pursuant to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(w)
"TI Company" means an enterprise to which the Recipient proposes to make 
or has made a TI Subgrant.
(x)
"TI Implementation Manual" means the manual, satisfactory to the Bank, 
adopted by the Recipient, through SETC, dated April 2000, for the purposes of making 
TI Subgrants to TI Companies, as the same may be revised from time to time with the 
agreement of the Bank.
(y)
"TI Subgrant" means a grant made or proposed to be made by the Recipient 
out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant to a TI Company for a TI Subproject.
(z)
"TI Subgrant Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between 
the Recipient and a TI Company pursuant to Paragraph 4 of Part III of Schedule 4 to 
the GEF Grant Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time. 
(aa)
"TI Subproject" means a specific investment project under Part D(1) of 
the Project for improvement of photovoltaic and wind power technology to be carried 
out by a TI Company utilizing the proceeds of a TI Subgrant.
(bb)
"Windfarm Company" means the subsidiary corporation of SMEPC responsible 
for carrying out Part A of the Project pursuant to an arrangement entered into between 
the Windfarm Company and SMEPC pursuant to Paragraph 2(a) of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The GEF Trust Fund Grant
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty one million three hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 21,300,000).
Page  5
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for carrying out the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant.
(b)
The Recipient may open and maintain in Dollars two special deposit 
accounts: (i) one for the purposes of Part B of the Project, (the SMEPC Special 
Account), and (ii) one for the purposes of Parts C and D of the Project (the SETC 
Special Account), each in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set off, 
seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2007 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later 
date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end:
(i)
shall carry out Parts C and D of the Project through SETC with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, engineering and financial practices and with due 
regard to ecological and environmental factors, and shall provide, 
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project; 
and
(ii)
without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under this Agreement, shall cause SMEPC to carry out 
Parts A and B of the Project and to perform in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of SMEPC 
therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, 
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable SMEPC to perform 
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any 
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out Parts C and D of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program 
set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02.  (a) For the purposes of Part B of the Project, the Recipient 
shall make available to SMEPC a portion of the proceeds of the Grant under a 
subsidiary grant agreement to be entered into between the Recipient and SMEPC, under 
terms and conditions which shall have been agreed by the Bank.
(b)
The terms and conditions of the Subsidiary Grant Agreement shall include 
no deduction or application of any charge, commission or fee of any kind.
(c)
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, and, except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the 
Subsidiary Grant Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a)
procurement of the goods and consultants’ services required for Part B of 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall 
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement; and
(b)
procurement of the goods and consultants’ services required for Parts 
C(2), C(3) and D(2) of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Page  6
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall:
(a)
prepare, or cause to be prepared, on the basis of guidelines acceptable 
to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and 
the Bank, a plan for the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Accounts for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
SMEPC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
Page  7
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that SMEPC will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
The right of the Recipient to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan shall 
have been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms 
of the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness, Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as conditions to the 
effectiveness of the GEF Trust Fund Grant within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of 
the General Conditions:
(a)
the Loan Agreement has been executed and delivered and all conditions 
precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals 
thereunder, except only the effectiveness of the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement, have 
been fulfilled; and
(b)
the Subsidiary Grant Agreement shall have been executed on behalf of the 
Recipient and SMEPC in accordance with Section 3.02(a) of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their 
obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministry of Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing
People’s Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
8610-6855-1125
Beijing
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
(202)-477-9391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written.
Page  8
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Zou Jiayi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an implementing agency of 
the Global Environment Facility
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category:
Amount of the
GEF Trust Fund Grant Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Consultants’ services
100%
(a) under Part B of the
      Project
   1,200,000
(b) under Part C of the
Project
   5,130,000
(c) under Part D of
      the Project
570,000
(2)  Goods
(a) under Part C of the
400,000
100% of foreign
Project
expenditures,
(b) under Part D of the
 80,000
100% of local
Project
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 75% of local
expenditures for
other items 
procured locally
(3)
PV Subgrants
  11,790,000
      100%
(4)
TI Subgrants
   2,130,000
50%
TOTAL
  21,300,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient, provided, however, that 
Page  9
expenditures in the currency of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the 
People’s Republic of China for goods or services supplied from said region and 
expenditures in the currency of the Macau Special Administrative Region of the 
Recipient for goods or services supplied from said region shall be deemed to be 
"foreign expenditures"; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures that are not foreign 
expenditures.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; (b) expenditures under Category (1)(b) of the table set forth in paragraph 
1 above, until the Bank shall have approved a work plan for the first year of 
implementation of Part C(2) of the Project, furnished to the Bank in accordance with 
paragraph 6(b) of Part II of Schedule 4 to the GEF Grant Agreement; and (c) 
expenditures under Category (1)(c) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 above, until 
the Bank shall have approved a work plan for the first year of implementation of Part 
D(2) of the Project, furnished to the Bank in accordance with paragraph 5(b) of Part 
III of Schedule 4 to the GEF Grant Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to be 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) PV Subgrants; 
(b) TI Subgrants; and (c) goods under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent 
each; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient.
5.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the 
provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank for deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an amount equal 
to the amount so used or the portion thereof as specified by the Bank.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient to establish sustainable 
markets for wind and photovoltaic energy technologies in order to: (i) supply 
electricity in an environmentally sustainable manner; and (ii) increase access of 
isolated populations within the territory of the Borrower to electricity services.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Recipient and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Windfarm Development
Installation of grid-connected windfarms with an aggregate power generating 
capacity of approximately 20 megawatts (MW), at: Chongming Island (14 MW) and Nanhui 
(6 MW), Shanghai Municipality.
Part B:
Windfarm Institutional Strengthening
(1)
 Development and implementation of a program of institutional strengthening for 
the Windfarm Company, including its organizational structure, management practices and 
financial accounting practices and reporting systems, and provision of training, 
including overseas study tours, to selected staff of SMEPC and the Windfarm Company in 
construction and operations and maintenance management, management, finance and 
windfarm technology and operations.
(2)
Establish procedures for and carry out Project engineering, construction 
management and operation and maintenance activities for the Windfarm Company, 
including review of detailed engineering, designs, drawings and specifications; and.
(3)
Collection and analysis of performance data for existing and planned windfarms 
within Shanghai Municipality and dissemination of said data within the territory of 
the Recipient.
(4)
Increase the Recipient’s capacity to promote private sector participation in 
windfarm development by undertaking legal, contractual and technical preparatory work, 
including resource assessment within Shanghai Municipality, for the development of 
large coastal windfarm sites, through the provision of training and consultants’ 
Page  10
services.
Part C:
Solar Photovoltaic Energy Development
(1)
Financing of specific investment projects for the supply and after-sales support 
of about 10 MW of photovoltaic generating capacity consisting of approximately 350,000 
PV Systems in the PV Project Area, through the provision of PV Subgrants to PV 
Companies.
(2)
Carrying out in the PV Project Area of a program of photovoltaic market 
development activities, including: (a)  carrying out of a public information program; 
(b) provision of training to staff of PV Companies in financial management, contract 
management, technical and commercial practices, accounting and auditing; (c) carrying 
out of a study of options for consumer financing of photovoltaic systems and 
development and implementation of an action plan to implement recommended options; (d) 
carrying out of a program of monitoring of the photovoltaic market in the PV Project 
Area; and (e) developing and carrying out of specific market development activities in 
response to market conditions.
(3)
Carrying out of a program of institutional strengthening of SETC and the PV 
Companies, including: (a) product testing and certification by selected certification 
laboratories; introduction of national standards for photovoltaic systems and 
components; and implementation of quality improvement and control measures; and (b) 
project management support for SETC in contract management, accounting, financial 
management and grant processing; updating the Recipient’s photovoltaic market 
development strategy; and monitoring and evaluation of Project implementation; with 
the provision of consultants’ services.
Part D:
Technology Improvement
(1)
Financing of specific investment projects to accelerate innovation in 
photovoltaic and photovoltaic hybrid technology, through the provision of TI Subgrants 
to TI Companies.
(2)
Carrying out of a program of institutional strengthening of TI Companies, 
including:  (a) awareness building workshops for industry on technology improvement, 
technology transfer mechanisms, quality control and technology certification; and (b) 
program management support for SETC in the carrying out of Part D(1) of the Project, 
including solicitation of technology improvement investment project proposals from 
industry; evaluation, ranking and selection of proposals; preparation and conclusion 
of contracts with investment project sponsors; and monitoring and evaluation of 
investment project implementation, with the provision of consultants’ services.
(3)
Financing of specific investments to bring technology innovations supported by 
TI Subgrants into commercial production or application, through the provision of 
commercial loans to selected TI Companies.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2006.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Shopping
Goods under Parts C(2) and D(2) of the Project, estimated to cost less than 
$150,000 equivalent per contract, shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Page  11
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to obtaining price quotations for contracts, the proposed procurement plan 
for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan 
as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods to be procured in accordance with the 
procedures referred to in Part B above and estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, the following procedures shall apply:
(a)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, the 
Recipient shall provide to the Bank a report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received;
(b)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Recipient shall provide to the Bank a copy of the specifications and 
the draft contract; and
(c)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for institutional strengthening and training under Parts C and D of the 
Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
2. Least-cost 
Selection
Services for audit of PV Systems estimated to cost less than US$200,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Single Source Selection
Services for implementation of management information systems estimated to cost 
less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Page  12
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and 
approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been 
given.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Part I.
Project Management and Monitoring.
1.
The Recipient shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about March 15 and September 15 in each year, commencing March 15, 
2002, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, within thirty days of submission to the Bank, or 
such later date as the Bank shall request, the reports referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
2.
The Recipient shall maintain throughout the period of implementation of the 
Project a Project Management Office in SETC with terms of reference and resources 
acceptable to the Bank, and with competent staff in adequate numbers.
Part II.
Solar Photovoltaic Development.
1.
The Recipient shall, through SETC, carry out Part C(1) of the Project in 
accordance with the PV Implementation Manual and with the provisions of this GEF Grant 
Agreement.
Page  13
2.
No PV Subproject shall be eligible for a PV Subgrant unless the PV Subgrant 
Agreement for such PV Subproject shall have been approved by the Bank.
3.
When presenting a PV Subgrant Agreement to the Bank for approval, the Recipient 
shall, through SETC, furnish to the Bank an application, in form satisfactory to the 
Bank, together with: (i) a description of the PV Company and an appraisal of the PV 
Subproject, in accordance with the PV Implementation Manual; (ii) the proposed terms 
and conditions of the PV Subgrant; and (iii) such other information as the Bank shall 
reasonably request.
4.
PV Subgrants shall be made on terms whereby the Recipient shall obtain, by 
written contract with the PV Company (the PV Subgrant Agreement) or by other 
appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and the 
Recipient, including the right to:
(i)
require the PV Company to carry out the PV Subproject with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, 
financial, managerial and environmental standards and practices, 
and to maintain adequate records;
(ii)
require that PV System components shall be procured at a 
reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant 
factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of 
the goods and availability of maintenance facilities and spare 
parts therefor;
(iii)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank if 
the Bank shall so request, such PV Company’s PV Systems and the 
installation thereof and any relevant records and documents;
(iv)
obtain all such information as the Bank or the Recipient shall 
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the 
administration, operations and financial condition of the PV 
Company and to the benefits to be derived from the PV Subproject; 
and
(v)
suspend or terminate the eligibility of the PV Company to receive 
the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant upon failure by such PV 
Company to perform its obligations under its contract with the 
Recipient.
5.
The amount of a PV Subgrant to a PV Company shall be equivalent to $1.50 per 
watt-peak (Wp) photovoltaic capacity for each PV System installed.  Payments of PV 
Subgrants will be made to each PV Company in accordance with the PV Implementation 
Manual.
6.
The Recipient, through SETC, shall: (a) carry out Part C(2) of the Project in 
accordance with a market development program framework acceptable to the Bank; (b) no 
later than October 31 in each year, commencing October 31, 2001, submit to the Bank 
for its review and approval, a detailed annual work plan for the following calendar 
year under the Recipient’s market development program framework; (c) no later than 
December 31 in each year finalize each such work plan taking into account the Bank’s 
comments thereon; and (d)  thereafter carry out said work plan in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank.
7.
The Recipient shall carry out Part C(3) of the Project in accordance with an 
institutional strengthening program acceptable to the Bank.
Part III.
Technology Improvement.
1.
The Recipient shall, through SETC, carry out Part D(1) of the Project in 
accordance with the TI Implementation Manual and with the provisions of this GEF Grant 
Agreement.
2.
No expenditures for goods or services required for a TI Subproject shall be 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant unless: (a) for 
TI Subgrants other than Quick-response Matching Grants, the TI Subgrant Agreement for 
such TI Subproject shall have been approved by the Bank and such expenditures shall 
have been made not earlier than ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank shall 
have received the application and information required under paragraph 3 of Part III 
of this Schedule in respect of such TI Subgrant; or (b) the TI Subgrant for such TI 
Subproject shall have been a Quick-response Matching Grant for which the Bank has 
Page  14
authorized withdrawals from the Grant Account and such expenditures shall have been 
made not earlier than ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have 
received the request and information required under paragraph 3 (b) of Part III of 
this Schedule in respect of such Quick-response Matching Grant. For the purposes of 
this Agreement, a Quick-response Matching Grant shall be a TI Subgrant for a TI 
Subproject in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
which, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall not exceed: (i) $10,000 
equivalent for each TI Subproject; or (ii) $1,000,000 equivalent, when added to all 
other Quick-response Matching Grants financed or proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant.
3.
When presenting a TI Subgrant (other than a Quick-response Matching Grant) to 
the Bank for approval, the Recipient shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form 
satisfactory to the Bank, together with: (i) a description of the TI Company and an 
appraisal of the TI Subproject in accordance with the TI Implementation Manual, 
including a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant and the expenditures financed or proposed to be 
financed by the TI Company from sources other than the GEF Trust Fund Grant; (ii) the 
proposed terms and conditions of the TI Subgrant; and (iii) such other information as 
the Bank shall reasonably request.
4.
TI Subgrants shall be made on terms whereby the Recipient shall obtain, by 
written contract with the TI Company (the TI Subgrant Agreement) or by other 
appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and the 
Recipient, including the right to:
(i)
require the TI Company to carry out the TI Subproject with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, 
financial, managerial and environmental standards and practices, 
and to maintain adequate records;
(ii)
require that: (a) the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the TI Subgrant shall be procured at a reasonable price, account 
being taken also of other relevant factors such as time of 
delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and 
availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, 
and (b) such goods shall be used exclusively in the carrying out 
of the TI Subproject;
(iii)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank if 
the Bank shall so request, such goods and the operation thereof 
and any relevant records and documents;
(iv)
require that: (a) the TI Company shall take out and maintain with 
responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in 
such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business practice; 
and (b) without any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance 
shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation 
and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the TI 
Subgrant to the place of use or installation, any indemnity 
thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by the 
TI Company to replace or repair such goods;
(v)
obtain all such information as the Bank or the Recipient shall 
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the 
administration, operations and financial condition of the TI 
Company and to the benefits to be derived from the TI Subproject; 
and
(vi)
suspend or terminate the right of the TI Company to the use of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant upon failure by such TI 
Company to perform its obligations under its contract with the 
Recipient.
5.
The Recipient, through SETC, shall:  (a) carry out Part D(2) of the Project in 
accordance with an institutional strengthening program satisfactory to the Bank; (b) 
no later than October 31 in each year, commencing October 31, 2001, submit to the Bank 
for its review and approval a detailed annual work plan for the following calendar 
year; (c) no later than December 31 in each year finalize said work plan taking into 
account the Bank’s comments thereon; and (d) thereafter carry out each such work plan 
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
Page  15
6.
The Recipient, through SETC, shall carry out Part D(3) of the Project in 
accordance with a plan acceptable to the Bank.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means, in the case of the SP Special 
Account, Category (1)(a) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement in respect of Part B of the Project, and in the case of the SETC Special 
Account, Categories (1)(b), (1)(c), (2)(a), (2)(b), (3) and (4) set forth in said 
table in respect of Parts C and D of the Project;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts B, C and D of the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated from time to 
time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $250,000 
in respect of the SP Special Account and an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 in respect 
of the SETC Special Account, to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and 
deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, 
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $150,000 in respect of the SP 
Special Account and an amount equivalent to $1,200,000 in respect of the SETC Special 
Account until: (i) in respect of the SP Special Account, the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account allocated to the eligible Categories 
for said Special Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for Part B 
of the Project shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 550,000; and (ii) in 
respect of the SETC Special Account, the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account allocated to the eligible Categories for said Special Account 
plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for Parts C and D of the Project 
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 5,900,000.
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special Account of 
an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the 
respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Recipient 
shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the 
respective Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and 
deposit into the respective Special Account such amount as the 
Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
respective Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such 
deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
Page  16
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the respective Special Account, 
the Recipient shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively 
for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated 
to the eligible Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount 
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of any 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the respective 
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. 
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into any Special 
Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
