I                                         PID
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                                    AWorld Froe of PovorSy
$infoShop
Ilb. Wxffig lWak
Report No AB37
Updated Project Information Document (PID)
Project Name                PAKISTAN-National Education Assessment System
Region                      South Asia Regional Office
Sector                      Primary education (100%)
Project ID                  P077288
Supplemental Project
Borrower(s)                 GOVERNMENT OF PAKISTAN
Implementing Agency         CURRICULUM WING,MINISTRY OF EDU.,ISLAMABAD AND
Address                     PROV.DEPTS
Address Islamabad, Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Contact Person Mr. Arif Majeed, Deputy Educational Adviser, Curriculum Wing,
MoE, Islamabad.
Tel 92 51 4448343     Fax: 92 51 9290141     Email
Bureau of Curriculum of Balochistan, Directorate of Curriculum and Teacher
Education, Nort West Frontier Province; University of Education, Punjab,
Directorate of Research and Assessment, Sindh; Directorate of Curriculum
Research and Development in Azad Jammu and Kashmir, and Directorates of
Education in Federally Administered Tribal Areas, Islamabad Capital Territory,
and Northern Areas.
Address: (1) Balochistan: Quetta, (2) North West Frontier Province Abbottabad,
(3) Punjab. Lahore, (4) Sindh. Jamshoro; (5) Azad Jammu and Kashmir
Muzaffarabad, (6) Federally Administered Tribal Areas Peshawar, (7)
Islamabad Capital Territory Islamabad; (8) Northern Areas Gilgit
Contact Person.
Tel:     Fax        Email
Environment Category        C
Date PID Prepared           May 8, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date         April 17, 2002
Bank Approval Date          June 3, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
As a signatory to key international Declarations and Frameworks (Jomtien, 1990; Dakar, 2000), the
Government of Pakistan (GoP) is committed to improving the quality of education at all levels, and especially
at the elementary stage. The Jomtien Declaration underlines the need for ensuring that: "The focus of basic
education must be on actual learning acquisition and outcome, rather than exclusively upon enrolment"
(UNESCO, 1990). In the EFA Assessment 2000 document, student achievement scores are included as
Indicator No. 1 5.



2
PID
The government's education policies (1992, 1998-2010) and the recently formulated Education Sector
Reforms (ESR) Action Plan (2001-05) recognize the interdependence of quality and quantity in education as
an important contributory factor in national development. The National Education Assessment System
(NEAS) is one of the key programs of the ESR. The Curriculum Wing (CW) in the Ministry of Education has
a legal mandate for the "maintenance of standards of education". Although the Ministry of Education has
testing mechanisms for assessing individual student performance used as the basis for determining promotion
and placement, it has no system of measuring how well schools are doing in implementing the curricula and
learning objectives associated with them. Information about student achievement from traditional school
examinations, or from the external examinations conducted by the Boards of Intermediate and Secondary
Education, is not comparable across the country because the marks are derived from different tests or
examinations. Consequently, the Ministry has no institutional mechanisms for assessing the quality of its
education service delivery.
2. Objectives
The development objectives of the National Education Assessment System (NEAS) are: to design and
administer assessment mechanisms; to establish administrative infrastructure and capacity for assessment
administration, analysis and report writing; and to increase stakeholder knowledge and acceptance of
assessment objectives and procedures.
Under those broad objectives, specific objectives of the assessment system to be piloted include development
of an empirical understanding of the following:
*   how well the curricula are being translated into knowledge and skills among students;
*   subject, geographic and gender-related areas of inequity in student performance;
*   the principal determinants of student performance including teacher, student background and
other causal variables;
*   how resource allocation (fiscal, material and human) might be redirected to improve student
performance;
*   how to assist teachers to use data to improve student performance; and
*   how to create a sustainable capacity to conduct quality surveys of student learning and to apply
findings to policy formation.
The NEAS is planned as a sample-based national assessment, to be conducted at grade 4 and grade 8 levels, in
four subjects - Language, Mathematics, Science and Social Studies/lslamiyat/Life Skills. This project will
provide the basis for designing and pilot testing the administrative process, the measurement instruments and
the information dissemination strategy associated with assessment of learning outcomes. In addition, this
project should enable the Government of Pakistan (GoP), Provinces/Areas to make assessment a permanent
feature of the education system in the country.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
This is a first project of its kind in the country that aims at establishing an institutional arrangement for
national education assessment. The government values the Bank's work on assessment. The Bank helped
government initiate a process of awareness creation in 1997 and mobilized other donor partners to help the
government. This process has led to a realization among various stakeholders that establishment of a national
assessment system is a major step towards improving the quality of education.



3
PID
4. Description
By its very design, this project is experimental/developmental in nature. Because of the specialized skills and
the paucity of them in Pakistan, a sizeable portion of the credit will be used for learning- in terms of both skill
acquisition and applied learning through the pilot testing and experimental procedures of the assessment
design. As shown in the table below, the project would have three components: capacity building; pilot
testing and implementation of the assessment activities; and information dissemination.
Capacity Building
Pilot testing and Implementation of Assessment Activities
Information Dissemination
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER                   $2.16
IBRD
IDA                        $3.63
UK: BRITISH DEPARTMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (DFID)               $1.14
Total Project Cost         $6.93
6. Implementation
The project will be implemented over a period of five years (2003-08). The NEAS involves very close
collaboration between the federal Ministry of Education and the Provincial and Area Departments of
Education (DOEs).
Overall, coordination is the responsibility of the Federal government under the umbrella of the broader
Education System Reform initiative led by the Federal Secretary of Education. The various work groups that
will be responsible for the design and implementation of the system and for its piloting are summarized in the
chart which follows. See also Annex 13 for a detailed description of the responsibilities of various work
groups. Simply stated, the primary responsibilities are distributed as follows:
* Federal government (CW): Overall design and administration; consolidation of items for use in
instrument; leadership in pre-administration information campaign; national level reporting and
policy formation; coordination of technical assistance and training;
*   Partnering /Implementing institution(s) (Pakistan): item development, technical assistance,
training, coordination of pilot testing and analysis; setting standards for administration and sampling,
help in conducting assessment;
* Provincial/area governments: Item development for pooling at the national level, providing list of
schools and other data for sampling at national level; help in collecting background data of sample
schools/students etc.; test administration, consolidation of provincial data; analysis of provincial
data, dissemination of provincial findings.



4
PID
Functions of Various Work Groups
NEAS Coordination through National                    PEACE Coordination through
Planning & Coord Committee                            Prov Planning & Coord
Develop overall framework               <         *   CommDttee
Review al Ivnstruments                                Coordinate provincial activines
Facilitate fieldwork                                  Manage field work
Faclstate report preparaton                           Supervise provincial reports
NEAS SubjatcGroups                                                       PEACE Subjacg   Groups
Coordinate review of cup culum objestives                        /      eReview mumpulum objestives
Fnaeze assessment instruinents  mnDras a                                      Items for each subject to share
Compile results from      l il  pilot studies and redesign           Drawith NEAS
CoInstruments rvi                                                        Pilot Items
Analyze cumculum achievement by subject and                              Propose Revisions
objectives                                                               Prepare provincal repors on cumculum
v        with|achievement
NEAS Bactground Data Group                                             PEACE Bacground Data Group
Coordinate review of poScy h ssues                                   PpIdentify major policy ssues to be
Design common background instuments                                     addressed in study
l  Coordinate analysis of pilot study                                   eDraf background data Instruments
l_Coordinate revision                                                  Pi C lot co mmon I ns trument
Analyze relations of background vatiables vfth                         Propose Revisions
F                              achievement  a                         Analyze relations of background
Conducts on-the-job training in instrument design, dvanables with achievement
|aNEAS Statistical Group  c                                         PEACE Analytic Group
Review Provincial School Censuses                                    Prepare census of all pubiKt  and p invate
Pnopose sample designs                                              schools i n the province
Monitor quanty of data et                                            Manage province data Gput
Conduct naronal analysis                                            Clean data and send copy to NEAS
Overallmanad  Coordinatinte analysis of province data
Technical Assistance
Provide tefcfiorcal assistangce/reviews foth   all phases of hork at national anid
provincial levels
Facilitates acquisition of relevant literature
Conducts on-thc-job trainig in instrument design, data filc linkages, data entry
and cleaning, item analysis, and statistical analysis
The MoE constituted, through a notification dated March 17, 2003, with proper representation from
the GOP, Provincial governments and the Azad Jammu and                      Kashincir government, the following
committees and groups with their specific TORs: (i) National Planning and Coordination Committee;
(ii) Assessment Instrument Developiment Groups; (iii) Background Data Working Group; and (iv)
Statistical Working Group.
Overall management and Coordincrtion: The Curriculum Wing (CW) of the Ministry will provide the
overall coordination of the NEAS effort, drawing on the advice of the National Planning and
Coordination Commiittee composed of representatives from the Federal Ministry and each of the
provinces. This coordination, represented in the diagram above, includes overall coordination as well



5
PID
as coordination of the assessment of achievement in four subject areas, examination of school and
background factors that are believed to influence achievement, sampling design, analysis,
report-writing, and dissemination of findings to all stakeholders. Provincial Educational Assessment
Centers (PEACE) will be set up in each of the provinces for the actual implementation of the
fieldwork and for the preparation and analysis of the data collected in each province.
The Joint Education Advisor (JEA) of the CW will be ex-officio Project Director to be assisted by a
full time Coordinator. The Bureau of Curriculum in Balochistan, Directorate of Curriculum and
Teacher Education in North West Frontier Province, University of Education in Punjab, Directorate
of Research and Assessment in Sindh, Directorate of Curriculum Research and Development in Azad
Jammu and Kashmir, and Directorates of Education in Federally Administered Tribal Areas,
Islamabad Capital Territory, and Northern Areas will be the institutions responsible for ground level
implementation of NEAS. The focal persons in these institutions have already been identified by the
provincial/area departments of education.
Prior to the conclusion of each fiscal year of the project, the National Planning and Coordination
Committee will be expected to prepare for the Secretary of Education (in his capacity as head of the
Education System Reform Committee) an annual plan for the forthcoming year with a detailed time
line and a report of all work accomplished over the past year (including attachment of published
reports). The Secretary, as head of the ESR implementation, will be responsible for monitoring the
project. The Coordinator of NEAS, with input from the Technical Advisor and the "partnering
organization" will also be required to make quarterly reports to the ESR, per agreed format and with
a focus on implementation progress against benchmarks, and fiscal reporting.
The Bank will participate in National Planning and Coordination Committee meetings as appropriate
and will assess the quality of learning embedded in the project through its semi-annual supervision
missions and through regular contact with the Project Director and lead Technical Advisor.
7. Sustainability
The sustainability of the NEAS will depend upon the quality of instruments developed; effective
implementation; capacity building; and the level of participation of various stakeholder groups. One factor
which will help in institutionalizing the system is the fact that GOP, the Provincial governments, and the
government of Azad Jammu and Kashmir will fund the entire cost of staff salaries and allowances in their
respective areas of responsibility. There is also a growing awareness of the importance of student assessment.
However, ownership in the MoE and provincial/area departments of education is weak, as indicated by long
delays in meeting the basic requirements of the project, including appointment of staff in MoE. Strengthening
this awareness and ownership would heavily depend upon the continued commitment of senior government
officials and policy-makers. The quality of TA, especially of the partnering organization that would be
helping the government in conducting assessments and developing capacity, would also play an important
role. To facilitate sustainability and to institutionalize training capacity, the project will help to establish an
overall certifying and accrediting body, which would award skill certificates in assessment and assure the
quality of training provided by other agencies.



6
PID
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
A number of studies of learning achievement have been conducted in Pakistan from 1984 to date. Most of
them are summarized in Annex 14 of the PAD. In addition, the Academy of Education Planning and
Management (AEPM) carried out a sample survey of achievement among Grade 4 students to meet the
country requirements of EFA Assessment 2000 (AEPM, 2000). With the exception of UNESCO studies,
assessment activities have tended to be part of individual development projects in various provinces / areas
rather than a national level effort. All of these studies have weaknesses in, at least, five major areas which
limit the conclusions that can be drawn and makes the comparison of student achievement over time difficult:
1. Different Grades at different times: These studies were conducted for different grades (1-3, 4-5, 3
& 5, 5, 6, 7 or 8 only) at different times with little effort to relate findings to the results of previous
studies or grades.
2. Instrument development: The framework for constructing the items is rarely reported, so it is
difficult to evaluate curriculum coverage. A single form of a test paper is normally used, rather than
multiple spiraled blocks. This increases the risk of copying, introduces order effects (items that come
late in the test tend to get less attention than those at the beginning) and limits the possible coverage
of curriculum objectives.
3. Sample design: There is no generally-used sampling frame. The sampling frames used by these
studies tend to cover Government schools well and others much less well. Community schools and
private schools tend to be omitted. In many cases too many primary sampling units (PSUs) may be
covered, in an effort to make assessment as participatory as possible. As a result, too few schools are
taken from any PSU to allow adequate representation of diverse school types. Weighting according to
size is not used in determining the probability of selection and in combining results.
4. Administration: Administration was frequently devolved to local educators, at the district or tehsil
level. This increases the risk of inconsistent or lax administration. Training and supervision of
administrators is not normally reported in sufficient detail to judge its rigor.
5. Analysis and reporting: The emphasis in the reports is on total scores, normally expressed as
percentages. These provide little useful information. For example, does a mean score of 51% in math
in a North West Frontier Province test administered in 1995 relate to the curriculum goals mastered
by the average student? Is it evidence of any change in standards since other (BRIDGES) testing,
which produced a mean score of 26% in the same subject? It is impossible to say.
One possible exception to these limitations is the study carried out in 1995 by the Pakistan Psychological
Foundation (Pervez, 1995). This study was sponsored by UNICEF and used the ABC (Assessment of Basic
Competencies) test, versions of which have also been used elsewhere in South-Asia. However, the ABC test
is not based directly on Pakistani curriculum, and tests only very limited competencies. Therefore, although
the study is suggestive of low standards of achievements, it does not relate specifically to Pakistani curriculum
goals.
The work cited above is often interesting and informative. However, there is little national experience in
conducting cross-provincial, curriculum based assessments and there is very limited technical capacity to
carry out this kind of studies in Pakistan.
The design of the project has benefited from the above lessons / findings. Although other projects also aimed
at capacity development for assessment to some extent, it did not happen because assessment was one among
several components of the projects, and therefore it could not get the attention which it deserved. This time, a
lot of background work has been done over the last five years by the government to bring all stakeholders on
board in realizing the importance of student assessment/system evaluation. However, ownership of the
project remains weak and sustainability is also not guaranteed. The Bank is proceeding with this project with



7
PID
the understanding that it is a high risk-high reward activity.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues: NA
10. List of factual technical documents:
1. PIP for five years (June 2002 to June 2007)
2. Detailed PIP for the period June 2002 to June 2003
3. Appraisal Mission Aide-Memoires
4. Cost Tables
5. Education Sector Reform Action Plan (2001-05)
6.Reports of the Technical Group Meetings (TGMs)
7. Federal, provincial/area PC-Is
8. Government's Concept Clearance Paper
9. GoP's request (through EAD) for Bank support
I 0. DFID consultant reports
11. EFA Assessment 2000
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
S. Ameer Naqvi
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone 9251-9090155
Fax: 9251-2822396
12 For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D C. 20433
Telephone (202) 458-5454
Fax.   (202) 522-1500
Web http 11 www worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily
included in the final project.
Tables, Charts, Graphs:
Processed by the InfoShop week ending: 05/07/2003
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here



8
PID
I EARcwFEEDOACK-) , dSIhOn AAFSHOWCAME



