Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3775 PAK 
 
GRANT NUMBER TF 050854 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(National Education Assessment System Project) 
 
between 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated October 9, 2003
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3775 PAK 
GRANT NMBER TF 050854 
 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated October 9, 2003, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF 
PAKISTAN acting by its President (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;  
 
(B) 
the Borrower intends to obtain from the United Kingdom of Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland (United Kingdom), acting through the Department for 
International Development (DfID), a grant in an amount of British Pounds Sterling six 
hundred eighty-six thousand (
£686,000) (the DfID Grant) to assist in financing part of the 
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower and the Association acting as administrator of the DfID Grant (the DfID 
Grant Agreement); 
 
(C) 
part of the activities under the Project will be carried out by the Province 
of Balochistan (Balochistan), the North West Frontier Province (NWFP), the Province of 
Punjab (Punjab), and the Province of Sindh (Sindh) (hereinafter collectively referred to as 
the Provinces) and Azad Jammu and Kashmir (AJK), with the Borrower’s assistance and, 
as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make a portion of the proceeds of the credit 
provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Credit) available to the Provinces and 
AJK as set forth in this Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Association and the 
Provinces and AJK (the Project Agreement); 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
 
October 6, 1999), (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.  
 
Page  3
-
2
-
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“AJK” means the territory of Azad Jammu and Kashmir; 
 
(b) 
“Balochistan” means the Province of Balochistan, a political subdivision 
of the Borrower; 
 
(c) 
“Credit Special Account” means the account referred to in 
 
Section 2.02 (b)(i) of this Agreement;  
 
(d) 
“CW” means the Curriculum Wing of MOE (as hereinafter defined);  
 
(e) 
“DfID Grant Account” means the account opened by the Association on 
its books in the name of the Borrower, to which the amount of the DfID Grant is 
credited; 
 
(f) 
“DfID Special Account” means the account referred to in 
 
Section 2.02 (b)(ii) of this Agreement; 
 
(g) 
“FANA” means the Federally Administered Northern Areas of the 
Borrower; 
 
(h) 
“FATA” means the Federally Administered Tribal Areas of the 
Borrower; 
 
(i) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement or Section 3.02 of the Project 
Agreement;  
 
(j) 
“FY” or “fiscal year” means the fiscal year of the Borrower commencing 
on July 1 of a calendar year and ending on June 30 of the following calendar year; 
 
(k) 
“ICT” means the Islamabad Capital Territory administered by the 
Borrower;  
 
(l) 
“MOE” means the Ministry of Education of the Borrower; 
 
(m) 
“NEAS” means the National Education Assessment System of the 
Borrower; 
 
(n) 
“NWFP” means the North West Frontier Province, a political subdivision 
of the Borrower; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(o) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Association, on 
the one hand, and the Provinces (as hereinbefore defined), AJK and FATA, on the other 
hand, of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
 
(p) 
“Project Implementation Plan” or “PIP” means the Borrower’s Project 
Implementation Plan conveyed to the Association under cover of MOE’s letter dated 
August 26, 2002, as the same may be amended or updated from time to time in 
agreement with the Association;
 
(q) 
“Punjab” means the Province of Punjab, a political subdivision of the 
Borrower; 
 
(r) 
“Sindh” means the Province of Sindh, a political subdivision of the 
Borrower; and 
 
(s) 
“Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement collectively; and “Special Account” means either of those accounts 
individually. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Credit 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to two million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 2,700,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account and the amount of the DfID Grant may be withdrawn from the DfID Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit and the DfID Grant. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars in the National Bank of Pakistan: (i) a separate special deposit account for the 
Credit (the Credit Special Account); and (ii) a separate special deposit account for the 
DfID Grant (the DfID Special Account), all on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2008, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each  
May 15 and November 15 commencing November 15, 2013, and ending May 15, 2038. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on May 15, 2023, shall be one 
and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount. 
 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borro
wer’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
Page  6
-
5
-
development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of          
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned      
repayment modification. 
 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall: 
 
(i)  
carry out its (including ICT’s) activities under the Project 
through CW, FANA’s activities under the Project through 
FANA’s Directorate of Education, and FATA’s activities under 
the project through FATA’s Directorate of Education, all with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and educational practices, and shall 
Page  7
-
6
-
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for its (including ICT’s, FANA’s and 
FATA’s) activities under the Project;  
 
(ii) 
without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, cause the 
Provinces and AJK to perform in accordance with the provisions 
of the Project Agreement all the obligations of the Provinces and 
AJK therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, 
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the Provinces and 
AJK to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to 
be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, 
and shall cause the Provinces and AJK to carry out the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement and the PIP.
 
(c) 
The Borrower shall make amounts out of the proceeds of the Credit and 
the DfID Grant available to the Provinces and AJK  from time to time in accordance with 
its standard budgetary procedures. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit and the DfID Grant shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan designed to ensure the sustainability of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
 
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of their activities under 
Page  8
-
7
-
the Project shall be carried out by the Provinces and AJK pursuant to Section 2.03 of the 
Project Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Association, adequate to reflect its (including ICT’s FANA’s and FATA’s) 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year,  
(A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and  
(B) an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and 
report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning 
said auditors, as the Association may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the  
Credit Account and the DfID Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
Page  9
-
8
-
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.  
 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall  
prepare and furnish to the Association a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
 
(i)  
sets forth sources and uses of funds for its (including ICT’s, 
FANA’s and FATA’s) activities under the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit and the DfID Grant, 
and explains variances between the actual and planned uses of 
such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes its (including ICT’s, FANA’s and FATA’s) physical 
progress in Project implementation, both cumulatively and for 
the period covered by said report, and explains variances 
between the actual and planned Project implementation; and 
 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement for which it is responsible 
under the Project, as at the end of the period covered by said 
report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall 
cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure by the Borrower under the 
Project through the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than forty-five (45) days after each subsequent 
calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
ARTICLE V
 
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
Any of the Provinces and/or AJK shall have failed to perform any of 
their obligations under the Project Agreement. 
 
(b) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the Provinces and/or AJK will be able to perform their 
obligations under the Project Agreement. 
 
(c) 
(i) 
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the 
Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the DfID Grant shall have 
been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the DfID Grant Agreement. 
 
(ii) 
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: 
(A) such suspension, cancellation or termination is not caused by 
the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations 
under the DfID Grant Agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the 
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement. 
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Borrower; 
 
(b) 
the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur; and 
 
(c) 
the event specified in paragraph (c)(i) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (c)(ii) of that Section. 
 
Page  11
-
10 -
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of 
 
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely that the DfID Grant Agreement has 
been executed and delivered and all conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the 
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals thereunder, except only the effectiveness of 
the Development Credit Agreement, have been fulfilled.
 
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Association: 
 
(a)  
the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Provinces and AJK and is legally binding upon the Provinces and AJK in accordance 
with its terms; and 
 
(b)  
the DFID Grant Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower, and is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms. 
 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan, Economic Affairs 
Division, or any Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section 
Officer of that Division is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes 
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of  
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
Page  12
-
11 -
For the Borrower: 
 
The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan 
 
Economic Affairs Division 
 Islamabad 
 Pakistan
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
ECONOMIC   ECDIV-05-634 
 92-051-921-8976 
 
Islamabad 
      
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
   248423 
(MCI) 
or (202) 
477-6391
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  13
-
12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Islamabad, Pakistan, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN 
 
By /s/ Muhammad Ashraf Khan 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Abid Hasan 
Acting Country Director 
Pakistan 
 
Page  14
-
13 -
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit and the DfID Grant 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit and the DfID Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit 
and the DfID Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to 
be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
Amount of the DfID 
 
Credit Allocated 
Grant Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
British Pound Sterling)
to be Financed
(1) 
Goods 
230,000 
 
 
 
 
  
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures,  
 
90%
of local 
 
expenditures for  
 
printed materials, 
books and 
journals,  and 
40% of local  
 
expenditures for  
 
equipment and  
 
other items  
 
procured locally 
 
(2)     Consultant  
 372,000               
343,000                    
88% of  
 
Services  
 
 
 
 
 
expenditures 
for 
 
foreign firms or 
 
individuals, and 
 
98%
of  
 
expenditures for  
 
local firms or  
 
individuals  
 
Page  15
-
14 -
Amount of the 
Amount of the DfID 
 
Credit Allocated 
Grant Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
Category
SDR Equivalent)
British Pound Sterling)
to be Financed
(3) 
Training, 
1,897,000 
 
343,000 
100% of  
 
workshops and 
 
 
 
expenditures for  
seminars 
 
 
foreign training  
 
and seminars  
 
and 80% of  
 
expenditures for  
 
local training,  
 
workshops and  
 
seminars 
 
(4) 
Incremental 
 
 
40% of  
 
operating costs 
37,000 
 
expenditures  
 
for FY2004, 35% 
 
of
expenditures  
 
for FY2005,  
 
30%
of  
 
expenditures for  
 
FY2006, 25%  
 
of
expenditures 
 
for FY2007,  
 
and 20% of  
 
expenditures for  
 
FY2008 
 
(5) Unallocated 
  164,000 
 
___________ _______ 
 TOTAL 
2,700,000 
686,000 
 
=========== ======= 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any country 
other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any country 
other than that of the Borrower;  
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the Borrower 
or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;  
 
Page  16
-
15 -
(c) 
the term “foreign firms or individuals” means firms that are registered or 
incorporated in the territory, or, as the case may be, individuals who are nationals, of any 
country other than that of the Borrower; 
 
(d) 
the term “local firms or individuals” means firms that are registered or incorporated 
in the territory, or, as the case may be, individuals who are nationals, of the Borrower; and 
 
(e) 
the term “incremental operating costs” means the operating and maintenance costs 
of vehicles, equipment and offices acquired under and/or used in carrying out the Project. 
 
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account and the DfID Grant 
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures: 
 
(a) for goods; (b) for consultant services provided by firms under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent each; (c) for consultant services provided by individuals under contracts 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; (d) for training, workshops and seminars; and (e) for 
incremental staff and operating costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Association 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  17
-
16 -
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to design and implement a national 
education assessment system; (b) to enable experimentation with different modes of 
implementing such a system so as to achieve maximum effectiveness and validity; (c) to 
help build the capacity necessary to sustain such a system once it is in place; and (d) to 
increase stakeholder knowledge and understanding of the system and its objectives. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A
:
Capacity Building
1. 
Developing and sustaining of institutional capacity in planning and designing 
assessment systems and instruments, data analysis, management and administration, 
statistical sampling and bias, reporting, dissemination and feedback, information 
marketing and stakeholder confidence building, pilot testing evaluation and system 
sustainability, and use and application of technology in assessment, through the provision 
of equipment, technical advisory services and training. 
 
2. 
Establishing of overall certifying and accrediting bodies responsible for awarding 
assessment skills certificates and assuring the quality of training in such skills imparted 
by other institutions, through the provision of equipment, technical advisory services and 
training.  
 
3. 
Provision of equipment, technical advisory services and training for the 
development of local capacity for training in assessment skills, through partnering with  
a
suitable institution or institutions.  
 
Part B
:
Pilot Testing and Implementing
Carrying out of experiments in assessment to: (i) identify options that would 
produce the desired, valid results and are best implemented; (ii) pilot instruments to 
ensure that biases reflecting language and other contextual differences affecting 
performance results are reduced to a minimum; (iii) test options for ensuring effective 
working arrangements and linkages between the Borrower, the Provinces and AJK, and 
pool, share and evaluate measurement items developed by the Borrower, the Provinces 
and AJK for inclusion in the national pool of assessment items; and (iv) increase 
stakeholder knowledge and understanding of assessment objectives and procedures. 
Page  18
-
17 -
Part C
:
Information  Dissemination
Carrying out of an information dissemination campaign to: (i) provide 
information in advance of the assessment to stakeholders, explaining its purpose and 
giving them insight and reassurance as to its intended purpose; and (ii) communicate 
findings of the assessment to stakeholders, the media and elected officials, explaining 
their implications for the administration of the education system, resource allocation and 
potentially effective policy shifts. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2007. 
Page  19
-
18 -
SCHEDULE 3
 
Procurement and Consultant Services 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods
Part A
:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits,” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and  
January 1999 (the Guidelines). 
 
Part B
:
National Shopping
Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan of each implementing agency for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods by each implementing agency 
shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Post 
Review
The review procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply to all contracts for goods, provided that the word “bids” in such paragraph 4 
shall be read as “quotations.” 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers”, published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the following provisions of this Section. 
Page  20
-
19 -
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-
based selection of consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent 
per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. Individual 
Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan of each implementing agency for the selection of consultants under the Project shall 
be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all 
consultants’ services by each implementing agency shall be undertaken in accordance 
with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
Page  21
-
20 -
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each implementing agency’s first contract irrespective of 
value, and each subsequent contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
for the employment of consulting firms, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 
5
of
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each implementing agency’s first contract irrespective of 
value, and each subsequent contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, 
for the employment of individual consultants, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the 
Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after 
the said approval shall have been given. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
Page  22
-
21 -
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Implementation Program 
 
1. 
The Borrower (including ICT,  FANA and FATA), the Provinces and AJK shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable them to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about September 30, 2005, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of 
this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by December 31, 2005, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
 
2. 
The Borrower (including ICT, FANA and FATA), the Provinces and AJK shall, 
throughout the period of implementation of the Project, maintain adequate levels of 
staffing needed for the Project and agreed with the Association from time to time.  
 
3. 
The Borrower shall, throughout the period of implementation of the Project, 
maintain the National Planning and Coordination Committee, the Assessment Instrument 
Development Groups, the Background Data Working Group and the Statistical Working 
Group all as constituted by MOE for the purposes of NEAS on May 17, 2003, with 
composition and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association.   
 
4.  
The Borrower (including ICT, FANA and FATA) shall, in consultation with the 
Provinces and AJK and not later than May 31 of each year during the implementation of 
the Project, or such later date as may be agreed with the Association, prepare and furnish 
to the Association an annual update of the PIP satisfactory to the Association. 
 
5. 
The Borrower (including ICT, FANA and FATA), the Provinces and AJK shall, 
not later than June 30 of each year, or such later date as may be agreed with the 
Association, prepare and furnish to the Association annual progress reports, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, on the carrying out of the Project. 
Page  23
-
22 -
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Special Accounts 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit and the DfID Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means, with respect to the Credit 
Special Account an amount equivalent to $360,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account and deposited into the Credit Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this 
Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $180,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of  
SDR 1,000,000; and 
 
(d) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means, with respect to the DfID 
Special Account an amount equivalent to $100,000 to be withdrawn from the DfID Grant 
Account and deposited into the DfID Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this 
Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $50,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the DfID Grant Account plus the total amount of 
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to  
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of  
SDR 30,000. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the respective Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account shall be made as 
follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special Account of 
an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Page  24
-
23 -
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and the DfID Grant Account and 
deposit into the respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits 
into the respective Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and the DfID Grant Account and deposit into the 
respective Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents 
and other evidence to have been paid out of the respective 
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall 
be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account and 
the DfID Grant Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account and DfID 
Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions 
and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
 
Page  25
-
24 -
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account and the DfID Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the DfID Grant 
allocated to the eligible Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account and the DfID Grant Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and DfID Grant allocated to the eligible 
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
respective Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or  
(B) deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, 
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the respective Special Account shall be made until 
the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account and the DfID Grant Account 
accordingly for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions. 
 
