                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                          Report No: ICR00001286



         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                       (IDA-37750 TF-50854)



                                      ON A

                                    CREDIT

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 2.7 MILLION
                     (US$ 3.63 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                    TO THE

                           Islamic Republic of Pakistan

                                     FOR A

              National Education Assessment System (NEAS) Project



                               December 22, 2009




Human Development Sector
South Asia Region
                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2009)

                         Currency Unit = Pak Rupees (PKR)
                               US$ 1.00 = 81.3 PKR

                                   FISCAL YEAR


                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ACER    Australian Council for Educational Research
AEAC    Area Education Assessment Centers
AIDG    Assessment Instrument Development Group
AJK     Azad Jammu and Kashmir
ATC     Assessment Training Center
B.Ed.   Bachelor of Education
BISE    Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education
CBO     Community Based Organization
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CMU     Country Management Unit
CW      Curriculum Wing
DFID    Department for International Development
DoE     Department of Education
DRTA    Deputy Resident Technical Adviser
EFA     Education for All
EMIS    Education Management Information System
FANA    Federally Administrated Northern Areas
FATA    Federally Administrated Tribal Areas
FCE     Federal College of Education (Islamabad)
FDE     Federal Directorate of Education (Islamabad)
GCTE    Government College of Teacher Education
GoP     Government of Pakistan
HEC     Higher Education Commission of Pakistan
IBCC    Inter-Board Committee of Chairman
IER     Institute of Education and Research (University of the Punjab)
ICT     Islamabad Capital Territory
IDA     International Development Association
IRT     Item Response Theory
JEA     Joint Educational Adviser
LARE    Lead Assessment Regulatory Expert
LMT     Lead Master Trainer
M.A.    Master of Arts
M.Ed.   Master in Education
MoE     Ministry of Education
MoU     Memorandum of Understanding
MTR     Mid Term Review
NEAS    National Education Assessment System
NEC     National Education Census


                                           ii
NEMIS   National Education Management Information System
NGO     Non-Government Organization
NPC     National Project Coordinator
NPCC    National Planning and Coordination Committee
NWFP    North West Frontier Province
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PEACE   Provincial Education Assessment Centre
PIP     Project Implementation Plan
PITE    Provincial Institute of Teacher Education
RITE    Regional Institute of Teacher Education
RTA     Resident Technical Advisor
SHC     Stakeholder Conference
SS      Subject Specialists
TA      Technical Assistance
ToR     Terms of Reference
TIMSS   Trends in Mathematics and Science Study
TWG     Technical Working Group
UoM     University of Melbourne (Australia)
WB      The World Bank



                          Vice President: Isabel Guerrero
                        Country Director: Yusupha Crookes
                         Sector Manager: Amit Dar
                    Project Team Leader: Sofia Shakil
                       ICR Team Leader: Leopold Sarr




                                        iii
                                              PAKISTAN
                                  National Education Assessment System




                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes............................................... 4
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 7
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 14
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance...................................................... 14
  6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 16
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 18
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 19
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 20
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 21
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 22
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 23
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 24
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 25
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 27
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents....................................................................... 29
  MAP




                                                             iv
A. Basic Information
                                                                          National Education
Country:                Pakistan                Project Name:
                                                                          Assessment System
Project ID:             P077288                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-37750,TF-50854
ICR Date:               12/23/2009              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     TAL                     Borrower:
                                                                          PAKISTAN
Original Total
                        XDR 2.7M                Disbursed Amount:         XDR 1.7M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 2.7M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Education
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 UK Department for International Development (DFID)

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       04/17/2002     Effectiveness:             12/19/2003        12/19/2003
Appraisal:            04/19/2002     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             06/03/2003     Mid-term Review:           06/30/2006        10/18/2006
                                     Closing:                   06/30/2008        06/30/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower             Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Not Applicable
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Not Applicable
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     75                   75
Sub-national government administration                                25                   25


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Education for all                                                     100              100

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Isabel M. Guerrero                   Praful C. Patel
Country Director:          Yusupha B. Crookes                   John W. Wall
Sector Manager:            Amit Dar                             Michelle Riboud
Project Team Leader:       Sofia Shakil                         Ameer Hussein Naqvi
ICR Team Leader:           Leopold Remi Sarr
ICR Primary Author:        Leopold Remi Sarr


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The development objectives of the National Education Assessment System were to: (i)
design and administer assessment mechanisms; (ii) establish administrative infrastructure
and capacity for assessment administration, analysis and report writing; and (iii) increase
stakeholder knowledge and acceptance of assessment objectives and procedures.

  In particular, the NEAS was planned as a sample-based national assessment, to be
conducted at Grade 4 and Grade 8, in four subjects - Language, Mathematics, Science
and Social Studies/Islamiyat/Life Skills. This project aimed to provide the basis for pilot
testing the administrative process of assessment, develop the instruments for measuring
learning levels and design the information dissemination strategy associated with


                                                ii
education assessment. In addition, NEAS had this peculiarity that it focused on enabling
the Government of Pakistan (GoP), and Provinces/Areas to make systematic assessment a
permanent feature of the country#s education system.

  The key performance indicators of the project include: (i) valid and reliable baseline
data for Grades 4 and 8 in four subjects and student achievement over time; (ii)
technically proficient assessment staff who are on the regular budget, trained and in
place; (iii) partnering arrangements in place; (iv) media campaign, brochures and
information bulletins produced, audience appropriate reports of findings produced and
disseminated; (v) national and provincial/areas assessment centers' capacity further
strengthened in specific areas of sampling, test development, analysis, and report writing.

  The first indicator does not seem to be clearly defined as, by definition, an indicator is
expected to vary over time. Moreover, its associated baseline value and the target value
appear ambiguous in the ISRs. For instance, as the project gets implemented, it becomes
difficult to continue referring to it as being a non reliable baseline. The last two ISRs
pointed to the absence of a reliable baseline whereas the first national assessment # which
could reasonably be considered as a valid baseline despite its own limitations as it
excludes private schools- was piloted in February/March 2004, at the beginning of the
project, and a full scale national assessment conducted in April 2005. Lastly, the progress
reported for this performance indicator reflects progress in student performance rather
than the establishment of a valid baseline indicator. Overall, it is encouraging to see that
the project led to the availability of valid and reliable data for Grades 4 and 8 in key
subjects.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target       Formally        Actual Value
                                               Values (from         Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                                 approval           Target        Completion or
                                                documents)          Values         Target Years
                Valid, reliable baseline data (pilot test scores/measures) for Grade 4 and 8 in four
Indicator 1 :
                subjects and achievement over time.
                                            Not possible to fix                 2008 Grade 4-
                                            values. NEAS is                     Mathematics: 369;
                                            only responsible                    2008 Grade 4
                                            for establishing                    Language
Value                                       students learning                   (Reading): 377;
                No valid reliable baseline
quantitative or                             achievement and                     2008 Grade 4
                data available
Qualitative)                                correlates of                       Language
                                            student                             (Writing): 498;
                                            performance                         2008 Grade 8
                                            levels, including                   Science: 477; 2008
                                            teacher input                       Grade 8 Social


                                                 iii
                                            (provincial                         Studies: 516
                                            governments are
                                            responsible for
                                            promoting
                                            corrective
                                            measures in
                                            teacher
Date achieved 06/02/2003                    06/30/2009                          03/31/2009
Comments
                The implementation of four rounds of assessment has allowed to establish a
(incl. %
                reliable baseline indicator of student performance in Grade 4 and 8.
achievement)
                Technically proficient assessment staff who are on regular budget trained and in
Indicator 2 :
                place.
                                            All technically
                                            proficient                          Staff have been
                                            assessment staff is                 appointed under
                                            in place on regular                 regular budget,
                Staff in provincial centers
                                            budget; and to                      except in Sindh and
                are appointed with little
Value                                       strengthen                          FANA. Capacity
                proficiency in student
quantitative or                             capacity in the                     building is on track,
                assessment systems.
Qualitative)                                system, staff are                   with key staff
                National staff is yet to be
                                            retained and                        participating in
                appointed.
                                            additional resource                 relevant courses
                                            persons from                        including WBI in-
                                            various                             country training.
                                            subdepartments.
Date achieved 01/30/2004                    06/30/2009                          05/26/2009
Comments
                Sindh staff are in the process of being integrated in the recurrent budget but
(incl. %
                FANA will only regularize its staff by 2012.
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Partnering arrangements are in place.
                                                                                MOU signed with
                                                                                two institutions
                                            At least one
                                                                                (IER Punjab and
                                            Pakistani
                                                                                Federal College of
Value                                       institution has
                                                                                Education) and they
quantitative or No arrangements existed. started admissions
                                                                                are working with
Qualitative)                                in courses on
                                                                                the TA firm and the
                                            student
                                                                                NEAS / PEACEs.
                                            assessment.
                                                                                IER has completed
                                                                                four courses.
Date achieved 12/20/2003                    04/30/2008                          05/14/2009
Comments
(incl. %        Satisfactory achievement
achievement)
                Media Campaign, brochures and information bulletins produced, audience
Indicator 4 :
                appropriate reports of findings produced and disseminated.
Value                                       All stakeholders                    Seminars held.
                No arrangements existed.
quantitative or                             are informed at                     NEAS and



                                                 iv
Qualitative)                              every stage of the                 provincial/areas
                                          student assessment                 centers are
                                          and, at least, bi-                 circulating
                                          annually about the                 quarterly
                                          level of student                   newsletter; website
                                          learning, and                      launched. A draft
                                          communication                      communication
                                          strategy under                     strategy has been
                                          implementation.                    finalized, which
                                                                             now needs to be
                                                                             implemented.
Date achieved 02/28/2004                   06/30/2009                        05/12/2009
Comments
(incl. %        Partially achieved
achievement)
                National and provincial/areas assessment centers' capacity further strengthened in
Indicator 5 :
                specific areas of sampling, test development, analysis, and report writing.
                                                                              Several
                                                                              international and
                                           Additional
                                                                              national trainings
                                           required training
                                                                              were held ,
                                           imparted, but
                Most key staff have been                                      including WBI in
                                           targeting more
                provided some form of                                         country training
Value                                      provincial/area
                long-term/short-term                                          held in areas of
quantitative or                            staff (and other
                training, but need further                                    sampling; test
Qualitative)                               resource persons
                skill development in                                          development;
                                           from Education
                specific areas.                                               analysis, report
                                           Departments to
                                                                              writingAdditional
                                           build critical
                                                                              training on
                                           mass).
                                                                              statistical analysis
                                                                              also conducted.
Date achieved 05/02/2008                   06/30/2009                         05/26/2009
Comments
(incl. %        At least 75% of NEAS staff training conducted
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                              Formally
                                           Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                            Revised
                                             approval                       Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                            documents)                       Target Years
Indicator 1 : Comparative analysis of achievement of grade-4 students in Math and Language.
                                        Instruments and                   Baselines have been
                No system of monitoring analysis further                  established for all
Value
                student learning        improved, and                     subjects for Grade 4
(quantitative
                achievement, so no      baseline for                      and Grade 8 (see
or Qualitative)
                baseline available.     private sector also               PDO 1 above).
                                        established.                      Comparative



                                                v
                                                                             analysis reports for
                                                                             achievement of
                                                                             Grade 4 students in
                                                                             Math and Language
                                                                             have been written.
Date achieved   02/28/2004                   06/30/2009                      10/31/2008
Comments
                Satisfactory achievement of indicator although the actual value achieved (e.g.
(incl. %
                baselines established) is not related to the intermediate indicator
achievement)
Indicator 2 :   Faculty of the partnering institutions is trained.
                                                                             Faculty of IER
                                                                             Punjab and Fed.
                                             All required
                                                                             College of
                                             faculty members
                                                                             Education have
Value           No partnering                are trained and
                                                                             received training
(quantitative   arrangements existed         certificate and
                                                                             through workshops
or Qualitative) beflore.                     degree courses on
                                                                             and 8-week
                                             student assessment
                                                                             certificate courses.
                                             are developed.
                                                                             IER is offering
                                                                             degree courses.
Date achieved 02/28/2004                  11/30/2007                         10/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Fully achieved
achievement)
                Communication strategy developed and implemented for dissemination and use
Indicator 3 :
                of assessment information to improve the system.
                                                                         Deeper sharing of
                                                                         findings and
                                                                         implications with
                                          Finalize and pilot
                                                                         primary
                                          the
Value           No communication                                         stakeholders is
                                          communication/inf
(quantitative   strategy system existed                                  required (teacher
                                          ormation
or Qualitative) before.                                                  trainers, textbook
                                          dissemination
                                                                         writers, etc. ), and
                                          strategy.
                                                                         the communication
                                                                         strategy has been
                                                                         finalized.
Date achieved 02/28/2004                  03/31/2009                     05/26/2009
Comments
(incl. %        Partially achieved
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
        Date ISR
No.                               DO                           IP             Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1     12/01/2003            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   0.00



                                                 vi
  2    05/06/2004       Satisfactory             Unsatisfactory         0.00
  3    06/28/2004       Satisfactory              Satisfactory          0.18
  4    12/27/2004       Satisfactory              Satisfactory          0.18
  5    06/02/2005       Satisfactory              Satisfactory          0.42
  6    12/08/2005       Satisfactory              Satisfactory          0.62
  7    06/14/2006       Satisfactory              Satisfactory          0.95
  8    12/20/2006   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory   0.99
  9    06/20/2007   Moderately Satisfactory       Satisfactory          1.41
 10    12/07/2007   Moderately Satisfactory       Satisfactory          1.62
 11    06/03/2008   Moderately Satisfactory       Satisfactory          2.20
 12    12/11/2008       Satisfactory              Satisfactory          2.26
 13    06/11/2009       Satisfactory              Satisfactory          2.64


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                                          vii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

The Government of Pakistan has long recognized the importance of student learning as a
yardstick to measure the health of an education system. Consequently, it has made the
commitment to not only raise enrolment but also to improve the quality of education throughout
the entire system. This commitment has been reflected in the government's policy documents
(National Education Policy 1998-2010, Education Sector Reforms 2001 - 2005) and in its
reaffirmation at international forums (Jomtien Declaration 1990 and EFA Assessment 2000,
Dakar) to include school quality outcomes such as student achievement scores, as performance
monitoring indicators in the education sector. In addition, the Curriculum Wing (CW) of the
Ministry of Education (MoE) was given the legal mandate to maintain the `standards of
education'.

In the late 1990s, the Government engaged a policy dialogue with various stakeholders that
emphasized the need of a national assessment system to systematically measure and monitor the
learning levels of students. As a result, the Government proposed a key initiative of a National
Education Assessment System (NEAS) to support the education sector reforms aimed at
improving the overall quality of education in Pakistan.

The need for a national assessment body was acknowledged when the Federal and Provincial
Governments took some assessment initiatives under previous development projects. Most of
these assessment activities were confined to the Project level and did not attempt to address
systemic assessment issues. In other words, they did not have an institutional base either at the
Federal or the Provincial level to sustain assessment activities beyond the Project periods.
Consequently, there was little evidence of the impact of Project investments in training and
human resource development as far as student assessment is concerned. All the initiatives were
on a small scale and lacked systematic standardization and comparability not only across but even
within Provinces/Areas. Specifically, it was found that neither the traditional school
examinations, nor the external public examinations administered for certification purposes, nor
the selection tests for admission to institutions of Higher Education sufficiently fulfill the criteria
of standardization and comparability required of a student assessment system against curriculum
benchmarks.

Although the Ministry of Education (MoE) had testing mechanisms for assessing individual
student performance used as the basis for determining promotion and placement, it had no system
of measuring how well schools were doing in implementing the curricula and raising student
learning levels. Information about student achievement from traditional school examinations, or
from the external examinations conducted by the Boards of Intermediate and Secondary
Education, was not comparable across the country as the marks were derived from different tests
or examinations. Consequently, the Ministry had no institutional mechanisms for assessing the
quality of its education service delivery.

A dialogue about the need and mechanism for establishing a National Education Assessment
System (NEAS) as an integral part of the education system in Pakistan was initiated during a
national workshop at Lahore in December 1997. This initiative was followed by a series of
National/ Provincial workshops and Technical Group Meetings (TGMs). Consensus about
Federal and Provincial roles in conducting assessments, and the broad dimensions of learning
assessments, was reached at the TGM held in Islamabad from February 18-19, 2000. A series of
Provincial Workshops and National TGMs helped to further build consensus, better define
Federal and Provincial/Area roles, and develop Federal and Provincial/Area PC-Is, to equip the
NEAS with resources and assure its sustainability. It was also proposed that NEAS and the
Provincial Education Assessment Centers (PEACE) would be developed with Federal and
Provincial coordination. The Federal unit of NEAS at the Curriculum Wing (CW) in MoE had a
coordinating role to support the assessment initiatives in the Province / Areas. PEACEs were
established in the Departments of Education (DoEs) to undertake assessment activities in the
Provinces/Areas. The preparatory phase of NEAS was completed in the TGMs in December 2001
and January 2002.

The Government of Pakistan therefore requested the Bank's assistance in developing NEAS and
setting up an institutional framework that systematically measure and monitor student learning,
thereby helping assess the quality of the education service delivery in Pakistan. The Bank agreed
to provide Technical Assistance along with DFID as this bold initiative was in line with the CAS
which stated that the "Bank support will focus on those interventions in the education sector that
would help the goal of achieving universal primary education, with particular focus on improving
the quality of education provided, and giving priority to the poor and disadvantaged, particularly
girls and children in rural areas."


1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
The development objectives of the National Education Assessment System were to: (i) design and
administer assessment mechanisms; (ii) establish administrative infrastructure and capacity for
assessment administration, analysis and report writing; and (iii) increase stakeholder knowledge
and acceptance of assessment objectives and procedures.

In particular, the NEAS was planned as a sample-based national assessment, to be conducted at
Grade 4 and Grade 8, in four subjects - Language, Mathematics, Science and Social
Studies/Islamiyat/Life Skills. This Project aimed to provide the basis for pilot testing the
administrative process of assessment, develop the instruments for measuring learning levels and
design the information dissemination strategy associated with education assessment. In addition,
NEAS had this peculiarity that it focused on enabling the Government of Pakistan (GoP), and
Provinces/Areas to make systematic assessment a permanent feature of the country's education
system.

The key performance indicators of the project include: (i) valid and reliable baseline data for
Grades 4 and 8 in four subjects and student achievement over time; (ii) technically proficient
assessment staff who are on the regular budget, trained and in place; (iii) partnering arrangements
in place; (iv) media campaign, brochures and information bulletins produced, audience
appropriate reports of findings produced and disseminated; (v) national and provincial/areas
assessment centers' capacity further strengthened in specific areas of sampling, test development,
analysis, and report writing.

The first indicator does not seem to be clearly defined as, by definition, an indicator is expected
to vary over time. Moreover, its associated baseline value and the target value appear ambiguous
in the ISRs. For instance, as the Project gets implemented, it becomes difficult to continue
referring to it as being a non reliable baseline. The last two ISRs pointed to the absence of a
reliable baseline whereas the first national assessment ­ which could reasonably be considered as
a valid baseline despite its own limitations as it excludes private schools- was piloted in
February/March 2004, at the beginning of the Project, and a full scale national assessment
conducted in April 2005. Lastly, the progress reported for this performance indicator reflects


                                                2
progress in student performance rather than the establishment of a valid baseline indicator.
Overall, it is encouraging to see that the Project led to the availability of valid and reliable
data for Grades 4 and 8 in key subjects.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
 Neither the PDO nor the key indicators were revised.


1.4 Main Beneficiaries,
No specific group is expected to benefit from the Project but the country as a whole will gain
from the establishment of a national assessment system. However, the target population for the
four national assessments was a carefully selected sample of all students in grades 4 and 8 in
government schools and community schools. Teachers and school management or PTA were also
key target groups. Finally, the target group also included staff of Ministry of Education (MoE),
provincial and area education departments, staff in national, provincial and area assessment
centers for their capacity building in all areas of assessment.



1.5 Original Components (as approved)

(I)     Institutionalization of NEAS
The first and the foremost component supported by the Project relates to institutionalizing a
National Education Assessment System by establishing an infrastructure to enable systematic
assessments. The absence of institutional arrangements at the national level for systematic
measurement of student learning had precluded the Government from determining how well the
Pakistani education system is performing. As a result, there was no solid empirical basis for
making policy decisions about where more resources or additional support was needed or which
aspects of service delivery to improve. Similarly, it was difficult to ascertain: (a) how well the
curricula were being translated into knowledge and skills among students; (b) the main
determinants of student performance; and (c) the ways to assist and foster teachers and schools to
use data to improve student performance.

(II)     Capacity Building in Assessment
Along with the administrative strengthening and institutionalization of NEAS, the GoP's
objective was to develop the capacity of the Provinces /Areas of Pakistan through training and
technical assistance to enable them to conduct sample-based periodic student assessments in line
with the Project objectives. Specifically, NEAS was to develop the institutional capacity of MoE
(CW) as well as that of Provinces /Areas through their respective PC-1s to monitor the standards
of education in the country. NEAS also partnered with national and international institutions to
establish a certifying and accreditation body and help institutionalize the training capacity in the
country.

(III) Stakeholder Knowledge of Assessment
A third key component identified by the Project was the need to increase awareness and
knowledge about student assessment. Through Stakeholder Conferences (SHC) which
disseminate NEAS findings, the Project's goal was to generate informed discussions about the
quality of education in Pakistan, what students are learning in school and how to improve the
standards of education as well as its relevance to the labor market needs.


                                                 3
1.6 Revised Components
None of the Project components was revised during the project implementation period.


1.7 Other significant changes
The Project was extended for a period of one year, from the original ending date of June 30, 2008
to June 30, 2009, to enable the implementation of a number of capacity building activities, the
development of a communication strategy (given the earlier delays in start-up) and to initiate the
institutionalization of NEAS.


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
Despite being a new Project with a unique design, NEAS has managed to incorporate lessons
from previous education projects that emphasized improvement in the quality of both primary and
secondary education. Cognizant of the importance of developing a system that assesses and
monitor student learning, Pakistan has been committed, since the early stages of the project
preparation, to raising the standards of education. Through a participatory approach evidenced by
numerous stakeholder conferences, the design phase has allowed the Government, in particular
the MoE, to be at center stage in the process of establishing a solid national assessment system.

The Project preparation was accompanied by a determination of the risks and mitigation
measures. The latter were generally accurately identified except for the political uncertainty and
the security risk.


2.2 Implementation

The NEAS was conceived out of an intensive consultation process both at the Federal and
Provincial levels with key stakeholders. The national workshop organized in Lahore in
December 1997 set the stage for developing a national assessment system in Pakistan. This
initiative was followed by a series of National / Provincial workshops and Technical Group
Meetings (TGMs). Consensus about Federal and Provincial roles in conducting assessments, and
the broad dimensions of learning assessments, was reached at the TGM held in Islamabad in
February 18-19, 2000.

The implementation of NEAS has also benefited from the institutional support of the
Curriculum Wing (CW) of MoE which received the legal mandate to maintain `the
standards of education' in Pakistan, and later of the Policy & Planning Wing. To provide
the administrative base for assessment, the NEAS unit was established in the CW of MoE and
endowed with assessment professionals, support staff and facilities to undertake the assessment
production, analysis and dissemination, along with the PEACE teams across the country1. NEAS

1
   NEAS consists of a central co-ordinating body, plus seven Provincial/Area Education Assessment Centres
(PEACE/AEAC) in each Province/Area. The Institute for Educational Research (IER) University of Punjab and the
Federal College of Education, Islamabad are the Assessment Training Centres of NEAS. The central NEAS plays a
leadership role in planning and co-ordinating different aspects of national assessment, monitoring for quality assurance


                                                           4
was subsequently placed under the administrative control of the MOE's Policy & Planning Wing,
where it remains till present (and until such time long term institutional options are determined
and put in place).

The capacity building activities of the project, and in particular, in-country training and
overseas training were initially slow due to delays in putting in place the implementation
and partnering arrangements. Implementation of the planned training to develop technical
capacity of staff in the NEAS network was all the more challenging that there was a seventeen
month delay between the project launch and the signing of the Technical Assistance contract.
Moreover, the delay in overseas training was manifest when the first cohort of NEAS staff left for
Melbourne in February 2007 to only return to the NEAS network in December 2007, therefore
leaving them hardly six months to provide any technical input to project activities. For the
sustainability of the project, it would be important that the staff from NEAS and the PEACEs
who returned with master's degrees from University of Melbourne play a leading role in the
development of assessment instruments, data analysis and report writing Further, the weak
English language and computer skills of staff in the NEAS network constituted an additional
constraint that made report writing an onerous task.

Staff turnover had hindered an effective implementation of the project and weakened the
potential to create a strong pool of technical expertise. In the perspective of project
sustainability, it would be critical that NEAS and PEACE be endowed, on a permanent basis,
with a sufficient pool of assessment experts and professional staff that can preserve the
institutional memory. In fact, five completed implementation cycles with high rates of staff
turnover have demonstrated the need for additional technical and management support to NEAS
in order to develop sustainable technical skills in the NEAS network. The human resource
constraint is also manifest in the fact that, within NEAS unit, appointments to key posts were not
made until August 2003 and the full staffing was not achieved until May 2007.

Another weakness of the project implementation relates to the communication and
information dissemination strategy. It was deemed relatively weak as there was no permanent
counterpart form the Government to carry out project activities. The extent of the communication
strategy was limited to stakeholder conferences during the project period, and these were held at
the provincial/area and national levels. Deeper sharing and wider dissemination of findings was
not undertaken, but this forms part of the strategy going forward in order to make effective use of
the information emerging from assessments. In the last year of the project, a communication
strategy was developed, which will now be implemented. As a result, the information
dissemination was rated by the Project as moderately satisfactory.

The successful integration of staff into the regular budgets has had the perverse effect of
slowing down the disbursement of IDA fund as many assessment activities conducted by
NEAS/PEACE could not be submitted for reimbursement. By the end of 2008, the disbursement
ratio was still at a staggering 53 percent, partly as a result of delayed startup in implementation
and capacity building activities2. Acceptable audited financial statements for 2008 have been

of all NEAS processes and products, in preparing a national report and disseminating assessment findings. The
PEACEs/AEACs work collaboratively with NEAS in developing items, administering and scoring instruments,
analysing data, and disseminating reports.




2
    There had been delay in setting up partnership with a technical firm for capacity building.



                                                        5
provided to IDA, and advances to regional offices have been reconciled. However, rectified
IUFRs for January ­ March 2009 and subsequent quarters have not been provided yet. It was
assured that these would be provided to IDA by end December 2009. Therefore, the Project's
financial management has been rated Moderately Satisfactory.

Finally, there was uneven institutional development of the assessment centers across the
various provinces. For example, the FANA PC-1 was only approved in the last year of the
Project while Balochistan could not hold its second stakeholder conference due to the fact that the
Provincial government's share of costs was not available. Ownership of the assessment centers
and the work of NEAS varied from province to province.


2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
As the NEAS project deals with measurement of student learning and has measurable indicators
to help monitor progress in achieving development objectives, M&E activities appear to be a
decisive component for a successful project implementation. There is a growing interest in policy
discussion about measuring the quality of education and assessing education service delivery (cf.
Vincent Greaney's series of books on national assessment systems, 2008; Jishnu Das et al., 2006).
The fact that four rounds of assessment have been conducted provides ample opportunity to
measure progress in student learning in Grade 4 and 8 for various subjects (Math, Science, Social
Studies, Language). The rich database gathered has further helped undertake comparative
analysis of Grade 4 students in Math and Language. Such reports are then likely to inform policy
decision making as well as help improve data collection and test designs. While, overall, it is
encouraging to see that the Project led to the availability of valid and reliable data for Grades 4
and 8 in key subjects, and that analysis of this data is taking place, the challenge is to strengthen
utilization of this data and information to help improve the system. There is now a good base for
stimulating the use of information on learning gaps by various stakeholder departments to bring
improvements in teaching and learning environment.

Monitoring of the assessment system was the responsibility of the Ministry of Education's Policy
and Planning Wing, where NEAS was housed. However, the provincial systems were housed
within the Education Departments' various structures (Bureaus of Curriculum, or as separate
centers), and maintained links with the federal NEAS as well as their respective provincial
education departments. Overall coordination on policy issues was the responsibility of the
National Planning and Coordination Committee (NPCC), which also was responsible for
overseeing the vision and strategy development of NEAS. But, although the main structure for
monitoring the overall vision for assessment system under the project is the NPCC, a credible
monitoring system tracking progress in key school quality indicators is needed to strengthen
capacity for research and in-depth analysis of those indicators.

The first monitoring indicator of the project does not seem to be clearly defined as its associated
baseline value and the target value appear ambiguous in the ISRs. For instance, the last two ISRs
pointed to the absence of a reliable baseline whereas the first national assessment was piloted in
February/March 2004, at the beginning of the project, and a full scale national assessment
conducted in April 2005. This first national assessment could reasonably be considered to be a
valid baseline, assuming that the sampled public schools are nationally representative, despite its
own limitations as it excludes private schools. Lastly, the progress reported for this performance
indicator reflects progress in student performance rather than the establishment of a valid baseline
indicator. But overall, it is encouraging to see that the project led to the availability of valid and
reliable data for Grades 4 and 8 in key subjects.



                                                  6
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
The Government complied with safeguard policies and fiduciary responsibilities during the
Project implementation. Ratings were satisfactory in many categories but the financial
management reporting was relatively weak.



2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
The project ended in June 30, 2009 and the Government has requested the World Bank and DFID
to provide continued support for a second phase of capacity support. World Bank and DFID are
in advanced stages of developing a trust fund supported capacity building program. The MoE
recognizes that the process of ensuring a sustained and strengthened assessment system will
require continued technical assistance and has requested this support for further strengthening and
institutionalization of NEAS. Financing for this support would be provided through a recipient
executed trust fund facility with funding from DFID and CIDA. There would also be a small
Bank-executed component to support key technical assistance activities and other tasks on which
the Bank has a comparative advantage. The MoE has therefore agreed to prepare a new 5 year
plan, in its vision for NEAS, for capacity development, technical assistance, institutional
strengthening, and stronger communication/dissemination strategy. This new plan will build upon
the existing one, by revising it to reflect key priorities for the future TA program. This MoE's
vision for NEAS embeds Pakistan's participation in TIMSS as it has the potential to effectively
prepare the country to this major international event.


3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The Bank's assistance strategy is focused on helping reduce poverty in Pakistan by investing in
people and promoting sustainable economic growth. Supporting pro-poor policies and promoting
gender equity are among the CAS program priorities. In this regard, the CAS reaffirms that "Bank
support will focus on those interventions in the education sector that would help the goal of
achieving universal primary education, with particular focus on improving the quality of
education provided, and giving priority to the poor and disadvantaged, particularly girls and
children in rural areas." Among the principal indicators of the quality of education services
delivered are what students are learning and how well they are able to apply the skills acquired in
the labor market and in real life situation. In line with the CAS's objectives, the NEAS project
was designed to measure student learning and to develop an assessment system that would
monitor the standards of education in Pakistan.

The Project's Development Objectives (PDOs) remained relevant throughout the course of the
project, and remain relevant to Pakistan's national and provincial education strategies. While the
PDOs were slightly sharpened to give a clearer focus and relevance to the needs of the system, as
indicated below by the words in italics:

        (1) To design and administer a system of monitoring student learning achievement;
        (2) To establish administrative infrastructure and capacity for assessment administration,
            analysis and report writing; and



                                                7
         (3) To increase stakeholders' knowledge and acceptance of assessment objectives and
             procedures and to provide feedback to help improve the quality of teaching and
             learning.

An important dimension of the relevance of NEAS objectives has to do with the choice of
Pakistan to participate in the famous international assessments known as Trends in Mathematics
and Science Study (TIMSS) in 20153. In preparation for this, it is critically relevant that MoE
builds the administrative infrastructure and develop the technical capacity of the NEAS network
so that Pakistan's education system is well positioned to compete with other countries of similar
level of economic development that are taking part in the TIMSS.


3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
The focus of NEAS project on developing a national assessment system over the last five years of
implementation has resulted in substantial achievements relating to the process of
institutionalization of NEAS, the building of an administrative assessment infrastructure,
including the promotion of partnerships with national and international institutions and the
increase in stakeholder knowledge about assessment. These achievements are reflected in the
results presented below:

(I) Design and Administer a System of Monitoring Student Learning Achievement

Between February 2005 and June 2008, four rounds of large scale student assessments on a
sample basis for Grade 4 and 8 and one round of equating studies for two subjects in Grade 4
have been successfully completed and shared with a wide range of stakeholders (for further
details, cf. Annex 6b on the outline of NEAS subject assessment framework). The institutional
framework for systematically measuring student learning is gradually building up in the country.

There is now an adequate pool of trained professionals available in country, both at the national
and provincial levels to develop assessment tools and participate in the administration of
assessments. Subject specialists and test development specialists have received extensive
trainings thereby creating an in-country expertise to conduct trainings on development of
assessment tools. As a result, NEAS and PEACE staff have been extensively involved in the
development, administration and analysis of assessments. For instance, no international test item
was used, only national curriculum items were developed but the level of difficulty of test items
was raised to international standards. Anchor items were also used from the 2nd round of
assessment; the quality of items used and the grading were improved over time and the tests were
administered in Urdu and Sindhi.

NEAS has also successfully translated the new curriculum introduced in 2007 by MoE into
competencies for measuring learning as future assessments will be based on the new curriculum.
Punjab is, for instance, taking the lead in establishing a Provincial Examination Commission that
will use competency based assessment in examination system. In the same vein, Punjab is in the
process of designing its own district-based testing, which when completed, will allow comparison
of school performance across districts, thereby improving the quality of the school decision
making.


3
  This is the current plan of the MOE, but the final decision about the timing of participation in TIMSS is yet to be
taken.




                                                         8
(II) Establish Administrative Infrastructure and Capacity for Assessment, Administration,
Analysis and Report Writing

A good administrative infrastructure had been established at the National and Provincial levels
from a zero baseline. National and Provincial management committees have been established to
provide advice and support decision making in NEAS. Professional staff in National and
Provincial offices has been regularized in five Provinces and areas and it is expected that Sindh
will also bring all key assessment staff under the recurrent budget in the coming months leaving
only FANA Area to complete it by 2012. All operating costs related to conducting assessments
are now financed under the governments' regular budget4.

Although staffs are now equipped to implement assessments and conduct analysis, substantial
support is needed both at the national and provincial levels to strengthen staff capacity to design,
implement and analyze assessments. It is also crucial that the linkages between the National and
the Provincial/Area systems are reinforced. Finally, in the medium to long term, the Government
needs to pay attention to strengthening the management and leadership of NEAS, and develop a
roadmap for moving towards institutional autonomy with a solid administrative and financial
apparatus.

The Project extension from June 2008 to June 2009 was essential to begin key activities relating
to the institutionalization of NEAS. A detailed review was conducted of the options available for
institutionalization, including options for establishing NEAS as a credible and autonomous
institution, and a Task Force was set up for this purpose. A medium term capacity building
program and implementation plan has also been developed. A vision document presenting the
Government of Pakistan's long term vision for assessments and quality of education has also been
drafted. The vision document sets forth suggestion for the institutionalization of NEAS and a
more devolved administrative structure. There are also plans to develop linkages with Higher
Education Institutes in Pakistan to actively engage the research faculty in further exploring NEAS
findings using rigorous statistical methods. For this in-country partnership with Higher Education
institutions, NEAS should give special attention to the relevance of available courses/training for
NEAS activities.

During the project period, partnering relationships were established with one international and
two national institutions but only one partner institution could successfully participate in the
program, viz. the Institute of Education Research (IER) at Punjab University. Nonetheless, this
partnership has substantially contributed to the development of national capacity to offer
specialized courses in assessments. During the Project period, 40 people completed an M.Ed; 33
received short-term training of 3-4 months, 168 persons were offered WBI courses conducted in
Pakistan and 1680 were trained through various workshops conducting in the country. The
baseline of in-country technical capacity was evaluated as marginal at the start of the project, and
substantial progress has been made through these various trainings to build a pool of assessment
experts within the education system from which the NEAS network can draw for its own
assessment activities.



4
  The government has provided Rs. 0.8 million for assessment activities in its 2009-10 budget , which is sufficient to
conduct a national workshop.




                                                           9
Two national institutions (IER Punjab and Federal College of Education) worked with the TA
firm as well as the NEAS/PEACEs. Further, IER Punjab has already completed four courses.
NEAS should also explore a partnership with the High Education Commission (HEC) to
introduce highly technical specializations such as statistical sampling, test and background
questionnaire development, equating, item response theory (IRT) and multivariate analysis at
University Departments of Statistics, Psychology, Education and Economics.

(III) Stakeholder Knowledge and Acceptance of Assessment

Disseminating assessment findings was an integral part of the NEAS Project. The four rounds of
assessment conducted have significantly contributed to raising awareness and increasing
stakeholder knowledge about assessments. Of paramount significance is the greater acceptance of
NEAS as a credible institution, particularly among high level policy makers. NEAS has received
wide recognition from the government and donors as an institution that provides comprehensive
information on the quality of education service delivery. However, much more work is required
to improve the analysis of assessment and to provide feedback into the education system.

Based on the national assessment's findings, NEAS has prepared, with the support of education
experts, a set of recommendations for education policy makers and implementers. These
recommendations have been widely shared with all relevant education stakeholders for review
and implementation. However, much deeper dissemination is required so that the feedbacks
received can feed into various institutional decisions relating to, for instance, textbook,
curriculum or teacher training.

To further improve the dissemination of findings, NEAS has prepared a comprehensive
communication strategy to reach out to all stakeholders with clear results in order to maximize
impact on public policy and planning. Some aspects of the communication strategy such as, up-
gradation of the NEAS website, printing of selected communication products, started before the
completion of the project on June 30, 2009.

Finally, it is worth mentioning that the outputs by component described in Annex 2 are inherently
linked to the outcomes achieved during the project.


3.3 Efficiency
With a modest investment of about US $5.94 million (including DFID and GoP's shares), the
NEAS project has achieved the following:


Capacity building component
   · 15 person months of in-country short-term training (workshops, seminars, etc.);
   · 40 person months of in-country certificate / degree training;
   · Around 200 person weeks for participation in international symposia, conferences and
       study tours;
   · 10 persons (20 person years) for overseas degree (M.A.) training); and
   · 10 persons (20 person years) for "sandwich" degree training.

Technical assistance component
   · 36 person months of Long-term TA;
   · 10 person months (40 wks.) of ST international TA


                                               10
    ·    Around 250 person weeks of short-term national TA; and
    ·    48 months of "on-line" support from partnering institution(s).

During the project period, close to 50,000 students of class IV and VIII and their teachers were
administered tests in Language (Urdu/ Sindhi), Mathematics, general Science and Social Studies
along with background questionnaires for students, parents, head teachers, and teachers were
administered. However, the full impact of the project on enrollment in primary and secondary
school, on improved quality of schooling in Pakistan as well as internal efficiency is yet to be
documented.

Furthermore, there are externalities associated with the NEAS project as some countries in the
region are now walking in the footsteps of Pakistan to develop their own assessment system (e.g.
India, Bangladesh to name few). Teachers and students are also encouraged to raise the standard
of learning and performance across Provinces/Areas. Although it is difficult to quantify the
economic or financial returns of the project, its impact is nonetheless substantial, especially in
regards to the small investment.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

The transfer of key positions5 at NEAS and PEACEs to the revenue budget constitutes a
clear performance indicator. The long term objective of MoE is to integrate national assessment
within the mainstream education system in Pakistan, as it was the case for curriculum
development and teacher training. Towards this end, the staff positions in the NEAS and five of
the seven PEACEs/AEACs had been transferred to the government's recurrent budget within the
project period. The Sindh PEACE is expecting to get approvals in the coming months while
FANA AEAC will only be able to convert staff into the recurrent budget by 2012. The project has
therefore successfully managed to build ownership of assessments not only at the Federal level
but also across Provinces/Areas. In addition to the financing of these positions under the revenue
budget, other recurrent activities (including costs to administer the assessment papers) were also
included in the regular government budgets. While only bare minimum operating expenses have
been included in the regular budgets, it is nonetheless a good start and indicates government
ownership in a short time of a new system.

A yardstick by which the project performance can be gauged is the amount of interest
national assessment of student learning has generated in the country over the past 10 years,
at all levels. Prior to this Project, there was hardly any debate about measuring student learning
and very little understanding of the difference between examination and student assessment.
Pakistan remains the only country in South Asia that has developed a national assessment system.
Further, it has already completed four rounds of national assessment, attesting to the vitality of its
system. By June 2008, NEAS had already established baselines for all four subjects of Grade 4
and two subjects of Grade 8. Table 1 provides a summary of the pilot and actual tests
administered during the Project period. Annex 6a provides a detailed description of how to
conduct a cycle of student assessment.

                  Table 1: National Assessment Tests Conducted over 2004/2008


5
  These core positions include: (i) subject specialists (SS); (ii) system analyst; (iii) NEAS and PEACE coordinators;
(iv) computer programmer; (v) assessment experts.




                                                        11
     Year                 Grade and Subject                           Test Type
     2004    Grade 4 (Mathematics, Languages)                  Pilot Testing
     2005    Grade 4 (Mathematics, Languages)                  Large Scale Testing
             Grade 4 (Social Studies and Science)              Pilot Testing
     2006    Grade 4 (Mathematics, Languages, Social           Large Scale Testing
                     Studies, General Science)
             Grade 8 (Mathematics, Languages)                  Pilot Testing
     2007    Grade 8 (Mathematics, Languages)                  Large Scale Testing
             Grade 8 (Social Studies, Science)                 Pilot Testing
     2008    Grade 8 (Mathematics, Languages)                  Large Scale Testing
             Grade 8 (Social Studies, Science)                 Large Scale Testing


The technical knowledge of NEAS and PEACE staff has increased over the course of the
Project. As compared with the base year of 2003, when there was hardly any understanding of
assessment and its process, the NEAS and PEACEs staff were able to understand and engage on
technical aspects of the assessment system in a relatively short period of time. All the basic work
to establish a system had been completed, thereby providing to the staff a real learning
opportunity. Consequently, at the time of Mid-Term Review (MTR), the Implementation
Progress (IP) was rated moderately satisfactory.

Another benefit of the Project is that the assessments have provided credible evidence of
how the education system is performing. They have also provided ways of measuring how
well schools are doing in implementing the curricula. The national assessments are based on a
nationally-representative sample and provide some comparability across different provinces and
areas. This gives to education policy makers, local officials, teachers, schools and other
stakeholders, valuable information about where the gaps in learning are and how specific
institutions at the provincial and area level (such as teacher training, textbooks, etc.) can be
improved. .

While these achievements are remarkable, it is worth noting that the high staff turnover at NEAS,
the delayed implementation schedule of national assessments and the ambitious NEAS training
plan developed at the project design stage, have somewhat reduced NEAS's effectiveness in
achieving all its targets.


3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

 (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
The emphasis put on improving the overall quality of education in Pakistan is likely to engender
the need for schools, teachers and students to strive for excellence thereby contributing to raising
the learning levels. As a result of improving the quality of schooling, the quantity of schooling
would inevitably rise, inducing parents, especially those from poor families, to send or keep their
children in school.
The NEAS, by providing continued credible evidence of student learning, will help to restore the
public confidence in the education system. As a result, enrollment would likely increase.

The priority given to girls' education in the CAS has translated into a focus given by the Project
to increasing female enrolment through improving the quality of learning. Table 2 reveals that, if




                                                12
more girls are now attending school, they are not learning less than boys. To the contrary, girls
appear to be performing better than boys in Sciences and Social Studies in grade 8.
The Project has also adequately addressed rural-urban and boy-girl disparities through test items,
sampling and training in assessment tasks. Lastly, it has further identified inequality in enrollment
in rural areas especially for girls.

Table 2: Mean Score in Sciences and Social Studies (Grade 8) by Gender in 2008 National
Assessment

  Gender                          Mean score in Sciences             Mean score in Social Studies
  Boys                                         473                               514
  Girls                                        484                               520

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The integration of NEAS/PEACE staff into the recurrent budget constitutes a major step toward
the institutionalization of education assessment. In addition, the implementation of the fourth
round of assessment with little support from international consultants reflects to some extent an
institutional shift toward a progressive ownership of assessment activities by the GoP.

The NEAS network has developed a close collaboration between the federal Ministry of
Education and the Provincial and Area Departments of Education (DOEs). The overall
coordination is the responsibility of the Federal government under the umbrella of the broader
Education System Reform initiative led by the Federal Secretary of Education. The various
working groups responsible for the design and implementation of the assessment system are listed
below:

Federal government ­ MOE: Overall design and administration; consolidation of test items to be
used in administering tests; leadership in pre-administration information campaign; national level
reporting and policy making; coordination of technical assistance and training;

Partnering /Implementing institution(s) (Pakistan and International): item development,
technical assistance, training, coordination of pilot testing and analysis; setting standards for
administration and sampling, help in conducting assessment;

Provincial/Area governments: item development for pooling at the national level, provide list of
schools and other data for sampling at national level; help in collecting background data of
sample schools/students etc.; test administration, consolidation, analysis and dissemination of
provincial findings.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
The fact that Pakistan is succeeding in establishing a credible national assessment system may
have inspired other developing countries, especially those in the region, to follow the pioneering
path paved by Pakistan. It is believed that, by strengthening the nascent NEAS institution,
Pakistan could rise and meet the challenge posed by the next round of TIMSS international test.


3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
None.




                                                 13
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial

A number of risks had threatened the development outcomes identified by the NEAS Project: (i)
high staff turnover in the NEAS network; (ii) political instability exacerbated by threats to
national security has precluded international consultants and firms from providing continued
support to the Project and has limited Bank supervision; (iii) risk that assessment experts would
lose their technical expertise given the quest for professional growth as they climb the
administrative ladder. To mitigate these risks, a number of measures had been identified: (i)
intensive, high quality and continued dialogue between the Bank team and government; (ii)
strong emphasis on continued capacity building for the full institutionalization of NEAS and the
mainstreaming of assessment into the education system; and (iii) ability to use video-conference
supervision in the event of restricted mission. Despite these mitigation measures, the huge
uncertainties justify the substantial rating of the risk to development outcomes.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
The Bank overall performance rests on the performance achieved in ensuring quality at entry and
quality of supervision.

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank performance for quality at entry was rated as satisfactory. The Bank provided the TA in
response to a need expressed by the GoP to develop a national assessment framework that would
help systematically measure student learning levels and the overall quality of education service
delivery. The government's request was aligned with the Bank's CAS which put a special
emphasis on improving the quality of schooling. The Bank team remained extensively engaged in
policy dialogue with the Federal Ministry of Education as well as the Provincial Departments of
Education since the beginning of the Project. The stakeholder conferences held in early 2000
provided the Bank another opportunity to further explore the idea of national assessment.

Notwithstanding this satisfaction, some areas could have been improved during the Project
preparation: (i) some performance indicators such as reliable baseline or the comparative analysis
of achievement were not clearly stipulated and it was unclear how their progress or target value
was measured; (ii) the design could have also incorporated the substantial risk associated with the
uncertainties of national security to potentially include mitigation measures regarding the hiring
of international consultants or firm for building technical capacity of the NEAS network.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank performance for ensuring the quality of supervision was rated as satisfactory. The
Bank's task team was composed of Human Development, Finance and Private Sector, Financial
Management staff and international and national consultants who contributed significantly
through country and sector knowledge. The international expertise was much needed as Pakistan
was the first country in the region to embark on building a national assessment system. Moreover,
some of the team members have had long standing engagement with the Federal and Provincial


                                                14
Governments, in particular MOE and the provincial Department of Education, which has
established the credibility of the Bank in policy dialogue. This continuity in the Bank team has
helped maintain a coherent dialogue with Government counterparts during supervision.

It is noteworthy underlining that the collaboration between the Bank and DFID ­ co-financier of
the NEAS Project who also provided support to the Government in other areas- has helped avoid
duplication among Development Partners in their effort to assist the GoP.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Overall, the Bank performance has been satisfactory. During the five year implementation, the
consistent dialogue with senior Federal MoE officials and Provincial government counterparts as
well as other assessment stakeholders, the international expertise brought in and the key role
played by the CMU in supporting the Project, have led to acknowledge NEAS as a credible
education assessment structure not only within Pakistan but even outside the country. Today, the
policy discussion gyrates around ways to strengthen the existing national assessment system
rather than how to build an assessment system.

Continuity in the Bank team has sustained a permanent dialogue with high level policy makers
and has contributed to improving the quality of supervision missions which included experts from
various sectors.

Finally, the aide memoires summarizing progress in project implementation and
recommendations for better project monitoring have been relatively well written and documented.
Many of them have suggested ways to smooth the project implementation process.

5.2 Borrower Performance
The Government and the implementing agency are the same. Therefore, the rating and
justification are given below in section (c):

(a) Government Performance
Rating:

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating:

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Borrower's performance is rated as moderately satisfactory for the following reasons:

(i) Although the country has successfully established a credible national assessment system, the
project management has not performed to the expected level. For instance, there was a
seventeen-month delay between the Project start and the signing of the TA contract. In addition,
the development of a holistic communication strategy was not undertaken till late into the Project
period. Further, there were weaknesses in financial management reporting: (i) shortcomings in
the Jan-Mar'09 IUFRs have not been addressed yet; (ii) IUFRs for the subsequent quarters have
not been provided to the Bank; (iii) audited financial statements were generally received with




                                               15
some delay and (iv) Auditors' opinion has been a mixed bag of unqualified and qualified
exception.

(ii) Throughout the life of the Project, disbursement has been lagging behind the appraisal
estimates. Only a sum of SDR 1.74 Million (64.5 percent) could be disbursed verses signed
amount of SDR 3.63 million. This was mainly because of the slow implementation and the fact
that many activities against which expenditures incurred were already financed under the regular
government budget, the Implementing Agency was reluctant to seek further claim on
reimbursements (despite repeated advise from the Task Team to encourage the Project to seek
reimbursement).. In addition a sum of GBP 0.677 million (60.13 percent) was also disbursed
under TF No. 50854 verses signed amount of GBP 1.127 million.

(iii) The rapid staff turnover and the delay in appointments to vacant posts in NEAS meant that
consistent capacity building over a period of time through in-country and overseas training could
not be achieved to fully support the Project activities. The delay in setting up partnership with a
technical firm for capacity building has also resulted in slow implementation of key training
activities of the Project.

(iv) NEAS dissemination conferences have unquestionably generated awareness about education
assessment. However, there is urgent need to go beyond stakeholder conferences to develop
dissemination materials targeted to specific audiences and policy planners in order to maximize
the use and impact of findings. Further, NEAS and the PEACEs/AEACs held two stakeholder
conferences in 2006 and 2007 whereas Balochistan was only able to hold one6.


6. Lessons Learned

The NEAS Project has contributed not only to generating acceptance of assessment system
among Pakistani but also to increasing knowledge about student learning throughout the country.
While this achievement is commendable and unique in the region, much work is required to raise
student learning levels to international standards:

(i) With strong ownership of assessment by the Government through the integration of staff into
the revenue budget, the true institutionalization will require moving towards a semi- or
autonomous body so that the credibility of NEAS is fully established technically, financially and
administratively.

(ii) Since the four rounds of assessment have been successfully conducted, Pakistan could validly
consider collecting panel data and developing the national expertise to rigorously analyze them,
thereby contributing to the overall improvement of education service delivery. More specifically,
NEAS should consider a longitudinal assessment design which allows reporting gain scores and
progress in performance over time. This would provide MoE with a unique opportunity to
introduce interventions such as teacher incentives, provision of teaching materials and textbooks,
vouchers for school choice, and for the relevant research units to investigate their impact over
time.

6
    Note however that a national SHC was organized in 2008.




                                                         16
(iii) The discrepancy between the planned samples and the actually achieved samples in the four
rounds of assessment points to the need to improve the administration of the tests to allow a more
representative sample of schools and students. In this regard, NEAS should ensure that, during
the regular round of national assessment, the sampled public schools are all interviewed so that
they can have a valid representation of Government schools in Pakistan.

(iv) Furthermore, to establish a solid baseline at the national level, there is an urgent need to
incorporate in NEAS sampling frame the growing number of private schools mushrooming across
the country as they are yet to be included. This is not a miniscule task but a complete electronic
sampling frame for private schools which became available from NEMIS in 2007 is likely to
facilitate the choice of sampled schools. However, the complexity of the sampling frame (with
multiple categories of schools by ownership, declared and actual medium of instruction etc.)
indicated that only a limited pilot study on a sample of Urdu medium private schools could be
conducted by NEAS in 2008. Much work remains to be done if private schools are to be included
in NEAS assessments to draw valid inferences about student achievement from representative
samples, and to compare performances across types of schools (government versus private
schools).

In the 2008 assessment, NEAS has also piloted its assessments in a sample of Urdu medium
private schools, drawn from the list of private schools, now available in the NEMIS database
from the National Education Census (NEC).

(v) The NEAS item pool is not yet rich enough to support the development of tests with
comprehensive coverage of the national curriculum at all grade levels. Given the limited number
of items in its pool, NEAS is limited to developing parallel tests instead of tests using the
Balanced Incomplete Block (BIB) design recommended by consultants. The BIB design would
allow for wider curriculum coverage with multiple test forms. Given that the NEAS sample is
large enough, it could support such expansion of the item pool.
NEAS could also support the inclusion of national assessment related topics in the Assessment
and Evaluation papers in B.Ed. and M.Ed. courses of Punjab University and possibly of all
universities in Pakistan that provide B.Ed. and M.Ed training, through the HEC.

(vi) As one of the main objectives of NEAS is to identify correlates of student achievement,
future dissemination activities of the NEAS network should present findings from analyzing the
rich assessment database and produce targeted reports for various stakeholder groups to get
feedbacks that could, in turn, feed into the assessment system.

(vii) In light of the weaknesses in financial management observed during the Project cycle,
Accounts Officers should not be involved in administrative work as this leads to weak controls
and also delay in submission of financial reports. Furthermore, since there was only one
Designated Account established under the IDA Credit, the fund flow to the provinces was
problematic. To overcome the fund flow problem, each implementation agency should have its
separate Designated Account.


(viii) Lastly, as the NEAS network grows and assessment staff become part of the Government
administration, there is need to foster technical leadership within NEAS and to reinforce vertical
linkages between NEAS and PEACEs, cross-fertilization within PEACEs and horizontal linkages
between Partnering Institution (IER, Punjab University) and the NEAS network so that Pakistan
can valuably compete with other countries in international tests.


                                               17
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
The Borrower has prepared its own completion report whose main points are summarized in
Annex 4.

(b) Cofinanciers
DFID has prepared its own completion report which is summarized in Annex 8.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
None.




                                            18
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                               Appraisal Estimate                        Percentage of
          Components                                Estimate (USD
                                  (USD millions)                          Appraisal
                                                       millions)
 CAPACITY BUILDING                      5.09                3.83             75.2
 PILOT TESTING AND
IMPLEMENTATION OF                       1.39                0.37             26.6
ASSESSMENT ACTIVITIES
 INFORMATION
                                        0.12                0.19            158.3
DISSEMINATION

           Total Baseline Cost          6.60               4.39              66.5
Physical Contingencies
                                        0.13               0.00              0.00
Price Contingencies
                                        0.20               0.00              0.00
             Total Project Costs        6.93               4.39              63.3
Front-end fee PPF                       0.00               0.00               .00
Front-end fee IBRD                      0.00               0.00               .00
     Total Financing Required           3.63               2.64              72.7




(b) Financing
                                                 Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                     Type of     Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                   Cofinancing    (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                 millions)   millions)
 Borrower                                          2.16        0.55        25.4
 UK: British Department for
                                                    1.99          1.2           60.0
International Development (DFID)
 International Development
                                                    3.63          2.64          72.7
Association (IDA)




                                          19
Annex 2. Outputs by Component
Component/Activity                           FY 2004/05        FY 2005/06            FY 2006/07             FY 2007/08                  FY 2008/09

1. Design and Administer a System of
Monitoring Student Learning
Achievement

National Assessment Round                    Pilot              11977 students      11954 students                 14144 students        11493 students
                                                                    784 schools        788 schools                    763 schools            708 schools
                                                          Grade 4 - 2 subjects Grade 4 - 4 subjects Grade 8 - two; Grade 4 - two     Grade 8 - 2 subjects
2. Establish Administrative
Infrastructure and Capacity for
Assessment, Administration, Analysis
and Report Writing


2.1. NEAS Network                                                  Paid by the Government
NEAS staff                                                Project staff         Project staff      in Revenue budget
PEACEs/AEACs staff                                        Project staff         Project staff      Revenue budget in                       Sindh
                                                                                                   Balochistan, FATA, Punjab,
                                                                                                   Punjab, AJK, NWFP
2.2 Technical Assistance                                                                                                            From 2004-2009
   Total international TA input                                                                                                     46 person months
   Total national TA input                                                                                                          62 person months
   Online support from Partner Instit.                                                                                              48 months

2.3 Capacity Building                                                                                                               From 2004-2009
  In-country short-term training                                                                                                    15 person months
  In-country certificate / degree training                                                                                          40 person months
  Overseas degree (M.A.) training                                                                                                   20 person years
  "Sandwich" degree training                                                                                                        20 person years

3. Stakeholder Knowledge and
Acceptance of Assessment

National Stakeholder Conference                                  1st held                                     2nd held                    3rd held

Report of NEAS findings                                   Witten                 Witten            Witten                           Witten
                                                          Disseminated           Disseminated      Disseminated                     Disseminated




                                                                            20
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
At Project appraisal, no economic and financial analysis was carried out. Section 3.3 provides a
short note on the efficiency of the TA investment.




                                              21
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                      Responsibility/
          Names                         Title                Unit
                                                                        Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR
Asif Ali                  Senior Procurement Specialist    SARPS
Umbreen Arif              Education Spec.                  SASED
Anwar Ali Bhatti          Financial Analyst                SACPK
Vincent M. Greaney        Consultant                       WBIGC
Tahseen Sayed Khan        Operations Adviser               SACBD
Amna W. Mir               Program Assistant                SASHD
Hasan Masood Mirza        Consultant                       SARPS
Ameer Hussein Naqvi       Consultant                       SASHD
Hasan Saqib               Sr Financial Management Specia   SARFM
Huma Ali Waheed           Research Analyst                 SASED


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                     USD Thousands (including
                                    No. of staff weeks
                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY02                                        14                       59.55
  FY03                                        25                       38.63
  FY04                                                                  0.04
  FY05                                                                  0.00
  FY06                                                                  0.00
  FY07                                                                  0.00
  FY08                                                                  0.00
                          Total:              39                       98.22
Supervision/ICR
  FY02                                                                  0.00
  FY03                                                                  0.00
  FY04                                     21                          23.10
  FY05                                     24                          29.94
  FY06                                      4                          13.21
  FY07                                     13                          67.67
  FY08                                     27                          80.15
  FY09                                     20                           0.00
                          Total:          109                         214.07



                                         22
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)




                                      23
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)




                                   24
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The borrower has produced a project implementation report covering the various key aspects and
issues relating to the Project. The main points are summarized below:

Project Implementation Status:
The Project was fully implemented with four rounds of national assessment and four pilot tests
along with background questionnaires for students, parents, head teachers, and teachers
administered in languages (Urdu, Sindhi), Mathematics, Social Studies and Science for grade 4
and grade 8. Technical capacity building of staff from NEAS, provincial and area assessment
centers, education departments and NEAS partnering institutions was done through in-country,
international, short term and long term training. Assessment findings were disseminated and
recommendations for actionable interventions by Federal Provincial / Area and District
authorities were disseminated through three national and 10 provincial stakeholder conferences.

All key education stakeholders at Federal, Provincial/Area and school level participated in NEAS
training, test administration, monitoring and dissemination activities. Acceptance of assessment
objectives and procedures has increased as demonstrated by Sindh PEACE, Punjab PEACE and
UNICEF building upon the findings of NEAS. Through quality TA provided in the Project the
NEAS is now equipped with high level technical skill sufficient to carry out all assessment
functions. Valid instruments and procedures are now in place to link future survey data with the
baseline data established through the assessments.

Implementation and Operational Experience:
Lack of continuity and ownership by one wing of the Ministry of Education led to delays in
approval and thus in activities. Just the approval of the PC I took one year. Project activities also
suffered because of lack of funds and / or delays in their release on part of the government. This
was further aggravated due to a high turnover of staff and slow recruitment process. No
recruitment rules were in place initially and those that were later added were inadequate for the
requirement of subject specialists. Main reasons contributing to the high turnover were both lack
of a career path offered to staff and absence of a retention plan for those on deputation. As the
Project depended heavily on trained staff and there was a scarcity of it, this was a serious problem
for the completion of activities. Also there was no provision for backup staff to continue
assessment tasks when some staff members were away on training.

The Project had a shaky start when the training of staff was setback due to a delay of 14 months
in approval of the TA firm. Once in place maximum benefit could not be derived from the TA
firm due to communication problems, lack of coordination in terms of timing and cultural
mismatches for relevance to the Pakistani context. On the other hand local partnering institutes
like IER, Punjab University and FCE lacked the capacity to live up to the requirements of the
Project. Translation and back translation of local languages to English was not envisaged at the
beginning of the Project and this turned out to be a major issue during the activities. The NEMIS
data used as the basis of the study had a lag of one year and this caused implementation issues in
field. Finally coordination between the NEAS and provincial area centers was difficult and this
led to slow progress of certain activities. The need for appropriate staffing provision for
dissemination of assessment findings and mechanisms for intervention was not foreseen.

Despite issues and a very aggressive project plan all targets were achieved and assessment is now
recognized as a system for identifying weaknesses and improving the quality of education. Sindh
and Punjab have already begun their own tailored assessment based on the learning from NEAS
and Pakistan is now making efforts to participate in TIMSS in 2015.


                                                 25
Some of the operational issues still being faced by NEAS include lack of appropriate space and
infrastructure. NEAS needs to be institutionalized and recognized for it to continue to benefit the
quality of education in Pakistan.




                                                26
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


                    Indicators                               Progress and Comments
Valid, reliable baseline data                      Not possible to fix values. NEAS is only
(pilot test scores/measures) for                   responsible for promoting corrective measures in
Grade 4 and 8 in four subjects;                    areas such as teacher training. Improvement in
Achievement overtime for                           trends expected over time and inclusion of private
grade 4 students in four subject                   sector.
Technically proficient                             All technically proficient assessment staff is in
assessment staff who are on                        place on regular budget; and to strengthen capacity
regular budget trained and in                      in the system, staff is retained and additional
place                                              resource persons from various sub-departments.
Partnering arrangements are in                     At least one Pakistani institution has started
place                                              admissions in courses on student assessment.
Pilot tests administered on                        Completed on schedule
schedule
Regular meetings o f National                      All stakeholders are informed at every stage of the
Planning and Coordination                          student assessment and, at least, bi-annually about
Committee are held;                                the level of student learning, and communication
strong and weak areas of                           strategy under implementation
student learning identified;
policy makers informed to
develop strategies and action
plans for improving
curriculum, teaching, and
resource allocation; and
equipment purchased
Information marketing                              Strategy developed and in process of finalization
campaign activated;                                and information products finalized.
Workshops, seminars held for
stakeholders

    ·    Education assessment system is new to Pakistan. The federal government is committed
         to the education assessment. The government has regularized the NEAS and its ongoing
         activities are now funded from the government recurrent budget. The government has
         also requested the donors to provide support for second phase of the program. Long term
         support will help achieve the purpose that will contribute to Goal.



    ·    Assessment mechanisms and instruments have been designed and administered: This has
         been successfully accomplished, national staff has been extensively involved in the
         development, administration and analysis of assessments, NEAS was able to conduct the
         last round of assessments with minimum support from international consultants. There is
         now adequate pool of trained professionals available in country at national and provincial
         level to develop assessment tools and participate in assessment administration. Subject
         specialists and test development specialists have received extensive trainings and there is
         in-country expertise available to conduct trainings on development of assessment tools.
         Between February 2005 and June 2008, four rounds of large scale student assessments on
         a sample basis for Grade 4 and 8 and one round of equating studies for two subjects in


                                                27
    grade 4 have been successfully completed and shared with a wide group of stakeholders.
    NEAS has also successfully translated the new curriculum introduced in 2007 by
    Ministry of Education into the competencies for measuring learning as future assessments
    will be based on the new curriculum.



·   The provincial PEAS performance is uneven. Better in Punjab but other provinces
    specially NWFP and Baluchistan are slow in institutionalizing the system



·   NEAS team is in regular contact with the provincial PEAS to embed the assessment
    system.



·   World Bank is the lead donor in this Project and their financial and technical contribution
    has been substantial. World Bank national and international technical resources were
    utilized in developing assessment methodology, developing items, conducting data and
    analyzing it.



·   The learning achievement base line was developed for grade 4 and grade 8 and in
    subsequent years NEAS and PEAS were able to generate follow up reports. Now NEAS
    is able to design and conduct assessment on the basis of its own human resources.



·   Most of the priority reforms have been met, but the institutionalization of NEAS required
    and further capacity building of staff. A Task Force has been notified by the Ministry of
    Education to work on the institutionalization of NEAS.




                                           28
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


Project Documents

1.    Project Appraisal Document, The World Bank, 2003
2.    Implementation Status and Results Reports, The World Bank, 2003-2008.
3.    Aide Memoires, The World Bank, 2003-2008.

Other Documents and Publications

4.    NEAS reports on Assessment findings, 2005-2008
5.    Stakeholder Conference reports, 2005-2008.
6.    Draft ICR by Government of Pakistan, 2009.
7.    British Council Project Completion report (NEAS), 2009.
8.    Das, Jishnu, P.Pandey and T. Zajonc, Leaning Levels and Gaps in Pakistan, The World
      Bank Working Paper, WPS 4067, Dec. 2006.
9.    Vincent Greaney, T. Kellaghan, 5 volumes on National Assessment of Education
      Achievement, The World Bank, 2008.




                                           29
30
