Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2256 CHA
(Irrigated Agriculture Intensification Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 20, 1991
CREDIT NUMBER 2256 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 20, 1991, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower has also requested the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) to provide additional assistance towards the financing of 
the Project and by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Bank (the Loan Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an 
aggregate principal amount equivalent to one hundred forty-seven million one hundred 
thousand dollars ($147,100,000) (the Loan);
(C)
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that 
the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this Agreement (the Credit) be disbursed on 
account of expenditures in respect of the Project before disbursements of the proceeds 
of the Loan provided for in the Loan Agreement are made; and
Page  2
(D)
the Project will be carried out by Anhui Province, Jiangsu Province and 
Shandong Province (the Project Provinces) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part 
of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the Project Provinces the 
proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement and the proceeds of the Loan as 
provided in the Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith among the Association, 
the Bank and the Project Provinces;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Anhui Special Account," "Jiangsu Special Account," and "Shandong Special 
Account" mean the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
(b)
"CATEC" means a County Agrotechnical Extension Center, established under 
a county agricultural department in the Project Areas.
(c)
"Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to 
time; and such term includes the "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, as applied to such agreement, and all 
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement.
(d)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement among the Association, the Bank 
and Anhui Province, Jiangsu Province and Shandong Province of even date herewith, as 
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and 
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement.
(e)
"Project Areas" means 21 counties in northern and northwestern Anhui, 24 
counties in northern Jiangsu and 28 counties in south and southwestern Shandong, as 
agreed among the Borrower, the Association and the Bank, and "Project Area" means, for 
each Project Province, such of its counties as are included in the Project Areas.
(f)
"PMO" means a project management office at the provincial, prefectural or 
county level, established and maintained pursuant to paragraph D.1(b) of Schedule 2 to 
the Project Agreement.
(g)
"Project Provinces" means Anhui Province, Jiangsu Province and Shandong 
Province, collectively, and "Project Province" means any of the Project Provinces.
(h)
"Special Accounts" means the Anhui Special Account, the Jiangsu Special 
Account and the Shandong Special Account, collectively, and "Special Account" means 
any of the Special Accounts.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
Page  3
various currencies equivalent to one hundred thirty-nine million Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 139,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars three separate special deposit accounts in a bank and on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment, to be known as the Anhui Special Account, the Jiangsu Special 
Account and the Shandong Special Account, respectively. Deposits into, and payments 
out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
February 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 2001 and ending February 15, 2026. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on February 15, 2011 shall 
be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, 
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the 
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's 
economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due 
until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by 
the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some 
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at 
Page  4
an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the 
Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement, shall cause the Project Provinces to perform in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take 
or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, 
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the Project Provinces 
to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan 
available to the Project Provinces on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association and the Bank.
(c)
The Borrower shall maintain a Central Project Steering Group under its 
Ministry of Water Resources, to coordinate Project implementation, with composition 
and responsibilities acceptable to
the Association.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by the 
Project Provinces pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, 
records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one year after 
the Association has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was made; and
Page  5
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records.
 
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section and 
those for the Special Accounts for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six 
months after the end of each such year the report of 
such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail 
as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested, 
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon 
to support the related withdrawals; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Any of the Project Provinces shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that any of the
Project Provinces will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in paragraph 
(a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 
60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower's State Council has approved the Development Credit 
Agreement; and
(b)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement shall 
have been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by the Project Provinces, and is legally binding upon 
the Project Provinces in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Page  6
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Zhu Qizhen
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
Regional Vice President
Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit 
and of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
Page  7
financed in each Category:
                     Amount            Amount
                     of the            of the
                     Credit             Loan            % of
                    Allocated         Allocated       Expendi-
                   (Expressed        (Expressed        tures
                     in SDR           in Dollar        to be
     Category      Equivalent)       Equivalent)      Financed
Anhui
(1) Goods          25,250,000         30,270,000      100% of
                                                      foreign
                                                      expenditures,
                                                      100% of local
                                                      expenditures
                                                      (ex-factory
                                                      cost) and
                                                      75% of local
                                                      expenditures
                                                      for other
                                                      items pro-
                                                      cured locally
(2) Works
    (a)  for        2,130,000          1,920,000      20%
         on-farm
         works,
         rural
         roads,
         affores-
         tation
         and land
         improve-
         ment
    (b)  for       20,350,000         18,340,000      40%
         other
         works
(3) Consultants'      890,000            800,000      100%
    services,
    staff
    training
    and study
    tours
Jiangsu
(4) Goods          29,060,000         33,010,000      100% of
                                                      foreign
                                                      expenditures,
                                                      100% of local
                                                      expenditures
                                                      (ex-factory
                                                      cost) and
                                                      75% of local
                                                      expenditures
                                                      for other
                                                      items pro-
                                                      cured locally
(5) Works
    (a)  for        1,700,000          1,530,000      20%
Page  8
         on-farm
         works,
         rural
         roads,
         affores-
         tation
         and land
         improve-
         ment
    (b)  for       11,880,000         10,710,000      40%
         other
         works
(6) Consultants'      710,000            640,000      100%
    services,
    staff train-
    ing and
    study
    tours
Shandong
(7) Goods          24,520,000         29,600,000      100% of
                                                      foreign
                                                      expenditures,
                                                      100% of local
                                                      expenditures
                                                      (ex-factory
                                                      cost) and
                                                      75% of local
                                                      expenditures
                                                      for other
                                                      items pro-
                                                      cured locally
(8) Works
    (a)  for        3,110,000          2,800,000      20%
         on-farm
         works,
         rural
         roads,
         affores-
         tation
         and land
         improve-
         ment
    (b)  for       17,890,000         16,120,000      40%
         other
         works
(9) Consultants'    1,510,000          1,360,000      100%
    services,
    staff train-
    ing and
    study tours
                  _________________  ___________
    TOTAL         139,000,000        147,100,000
                  ===========        ===========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
Page  9
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals may be made on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after November 1, 1990: (a) in respect of Categories (1), (2) and 
(3), in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 3,400,000; (b) in respect of Categories 
(4), (5) and (6), in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 2,200,000; and (c) in 
respect of Categories (7), (8) and (9), in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 
5,500,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in increasing 
agricultural production and consequently increasing farm incomes in the Project 
Provinces by reducing the effects of drought, waterlogging, soil salinity and surface 
flooding.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Irrigation and Drainage
 
(1)
Improving and expanding surface irrigation and drainage schemes in the Project 
Areas, through construction and rehabilitation of canals and drains; construction, 
modernization and expansion of pumping stations; construction of tubewells, control 
structures, culverts, bridges, access roads and on-farm works, covering about 226,000 
hectares in Anhui, about 390,000 hectares in Jiangsu and about 265,300 hectares in 
Shandong.
(2)
Improving and expanding groundwater irrigation, through rehabilitation of about 
10,000 existing tubewells and construction of about 5,000 new tubewells and related 
pipe systems, covering about 94,000 hectares in Anhui and about 167,000 hectares in 
Shandong.
(3)
Improving irrigation system operation, maintenance and management, through 
provision of equipment and machinery and construction of buildings in the Project 
Areas.
Part B:
Agricultural Intensification
 
Improving agricultural inputs and support services available to farmers in the 
Project Areas of the Project Provinces, through:
(1)
provision of fertilizers, pesticides and other inputs and equipment for soil 
improvement;
(2)
provision of equipment and construction of storage, office, laboratory and other 
facilities for upgrading of seed breeding, production and marketing;
(3)
construction, rehabilitation and equipping of the CATECs for upgrading of 
agricultural extension services;
(4)
construction, rehabilitation and equipping of farm machinery stations to 
facilitate farm mechanization; and
(5)
establishment of windbreaks, shelter belts and border rows and provision of 
related inputs, construction of rural roads and upgrading and construction of bridges 
and culverts.
Part C:
Institutional Development
Page  10
Strengthening staff capabilities in agricultural extension, irrigation operation 
and management and project management, through provision of training and study tours 
and consultants' services.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1996.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means: (i) for the Anhui Special Account, 
Categories (1), (2) and (3); (ii) for the Jiangsu Special Account, Categories (4), (5) 
and (6); and (iii) for the Shandong Special Account, Categories (7), (8) and (9), all 
as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit 
Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit or the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit 
Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to: (i) for 
the Anhui Special Account, $7,100,000; (ii) for the Jiangsu Special Account, 
$6,500,000; and (iii) for the Shandong Special Account, $6,900,000, all to be 
withdrawn from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and deposited into the 
respective Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish said Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan Account 
and deposit into said Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall 
have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of said Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into said 
Special Account at such intervals as 
the Association shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan Account 
and deposit into 
said Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have requested and as shall 
have been shown by said documents 
and other evidence to have been paid out of said 
Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account or the 
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
Page  11
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into a Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals in respect of the respective Parts of the Project should be made by the 
Borrower directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article 
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of the Development 
Credit Agreement or from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Section 
2.02 of the Loan Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions applicable thereto; 
or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Loan allocated to 
the eligible Categories for said Special Account, less the amount of any outstanding 
special commitment entered into
by the Association or the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the respective General 
Conditions with respect to the respective Parts of the Project, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account and the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories for 
said Special Account shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining 
on deposit in said Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of a Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into said Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association or the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Association into said Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in a Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association or the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association or the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in a Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association or the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), 
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account or the Loan 
Account, as the case may be, for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of the Development Credit Agreement or the 
Loan Agreement, including the General Conditions applicable thereto.
