Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2256 CHA
LOAN NUMBER 3337 CHA
(Irrigated Agriculture Intensification Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
ANHUI PROVINCE
JIANGSU PROVINCE
and
SHANDONG PROVINCE
Dated June 20, 1991
CREDIT NUMBER 2256 CHA
LOAN NUMBER 3337 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 20, 1991, among INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association), INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and 
ANHUI PROVINCE, JIANGSU PROVINCE and SHANDONG PROVINCE (the Project Provinces).
WHEREAS: (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
People's Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
one hundred thirty-nine million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 139,000,000), on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement,
but only on condition that the Project Provinces agree to undertake such obligations 
toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People's Republic of 
China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred forty-seven million 
Page  2
one hundred thousand dollars ($147,100,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in 
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Project Provinces agree to 
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
WHEREAS the Project Provinces, in consideration of the Association's entering 
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, and the Bank's entering into 
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set 
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions 
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Each of the Project Provinces declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit 
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out its respective parts of the Project with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, engineering and agronomic practices, and shall provide, or cause to be 
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association, the Bank and the Project Provinces shall otherwise 
agree, each of the Project Provinces shall carry out its respective parts of the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association and the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the  goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the proceeds of the Loan 
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Each Project Province shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions applicable to 
the Development Credit Agreement and in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 
of the General Conditions applicable to the Loan Agreement (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of its respective parts of the Project and the 
Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Each Project Province shall, at the request of the Association 
and the Bank, exchange views with the Association and the Bank with regard to the 
progress of its respective parts of the Project, the performance of its obligations 
under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit and the 
Loan.
(b)
Each Project Province shall promptly inform the Association and the Bank 
of any condition  which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of its 
respective parts of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit and 
the Loan, or the performance by such Project Province of its obligations under this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Each Project Province shall maintain or cause to be maintained 
Page  3
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the 
Project Provinces responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
Each of the Project Provinces shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association and the 
Bank;
 
(ii)
furnish to the Association and the Bank as soon as available, but 
in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each 
such year, the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Association and the Bank 
shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association and the Bank such other information 
concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as 
the Association and the Bank shall 
from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which both the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement become effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and the 
Bank and of the Project Provinces thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the 
following two dates:
(i)
the date on which both the Development Credit Agreement and the 
Loan Agreement 
shall terminate in accordance with their 
terms; or
(ii)
the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement or both of said 
Agreements terminates in accordance with its terms before the date specified in 
paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association and the Bank shall promptly notify 
the Project Provinces of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions 
applicable to the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to 
which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses so 
specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
Page  4
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction
   and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For Anhui:
Anhui Provincial People's Government
85 Changjiang Road
Hefei 230001
Anhui Province
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
0067 Hefei
90020 AHJW CN
 
Facsimile:
255470
For Jiangsu:
Jiangsu Provincial People's Government
68 West Beijing Road
Nanjing 210000
Jiangsu Province
People's Republic of China
Telex:
342250 FBOJP CN
Facsimile:
025-302229
For Shandong:
Shandong Provincial People's Government
158 Jingsi Road
Jinan 250001
Shandong Province
People's Republic of China
Facsimile:
Page  5
0531-612498
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of any Project 
Province may be taken or executed by its Governor or Vice Governor or such other 
person or persons as its Governor or Vice Governor shall designate in writing, and the 
Project Province shall furnish to the Association and the Bank sufficient evidence of 
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
Section 5.04. As long as the Bank has not given notice to the contrary to the 
Project Provinces and so long as the Development Credit Agreement shall not have 
terminated prior to the termination of the Loan Agreement:
(a)
the obligations of the Project Provinces to consult with, and to furnish 
information, documents, plans, reports, records and statements to, the Bank shall be 
satisfied to the extent performance in respect of such obligations is rendered to the 
Association;
(b)
the obligations of the Bank to consult with, and to furnish information 
to, the Project Provinces shall be satisfied to the extent such obligations are 
fulfilled by the Association; and
(c)
all actions taken (including the giving of approvals or granting of 
waivers) by the Association pursuant to the Development Credit Agreement shall be 
deemed to be taken pursuant to both the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan 
Agreement, and in the name and on behalf of both the Association and the Bank.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
Regional Vice President
Asia
ANHUI PROVINCE
JIANGSU PROVINCE
SHANDONG PROVINCE
By /s/ Zhu Qizhen
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Page  6
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the 
Guidelines).
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for equipment, materials and supplies shall 
be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Items or groups of items for computers and engineering, laboratory and other 
specialized equipment may be procured under contracts awarded through limited 
international bidding procedures
on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids obtained from at least three 
qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with procedures 
set forth in Sections I and II of the
Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55, 2.56 thereof).
2.
Works for construction of buildings, pumping stations, major canal and drainage 
structures and bridges and mechanized excavation of major canals, drains and river 
channels as well as cement and items or groups of items of equipment, estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $200,000 or less per contract, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with 
procedures satisfactory to the Association and the Bank.
3.
Items or groups of items of equipment, instruments, tools and miscellaneous 
goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount equivalent to $8,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers 
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Association and the Bank.
4.
Works on the laterals and sub-laterals, rural roads, afforestation and other 
on-farm works and land development may be carried out by force account in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the
Association and the Bank up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $161,000,000.
5.
Planting materials may be purchased directly from local production teams and 
specialized households in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association and 
the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Association and the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of a 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association and the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association and the Bank 
prior to the making  of the first payment out of such Special Account in respect of 
such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of a Special Account, such 
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract 
together with the other information required to be furnished to the Association and 
the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association and the 
Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to 
Page  7
the Development Credit Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Association and the Bank have authorized withdrawals 
on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Project Provinces in carrying out Part C of the Project, 
the Project Provinces shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and 
terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association and the Bank. Such consultants 
shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the 
Association and the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank 
in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
A.
Irrigation and Drainage
 
1.
Anhui and Shandong shall each cause its respective Water Resource Bureaus to 
monitor groundwater  resources in its Project Area each year and prepare and furnish 
an analysis thereof to the Association and the Bank by June 30 of the following year. 
Anhui and Shandong shall each ensure that no new tubewells shall be drilled in its 
Project Area, other than those under Part A (2) of the Project, unless such tubewells 
shall be justified on the basis of such an analysis.
2.
Each Project Province shall, by December 31, 1991, prepare and furnish to the 
Association and the Bank for comment a draft plan of operation and maintenance for 
each major irrigation scheme included under Part A (1) of the Project, and shall 
thereafter issue such plans, taking into account the comments of the Association and 
the Bank. Such plans shall be issued for a period of three years of trial operation, 
and shall thereafter be reviewed, revised as necessary, and re-issued by December 31, 
1995, based on the results of trial operation.
3.
Each Project Province shall ensure that water charges are collected for 
completed surface irrigation schemes under Part A of the Project at a level sufficient 
to cover full annual operation and
maintenance costs, with the rates to be revised periodically as necessary to reach 
such level.
B.
Agricultural Intensification
 
1.
Each Project Province shall cause each CATEC in its Project Area to prepare and 
furnish to its provincial PMO by December 31 of each year a detailed extension program 
showing proposed activities and physical targets for the next year.
2.
Each Project Province shall cause the PMOs in its Project Area to:
 
(a)
sell to farmers through CATECs the fertilizer and other inputs provided 
under Part B (1)  of the Project at its actual import cost plus distributors' margin; 
and
(b)
operate a revolving fund using the proceeds of such sales to be used to 
finance future purchases of such fertilizer and other inputs.
3.
Each Project Province shall prepare and furnish to the Association and the Bank 
by December 1 of each year an annual fertilizer plan showing the quantities of 
chemical fertilizer required and the plan for procuring them in the next year.
Page  8
4.
Each Project Province shall ensure that:
 
(a)
pesticides to be provided under Part B (1) of the Project shall be 
approved by the Association and the Bank; and
(b)
the storage, handling, distribution and use of such pesticides shall be 
consistent with guidelines satisfactory to the Association and the Bank, and where 
applicable, the guidelines of the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture.
5.
Each Project Province:
 
(a)
shall review and analyze by the end of each year for its Project Area: 
(i) contract and negotiated procurement crop targets for grain and oil crops; (ii) 
market and negotiated prices for grain
and oil crops: (iii) cotton price and production incentives; and (iv) sales prices of 
imported agricultural inputs;
(b)
shall furnish to the Association and the Bank the results of such reviews 
and analyses and recommendations by March 31 of the following year; and
(c)
shall also furnish such results and recommendations for cotton price and 
production incentives to the State Price Bureau by March 31 of each year.
C.
Environmental Protection
 
1.
Each Project Province shall ensure that all Project activities shall conform to 
environmental standards and guidelines, including the environmental regulations and 
guidelines issued by the National
Environmental Protection Agency and by the Environmental Protection Bureau of the 
respective Project Provinces, which shall be acceptable to the Association and the 
Bank.
2.
Each Project Province shall maintain an environmental unit under the provincial 
PMO, with functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Association and the Bank, 
staffed by competent staff in adequate numbers.
3.
Each Project Province shall:
 
(a)
furnish to the Association and the Bank by December 31, 1991, an 
environment management program for such Project Province, prepared by its 
environmental unit;
(b)
cause its environmental unit to prepare a review of progress in each year 
under such environment management program; and
(c)
cause its Provincial PMO to furnish to the Association and the Bank, by 
March 31 of the following year, such annual review, along with the findings and 
recommendations.
4.
Jiangsu shall, under arrangements satisfactory to the Association and the Bank, 
cause the existing dams and reservoirs within its Project Area to be maintained and 
inspected periodically in accordance with sound engineering practice.
D.
Project Management
 
1.
Each Project Province shall maintain or cause to be maintained:
 
(a)
a project leading group at each of the provincial, prefectural and county 
levels in its Project Area, with composition and responsibilities acceptable to the 
Association and the Bank; and
(b)
a project management office at each of the provincial, prefectural and 
county levels in its Project Area, with functions and responsibilities acceptable to 
the Association and the Bank, staffed by competent staff in adequate numbers.
2.
Each Project Province shall cause its provincial PMO to prepare and furnish to 
the Association and the Bank by December 31 of each year a detailed annual budget and 
Page  9
work program for Project implementation for the following year.
3.
Each Project Province shall carry out its respective portion of the training 
provided under Part C of the Project in accordance with a program agreed with the 
Association and the Bank.
4.
(a)
Each Project Province shall cause its provincial PMO to evaluate any 
proposals made by county PMOs to finance activities under the Project which have not 
been previously appraised by the Association and the Bank, and shall approve only such 
proposals as are consistent with representative models agreed with the Association and 
the Bank.
(b)
Each Project Province shall inform the Association and the Bank of such 
proposals promptly after approval, including the economic rate of return of each such 
proposal as approved.
