Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL US' ONLY
Report No. 5361-CY
STAFF APPRAI SAL REPORT
CYPRUS
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
February 21, 1985
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This documnt has a estricted distribution and -ay be used by recipients ouly in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otberwise be disclosed withut World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1          =    Cyprus Pound (EC) 0.55
EC 1          =    us$ 1.82
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                =  1.09 yards = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)           =  1,000 meters = 0.6214 miles (mi)
1 hectare (ha)             =  10,000 square meters = 2.47 acres (ac)
1 square kilometer (km2)   =  100 ha = 0.386 square miles (sq. mi)
1 kilogram (kg)            =  2.205 pounds (lbs)
1 metric ton vt)           =  1,000 kilograms = 0.984 long tons (lg ton)
1 liter (1)                =  0.264 gallons (gal)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AO     -  Accounting Office of the Ministry of Agriculture & Natural Resources
AREC   -  Agricultural Research & Extension Council
ARI   -  Agricultural Research Institute
ATI    -  Agricultural Training Institute
AVU    -  Audio-Visual Unit
CIMMYT -  International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center
CIP    -  International Potato Center
DAO    -  District Agricultural Office
DEO    -  District Engineer's Office
DFO    -  District Fisheries Office
DG     -  Director-General of Agriculture
DOA    -  Department of Agriculture
DOF    -  Department of Fisheries
DVO    - District Veterinary Office
fD'iS   -  Department of Veterinary Services
EEU    -  Economic Epidemiology Unit
ES     -  Extension Section
FAO    -  Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FMU    -  Farm Machinery Unit
WOC    -  Government of Cyprus
HEU    -  Home Economics Unit
IAEA   -  International Atomic Energy Agency
IBPGR  -  International Board for Plant Genetic Resources
IBRD   -  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICARDA -  International Center for Agricultural Research in the Dry Areas
LCB    -  Local Competitive Bidding
LIB    -  Limited International Bidding
MANR   - Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
MCI    -  Ministry of Commerce and Industry
MCW    -  Ministry of Communications and Works
MF     -  Ministry of Finance
PF     -  Project File
PM     -  Project Manager
PU     -  Project Unit
RAC    -  Rural Agricultural Center
RF     -  Revolving Fund
RVC    -  Rural Veterinary Center
SAO    -  Senior Architect's Office
SMS    -  Subject Matter Specialist
TB     -  Tender Board
UNDP   -  United Nations Development Programme
GOVERNMENT OF CYPRUS
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFCAL USE ONLY
CYPRUS
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Chapter                                                                  Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .-
I.  TIE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR .I..........  ....  ...                     . .
A.  Contribution to the Economy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
B.  Policies, Strategies and Targets  . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
C.  Research and Extension Capabilities of MANR . . . . . . . . 3
D.  Agricultural Training in Cyprus . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
E.  Bank Group Lending for Agriculture  . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
II.  THE PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
A.  Background, Rationale and Strategy  . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
B. Description . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
Brief Description of the Project  . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
Agricultural Research.       .       .  .  .  .    .  .     . . . . . . 10
Agricultural Extension  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Veterinary Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Fisheries Services  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Project Unit  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
C.  Cost Estimates  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
D.  Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
E.  Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
F.  Procurement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
G.  Accounts and Audits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
H.  Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting  . . . . . . . . . . . 22
I.  Environmental Impact  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
J.  Role of Women . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
III.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
A.  Organization and Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
B.  Civil Works Program . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
C.  Staff Requirements and Staff Training . . . . . . . . . . . 24
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Cyprus in July, 1984. The mission consisted of Messrs. R. Khouri, T.
Turtiainen (Bank) and M. Dagg and R. Etheredge (Consultants). Mr. M. Pease
(Bank) processed the report after the initial draft prepared by the mission.
This document has a resuicted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their o0licial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discdosed without World Bank authorization.



Chapter                                                        Page No.
IV.    BENEFITS AND RISKS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
A.  Benefits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
B. Risks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
V.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECONMENDATION . . . . . . . . . . . 28
TABLES IN TEXT
Table 2.1    Summary Cost Estimates . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Table 2.2    Financing Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Table 2.3    Estimated Disbursement Schedule  . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Table 2.4    Estimated Procurement Arrangements . . . . . . . . . . 20
ANNEXES
1     Principal Indicators of Agricultural Sector . . . . . . . . 30
2     Land Utilization in 1982  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
3     Externally Financed Agricultural Development Projects . . . 32
4     Production of Principal Crops - Quantity and Value  . . . . 33
5     Production of Principal Crops - Area and Yield  . . . . . . 34
6     Exports of Citrus Fruits, Table Grapes,
Fresh Vegetables & Potatoes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
7     Livestock Numbers and Livestock Production  . . . . . . . . 36
8     GDP and Government Spending on Agricultural Research
and Extension . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
9     Existing and Incremental Staff Requirements of Project  . . 38
10     Average Yields of Selected Crops and  . . . . . . . . . . .
Produce in Selected Countries, 1982 . . . . . . . . . . 39
11     Summary Cost Estimates by Project Component and Investment
Category. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
12     Summary Cost Estimates by Year  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
13     Estimated Disbursement Schedule . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
14     Estimated Procurement Schedule  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
15     Phasing of Incremental Staff Requirements . . . . . . . . . 44
16     Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File . 45
CHARTS
World Bank-26664 - Ministry, of Agriculture and Natural Resources,
Present Organization Chart
World Bank-26665 - Agricultural Research Institute, Proposed Organization
Chart
World Bank-26666 - Department of Agriculture, Present Organization Chart
World Bank-26872 - Department of Agriculture, Proposed Organization Chart
World Bank-26667 - Department of Veterinary Services, Proposed
Organization Chart
World Bank-26668 - Department of Fisheries, Present Organization Chart
MAPS
IBRD 18526 - Cyprus: Department of Agriculture and Agricultural Research
Institute Infrastructure
IBRD 18510 - Cyprus: Department of Veterinary Services and Department of
Fisheries Infrastructure



REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower: Republic of Cyprus.
Amount:    US$7.0 million equivalent.
Terms;     Fifteea years, including three years grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Project Description: The project aims primarily to strengthen and improve
coordination among the institutions involved in
research and extension services within the Ministry
of Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR) in order
to support the substantial investments Cyprus has
made in irrigation, and rural and water resource
development and thereby increase production of food
and expand exports of fresh fruits and vegetables.
The project will establish a Project Unit to
coordinate project execution, an Agricultural
Research and Extension Council to formulate national
policies and priorities for research and extension
and a sub-committee to develop and supervise
resultant programs. The Extension Section of the
Department of Agriculture will also be redefined and
given a clearer role to coordinate national
extension programs. To ensure the effectiveness of
this organizational framework, the project will
provide assistance to modernize equipment, increase
professional ane technical staff numbers, establish
an agricultural training institute and create
opportunities for the professional staff to obtain
post-graduate specialized trainLing abroad. Research
facilities will be expanded, and four additional
research/demonstration farms will be established,
and extension services will be provided with
well-equipped accommodation. The project will
benefit some 44,500 farm families and around 900
families involved in the fishing industry.



Project risks are minimal and confined to the
ability of the extension service to contact farmers
and to impart appropriate technological advances.
However, measures included in the project to
intensify the availability of extension services are
expected to nullify these potential risks.
Estimated Proiect Costs:
Local    Foreign    Total
--(US$ million)-
Agricultural Research Institute                 1.0        1.6       2.6
Department of Agriculture                       3.7       2.3        6.0
Department of Veterinary Services               1.1       1.6        2.7
Fisheries Department                            0.3       0.3        0.6
Project Unit                                    0.2       0.1        0.3
Base Cost                                     6.3       5.9       12.2
Physical Contingencies                          0.1       0.3        0.4
Price Contingencies                             1.1       0.8        1.9
Sub-total                                     1.2       1.1        2.3
Total /1 LAQ
Financing Plan:
Local    Foreign    Total
-     (US$ million)---
Bank                                          -         7.0        7.0
Government                                   7.5         _         7.5
Total
Estimated Disbursements:
IBRD FY   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91
- -     - (US$ million) --_---_
Annual                     0.2    1.0    1.4    1.6    1.6    1.2
Cumulative                 0.2    1.2    2.6    4.2    5.8    7.0
Economic Rate of Return:  Not applicable
Appraisal Report:  Report No 5361-CY dated February 21, 1985.
1 Exclusive of taxes and duties from which public projects are exempt.



REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Contribution to the Economy
1.01     Agriculture in the Economy. Agriculture continues to be an
important sector of the economy although its relative importance has
declined during recent years, reflecting the growing importance of the
tourist industry and the manufacturing sector. In 19S2, it contributed
about 11% of GDP, provided 19% (about 43,700 persons) of total employment
and generated some 30% of export earnings compared with 17%, 22% (about
45,000 persons) and 49%, respectively, in 1976 (Annex 1). In 1983,
agricultural imports were valued at about £C 117.5 million (US$213.8
million), of which EC 9.6 million (US$17.5 million) were reexported.
Domestic exports were EC 72.6 million (US$132.1 million) and the net
deficit in agricultural trade was, thus, EC 35.3 million (US$64.2
million).
1.02     Agricultural Holdings, Land Resources and Land Use.  The 1977
Agricultural Census revealed that there were some 44,000 holdings
averaging 4.6 ha in area spread over 6.4 separate plots. The area of
agricultural land was estimated to total some 180,747 ha in 1982
(Annex 2) of which 32,452 ha were under irrigated crops (18%), 144,305 ha
under rainfed crops (80%) and 3,990 ha were classified as grazing land
(2%). By far the most important crops grown on irrigated land were
vegetables (41%), citrus fruits (18%) and deciduous and subtropical
fruits (10%) and those on rainfed, unirrigated, land were cereals (40%),
vines (25%) and fodder crops (18%). Irrigated land in Cyprus is usually
considered to be 10-12 times more productive in terms of value produced
than unirrigated land. The general trend in agriculture over the past
few years has been towards increased specialization, intensification and
localization of production--on irrigated land in ecologically favorable
areas so far as individual crops are concerned, and closer to urban
centers in the case of livestock.  Part-time farming in Cyprus is a
relatively recent phenomenon dating to the events of 1974 but is now
widespread. In 1977, about 55% of total farmers had an off-farm, and
principal occupation mainly in the towns; 35% of male farmers being
employed for less than 2 months per year in agriculture. Consequently,
women play a key role in Cypriot agriculture.
B. Policies, Strategies and Targets
1.03     The Government's agricultural policies under the first three
Emergency Economic Action Plans were, in the main, directed at the
development of irrigation, the reliability of which is the major
constraint of Cypriot agriculture. They aimed to increase domestic food



- 2 -
production, expand exports of fresh fruits and vegetables and satisfy the
demands of a rapidly growing tourist industry, and were highly success-
ful. Nearly 7,900 ha of land have been brought under irrigation out of
about 12,200 ha projected (Annex 3). The Fourth Emergency Economic
Action Plan (1982-86) aims mainly to increase the quantity, improve the
quality and reduce the costs of food production (especially of exportable
horticultural produce), and to raise rural incomes by expanding irriga-
tion, improving land and water use, stimulating agricultural exports,
reducing agricultural imports and consolidating land ownership. The
Plan, likewise, highlights the need for strengthening MANR's research and
extension services in order to help ensure the accomplishment of key
objectives and targets for each subsector, discussed in the following
paragraphs.
1.04     Crop Production.  Total cereal production has not changed
markedly between 1977 and 1982 but there has been a significant increase
in the growing of barley at the expense of wheat, mainly because of high
government subsidies on barley to promote domestic livestock production
(Annexes 4 and 5). Annual production of fruits and vegetables with
export potential increased significantly during the same period,
especially lemons, carrots, grapefruit, oranges and potatoes. Exports of
horticultural produce rose between 1979 and 1983 by about 36% and 142
respectively in the case of citrus fruits and potatoes and declined by
around 45Z and 30% respectively during the same period in the case of
table grapes and fresh vegetables (Annex 6). Under the Bank-assisted
Fruit and Vegetable Project (Ln. 1988-CY), a consultancy study, dated May
1984, forecasted that exportable surpluses of citrus fruits, table grapes
and fresh vegetables will reach levels of 302,000, 30,000 and 150,000
tons, respectively, by the year 2000. The study also set export targets
for 1990 at around 135,000 tons of citrus fruits, 21,000 tons of table
grapes and 20,000 tons of fresh vegetables, i.e., increases of around
45Z, 125% and 190Z, respectively, over 1983 export levels. It is planned
to increase total production by 2.92 annually by improving the
utilization of arable land, developing and conserving water resources,
promoting fruit and vegetable production, and continuing MANR's Soil
Conservation, Plant Protection, Grain Storage, Hay Making, Vine
Replanting and Water Utilization schemes. Since there are minimal
opportunities for expanding agricultural land area in Cyprus
(para. 1.02), increased production must come from intensified use of
existing land and the development of improved practices and new crops.
Yields are currently average for the ecological conditions prevailing,
and there is, therefore, considerable scope for achieving increased
production from a much improved research base such as is proposed under
the project.
1.05     Livestock and Animal Health.  Cattle, sheep, pig and poultry
numbers increased steadily between 1977 and 1982, but goat numbers
declined slightly, probably because MANR has been encouraging farmers to
replace their indigenous animals with Shami dairy goats, which are more
prolific and better milk producers (Annex 7). The most important changes
that took place in the livestock subsector during this period were the
high annual increases recorded in cattle numbers and in meat and milk
sales, at about 11%, 16X and 15%, respectively.  Most of the common
contagious diseases of livestock have been brought under control and are



- 3 -
no longer a serious threat to the industry. However, several new disease
conditions are now being encountered with increasing frequency in inten-
sively managed livestock, and little is kn,. n about the epidemiology of
these diseases (para. 1.16). It is planned to increase production by
3.5Z per annum by raising production, improving efficiency, resolving
marketing problems, increasing exports of cheese, continuing MANR's
Genetic Improvement, Mixed Farming and Smallholders Livestock projects,
and improving the veterinary and expanding the artificial insemination
services.
1.06     Fisheries.  The fisheries subsector of Cyprus has recorded the
greatest improvement in production during the past few years, namely an
average annual increase of 12% in tonnage between 1979 and 1983 (Annex
7). This achievement is mainly attributed to research and extension in
marine biology and to improved fishing technology and fisheries manage-
ment. It is planned to increase production by 5.6X per annum by revita-
lizing the fishing industry, improving the management of marine resources
and expanding fishing operations in coastal and international waters.
1.07     The area of irrigated land is expected to total some 44,000 ha
by the end of this decade (Annex 3). Research and extension efforts will
have to focus on the irrigated areas of the country in the future because
these areas will account for most of the increases in agricultural
production. Cypriot growers of fruits and vegetables have been encoun-
tering mounting marketing problems at home and increasing competition
abroad from other fresh fruit and vegetable exporting countries. These
matters are being addressed separately under the Bank financed Fruit and
Vegetable Project (Ln. 1988-CY), and Government is also investigating the
possibilities of processing some of this produce in Cyprus prior to
export and of growing alternative industrial crops. Some traditional
export markets, such as to the United Kingdom, are likely to remain firm
and may even be expanded; however, given EEC production levels, outlets
for fruits and vegetables to other EEC countries will become increasingly
competitive with the likely expansion of EEC membership and improved
quality of EEC production. Market openings will therefore have to be
found increasingly in Eastern Europe, the Middle East, and Arabian Gulf
countries, where some outlets have already been developed. Research will
need to back up these new marketing developments particularly in regard
to consumer preferences, deman,d for new products and seasonality factors
(e.g., table grapes).
C. Research and Extension Capabilities of MANR
1.08     The Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR) is
responsible for the entire agricultural sector including fisheries. MANR
is divided into ten entities, four of which are technically involved in
the production of human food (Chart, World Bank-26664). These are the
Agricultural Research Institute (ARI), the Department of Agriculture
(DOA), the Department of Veterinary Services (DVS) and the Department of
Fisheries (DOF). The Directors of ARI, DOA, DVS and the head of DOF are
all responsible to the Director-General of Agriculture but, in the area
of research and extension, tend to work independently of one another in
the absence of representative organizations within MANR responsible for



-4-
formulating, implementing, coordinating and monitoring agricultural
research and extension strategies, policies and guidelines. Cooperative
research and extension efforts, nevertheless, exist and stem mainly from
the initiatives of individual scientists on matters of mutual interest.
Expenditures on research and extension increased somewhat more rapidly
than agricultural GDP during recent years namely, from about 1.01 and
0.9% respectively of agricultural GDP in 1979 to 1.2X each of agricul-
tural GDP in 1983 (Annex 8). MANR has had ample experience with Bank-
assisted projects and has implemented them satisfactorily. Likewise, it
is expected to implement the proposed project competently.
1.09     The Agricultural Research Institute (ARI) was established in
1962 with UNDP/FA0 assistance to conduct applied adaptive research aimed
at increasing productivity in crops and livestock. The institute is
headquartered at Athalassa, organized into six sections (Agronomy,
Horticulture, Animal Production, Plant Protection, Soil and Water Use and
Agricultural Economics), and staffed by 41 professionals, 79 technicians
and 14 administrative employees (Chart, World Bank-26665 and Annex 9).
Research facilities include laboratories, offices, stores and greenhouses
at headquarters plus four research farms in different agroecological
parts of the country at Athalassa (livestock and agronomy), Saittas
(deciduous fruits), Akhelia (vegetables and subtropical fruits) and Zyyi
(horticultural crops irrigated with sulfurous borehole water).
1.10     ARI is well managed and is the only organization in Cyprus
authorized to conduct agricultural research. ARI research scientists are
professionally competent and have made valuable contributions to the
sector, particularly in the introduction of better yielding cereal
varieties, the production of forage crops, the promotion of horticultural
exports (potatoes, carrots and citrus fruits), the estimation of water
and nutrient requirements of various crops, the improvement of water use,
and the control of diseases, pests and weeds (PF, D-1). Livestock
research, in the main, has been directed at the formulation of high
concentrate rations for intensively reared animals. The institute is,
however, overextended and must be modernized and strengthened to address
the agricultural challenges of the future, particularly the production of
horticultural products destined for export to the highly sophisticated
and competitive markets of European and Arabian Gulf countries.
1.11     The Department of Agriculture (DOA) consists of two divisions,
Agriculture and Animal Husbandry (Chart, World Bank-26666). The former
is divided into five sections (Agronomy, Horticulture, Land Use, Plant
Protection and Water Use) and the latter into two (Animal Production and
Animal Breeding and Nutrition). There are three other servicing sections
(namely, Extension, Chemistry and Agricultural Economics) under the
immediate supervision of the Director of Agriculture.
1.12     DOA is responsible for implementing MANR's development projects
(para. 1.03). It operates out of six District Agricultural Offices
(DAOs) located in Nicosia, Agros, Paphos, Limassol, Larnaca, and
Famagusta with a staff complement of 129 professionals and 263
technicians (Annex 9), half of whom are stationed at headquarters in
Nicosia (PF, D-2). The field operations of DOA also include
responsibility for managing MANR's six horticultural and three livestock



- 5 -
farms although most of the work being carried out at these farms is of an
investigative nature and therefore requires major inputs from ARI
(paras. 2.09 and 2.15). In the case of crops, this entails the
evaluation and propagation of new crop varieties and, for livestock,
feeding and breeding trials.
1.13     DOA has subdivided the six districts of the country along
administrative boundaries into a total of 31 agricultural extension
"beats" and has assigned an extension officer to each one of these
beats. Most of the extension officers are university graduates in
general agriculture and are not highly specialized in any particular
field of production. They report directly to the Senior District
Agricultural Officer of their duty station and are, to a large degree,
dependent on Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs) stationed in the districts
and at headquarters for technical assistance and advice. Many are
presently overworked because the average beat consists of some 13
villages and 1,500 farmers, and also because their responsibilities
additionally include regulatory, emergency and special project work, as
well as the collection of statistical data.
1.14     DOA was allocated a total of EC 5.546 million (US$10.09 million)
in 1983, 46 percent of which was earmarked for salaries, about 1l for
"agricultural extension and home economics operating expenses" and the
remainder for recurrent expenditures on MANR's various projects
(para. 1.03). Funds provided for extension and research purposes within
most of these projects were administered by the heads of the various
technical sections and the senior district agricultural officers, and not
by the Head of the Extension Section (ES), who is primarily responsible
for preparing publications and radio and television programs at head-
quarters. DOA's inputs into extension during 1983 were estimated at
about 127 manyears, 70 of which originated from headquarters and 57 from
the districts (PF, D-2).
1.15     The Department of Veterinary Services (DVS) is headquartered at
Athalassa and consists of four operational sections: the Central
Veterinary Laboratory, the Public Health Laboratory, the Biological
Products Section and the Artificial Insemination Section (Chart. World
Bank-26667). It provides clinical, preventative, advisory and artificial
insemination services and operates five district veterinary offices
(DVOs) and 15 rural veterinary centers (RVCs) which operate as separate
units to DOA offices. DVS employs 45 veterinarians, 6 pharmacists and
117 technicians, the majority of whom are stationed in the field
(Annex 9).
1.16     DVS has managed to eradicate, so far, ten serious livestock
diseases from the island and has brought several more under control. It
now plans on improving the services being provided to the farming
community, maintaining strict quarantine regulations on the island and
investigating the new range of livestock diseases being encountered with
increasing frequency in intensively reared animals (para. 1.05).
1.17     The Department of Fisheries (DOF) is headquartered in Nicosia in
rented premises, has three district offices in Larnaca, Limassol and
Paphos and employs a total of 11 professionals and 32 technicians



(Annex 9). DOF is primarily responsible for developing fisheries
resources and controlling fishing activities in the country. Research
efforts during the past few years have been directed at assessing the
country's fisheries' potential, increasing the annual catch from inshore
waters by extending the closed season, opening up new fishing grounds in
international waters, compiling and analyzing marine biology information,
monitoring effluent disposal into the sea, testing modern fishing
equipment and developing new fishing methods.
1.18     DOF staff are also involved in extension and training activities
which, in the main, are aimed at maximizing the annual catch without
adversely affecti.ag the marine biology of fishing grounds. These activi-
ties have been instrumental in increasing the annual catch by about 602
from around 1,300 tons in 1979 to some 2,000 tons in 1983 (Annex 7) and
the Department presently estimates that the country's fishing grounds are
'capable of yielding around 3,000 tons of fish annually on a sustained
basis with proper management, additional research and extension inputs
and improved fishing methods.
1.19     Farmers' Unions.  There are three Farmers' Unions in Cyprus
reflecting different political persuasions of farmers. Most farmers are
members of one or other of these Unions which have considerable influence
with Government over such matters as prices, subsidies, marketing and
general services provided to farmers.
D. Agricultural Training in Cyprus
1.20     There is no university in Cyprus; neither is there an agricul-
tural training school or college to generate MANR's requirement for
technicians. However, there is a forestry training school. To date,
MANR has been recruiting Cypriot graduates of foreign universities as
professionals, and employing graduates of Cypriot high schools and
vocational schools and training them on the job as technicians. Such
training sometimes includes short intensive courses offered by the ARI,
DOA, DVS and DOF staff at headquarters in Nicosia and at the Paphos and
Agros farmer training centers.
E. Bank Group Lending for Agricuiture
1.21     Agricultural Development Program.  The Bank has supported the
agricultural development strategies of the four emergency plans (para.
1.03) and has, since the mid-1970s, approved a total of US$92.0 million
in loans to assist in financing six projects with total costs of US$348.5
million, namely: the Paphos Irrigation Project (Ln. 960-CY); the
Pitsilia Integrated Rural Development Project (Ln. 1483-CY); the
Vasilikos-Pendaskinos Project (Ln. 1658-CY); the Fruit and Vegetable
Project (Ln. 1988-CY); the Khrysokhou Irrigation Project (Ln. 2279-CY);
and the Southern Conveyor Project (Ln. 2386-CY) (Annex 3). The first two
projects being implemented by MANR have been completed and the third is
nearing completion. Their implementation has been generally satisfactory
with the exception of the Fruit and Vegetable Project which continues to
experience delays in implementation (para. 1.22).



- 7 -
1.22     Agricultural Sector Issues. Three important policy issues have
been encountered and are being addressed under the Bank's earlier and
ongoing operations in Cyprus. They are:
(i)    Irrigation Water Charges.  The Government Waterworks Law of
1929 is the basic legislation for irrigation water
charges. The costs of collecting and delivering water in
Cyprus are high, and the charges for use of irrigation
water have been kept below actual cost levels. In 1983,
the average cost recovery in various irrigation schemes was
about 25%. This issue was reviewed with Cypriot
authorities in the context of the Southern Conveyor Project
(Ln. 2386-CY), and agreement was reached covering all
irrigation projects in the country to increase water
charges gradually to 65% of real costs over a period of
three years starting from 1989, and to review them annually
to ensure that they are adjusted for inflation.
(ii)    Agricultural Subsidies. Agricultural subsidies totalled
about £C 24.0 million (US$43.7 million) in 1983. Of these
only around £C 6.5 million (US$11.8 million) were paid
directly to farmers under the vine subsidy and the wheat
and barley support programs, and most of the beneficiaries
were elderly, low-income, rural families in the marginal
and remote dry land areas of the country. Cypriot
authorities have justified these subsidies on social
grounds and argued that, as such, they can only be phased
out gradually as individual farmers retire. The remaining
EC 18.0 million (US$32.8 million) were used to cover losses
incurred by the Grain Cormission in subsidizing imports and
milling costs of cereal grains sold for human and animal
consumption. Recent Bank policy dialogue has obtained
positive responses from Government on the desirability of
removing animal feed subsidies. Studies indicate that the
gradual reduction of such subsidies would result in
substantial government savings whilst reducing the
excessive profits of efficient firms in the pork and
poultry industry and making only inefficient firms marginal
or unprofitable. Therefore, removal of subsidy would not
harm domestic production of pore or poultry significantly.
(iii)    Export Marketing.  While several Bank-financed irrigation
schemes have provided Cyprus with the opportunity to
substantially increase horticultural production and exports
of fresh fruits and vegetables, actual exports of fresh
vegetables and table grapes have declined in recent years
though citrus and potato production increased (para. 1.04).
These marketing problems were anticipated in the late 1970s
when the Bank-financed Fruit and Vegetable Project
(Ln. 1988-CY) was being prepared, and specific funds were
provided under that project for consultancy studies to
investigate the situation and propose measures for improved
marketing. The private sector has not responded as
expected to improving marketing arrangements, thus delaying



- 8 -
project implementation. Cypriot authorities are now
considering the recommendations made under these studies
including the possibility of estab- lishing marketing
boards as is the case with potatoes and carrots.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Background, Rationale and Strategy
Background
2.01     The Government of Cyprus has requested Bank Group assistance
aimed at strengthening the agricultural research and extension services
of MANR to support the increased investment in irrigation, rural
developmeAt and water resources and thereby to increase food production
for domestic consumption by the inhabitants of the country and the
booming tourist population, and to expand exports of fresh fruits and
vegetables and production of import substitution crops. Project
preparation was initiated by the Ministry in early 1983 and finalized by
the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program in a report dated March 1984,
which served as the basis for the Bank's appraisal in July 1984.
Rationale
2.02     Despite the expanded area under irrigation and a significant
rise in the production of permanent crops, overall crop and livestock
production and exports have not shown any major increase over the last
six years (para. 1.04 and Annexes 4 - 7). Yields are generally average
for the ecological conditions in Cyprus (Annex 10). However, increases
in production and exports can be achieved through increased efficiency in
crop and animal husbandry farming systems, pest and disease control,
improvement in water use, marketing, use of improved crop varieties and
intensification of coordinated applied research and extension. Whilst
agricultural research in Cyprus is competently staffed, it lacks certain
essential facilities as well as adequate interaction with farmers, as the
extension services are inadequate and the interrelationship between
research and extension is weak. The MANR appreciates that if Cyprus is
to realize the full potential of.its limited agricultural respurces and
is to fully benefit from the considerable investments that have been made
in agriculture and irrigation development in the last twc decades
(para. 1.21), the applied research and extension services need to be
restructured, coordinated and strengthened, and has requested Bank
assistance to this end.
StrategU
2.03     The proposed strategy will include the redefinition, crop by
crop and for livestock and fisheries, of priorities for research work
over the next five years and beyond, taking into account, inter alia,
potential export markets, import substitution and production costs. In
order to assure that research work and extension will be coordinated and
that joint efforts will serve farmers' needs, more field experiments and
adaptive trials will be conducted on Government-owned farms that are



-9-
presently underutilized. Improvement of district agricultural and veter-
inary offices and establishment of new rural agricultural centers in the
32 newly defined agroecological land-use areas will also assist MANR in
improving the utilization of staff and the identification and investiga-
tion of specific problems. The extension service will be restructured,
and staff involved in providing extension services to farmers will be
relieved of all regulatory and statistical functions so as to give it the
organizational means of operating effectively in unison with research and
other bodies and the physical means to carry out a more clearly defined
extension role. In addition, more formal links of cooperation will be
established between the various arms of MANR for preparing research and
extension programs, and for monitoring and evaluating implementation and
achievements. These activities will be augmented with staff and farmer
training programs which should significantly strengthen MANR.
B. Description
Brief Description of the Project
2.04     The project will comprise the following activities:
(i)    strengthening the capabilities of the Agricultural Research
Institute so that it can respond to the demands of a
revitalized extension service, and identify solutions to
the problems of a more intensified production and the need
to meet higher quality standards of produce by providing
improved offices and laboratories, scientific laboratory
equipment and computers and, more importantly, through
staff training and technical assistance;
Fii)    redefining the role of the extension service in its
responsibilities and interrelationships to research and
other arms of MANR and providing it with the means to
effectively operate this new broadly encompassing MANR
extension role, undiluted by regulatory and statistical
functions, by improving deployment of extension staff,
redesignating the responsibilities of the Head of the
Extension Service, providing new offices and rural  ,
agricultural centers, together with technical equipment,
demonstration machinery, computer facilities, transport for
personnel, engaging additional staff, and providing
improved training at a new training institute;
(iii)    strengthening the Department of Veterinary Services and its
coordination with ARI, DOA and ES, particularly in its
capacity to identify and find solutions to problems being
encountered as a result of intensification of livestock
production, by expanding and upgrading diagnostic
facilities, establishing new district facilities and
providing equipment, supplies, transport and calculators;
(iv)    providing the Department of Fisheries with the means to
expand ongoing research related to the assessment of



- 10 -
fisheries resources and the development of fishing methods
aimed at increasing the annual catch and at minimizing
adverse changes to the marine biology of the areas
concerned by renovating and expanding offices and storage
facilities, providing new research facilities and providing
scientific and technical equipment; and
(v)    establishing a Project Unit (PU) to implement and monitor
the project. In addition, improving the administration of
agricultural, veterinary and fisheries research and
extension services by establishing an Agricultural Research
and Extension Council (AREC) as a policy making body and a
sub committee as an executing body of ongoing and future
research and extension programs.
Agricultural Research
2.05     Introduction.  Crop yields in Cyprus are generally average for
the ecological conditions of the country. Production increases between
the years 1976-1978 and 1980-1982, as shown in Annex 5, for which
research may claim at least partial credit are: barley (9%), carrots
(30%), tomatoes (35%), grapes (69%) and grapefruit (25%). Increases in
production can be achieved through improved efficiency in crop and animal
husbandry farming systems, water use, pest and disease control, mechani-
zation, crop introduction and improved varieties. The research component
of the project will provide for the reorientation of the work of ARI, its
close linkage with extension and farmers, and the resources, training and
technical assistance needed to achieve this.
2.06     Applied research priorities should not only reflect general
immediate needs, but also be attuned to the longer-term comparative
advantages of agriculture in Cyprus. Research should respond to the
priority needs defined by Government for growth in the agricultural
sector. These are: increasing yields from existing irrigated areas and
expanding production from new lands to be irrigated in the future;
increasing production of crops and livestock products for import substi-
tution (notably wheat, barley, high protein and oil seeds, meat and
milk); and improved marketing and production of fruits and vegetables to
meet the demands of external markets, which are changing (para. 1.07).
Priority will be given to subtropical and tropical fruits, vegetables in
the open and under protection, flower cultivation, the introduction of
possible new industrial crops, specific problems of soil and water use,
vegetative propagation including tissue culture, and mechanized
cultivation.
2.07     Linkagte -4ith Extension.  Essential to the stimulation of
research workers and to the impact of research results will be the
reorganized and strengthened interrelationships of the ARI with a
restructured extension service. These interrelationships will be
developed under the project through a close interaction of research and
extension workers or. the research farms and on farmers' holdings where
adaptive trials will be conducted, and where extension workers can become
acquainted with current research developments, and where research workers
will have the opportunity of establishing communication and feedback to



- 11 -
and from farmers on the field applications of research findings and on
the identification of problems requiring solution by research (para.
3.02). In addition, research workers will provide some of the teaching
expertise at the Agricultural Training Institute (ATI), to be constructed
under the project, in support of an improved extension service (para.
3.06). Research workers will participate in extensicn program
formulation sessions.
2.08     Linkage with International Agricultural Centers.  Existing
communications with the international agricultural research institutions
will be continued and expanded to ensure receiving current information on
crop developments and introductions and to maintain close liaison
regarding the training needs of Cypriot research scientists. The
principal organizations with which ARI has dealt in the past, or with
whom relations will be developed under the project, are: The
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), Food and Agriculture
Organization of the United Nations (FAO), the International Board for
Plant Genetic Resources (IBPGR) and FAO Germ Plasm Collection Probrams;
the International Center for Agricultural Research in the Dry Areas
(ICARDA), International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center (CIMMYT), and
the International Potato Center (CIP).
2.09     Civil Works.  The building program will be restricted to
headquarters in Nicosia, except for about 50 m1 of office and
laboratory space at each of the four new DOA demonstration/extension
farms that are to be built under the project in different parts of the
country (para 2.15).  At Nicosia, the program will include about 300 m'
of renovation and around 1,330 m2 of new laboratory, office, library,
and greenhouse construction at ARI, and some 520 m2 of new livestock
housing facilities on the adjoining Athalassa Research Farm (PF, D-1).
These improvements will permit intensified research work to be carried
out in the fields of toxicology, pesticide residues, soils and water use,
horticulture (fruits and vegetables), agronomy including evaluation of
grain and flour qualities of wheats, and tissue culture for a range of
crops. In addition, the following supporting facilities will be improved
or expanded: library, herbarium, computer facilities and glasshouse. A
new Farm Machinery Unit (FMU) will be established by the end of 1985 to
investigate the possibilities of mechanized farming on small
horticultural enterprises. Four existing Government-owned farms, which
are presently underutilized, will be developed under the project for
applied research purposes. They would be operated by DOA and will serve
as focal points of interaction between applied research and extension
services. As a condition of loan effectiveness, a new Farm Machinery
Unit (FMU) will be established in the Agronomy Section of ARI.
2.10     Vehicles and Equipment.  The project will finance a range of
scientific laboratory equipment for the different sections of ARI,
including a computer facility and calculators. The project will also
provide furniture for the new buildings, library requirements, machinery
for the research farms and vehicles to transport staff and their
equipment between the institute and the research farms (PF, D-1).
2.11     Staffing and Training.  The project will identify specific skill
gaps in existing and future ARI staff, and will seek to redress these by



- 12 -
providing an opportunity under the project to further their education and
update their professional skills through overseas training in countries
preferably with Mediterranean type agriculture. This will be done
through the provision of 360 manmonths of postgraduate study, and of 300
mandays to attend conferences and short courses abroad (PF, D-l). The
headquarters staff of ARI will also be increased under the project by a
total of 11 professionals and 7 technicians, making a total of 52
professionals, 86 technicians, and 14 administrative staff (Annex 9).
The additional professionals will consist of a citriculturalist,
horticulturalist, floriculturalist, agronomist, plant nutritionist,
biometrician, agricultural marketing economist, two agricultural
machinery specialists, an analytical chemist, and a librarian. One
technician each will be assigned to each of the Agronomy, Hortic--ture
and Soil and Water Use Sections, and two each to the Agriculural
Economics and Agricultural Machinery sections. Staff recrritment -will be
phased over a period of four years from 1985-1988 (PF, I-l,'.
2.12     Technical Assistance.  Provision is made under the project for
15 manmonths of technical assistance which will be used to obtain
consultancy services on short (2-3 months) visits to assist in solving
specific problems as they become identified during the course of project
implementation. However, Government has already identified specific
external consultancy requirements for the following crops: oil crops,
flowers and subtropical fruits.
Agricultural Extension
2.13     Introduction.  Under earlier Bank-financed irrigation projects
(para. 1.21), effective project-specific extension units were developed.
Under the proposed project, these units will become part of the
restructured and revitalised national extension service and, because of
their effectiveness on the irrigation schemes, they will play an
important catalytic role in achieving the aims of the newly defined
national service. The private sector provides farm inputs for farmers
together with some extension in the form of sales promotion. However, in
view of the size of the country, varying agricultural conditions, and the
present state of development of the sector, any widespread provision of
private extension services, particularly by consultant firms replacing
Government-provided services,-is unlikely. At present, the role of the
Extension Section (ES), which is a section of DOA, is limited to the
coordination but not the execution of departmental extension programs,
audiovisual aids, home economics and publications programs. Extension of
information to farmers is currently an integral part of the various
specialist departments of MANR (e.g., veterinary and agricultural
services) and tends to be submerged by the departmental regulatory
functions. As a result, there is no clear channel of communication from
research to farmers, or from farmers to research, identifying problems
which require solution. Increased agricultural productivity in Cyprus is
dependent upon intensifying the research base (para. 2.05) and upon
providing the means of extending this information to farmers, which the
project would resolve, as detailed below.
2.14     Reorganization.  MANR proposes to subdivide the six
administrative districts of the country into a total of 32 agroecological



- 13 -
land-use areas to better deploy extension officers and Subject Matter
Specialists (SMSs) where their specific skills are needed most, relative
to locale-specific agricultural production (Map, IBRD 18526). The
project will follow up on this proposal by redefining the role of the
Extension Section (ES) of DOA (Chart, World Bank-26666). In particular,
the extension service will be permitted to focus on the specific role of
acting as the channel of information from applied research to farmers and
as the means of ensuring that research scientists are kept abreast of
farmer requirements. A particularly significant means of achieving this
will be by removing from the extension service any requirement to perform
regulatory or statistical functions which will be performed by existing
specialist staff of the Agricultural Division of DOA (Chart, World
Bank-26872). SNSs are located within the Department of Agriculture, both
at headquarters and at DAOs. Under the project, their numbers will be
increased by 37 (Annex 9), and they will function in support of the newly
defined extension service and will be responsible to the Head of ES on
technical matters, whilst remaining, for administrati- s purposes, within
their existing departments. The reorganized ES will be headed by a
senior agriculturalist with longstanding experience in extension. He
will be stationed in Nicosia and will be responsible to the Director of
DOA for all the department's extension-related activities, ircluding
field services in the districts and the Audio-Visual Unit (AVU) and Home
Economics Unit (HEU) at headquarters. As Head of ES, he will also be
expected to maintain a close liaison with and marshal the technical
capabilities of the specialized sections of DOA and ARI in developing
effective extension packages and programs for the different farming
communities of the country. At appraisal, Government endorsed the above
proposals on the understanding that they can be accomplished without
creating another senior staff position in the Department. Redefining the
role of ES and appointing a senior agriculturalist with longstanding
experience in agricultural extension to head ES are conditions of loan
effectiveness. The Head of ES will be made responsible to the Director
of DOA for coordinating all extension activities in the country. While
the above administrative changes will emphasize the importance of
extension within MANR and will strengthen the role of ES within DOA, the
project will also help revitalize the physical and manpower capabilities
of ES. In the field, this will be done by: the construction of six new
District Agricultural Offices (DAOs) to replace old, unsatisfactory
rented quarters; the establishment of seven new Rural Agricultural
Centers (RACs) to bring extension staff and SMSs into closer contact with
the farming communities they serve; the assignment of one extension
officer and one technician to each agroecological land-use area and of,
at least, one home economist to each DAO and RAC to increase contacts
with farmers (especially women farmers, who play a key role in the
agricultural scene); the recruitment of additional SMSs for the DAOs and
RACs to back up extension staff; and the provision of more transport,
extension, demonstration and audiovisual facilities and equipment to
improve the quality of extension services being rendered. The SMSs will
be responsible for the technical content of the extension program through
regular involvement in the training program of extension staff and
through direct involvement with farmers in support of extension workers.
At headquarters, the major emphasis will be on expanding and modernizing
AVU and HEU, broadening the latter to include women's involvement in
agriculture, and on establishing a new agricultural training institute.



- 14 -
2.15     Civil Works.  To obtain a better geographic coverage of
extension and to promote closer contact between extension workers and
farmers, the project will, under civil works, finance the construction of
six new DAOs at Nicosia, Agros (for Pitsilia District), Larnaca,
Kokkinokhoria, Zakaki (for Limassol District) and Paphos and seven new
RACs at Saittas, Evrykhou, Palekhori, Khirokitia, Evdhimou, Eftagonia and
Polis (PF, D-6). DAOs and RACs will be built on small blocks of
irrigated land which will, where possible, be used for small-scale
demonstrations and field trials. Six blocks of Government-owned land
have already been selected for DAOs and three for RACe. Experimental/
demonstration farms have successfully promoted improved production
practices in the past and four additional experimental/demonstration
farms will be developed under the project, one each at Kyperounda for
temperate deciduous fruits, at Kokkinokhoria for potatoes and vegetables,
at Zakaki for citrus fruits and table grapes, and at Polis for subtropical
fruits and Vegetables (PF, D-6). The farms will also be used as
nurseries to produce seedlings and root stocks, and each will provide
about 50 m2 of laboratory and office space for ARI staff (para. 2.09),
thereby contributing to the integration of the activities of research and
extension services.
2.16     Equipment.  Project-financed goods for ES are in four main
categories: scientific and technical equipment, demonstration machinery,
computer facilities and calculators for headquarters and DAOs; transport,
agricultural machinery and supporting equipment for RACs and the
research/demonstration farms; mass media communications equipment for
AVU; and training equipment and transport for HEU and ATI (PI, D-2).
2.17     Training and Staffing.  An Agricultural Training Institute (ATI)
will be built under the project in Nicosia to generate agricultural
technicians for the future and to continuously upgrade, through a series
of short intensive courses, the professional skills of the technicians,
home economists and agricultural SMSs of ES and DOA (para. 3.06 and
PF, D-6). A suitable, Government-owned site has already been found for
ATI near ARI headquarters and adequate trained staff are available for
its operation. DOA will assign a total of 47 additional professionals
and a total of 37 additional technicians to ES during the first four
years of project implementation, making a total of 176 professionals and
300 technicians. Forty-four professionals and 34 technicians will be
J
posted in DAOs, RACs and research/extension farms and the remaining 3
professionals and 3 technicians will be assigned to ES headquarters in
Nicosia (Annex 9). One of the three professionals will be assigned to
AVU and the other two will be employed by the ATI along with the home
economist and two technicians.
2.18     Fellowships and Technical Assistance.  DOA will be allocated a
total of 12 postgraduate fellowships covering 216 manmonths of overseas
study in countries with Mediterranean type agriculture. Ten of these
scholarships will be in specialized agricultural disciplines, one in home
economics and one in agricultural training and education. Skill gaps
will be identified within DOA and appropriate training arranged to meet
the specific need. All the candidates are expected to return to Cyprus
with higher degrees in their fields of specialization. The project will
also finance a total of 25 man months of consultancies. These funds, in



- 15 -
the main, will be used to hire highly qualified experts in specialized
fields to offer brief intensive courses at ATI to extension officers,
extension technicians, home economists and agricultural SMSs of DOA and
ARI on subjects of particular relevance to MANR (para. 3.07 and PF, D-2).
2.19     Agricultural Research and Extension Council (AREC).  The project
will improve the administration of agricultural, veterinary and fisheries
research and extension services on a national scale by establishing
within MANR prior to loan effectiveness an Agricultural Research and
Extension Council. AREC will be charged with the responsibility of
setting national agricultural, veterinary and fisheries research and
extension policies, strategies and priorities, and reviewing them
annually in the light of accomplishments and new developments. AREC will
be chaired by the Director-General of MANR and will have as members the
Directors of ARI, DOA and DVS, the Heads of DOF and ES, as well as a
representative from each of: the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of
Comerce and Industry, the Planning Bureau, as well as farmer
representatives. AREC will be served by a secretariat operating from the
office of the Director-General. Over the life of the project the
secretariat will be formed from the staff of the Project Unit assisted,
as necessary, by existing MANR staff. After the project, the secretariat
will be found from MANR staff. AREC's first order of business will be to
redefine research and extension policies and priorities for the next five
years. Terms of reference for AREC are in PF, D-1. AREC will establish
a committee(s), as necessary, to assist in policy implementation, and
during negotiations, GovernLnent undertook to establish such committee(s)
to execute AREC policies by December 31, 1985. The establishment of AREC
is a condition of loan effectiveness.
Veterinary Services
2.20     Introduction.  The veterinary and animal health services are
soundly based with a long history of successful control of major
diseases. They will be more closely interrelated under the project in
determining livestock strategies and defining research priorities through
the establishment of AREC. (para. 2.19). Facilities from which DVS
operates are inadequate and the Department needs support particularly to
find solutions to the veterinary problems that are now becoming evident
with intensified livestock rearing. ,There is also a-need for staff to
update their knowledge of international innovations in combating the
animal health problems that are now becoming more evident in Cyprus. Of
the 75 private veterinarians in Cyprus, about 50 are practicing
veterinarians, mostly specializing in small stock in the cities or
employed by large commercial pig or poultry enterprises. A few provide
services to farmers in the countryside but it is difficult to charge an
economic fee since government charges do not reflect full costs of their
service. Government's policy is to promote private veterinary services
to the fullest extent possible, and it has recently conducted a study of
veterinary services in Cyprus that resulted in, inter alia, provision of
loans to private veterinarians to assist them in establishing practices.
Nevertheless, in less accessible areas not attractive to private
veterinarians, Government provides and will continue to provide the
needed veterinary services.



- 16 -
2.21     Support under the Project.  The animal health extension services
being provided by DVS to livestock owners will be strengthened under the
project by expanding and upgrading existing diagnostic facilities at
headquarters in Nicosia and by establishing two new DVOs and ten RVCs in
the districts closer to the areas where livestock numbers are
concentrated. This will raise the total to 7 DVOs and 13 RVCs. During
appraisal, the DVS agreed to station at least two veterinarians in each
DVO and at least one veterinarian in each RVC. The project will also
finance the establishment of an Economic Epidemiology Unit (EEU) to
survey the diseases that are currently being encountered with increasing
frequency in intensively managed animals and to assess the economic
impact of such diseases.
2.22     Equipment.  Equipment, supplies, transport, calculators and
computer facilities will be financed by the project to expand and upgrade
the central diagnostic veterinary laboratory. The project will also
provide the old and the new DVOs and RVCs with modern veterinary
equipment (PF, D-3).
2.23     Fellowships and Training.  A total of 90 manmonths of post-
graduate fellowships will be awarded to five DVS veterinarians, three of
whom will specialize in clinical pathology and the two others in
veterinary epidemiology. Funds will also be provided by the project for
100 mandays of foreign travel by DVS staff to attend conferences and
short courses abroad and 12 manmonths for internationally recruited
consultants to assist the department in establishing and operating EEU
CPF, D-3). DVS will recruit two new veterinarians to man EEU during the
early stages of project implementation and, after they become acquainted
with the nature of their future work, will send them abroad for a period
of 18 months each to earn postgraduate degrees in veterinary epidemiology
CPF, D-3).
Fisheries Services
2.24     Introduction.  Present studies indicate that the safe
sustainable yield of fish from Cyprus waters could be increased by 50%.
To achieve this, DOF's administrative and research facilities need to be
strengthened, and improved fishing methods need to be devised and
promoted through intensified extension. Research will focus on stock
assessments, fishing technologies and pollution control. Extension will
focus on improved fishing techniques, navigation and vessel maintenance
and management. In addition, constant surveillance needs to be
maintained on ecological controls. The project will address these
limitations to the expansion of fisheries production.
2.25     Support Under the Project.  The project will provide DOF with
the capabilities to expand ongoing research related to the assessment of
fisheries resources and the development of fishing methods aimed at
increasing the annual catch and at minimizing adverse changes to the
marine biology of the areas concerned.
2.26     Civil Works.  The district offices and storage facilities of DOF
will be renovated and expanded in Paphos and Limassol. New research
facilities totalling some 160 m2 in area will also be financed in
Paphos (PF, D-6).



- 17 -
2.27     Equipment.  The project will supplement and modernize the
scientific and technical equipment being used in oceanographic and marine
biology research, including computer facilities and calculators, and will
provide the department with a range of modern fishing aids and fishing
equipment to test under local conditions, and subsequently, to use for
demonstration purposes. The project will also strengthen the mobile
extension capabilities of DOF by supplying the department with additional
vehicles, fishing aids and audiovisual equipment (PF, D-4).
2.28     Staffing, Training and Technical Assistance.  MANR will recruit
two additional scientists under the project-one specialized in
oceanography and the other in marine biology. Two additional technicians
will also be employed by the department to assist the above scientists
(PF, D-4). Two DOF staff members will be provided with overseas graduate
fellowships-one in marine biology and the other in fishing technology.
They are expected to remain abroad for 18 months each and to return to
Cyprus with M.Sc. degrees. The project will also finance a total of 75
mandays of overseas travel for DOF staff to attend conferences and short
courses, as well as three manmonths of consultancies by internationally
recruited experts to visit Cyprus on specialized staff training
assignments to be identified during the course of project implementation
gPF, D-4).
Project Unit
2.29     A Project Unit (PU), to be established by MANR to implement and
monitor the project, will continue during the life of the project after
which staff concerned will revert to MANR establishment positions. PU
will be provided with office space at MANR headquarters in Nicosia and
will be headed by a senior agriculturalist with long-standing experience
in management and agricultural extension. He will be assisted by an
economist/financial analyst and some support staff (PF, D-5). PU will
also be provided with two vehicles and a microcomputer facility to
monitor the project on a regular basis (PF, D-5). Establishment of the
Project Unit and the appointment of a Project Manager (PM) are conditions
of loan effectiveness. Provision is also made for the recruitment of
consultants for a total of five manmonths, to assist in devising a
suitable monitoring and evaluation mechanism to monitor the project and,
later, in assessing implementation at midterm and on completion of the
project (para. 2.41).
C. Cost Estimates
2.30     Project Costs.  Project costs, inclusive of incremental staff
and of physical and price contingencies but exclusive of taxes and
duties, are estimated to total EC 7.99 million (US$14.52 million), of
which the foreign exchange cost is £C 3.87 million (US$7.04 million) or
49% of the total. US$4.0 million (or 33% of project base costs) are
incremental recurrent expenditures which the Government would have no
difficulty in sustaining during the project or after project completion.
The above costs are estimated as of December 1984 and include physical
contingencies of 5% on civil works and 10% on equipment and services.
Civil service salaries prevailing in mid-1984 were also raised by 8% to



- 18 -
cover expected cost of living increases to December 1984. An annual
price contingency of 62 was applied to all local and foreign costs during
the five-year period of project implementation. Import prices have been
lower in Cyprus than in several other countries especially in the 1980s
and there are sufficient reasons to estimate that they would not increase
by more than 6Z on average during the project period. Project costs are
sumnmarized below and are detailed in Annexes 11 and 12 and the PF.
Table 2.1:    SUMMARY COST ESTIMATES
(IC '000)              (US$ '000)                   S Total
_______________________   _______---------------  t Foreign  Base
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign Total  Exchange   Costs
A. Agriculture Research
Institute           570.0    857.0  1,427.0 1,036.4 1,558.1  2,594.6      60     21
S. Department of
Agriculture       2,008.5  1,274.7  3,283.2 3,651.7 2,317.7 5,969.4       39     49
C. Department of
Veterinary Services  617.8    893.4  1,511.2 1,123.2 1,624.3 2,747.6      59     23
0. Fisheries Department   126.8    186.8    313.7   230.6   339.7   570.3      60      S
E. Project Unit          95.3     44.1    139.4   173.2    80.2   253.5       32       2
Total BASELINE COSTS    3,418.4  3,256.0  6,674.4 6,215.2 5,920.0 12,135.3     49    100
Physical Contingencies   72.1    159.4    231.4   131.0   289.7   420.8      69      3
Price Contingencies   623.7    459.1  1,082.8 1,133.9   834.8  1,968.7       42     16
Total PROJECT COSTS   4,114.1  3,874.5  7,988.6 7,480.2 7,044.5 14,524.7       49    120
D. Financing
2.31      The proposed Bank loan of US$7.0 million equivalent will be on
standard Bank terms and will finance the foreign exchange costs of the
project (49X). The Government of Cyprus will contribute EC 4.1 million
(US$7.5 million) to meet the local costs of the project (51X) and has
already included initiating funds for the purpose in the draft FY85
budget.



- 19 -
Table 2.2: FINANCING PLAN
Local    Foreign    Total         Total as S of
Source                    ---(US$ million)---                 Project Cost
IBRD Loan                     -         7.0       7.0                49
Government                    7.5        -        7.5                51
Total                      7.5       7.0      14.5               100
= =,   ===   = = =           _ _
E.  Disbursements
2.32     Timely establishment of the PU by Cypriot authorities prior to
loan effectiveness will pave the way for an early start to project
implementation, which is phased over a period of five years, starting
1985/86. Disbursement of the US$7.0 million Bank loan will be spread
over a period of six years. The estimated disbursement schedule
presented in Annex 13, and summarized below, is based on project design
and phasing, on the Bank's disbursement performance for Bank-financed
agricultural projects in Cyprus, and on disbursement profiles for similar
countries in the same Region.
Table 2.3: ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(IBRD Fiscal Year)
1986     1987    1988     1989      1990     1991
-    US$ million
Annual                 0.2       1.0     1.4      1.6       1.6      1.2
Cumulative             0.2       1.2     2.6      4.2       5.8      7.0
Withdrawal of the proceeds of the loan will be made as follows:
(i)    Civil works for houses, offices, laboratories and ancillary
facilities (US$2.4 million equivalent), 52% of total
expenditures;
(ii)    Scientific and technical equipment, office furniture and
equipment, computers, calculators, tractors, farm equipment
and experimental farm machinery (US$1.6 million equivalent),
1002 of foreign expenditures and 82X of local expenditures;
(iii)    Overseas fellowships, local training, short courses and study
trips (US$1.3 million equivalent), 100l of total costs;



- 20 -
(iv)    Consultancy services (US$0.9 million equivalent), 100% of
total costs;
(v)    Special account US$0.4 million equivalent; and
(vi)    Unallocated US$0.4 million equivalent.
2.33     The Bank will deposit US$400,000 into a Special Account to be
opened with the Central Bank of Cyprus in the name of the borrower. Such
account will be used to finance the Bank's share of eligible expendi-
tures under the proposed loan. As expenditures for civil works,
equipment, fellowships and training are estimated to be numerous and
small, reimbursements will be claimed by submitting Statements of
Expenditures to the Bank. Documentation supporting these expenditures
will not be submitted to the Bank but will be retained in the PU for
subsequdnt review by Bank staff during the course of project
supervision. Disbursements for consultant fees and expenses will be
against contracts and will be fully documented.
F. Procurement
2.34     The project's procurement arrangements have been sunmarized below
and are set out in detail in Annex 14.
Table 2.4: ESTIMATED PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
lUSS miIi on)1"
Prolect Element                          Procurement Method
I.C.B. L.C.B. L.I.B. Other Total
civil Works                         -    5.4     -     -     5.4
C-)  (2.8)   (-)   t-)   (2.8)
Scientific/Technical Equipment      -     -     1.3    -     1.3
C-)   (-3   (1.3)  1-)   (1.3)
Vehicles, Tractors & Agric. Machinery   -  -    0.5    -      0.5
I-)   C-)   (0.5)  (-     D (0.5)
Office Furniture and Equipment      -    0.3     -     -      0.3
(-)  (0.2)   C-)   (-)   (0.2)
Fellowships and Training            -     -      -    1.3    1.3
C-)   (-3    t-)  (1.3)  (1.3)
Consulta-:ies                       -     -      -    0.9    0.9
C-)   C-)   (-3  (0.9)  (0.9)
Total           -    5.7    1.8   2.2    9.7
(.-)  (3.0)  (1.8)  (2.2)  (7.0)
1>     Differences are due to rounding.
Note:   Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the
Bank Loan.



- 21 -
2.35     Civil Works. The project will finance the construction of
buildings at 35 separate locations the total cost of which is estimated
at EC 2.95 million (US$5.37 million) including contingencies. This civil
works program is unlikely to attract international interest because the
structures involved are small in size, large in number, diverse in design
and widely scattered throughout the country. Local Competitive Bidding
procedures (LCB) acceptable to the Bank will be followed by the Senior
Architect's Office (SAO) of the Ministry of Coimmunications and Works
(MCW) and the Tender Board (TB). Nevertheless, for farm and site
development and access roads not exceeding the equivalent of US$100,000
each and for small and scattered buildings not exceeding the equivalent
of US$200,000 each, Government may carry out the works using force
account procedures providing that in the aggregate the sum shall not
exceed US$1.0 million.  Government is likely to engage MCW which has a
proven record of executing civil works efficiently using force account
under other Bank-financed projects, notably Pitsilia Integrated Rural
Development Project (Loan 1483-CY), for which MCW constructed 502 of the
civil works, and the Second Highways Project (Loan 1344-CY). MCW has,
for the most part, car=ied out these civil works under force account
during slack perioas in its annual program. Disbursement against force
account would be by applying the same percentage as for works carried out
under LCB supported by Statements of Expenditure.
2.36     Equipment. Project equipment includes office and laboratory
furniture, scientific and technical equipment, computers and calculators,
vehicles, tractors and farm machinery. These items are expected to cost
about EC 1.19 million (US$2.17 million) including contingencies. The PU
will channel all procurement through TB which, whenever possible, will
attempt to bulk orders and to subject those estimated to cost US$50,000
or more to Limited International Bidding (LIB). Such LIB will consist of
evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a list of at least five
qualified suppliers eligible under the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits dated August 1984. Contracts for goods
estimated to cost not more than US$50,000 and not exceeding US$600,000 in
the aggregate may be procured by Local Competitive Bidding procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
2.37     Services.  The project will finance a total of 60 manmonths of
consultant services which are estimated to cost EC 0.47 million (US$0.86
million). Recruitment of consultants, in all cases, will be carried out
under the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants dated August 1981.
G. Accounts and Audits
2.38     Accounts.  Separate accounts on each component of the project
will be maintained by MANR's Accounting Office (AO) which will provide PU
and the departments concerned with quarterly statements of project
accounts. The PU will maintain a separate account of all transactions
passing through the Special Account (para. 2.33) and will make this
available to the Bank for review during the course of project implemen-
tation. AO has, for several years, been responsible for keeping the
accounts of Bank-financed agricultural projects in Cyprus and is
considered competent in this regard.



- 22 -
2.39     Audits.  Project accounts vi.. be audited annually by the
Auditor General of Cyprus, who also has been responsible for auditing
other Bank-financed projects in the country to a standard acceptable to
the Bank. The Special Account wili be audited as such during annual
audit. During negotiations, Government assurance was obtained that it
will carry out an annual audit of project accounts and submit these to
the Bank not later than June 30 of each year.
H. Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
2.40     The Project Manager will be responsible for monitoring project
implementation based on data submitted to him by the project's executing
departments (para. 2.29). Data will be collected not only of physical
and financial implementation, but also concerning project related
activities such as training, numbers of farmers reached by extension,
adoption of recommendations by farmers, and progress in reaching research
objectives. The PU will prepare semiannual progress reports based on the
monitoring data, and evaluate progress in attaining targets and
objectives. Government is at present, conducting its first nationwide
agricultural census which is scheduled for completion by December 1985.
This census is expected to yield important baseline infomation for
evaluating the project. At negotiations, it was therefore agreed that,
not later than June 30, 1986, Government will devise a monitoring and
evaluation system acceptable to the Bank to be used for determining
progress made under the project both at the time of the mid-term review
and upon completion of the project. At negotiations, Government also
undertook to employ consultants, as necessary, to assist in conducting
monitoring and evaluation of the project.
2.41     An in-depth analysis of the impact of research and extension
activities will be carried out in three stages. Firstly, a monitoring
and evaluation process will be devised using census data referred to in
para. 2.29, including developing appropriate forms, collection of
baseline data and organizing a regular computerized data flow. Secondly,
a midterm evaluation will be carried out at the end of the third year,
and, finally, an ex-post evaluation after completion of the project but
before the closing date will conclude the task. Baseline data will
include an assessment of the stratification of farmer categories,
examining, in particular, the degree of direct farm involvement by both
men and women farmers (para. 1.02). The resulting data will be utilized
by the extension service in devising appropriate extension approaches to
farmers in all categories so as to maximize impact of extension
messages. The above activities will be carried out by MANR and PU with
the help of consultants, as necessary, for which 5 manmonths have been
provided (para. 2.29). MANR has some experience in evaluation of
completed projects. At negotiations, Government assurance was obtained
that it will, during the first quarter of 1988, carry out a midterm
review of the project, under terms of reference to be agreed with the
Bank, and to submit the review to the Bank for comment by June 30, 1988.
I. Environmental Impact
2.l2     Environmental considerations are given particular attention
under the project. Support to the Agricultural Research Institute will



- 23 -
include additional laboratory facilities which will permit extended work
to be carried out on insect toxicology and pesticide residues. The
insect toxicology program is designed to monitor resistance of insects to
environmentally safe pesticides and to develop counter measures. The
pesticide residues program will assess residual factors on marketed
produce and in the field, and determine remedial measures. Under the
project's fisheries component, DOF will maintain existing relationships
with FAO, the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), the
International Atomic Commission for Thermal and other Pollution Studies,
and the World Wild Life Foundation. There is growing evidence from
research findings that, by banning fishing during certain times of the
year, the annual catch can be increased to some 3,000 tons per annum on a
sustained basis, without adversely affecting the marine biology of the
area concerned.
J. Role of Women
2.43     A typical farm in Cyprus is small and fragmented and, in the
main, farmed part time by the owner during weekends and holidays with
most of the day-to-day labor provided by women of the family. The 1982
statistics show that nearly 60% of the persons gainfully employed in
agriculture were women and that more than 75% of working women were
employed in the agricultural sector. Under the project, the Extension
Section (ES) which currently has responsibility, inter alia, for the Home
Economics Unit (HEU), will be strengthened and reequipped with the
manpower and resources to provide an efficient extension service to
farmers including improved farmer training services. This extension
effort will focus to a large extent on the role of women whose critical
role in Cypriot agriculture is borne out by the above statistics.L
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
3.01     Proiect Unit.  The Director-General (DG) of MANR will be
responsible for the project and will serve as Project Coordinator as he
has done for all previously Bank-financed agricultural projects in
Cyprus. A Project Unit (PU), headed by a Project Manager (PM) reporting
directly to the DG, will be established within MANR to expedite and
coordinate project implementation (para. 2.29). The Directors of ARI,
DOA and DVS and the Heads of DOF and ES will execute the project for
their respective components, reporting to the Director-General of
Agriculture who shall be assisted by the PM in coordinating all project
affairs. The PM would be specifically responsible for: coordinating the
building program; procurement of goods; coordinating recruitment of local
and international consultants; assisting department heads in arrangements
for overseas followships and staff recruitment; communications with the
Bank; assisting in devising a monitoring and evaluation mechanism and
carrying out a midterm and an ex-post evaluation of the project;
submitting semiannual progress reports on the project to the DG and to
the Bank not later than September 30, each year; submitting annual
reports to the Bank by March 31 of each year; and submitting a project



- 24 -
completion report to the Bank within six months of loan closing date.
Government assurances on these matters were obtained during negotiations.
3.02     Working Committees.  The project will institute the formation of
joint ARI/DOA/DVS working committees, with farmer participation, for each
of the principal agricultural commodities of the country to cement
collaboration and interaction of research and extension personnel at
field level. They will view individual commodities within the context of
farming systems. This effort will be initiated by the head of ES and
will provide extension officers with an opportunity to meet the senior
professional staff of MANR, to discuss field problems on a commodity
basis and to participate in joint efforts to resolve them. In addition,
Research and Extension Committees, having strong farmer participation,
will be promoted under the project at District level. They will, not
only focus on the impact and problems of research and extension
activities as they affect the farmer, but will also provide a channel for
workers in these fields to reach farmers. From these various committees
will spring a bottom-up identification of farmer problems requiring
solution by research.
B. Civil Works Program
3.03     Contracting Arrangements.  Civil works financed by the project
will be the largest single component of the project, accounting for about
38X of project base costs (Annex 11). The project envisages the
construction throughout Cyprus of about 12,800 mi of laboratories and
offices and around 1,700 mZ of ancillary facilities such as garages,
warehouses, greenhouses, etc., as well as improvements to four
experimental/demonstration farms (Annex 12 and PF, D-6). During
negotiations, costs were revised upwards to allow for the recent MANR
decision that its buildings should be equipped with heating or air
conditioning dependent upon location. Schematic designs and preliminary
cost estimates for most of the buildings have already been prepared by
SAO and were reviewed by the appraisal mission. Plans and specifications
for the first year's building program, which are in an advanced stage of
preparation, were reviewed by the Bank during negotiations. It was
agreed that the completion of final designs, specifications and cost
estimates for the first year's building program would be a condition of
loan effectiveness. Assurances were also obtained during negotiations
that final plans, specifications and cost estimates for each subsequent
year's building program will be submitted to the Bank for review by
December 31 of each ytar. Overall construction time is estimated at
about three years. MCW will make the District Engineer's Offices (DEOs)
responsible for day-to-day supervision of construction and SAO
responsible for monthly inspections of the building sites.
C. Staff Requirements and Staff Training
3.04     Staff Requirements.  A total of 64 additional professionals and
48 additional technicians will be required by the project on a permanent
basis to strengthen the agricultural, veterinary and fisheries research
and extension activities of MANR and to establish the Project Unit



- 25 -
(Annex 15 and PF, D-l, D-2, D-3 and D-4). This will bring total numbers
of staff in these services to 290 professionals and 545 technicians. The
recruitment of incremental staff will be phased over a period of four
years (Annex 15). More than 75% of both the professionals and the
technicians will be assigned to ES; 90% of these will be posted to the
districts close to the farming comnmunities of the country and 10% to
headquarters in Nicosia. New professional ES staff in the districts will
consist mainly of SMSs and each extension officer will be provided with
an extension technician to share the work load. A home economist will be
stationed at each DAO and RAC and one more, possibly female, will be
assigned to each of the farmer training centers at Paphos and Agros to
stimlate interest among rural women in modern farming methods. These
staff increases will raise DOA's current annual manpower input into
extension by about 50% from around 127 manyears to about 185 manyears.
3.05     The Cypriot authorities have provided a firm commitment to
increase MANR's staff establishment by a total of 60 new positions over
the project life. In addition, 30 existing positions in MANR, which are
currently unfilled will be made available to the project. The balance of
22 positions will be generated through internal reassignments from the
Ministry's present staff allocation (Annex 15). At negotiations,
Government agreed to the proposed staff requirements set out in Annex
15. The position will be reviewed by the Bank and Government from time
to time during project implementation.
3.06     Staff Training.  The staff training programs financed by the
project are divided into two main categories shown below.
(i)    Graduate and Specialized Training Abroad.  All MANR
organizations involved in the project are provided with
funds to send professional staff abroad for graduate study,
or to attend short courses and conferences in specialized
agricultural disciplines. Such training will be organized,
wherever possible, in countries with a Mediterranean-type
climate.
(ii)    Training within Cyprus.  The Agricultural Training
Institute (ATI) will be constructed under the first phase
of the Civil Works program and will be established to fill
a need for the practical training, in particular, of
nongraduate technicians and to improve the quality of
SMSs. ATI will be staffed by careful selection from within
MANR manpower resources and training staff will have
completed training for trainers' courses by June 30, 1987.
On their return, they will be responsible for finalizing
curricula for the various courses to be given at ATI by
September 30, 1987, using external consultancy assistance
as necessary. ATI is expected to be fully operational not
later than December 31, 1987. Consideration will be given
to twinning ATI with a similar institution in a more
developed country to strengthen its establishment and its
instructional base. At negotiations, Government undertook
to establish ATI in accordance with the above timetable.
ATI will be involved in:



- 26 -
(a) generating a total of 15-20 agricultural technicians
per annum to cope with the normal attrition of such
staff in MANR;
(b) upgrading the technical skills of extension officers
and extension technicians through a series of short
intensive courses to make ES staff progressively more
specialized in the principal agricultural activities
of their individual duty stations; and
(c) exposing MANR scientists to the latest developments in
their fields of specialization through seminars and
short courses offered by the senior staff of the
Ministry, by speakers invited from overseas national
and international organizations, and by consultants
financed by the project.           1
3.07     ATI's professional staff of two graduate agriculturalists, two
technicians and one home economist will be responsible primarily for
training the agricultural technicians, and they will be assisted in this
task by the professional staff of the concerned agencies, as necessary.
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
4.01     Scope for Increasing Production.  There is considerable scope
for increasing food production. In the case of crops, this would stem
mainly from improved utilization of existing irrigated land (39,600 ha)
and, to a lesser extent, from an additional 4,300 ha of land that are yet
to be irrigated under Bank-financed projects. Recent estimates indicate
a potential for raising 1983 production levels annually by the year 2000
of citrus fruits to 345,000 tons (175Z), fresh vegetables to 230,000 tons
(180X) and table grapes to 36,000 tons (25Z).  For livestock, higher
production levels would be achieved, mainly by improving feeding,
breeding and management and by more effective disease control. Increased
catches in the fishing industry can be brought about by better management
of the country's marine resources and by the introduction of modern
fishing technology. These marine resources were estimated recently to be
capable of a sustained annual yield of about 3,000 tons of fish, an
increase of about 50X compared to the 1983 catch of 2,000 tons. The
estimate is based on proper management and is not expected to have any
adverse effect on concerned ecological areas (PF, D-4). In achieving
these targets and penetrating new market outlets, the country will not
only become more self sufficient in food production but will also
generate badly needed foreign exchange from the export of fresh fruits
and vegetables, and animal products.
4.02     The economic benefits of this project are difficult to quantify
with any degree of accuracy under the conditions prevailing in Cyprus at
present, namely, heavy commitments to agricultural development, US$260.0
million in Bank-financed projects, and radical intensification of crop
and livestock production--the former through irrigation and the latter



- 27 -
through heavy subsidization of imported feedstuffs. Consequently, no-
attempt has been made to compute an economic rate of return.
4.03     Incremental staff and operating costs over the project period
amount to about EC 2.6 million (US$4.7 million). It is estimated that
the annual incremental operating costs in Year 5, and thereafter, will be
about EC 785,000 (US$1.4 million) per annum at 1984 prices. This will be
about 0.14Z of the Government's total budget and about 3.6Z of the
agricultural budget, projected by using linear regression.
4.04     Other Benefits.  The project will rectify the physical
deficiencies of ARI, DOA, ES, DVS and DOF and will enhance MANR's
capability to render better applied research and extension services to
the farming and fishing communities of the country on a continuing basis,
through: the establishment of supporting bodies and units; subdividing
the country into agroecological land-use areas for better integration and
operation of services; upgrading technical skills of personnel; improving
the quality of life in rural areas by focusing on the role of women in
farming; actively promoting improved environment practices; and improving
market intelligence on the marketing of fruits and vegetables. The
project will also have a beneficial impact on manpower resource
utilization in MANR since the reassignment program, proposed under the
project (para. 3.05), will require reapportionment of duties amongst many
staff within DOA, DVS, DOF, and the ES in order to meet the incremental
requirements of the project, and will result in improved direction and
focus of existing manpower resources.
B. Risks
4.05     The significance of part-time farming in Cypriot agriculture
(para. 1.02) and the key role of women represent some potential risks,
since it may prove more difficult for extension agents to transfer
research findings, and establish contact with, part-time farmers and
women farmers. The more intensified availability of extension services
including audiovisual aids, the production of immediately applicable and
financially attractive research findings, and the intensified focus on
women farmers under the project, are expected to nullify these potential
risks. Furthermore, the stratification of farmer categories (para. 2.41)
will permit the extension service to focus more closely upon the specific
needs of the various categories of persons involved in Cypriot farming.
The Government's earlier reluctance to make continued adequate fiscal
provisions for the additional staffing, contemplated under the project,
posed some uncertainty. Assurances were, however, obtained at
negotiations that a phased recruitment of additional staff will be
carried out alongside an agreed program of reassignment by MANR to
provide the balance part of the staff needed for the project from
existing staff resources.



- 28-
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01     During negotiations, Government gave assurances that it will:
(i)    establish a sub comittee to execute the policies of the
Agricultural Research and Extension Council (para. 2.19);
(ii)    carry out an annual audit of project accounts and submit
these to the Bank not later than June 30 of each year
(para. 2.39);
(iii)    devise a monitoring and evaluation system, acceptable to
the Bank, to be used for determining progress made under
the project at mid-term and on completion of the project
and engage consultants, as necessary, to assist in this
evaluation (para. 2.40);
(iv)    carry out a midterm review of the project, during the first
quarter of 1988, under terms of reference to be agreed with
the Bank, and to submit this review to the Bank for comment
by June 30, 1988 (para. 2.41);
(v)    prepare (a) semiannual progress reports, submitting these
to the Bank not later than September 30 each year;
(b) annual re'orts to be submitted by March 31 of each
year; and (c) a project completion report to be submitted
to the Bank within six months of loan closing date
(para. 3.01); and
(vi)    submit to the Bank, for review, final plans, specifications
and cost estimates for each year's building program by
December 31 of each year (para. 3.03).
5.02     As conditions of loan effectiveness, Government will:
(i)    establish a new Farm Machinery Unit in the Agronomy Section
of the Agricultural Research Institute (para. 2.09);
(ii)    provide a redefinition of the Extension Service and appoint
a senior agriculturalist with longstanding experience in
agricultural extension tc head ES (para. 2.14);
(iii)    establish an Agricultural Research and Extension Council to
formulate national agricultural, veterinary and fisheries
research and extension policies, strategies and priorities.
(iv)    establish the Project Unit, headed by a Project Manager who
would be a senior agriculturalist with longstanding
experience in management and agricultural extension
(para. 2.29); and



- 29 -
(v)    submit to the Bank, for review, the final plans,
specifications and cost estimates of the first year's
building program. (para. 3.03)
5.03     Agreement having been reached on the above conditions, the
proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan in the equivalent amount of
US$7.0 million to the Republic of Cyprus for a term of 15 years,
including 3 years grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
J



AGRICuLTURAL KStARMH AD tlTtMSIOm PIOfIICT
Principal 1ndicaatrs oF Agricultural Sector Li
Indicator                     2 Unit            1976       1977         197o        1979        19o        10U1         1092       Total       Annual
GOP, at Current Factor Cost LI        IC million       311.7      389.9        463.7       £71.5       694.6      106.9        925.1        196.6       19.9
Qutput and Value Added at Current Prices
Gross Output at Current Prices  IC million          *4.2       92.0         91.3        109.0       124.1      141.5        162.1         92.5       11.5
Value Added
at Current Factor Cost            IC million       53.6       56.4         56.2        65.7        74.3       41.9         96.8          50.6       10i4
Share of Total GOP
at Current Factor Cost                  t          17.2       14.5         12.1         11.5       10.7        10.1         10.5        (21.93      (7.5)
Outout and Value Added at Constant 1973 Prices
Crops                                 IC '000  29,742    29,742         29,561      21,673      23,343    32,361        32,519             9.3        1.1
Livestock                             IC  00O0   6,550      3.203        8,429       1,390       1,786      9,425       10,041            17.5        2.7
Fishing                               IC  000      5686       674          701         741         174        6ss          923            57.5        7.9
Agricultural Sector                   IC 6000  40,115    40.232         39,776      41.162      43.940    43,659        44,461            10.3        1.7
Persons Gainfully Employed             NuHder  45,200    45,397         44,483      44,660      44,541    44,810        43,753            (3.2)      (0.6)
Portion of Economically Active           S          22.3       22.0         21.2        20.6        19.9       19.2          18.7        (16.1)      (2.6)
Exoorts of fruits aNd Veetables
Potatoes - current prices          IC millon        17.7       19.4          10.6       13.6        12.7        16.1         22.5         27.1        4.1
Citrus - current prices            IC million        5.1        6.f          6.7         8.8          I.2       11.0         12.7        149.0       16.4
Grapes - current prices            IC million        2.6        2.7           2.4         4.3         4.5        3.9          3.9         50.0        7.0
Vegetabl es- current prices        IC million         1.9       2.8           2.5         3.0         2.7        3.5          3.3         73.7        9.6
Total Agriculture Exports
- current prices           IC million       41.6       51.1          42.1        11.3        £1.9       62.1          -           49.3        6.3
Total Exports - current prices  IC million          65.2      109.5        103.6       127.6        141.5     193.3           -          126.9       17.6
Agricultural Exports as Percent
of Total Exports                                  43.9       46.7         40.6        40.2        34.9       32.1           -            -          -
LI   Agricultural Statistics 1932, Oepartment of Statistics, Ministry of Finance, Cyprus.
fL   Economic Report 1912 - Oepartment of Statistics, Ministry of Finance. Cyprus.



Annex 2
ACMCULTUUAL RESFADH AID EXTENStONI PJECT
Land Ut11tton 1n 1952 j
Land Use                           :lrrIgated   Ra1nfed:  Total
-ha   - - - - - - - 
A.   a                                  30.590    121,429     152.019
(I) Temorarv Crops
Cereals                   1.995     49.210      51,205
Legumes                    798       1.064       1.862
Industrial Crops           532         266         798
Fodder Crops               MS6     22.344       23.009
Vegetables              12.635           -      12.635
Subtotal            16.625     72.884       89.509
(2) Pernonent Crops
Vines                    2.926      30.324      33.250
Citrus                   S.S86           -       S5.86
Fresh Fruits             3.857         133       3.990
buts                       66S       5.0S4       S.719
Olives and Carob           931      13.034      13.965
Subtotal            13.96f     48,545       62,510
Total Area Planted  30.590    121.429      152.019
S.   EFall  Lan                     1.862     22.876      24.738
Total Arable Land   32.452    144.305      176.757
C.  Cra7inh Land                        -      3.990       3.990
D.   U-cultiv2lted Scrub and 53,        -    S3.333       S2.333
Total               32.452    241,628      234.080
jI   Agricultural Statistics 1982. Departmnt of Statistics. Ministry
of Finance. Cyprus.



CYPRUS
AiRlWULTUrAL KESEARC  ANO EXITEM51IIO  PJE1IT
Externally Finawed Aaricultural DgavenMnt Praigets
:   IriCatd Area     
:Appraisl % Actual  :               11LnIn-C    : Lf_Un.RJ
hal-------- (h)i------ -illl -------
Land Under Irriation Li                                 --      31,733                   --            --                        --          --
Paphos Irrigation Project                    4.960        5.067                   36.2          14.0                    I64D     946-CY
Pitsili  Int. Rural Dev. Project             1,000        1,467                   21.0          10.0                    IBR0    14f3-CY
Vasilikos-Pendaskinos Project                1.160        1.333                   30.1          11.0                   i25e    1651-CY
Khrysokhou Irrigation Project                2,000           --                   46.3          16.0                    IBM     2279-CY
Southern Conveyor Project Ia                 3,067           --                  182.0          27.0                    2BR0    2316-CY
Subtotal                        12,187       39.600                  315.6          76.0
Fruit and Vegetable Project                     --           --                   I2.9          14.0                    IDQ0    19UC-CY
Snaliholders Livestock ProJect                  --           --                   12.7           4.9                    IFAD     141-CY
Total                                                               ILI. I           A g aL
Li     ibout US$260.0 million earmrked for agricultural development and the reminder for domstic water supplies and rural
development.
L2     Of Wiich USS92.0 million from IBIR.
Source, Agricultural Statistics 19i1. Department of Statistics and Research. Ministry of Finance. Cyprus.
N Not Including 33,000 donel  presently under irrgbtion.



CYPRUS
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTEMSIIN PROJECT
Production of Princgnal Croas Li
Quantity and Value
1272                 197:                  1974                 1975        1:7_                            1977                  1978
Tons     IC 'ooo   Tos          I   000 ±Tons  6IC '000 ±Tons              IC '0        as       s   00     Tn         .  on      To         e'0
Cereals
Uheat          60.000         Li       4,000        176    95,000      5.444    32.000       1,894    34,000       1.989    23.000      1,472    20,000       1,360
Barley         80,000         Li       3,000         90   110,000      5.456    50.000       2.480    55,000      2,728    56,000       3,002    67,000      3,966
yertabl es
Potatoes      172,000         LI    160,000      4,992   1So,000       4,560   110,000       8,030   180.000    18.072   200,000    16,740   145,000    10.353
Carrots        16,500         1i      12.000        461    14.500        383      3,200        294     9,800        431    11.600         742     6,300        302
Tomatoes         - Li         Li     23,000       1,914    16,500      1,465    18,500       1.093    22,000      1.624    19.000       2.090    20.500      1.890
Fruit$
Grapes        165,000         Li     95,000       3,971   145,000      5.902   170.000       6,239   165.000      6.881   151,000       7.451   180.000      9,702
Oranges       144,500         Li    190.000      5,415   155,000       4,309    32.000       1.187    35,500      1.598    39,500       1,928    36,300      2,747
Lemons         36,000         Li     41.000      2.247    18,000         842    11,000         827     9,500        694    13,000         848    11.600        877
Graperruit    56,500          Li     67.000      2,600    57,000       1,830    35,000       1.320    33,000      1,267    47,000       1,394    40.000      1,644
;  Total Change LZ
1979                 1980                  1981                 1982         :_1_76 .1982L:....._...:.
:_Tns__IC_oTons  oC :000    Tons   IC 1000      Ton                  ons      IC '000    Tons        Value  :
Cereal5
Wheat          13,000      1.082      13,000      1,238    10,500      1,114    10,000       1,120        (70.6)    (43.7)
Barley         63,000      4.788     80.000      6,848    75,000       6,960    80.000       7,808         4S.5      156.2
Vegetables
Potatoes      170,000    12.648    188,000    13,292   172,000    14,998   169,000    20,821               (6.1)      15.2
Carrots         8,700        713       7.300        530     8.700        884      9.400        541         (4.11      25.5
Tomatoes       21,500      2.475      20,500     2,530    20,000       3.040    22,500       3,420          2.3      110.6
FruILs
Grapes        200,000    11,840    205,000    13,694   210,000    15,086   198,000    15,466               20.0      124.8
Oranses        35,500      2,542      32.000      2.256    40,000      2,984    42.500       3,264         19.7      104.3
Lemons         16,400      1,519      16,500      1,554    20,700      2,016    24,500       2,332        157.9     236.0
Grapefruit    46,250       2,067      47,200     2.072    50,800       2,499    55.100       2,909         67.0      129.6
Sourc::  Department of Statistics, Ministry of Finance.
ll  Figures not available.                                                                                                                                         S
1_  Comparlson made with figures for 1976 In view of distortions caused by events of 1974.                                                                         H



1tn
*lICULTURAL RESEAICH AID EXTINSION PROJECT
Production of Princloal Croas
Area and Yield
:        1912       :         1973         : 1974               :7 Isis1: _                   M916        :        *9277:               19739:
_ _ _ : *ha   t:    a       a       tons/ha      ha       ton;/ha     ha      tonsiha      ha       tonsha      ha    : tons/ha      ha       tonsfl
wheat          500267      1.00      84.281      0.05     86.956      1.09      26,756     1.96     28.763      1.18     271425      0.84      16,080     1.24
Barley         70,903      1.13      74.9)6      0.04     73,578      1.50     29,431      1.70     32.776      1.66     3t.445      1.67     232.00      2.00
AUaLAk1IS
Potatoes        9.097    16.91        8.696    18.40       7,358    20.39       6,020    18.27      86294    21.70        8.696    23.00        6,070    21.69
Carrots           602    27.41           535    22.43         535    27.10          87    36.78         381    25.72         415    27.95         160    39.38
Tomatoes                               1,667    13.00       1,400    11.79       1,067    17.24       1,173    18.76       1,020    18.63         737    27.62
Eruiu
Grapes              Li   L1          46.000      2.07     46,000      3.16      45,333     3.75      46,000     3.59     46.000      3.33      43,100     3.74
Oranges             Li    Li          8.133    23.36       5.133    19.06        1.733    18.47       1,733    20.48       1.733    22.79       1,667    21.78
Lemons             Li    Li           2,800    14.64       2.100      6.43        667    16.49         693    13.71         707    15.39        1,467     7.91             $
Grapefruit           1    L1           3.333    20.10       3,333    17.10       1,333    26.26       1.373    24.03       1B317    33.89       1,240    32.26
*        :                       ~~~~~~~~~~: I ChanaL 1 2:
: 1979                :         Isao :                                   a1980  1931  :   tons/ha avarafe    :  1976-1978
_:_ha_:       tons/ha: | ha :       tons/ha      ha      tone/ha      ha      tons/ha   1976-197a   1980-1982    1930-1982
Cereals
WSeat           11,400     1.14       9.6 01    0.74        3.667     1.21       8.400     1.19        1.09        1.05         (3.71)
Barley         14.5:.-       la       38,ktt     2.06     40e000      1.88      42,667     1.87        1.78        1.94          9.0
yedgtables
Potatoes         7,370    23.07       B.Z00    22.93        7,733    22.24      8,000    21.13       22.66        22.10         (3.3)
Carrots            211    40.47          200    36.50         213    40.35         213    44.13       31.02       40.49         30.5
Tomatoes           737    29.17          701    29.00         707    28.29         713    30.70      21.74        29.32         34.9
Fruits
Grapes         481100      4.16       34,600     5.92      34,000     6.18      33,333     5.94        3.55        6.01         69.3
Oranges          1,693    20.97        1,132    13.47       1.760    22.73       1,300    23.61       21.68       21.60          0.4
Leons            1,573    10.43        1.613    10.23       1.667    12.42       1,760    13.92       13.14       lZ.19         (6.6)
Grapefrult       1,250    36.13        1,307    36.11       1,360    37.35       1.400    39.36       30.06       37.61         25.1
Soiril: Department of Agriculture Araual Reports and Oepartmnt of Statistics, Ministry of Finance.
Ll figures not available.
L   Comarisons mde wtith figures for 1976-1978 In view of distortions caused by events of 1974.



CYPRUS
AGRICULTURAL RVEMAR('N AND EXTFNSIDN PROFCT
Exoarts of Clirus Fruits, Tabl  Grapes. fresh VeagLbles and Potatoes  Lj
Crop                                 1979        1980        1981   t   1982        1983      X Change:
-------Tans -----------------
Citrus Fruits                               68,629      76,974      78,191     89,646       93,026        35,5
Table Grapes                                16,936      16,106      12,084      13,570       9,305       (45.1)
Fresh Vegetables                             9,780       7.220       7,610       7,642       6,901       (29.4)
Potatoes                                   130,142    146,410    172.467    155,568        148,717        14.3
I-------------'''--------IC  000 ..-                ,- ,-,-I
Citrus Fruits                                6,701       8,862       6,227      11,046      12,760        90.3
Table Grapes                                 3,446       4,272       4,505       3,878       3,921        13.7
Fresh Vegetables                             2,065       2,563       2,309      2,563        3,662        76.9
LZ  (al   Economic Report 1982, Statistics Department, Ministry of Finance, Cyprus.
(b)   Export Strategy and Action Plan for Fruit and Vegetable Export Project - Laurence Gould Consultants,
May 1184.



CYPRUS
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Ltvestock Numbers and Ltvestack Production a1
*Change
1977         1979        1979        190   :    i            Ion         1983      : rotal      Annual
------------------------------Numbers '000----------------------------------
Livestock Nunbers
Cattle                                                           18.7        20.1        22.3        24.4       27.2         31.0                   65.8        10.6
Sheep and Lambs                                                2J0.0       275.0        295.0       300.0      310.0        315.0                   12.5         2.6 
Goats anid Kids                                                240.0       231.0        220.0       223.0      22n.0        228.0                   (5.0)       (1.0)
Pigs                                                           179.3        164.0       141.0       173.4      116.1        209.0                   16.6         3.1                   0'
Poul try                                                     2,000.0    2,000.0    2,200.0    2,200.2   2,200.0           2,200.0                   10.0          1.9
:_ _ 1977   ;      1978               1979       :        198D0    :       1981              1982             1 83          Tutal Chanae:X Annual Chanee:
Tons  :JC 'OOQ:  Tons  -IC 000:  Tons  *IC  000!                     lo:  Tons -IC  0000:  Tons : Valug:  Tans : Value:
Meat        278a80  16,131   30,805  15,454   32,405  21,490   32,163  23,752  34,652  28,628  39,236  33,973                                40.7   108.0       7.1    15.b
Milk        53.400   6,375   60,500   7,348   64,950   8,152   70,750   9,284  75,600  10,642  82,550  12,691                                54.6    99.1       9.1    14.6
Eggs
'000 dz    8,850   2,434    9,200   2,760    8,300   2,573    6,345   2,712   9,900   3,118   9,335   3,267                                  5.5    34.2       1.1      6.1
Others           -   1,365          -   1,660          -   1,983         -   1,969         -   2,266        -   2,144                          -      57.1      -       14.8
Total               26,505             30,222             34,198            37,717            44,644           52,076                                 96.5              14.5
Fish CptCl       -        -         -        -    1,284   1,406    1,304   1,923   1.429   2,409   1,564   2,708   2,035   3,493             58.5   148.6    12.2    25.3
L1   Agricultural Statistics 1982, Department of Statistics and Research, Ministry of Finance, Cyprus



CYPRUS
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
GDP and rGovarrmnt Soandina on Aarieultural Research and Extention
1S19    Jul    Ji]         1I 9i                    IM3S (Projection or Budget)
Gross Domestic Production
at current market prices (IC H)   642.2   770.6   886.9   1,025.2   1,114.0  LI                   1,248.0 Li
Agricultural GOP (IC M) LI            62.7    70.9    78.2         92,4       93.3 L/                105.5 LI
Total GOC Budget (.C H)              126.5   172.8   193.3        238.0      275.3                   363.4
Agricultural Budget Li                  6.1     6.8      6.9        9.5       10.5                    13.7
Of which:
- for research (IC '000) Li        609      739      878      1,076      l,215                  1,379
- for extension (IC '000) LA    653         705      783        976      1,078                  1,270
Research Expenditure
% of Agricultural GDP                   1.0      1.0     1.1         1.2        1.3                    1.3
Extension Expenditure
% of Agricultural GOP                   0.9      1.0     1.0         1.1        1.2                    1.2
Ll Crops and livestock.
LI Central Bank of Cyprus estimate.
ll Linear trend projection.
I4 Not including Forestry, Meteorological and Geological Surveys and Fisheries.



Annex 9                                                          -38-
am
-rIr.flhaal Wuq.ardi .ismis T Ft.m im,     ro.imokt
Plant ~      ~         ~         fa 1rtcto  et 12                                                   Dtttt                          Y    M
Animl Production           6    ~     Iis~n  .n    .r* -            P   ~ii.aK   rtr
Exolwlwantal Paro  t                           -                -~~~~~~~~~Ttvita
Pr@gioitlS   TCliC0 lull    PiTVgsgiDtlT    Tectvicim              PtofgsSils Tvl 'W                Pgesgngls   Tecfti
Or~i
AgrICultuMl           g                 7                                 2 1              1               -                -                1 2
Fortiulture                             a              12 3                                1               -                -                3               1
5 t1aaid *teUSa                                        13l                1                1               -                -                1               1
Ofnt  lrotector                         I              12                -                -                                                  I -  -          -
a i_l Prduet1  e3                                                        -                -                --
Ltbary trtl F                           I                                 I               -                -                -               -
rtCultual         nifciS n                                                2               2                -                -               2                2
FArntIrUty                              -               -                2                2                -               -                2               2
Olmistry Labefaftary                    1               a                 1                _               _                _                1       
Ltbrary                                 -               -                 1               -                -               -                               i s
Sub-tntal         41              7T fl            ll                7               7               22               I                7
...r_.  o  A.rleul t..r
gricaltural TrainIng   natitut                          -                2                2               _                _                2               2
Audio ViSal iMit                        -               -                1                -               -                -                I                _
HintcfllIs                             1               7                -                1               -                9                -              1 S
Cstmlltn Staff                         42              Z't               -                -               7               22                7               22
Fruuer _I                                              16 -s             _                _                                3                _               2
Ahutiustrattan                          a               s                                 -                -                                -
Econmics                                7               9                -                -                _                _                _               _
LabOratOry                              2               9                -                -               _                _                _               _
Land US.                                a              42)
watar use                               a              esi
A.rhnoer  att   glaigq 
Aermil                                U              14)
Vtticultur                            3               9)                                               37                                37 
Horticulture                          6               4)
Plant Protection                     12              241
Anaml Husbandry                      23              463
lookkeeping                           -               43
Sub-totl          2              262                3                3              44               34               47              37
O of Vmtu, ri   Services
wtartinarian                           4S               -                2                -               -                -                2               _
PC mciStS-                                              6                -                - _  _                                            - _
Lboratory Tchici Vs                     -             117                _
CeIdieiology Untt                               -       _                _                _               _                _                _
Sub-total        4S              123                2                -               - _             _                 t
mane WSiolo                             -               -                -                -               1                1                1 I
Or.anoeraphy                            2               2                -                -               I                1                l               1
Stoct Assaimfit a Ngt.                  I               2
Extension Servst ic noustry             2               2
Fish Culture                            3               3                _                _               _                _                _ 
Fishig "arbors                          1               t_ -                              -               -
mrana lEalog  bOearcn Umnt              2               2                -                -               -                -                -               -
Thcimolmv                               -               2
Ftsherl*es lnspectrate                                 11
Flai. Stats. Pros.cts. boat Craw        -               7                                                 -
Sub-total         Il             32                 -                -              2                2                2                2
Priat tLnit
Pro3ect Pe                              -               -                1                -               -                _                1 
fcommistFlinwcial Aalyst                -               -                1                -               -                -                1
Cle/Scretary                            -               _                _                                _                _ 
Nrs Zr                       ~       ~-       -                -                t               _                _                _-
Su*-total          -               -               2                2                -                -               2                2
TOTAL           Z2_             497                to              12              444                                               41
I ni' addition. tVere are 14 adiflnstrative staff.



-39-                                     Annex 10
CYPRUJS
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSImN PROJECT
Averace Yields of Selected Crops and Produce in Selected Countries. 1982
(Metric tons/Hectare)
CmD                                               C O U N T R Y
Cyprus     Israel       nail       France      Greece       U.S.A.
Cereals:
Wheat                   1.333       1.282 LI   2.705        S.232      2.905        2.396
Barley                  2.958      0.813       2.873        4.193      2.741        3.084
Veutable:
Potatoes               25.700     40.357      18.067      31.395      17.994       30.740
Carrots                38.942     51.000      38.494       29.645     24.550       32.945
Tomatoes               28.614     48.571      36.176       48.667     44.070       46.447
Cabbage                27.977     29.167      20.400       23.968     19.598       20.701
F3its:
Grapes                  6.441      14.655      8.098        9.574      8.943       18.831
Livestock:
Milk yield/
(kg/milking cow)       3.133      9.958       2.910       3.441       1.983       5.637
LI In 1981 2.760 tons/ha
Scrue: FAO Production Yearbook. Vol. 36, Rome: FA0. 1983.



CYPRUS 
Agricultural Research and Development Projeta-
Summary Cost Estimates by Project Component and Investment Category
Physical                                                                                 el
AGSICIJLIUAE                    DEPAAINIINI Of                                       £ontirIg.ncti Isa
RESEARCH      DEPARTMIENT Of   VEcIERINAR        FISHERIES   PROEC'......   ..l......                                                  .............              forin ls
IIISIIIUII     AGRICULTURE       SERVIcES        DEPARIENl    lNiMI      lotla    I  2    Aounl  Local  Foreign laoll             tocal  lor.lgi- total    Eichange          Coils
I. INVESIIIIII COStS
A. civil WORKS
1. OIFICIES AND LASORAICRIES                    299.7            694.9             793.60         43. 9             2. 028 3    S. 0    101 4   all. 3 1, 211. 0  ,26. f.3  1. 47519      212 1?   3.587 a        so        30
2. ANCittARY FACILITIES                          20.95            190.9              II.95                            19689      5 0      9 4    132.2      56. 7    138.9    740. 4    102 0     343.1           10          3
3. Sllt DEVItOPIIEWI                              Ua              150.3             125, a                            296.9      9.0     1458  .257.2       29. 7   296.90    455.9  9 4.0    939.9                10         4
Sub total CIVIL W4ORKS                              326. 1         I. 206. I           935. 1         43.9          -2. 514.1    S     0    12S. 1. 1210.5  1, 303. 3 2. 514. I  2. 201. 4. .362.  4, 971. I          92         35
B. EQUIPI4ENI
I  sciENIIUIC IECHNICAL                         125. I            146.8a           192. 6         86. I         -    ss. s    S.o0    n1          99.4   498.2   993.6    1i0. 7   905.,   1, 0056.               90          a
2. OFFICE EQUIPNENI AND FURN                     29.95             83.2             36. 2          II.?       2.       182 1    5 0       6 I    97 6    6. I   182.1          111.5    118.3    295.6             40         2
3. COMI)IPERS AND CALCULAlORS                    25. 6              7. 7            25.56          II.4       S I      is54      S. 0     36       3.8      71. 7    19.4        69    130.3       137.2           1 
4. IRACIORS AND FARM £QUIPNENI                   54. 0             50. 0                                              104.0    S. 0       52       10. 4    93 6    104.0       15.9    II0.2      189.2           s0         2 ~
5. VFHIICIES                                     49.2              53 1              II. 9          5. 2      4 I    122. I   la 0       1? 7      12 7    114. 4    I27. 1     23. I   205.0     231. 1           go        I2
Subtlotal EQUIPHINI                                 286 9            341. 4            766 3         117. 4      11. 3  I. 022.8    5.6  57%.5    179.5   843.0 1, 022. 8         327.0 1.532. ?   1.859 I            52         Is
C TRAINING
I, 511107 lUll'S                                 30.8              30.a              10 3             I.               79.4    so0        ao                29.4     79 4               144. 4     144 4          100 
2. IlLiOMSI4IPS                                 258. 3            155 0             64 6          29 A                903 7    3 0    35 2                 503 7   503.7                915.6     915 a           100         a
Sub-lotal IRAJNINO                                  789.I      1       89.s7            74 a          33. 5               S83. I    5 0    29 298.    583. I                                6        .1               0 
0  IA CONSUIIANCIIS                                  95.3             1569              165,3         19 I       31. 8    381 3    9 0       III    35. 1   343.2   381.3          69.3   623 9       693.3           90          5
Total INIVESIMENI COSIS                                990.9           1,89? 2          1.355 S         113.6       43. 1  4.SO01,4    S I   231 4 1.428 A5  ,0121.5 4,9501. 4  2. 597. A586ss  S  5, 184. 3              65B        By
II. RECUJRRENT costs
INCRLEMFNAI SIAFF                                 292 8           I, II5. 7            46 1         68.3       7s,.9  1.561 I    0. 0       00  1,9561. 7         -1,9561. 7  2,539.4             2 839. 4            -23
INCRENENIAL OFERAIING OS                           ITT1,773         212. 3            10986          31.6      20. 5    511. 3    0. 0      0. 0    421.9    153,4   611. 3      1775.0    333.4  1. 111. 5          30          9
lolsl RECIUARENI COSTS                                 430. I          1,391.0a           is9 I          99 a       95. 4  2. 113 0    0.0   0    0  1,99.        153.  2. 11.       ,1.        334290953
total SASCI INC Costs                                 1, 421.0          3.283 2          1,1.si.2        313.?7    119.4  5.5674. 4    3 5   231 4 3 4 18. 43.256.0 6.5174. 4  S.2715.? 95920.0 1?. 139 3                  49        l00
PhysIcal  onliIngo  let                               52. 3             17. 3            684           II1  I      2 4     231. 4    0, 0      00       72. 1    199.4   231. 4     131. 0    2597     420.59           69         3
Price Cant ingonctes                                 231.5 B            59, 3           204 7          49 3       2j 9  1. 052. 8    2 7    29.       6 23 7   459.1I 1. 082,5   I , 133.9 A834. 8  1, 968.71           42         Is
Total PROJECt COSIS                                   1. 169            3.949.?          1,184. 2         310 0     161.1?I7955          3  g60s5  4, 31 I374.951 7965. 6  7,450. 21 ,044.95 14,524 7                      49        120
Foreiqra Excharga                                  S.3.3            111                .1             215.5a     94. S  3,514 5    4 6    179 9
t.brua2y 19. 19515 I?:40



-41-
Annex 12
CYPRUS
Agricultural Research and Extension Project
Summa'rY Cost Estimates by Year
Totals Including Contifgoein                    Totals Including Contingwii.
C,f sWe                                       loss 'I cow
1      2       3       4      S  Total        I      2       3       4      5      Total
I. INVESTHENI COSTS
A. CIVIL lORKS
1. OFFICIES AND LABORA7RIES         309.1 1.566.?  505.9       -    - 2. 381.8   562. 1 2. 848. 6  919.      -       - 4. 330. 5
2. SICILLARY FACILITIES              23.5  144.4   54.5         -    -  222.6    43.0  262.5   99. 1         -       -   404.7
3. SITIE EVELOPHENT                  34.8  232.5   62.5         -    -  349.8    63.3  422.8  149.9           -      -   636.0
Sub-Total CIVIL HORKS                  367.5 1.943.7  542.9        -    - 2.954. 1   668. 4 3. 534. 0 1. 168. 8  -      - 5.371. 2
S. EcUFIPENT
1. SCIENITIFIC TECHIICAL            210.3  285. I  113.8   35. 8     -  645. 1   382. 4  514   207.0   65. 1         -  1. 172. 9
2. OFFICE EQUIPMENTI ANI FURt.       60.9   94.9   32.5         -    -   188.4    110.8   172.6   59.1        -      -   342.5
3. CODPPUTERS AND CALCULATORS        62.6   21.8        -       -    -   84.5    113.9   39.7         -      -       -   153.6
4. TRACTORS MD FAIR EOUIPENiT        45.8   36. 1   26.6    S.7  7. 1   122.3    13.3   65.6   48.3   12.2   13.0   222.4
5. VEHICLES                          53.0   67.8   26.1    S. 6       -   154.5    99.9  123.3   47.4   10.3         -   280. 9
Se-Fotal EQIUIPIIENT                   434.7  505.8   199.0   48 2   7. 1 1. 194. 7   790. 3  919. 6  361. 8    87.6    13.0 2. 172. 3
C. TRAINING
1. STUDY TRIPS                       II.5   18.6   19. 7   20.9  22.1   98.8    31.9   33.8   35.8   38.0   40.2   179.6
2. FELLONSHIPS                       76.0  186.3  211.8  107.5  24.0  612.5   138A2   338.6  397.8  195.4   43.6  1. 113.6
5th-Total TRAINING                      93.5  204.8  238A5   128.3 46h1   711.3   170.0  372.4  433.6  233.3   83.8  1.293.2
0. TA CONSULTMCIES                      91.1   39.2   110.3   91.8  8A5   470.9   165.7  162.1  200.5  167.0  160.9   155.2
Total INVESTHEN  COSTS                    985.9 2.743.4 1. 190.6  268.4 t41.85.331.t  1.794.4 4.988.1 2.164.7  488.0  257.7 9.692.9
31. RECURRENT COSTS
INCREIENTAL STAFF                      54.5  215.9  442.1  544.1 576.7 1.913.3    99.t  537.9  803.9  989.2 1.048.5  3.478.5
INCREMENTAL OPERATING I=J              34. 1  121:5  182.3  197.3 209. 1  744.3    62. 1  220.8  331 5  358.7  380.2  1. 353.2
Total RECURRENT COSTS                      a8E6  417.3  624.5  741.3 785.6 2.657. 5    161. 1  758.8 1. 135.4 1.347.9 1.428.?7 4.31.9
===--r= =.Z.== ::==:==- =:rr===- :==== r222===== r=rr=  2zm==rs =-===== =rX=====  ==s  =rw
Total PROJECT COSTS                      1, 075.5 3. 160.8 1. J15.1 1. 009. 7 927.6 7.988. 6  1,955.5 5. 746.9 3.300.1 1,835.8 1. 686.5 14.524.7
r===n=== I= 1985= === ====:  C.- ===            ==== 1=7:40= ======= ======= ======= Z1=-====
February 19. 1985  17:40



Aniiex 13                                      -42-
CYPRUS
AGRICULlURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
IBAD Fiscal Year
and Ouarter              Qiuarterly DziSurcement    Cusul ative Dnisbursement    Pereentag3
------------------ US$ Million ------------------
September 30. 1985                                                                     0
December 31, 1985                                                                      0
March 31, 1986                                                                         0
June 30. 1986                          0.15                                            2.1
Subtotal                            0.15                       0.15
1986/87
September 30, 1986                     0.20                      0.35                  5.0
December 31, 1986                      0.25                      0.60                  8.5
March 31, 1957                         0.30                      0.90                 12.9
June 30. 1987                          0.3                      IZ.                  17.1
Subtotal                             1.05                      1.20
1987/u8
September 30. 1987                     0.35                      1.55                 22.1
December 31. 1987                     0.35                       1.90                 27.1
March 31. 1988                         0.35                      2.25                 32.1
June 30. 1988                         0.35                      Z.60                  37.1
Subtotal                            1.40                       2.60
19U /89
September 30, 1988                    0.40                       3.00                 42.9
December 31, 1988                     0.40                       3.40                48.6
March 31. 1989                         0.40                      3.80                 54.3
June 30. 1989                         0.40                      i.                   60.0
Subtotal                            1.60                      4.20
1989/90
September 30. 1989                     0.40                      4.60                 65.7
December 31, 1989                     0.40                       5.00                 71.4
March 31. 1990                         0.40                      5.40                 77.1
June 30. 1990                        L0.40                       LiS                  82.9
Subtotal                            1.60                       5.80
1990/91
September 30. 1990                    0.30                       6.10                87.1
Decenber 31. 1990                     0.30                       6.40                91.4
March 31. 1991                        0.30                       6.70                 95.7
June 30, 1991                         0.30                      2,U.                 100.0
Subtotal                             1.20                      7.00
Closing Date:  December 31, 1991



-43-                                                         Annex 14
cs~~~i
a-~~~A-
911,1W 1,11ftwWaumles  2.0      i flUlIin  .A1         ai34G   vs.insr
"It
~mx   -v a' main   LeJ.    .L,Cs 1  OeL
lee  n  labratortol             3*349,          *j,          s.1o         -       au*.m          -         -^.
VIC1i ' facIlitie                its GP          8.24 .1        24.e        _        3.
Sito DeleMet                       ScalIitn      13.6           11                   u1.s                   -
sckitific/t633'Ical ef_irt                                     isr 151.2  151.2  -     -       131.2
OFie P g-taew  ad ofti~t   Iset                  34.1           34.         -        34.I        -
cmmute      d cat  lat           I set          2W.V            2a.         -          -        23.7        -
Tractors NW tfarm  *.aI't        3 tractr        5.e           2n.          -          - 
.                       ~~~~~~ ~~~~Iits  101t  3 .6                 
dki..Iet *. 70 am inbnf           3n       .t    2a.6             -         -    D       a
'cowmanu  Jans, n           I set          37.* 37.5                   -          -         7.5        -
vmic1as                          13 uehicles     5.3            60.3        -                   6.3         -
Ibus            5.6             -         _
F.llmiuMea  tratnw               370      tl      S.96         2A.4         -          -          -      35.4
Cansltmcis                                In      7.91         Ita&                                       I l _  .S
1a.Su-tos                                      1.1114.2       -       6115.5    234.6    474.0
Iffess * lserst.rim              S.233 up         6.19       1.049.9        -     1.11.9
bnlliary fecilitius             1.167 A         *.11          177.8        -       177.5
Si to *ve omt                    a*t3cotion   13.4             15.4         -       INA.4              -
SCIenUtificfut.etial emacU tani  varle"S        171.6          171.G        -          -       171.6
OfIge   nigture eeulmwnt          I Mt           95.6           96.6        -        96.6         -         -
Cinutv  A calcualators           1 61t            5.6            3.6        -          -         5.6
Trators £ fae ett    nt ltf 9rett                3..            57.9        -          -        57.9
9  lIu aWest.  2.4              _         _          _
9 wE licles     3.2           64.9        -          - )       54.9
I tis           1 .0            _         -           _ )         
Fel§eWhl" a training             213t6            ltths  4    224.5                                      224.c
C ltamcls                                h.       7te 0z174                 -_         _          -      17 
Soab-total                -.23S.1                             -     1.112.7      303.0    422.4
IfiCe  a laboratories            4.647 of         5.39 a'      934.6        -       934.6         -         -
_rcilliSr  facilities            -              21.7            20.7        -        26.7         _
Sit. devetl_int                  aloc tleti   149.0            149.0        - _      49.J 
Scg.mtificht.chgical eqgi_mat  warlo           22t 2.4         222.5        -          -       222.6
OffIce f.ebtaae equim_ t         I set          41.S            43.o        -        41.
C_-st>t  A calculators           I get          U.7             23.7        -          -        2t.7        -
Vehcles                          4 vehlicl        2.35S         16.2        -          -        14.2        -
Pelldamdos a trasont             182 IUNVt       S.U "91.                   -          -          -       91.I
ConSltamCs                        ?m             t2 7                                                        -7  _  _  -  926
Sub-total                                      .5S4.S         -     1.16.9       246.5    193.1
FI.4...4.. smanaee It f.t.a.4an
Ofices a laboratories            53El             S.10'         3S.1        -         1.3         -
Sci'ntificatbeica3l GaetUnt   Va11 GMt            ".5           n9.s        -          -        99.6
OffIce fhItung *mi ennt          I M1t           13-.           13.8        _        13.3         -         _
Camput       ers                 I calculltoe  1 lSt  12.7      1Z.7        -          '        12.7        _
913C3                              V wehiclel    2.6            10.2        -          -        10.2
FIloMssn  a traInitt            39  abtIm        1.92          40.1        -          -          -       "4.1
cenltawlts                         27-              42          22 1        -                             22'
Sub-tetal                                       249.7         -        S4.0      122.5      62.a
OffIce fuutltura el_lt           I set           2.2             2.3        -         2.2
Ce_tr s  calculetors             I set           5.7             5.7        -          -         *.-
VehClelS                         2 w'aItel        2.45           4.         -          _         4.9 
Ctinusu1wtles                    £m1 5                          UN 40       -          -          -         t,
Sub-total                          _-                               _      2      1s a         A
TStal  St,stt PrbOm       it                                 52U0.t         -     3.142.3    1.0l6.2   I.3  .4
omm
Offitcs * labatorlaS             1Z.7,2.2        *.39fu,    2.X21.          -     22.31.          -         -
gtailliws   facilities           1.67 e'         0.13          222.s        -       222.5         -         -
Site  uvelet                     allecatimn    34.7            349.7        -       241.7
Stlcietfic/techniucal eginot   'in     s       64r.4           643.0        -          -        t51.0
ff ice frUritie & elpmNAt    sets               156.3          143.3        -       1n.-
C     _ m  tes . calculatUrs     gts             54.4           64.4        -          _         4.4
Trgcters 4 ftar  sun mt          12 tractoss   warw            *4.3         -          -        5  
12 1t_ emt.                     -         -          _                    _
Eupwinal farm   Uihawry          sot            27.3            37.5        -          -        27.5        -
V1eclo                           22 Vehicles     3.71          S4..5                           354.5
_Om                              2                *.3             -         -          _ 
FelloMi   a trainIng             725 mfmitb    D."5            711.6        -          -          -      711.4
Cmultnci               e            -                          471          -          -           -    471 6
TOtal                                         S.320.9 a       -    3.142.3    1.066.z   1152.4
Jj Inclndin  contiiibicsS.
it Di§ffac   du  to touujig.
Y/ Diftter3ces in mutt casts    toe t  w o g  etctlrelt Uin t&W    rar. contingency factor.
S/ Include  Porc  account for Civil Iboos   0  to   wtim    of 1U3I WA Ilion.
235 * IUMA1YtIo63l Cinetitive Eldding
135 a Local Cinetttiven Sdlitn
L= a L95IS   ItVitIGlM r  iHbleC
Onrw Fsrl 1oukttps No training or of ewe swsagnomt.
Ct,ulLtmcas lI1le ISM  wlt f    gidellis.



Annex 15                                        -44-
CYPRUS
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND XTENSION PRO3ErT
Phasina of Tncremental Staff Reauirements
Project Years
1           2        3         4         s      Total
Proiect Comnonent                         P   T    P   T    P   T    P   T    P   T    P   T
Agricultural Research Institute La        3   1    6   3    2   2    -   1    -   -   11   7
Department of Agriculture -
Extension Section                       1   -   28  11   12  14    6  12    -   -   47  37
Department of Veterinary Services    2  -  -  -  -  -  ----2  -
Department of Fisheries                   1   I    1   I    -   -    -   -    -   -    2   2
Project Unit                             2   2   -   -    2   2
Total by Classification               9   4   35  15   14  16    6  13    -   -   64  48
Total all Staff                         L.   _          .n         ..         -       __112
P = Professional
T = Technical
Reallocation of MANR Staff
Proiect Component                       Year I   Year Z   Year 3   Year        Y Year S   Total
Agricultural Research Institute             -        4         3         -        -         7
Dept. of Ag. Extension Section              -       18        12         8        -        38
Dept. of Veterinary Services                5        3         7         -        -        15 LZ
Department of Fisheries                     1        1         -         -        -         2
Project Unit          2                    .Lz
Total all Staff                           .        _ZE       _22       _B_        _        hi £1
Li One professional and one technician for the machinery unit shall be provided In each
of Project Years 1 and 2.
L2 Includes 2 veterinarians at each new OVO and 1 veterinarian at each new RVC.



-45-                            Annex 16
Fage 1
CYPRUS
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Project Preparation
A-1    Project Identification Report (Volumes I and II), Ministry of
Agriculture and Natural Resources, GOC, (May 1983)
A-2    Project Identification Report (Volumes I and II), Ministry of
Agriculture and Natural Resources, GOC (October 1983)
A-3    Project Preparation Report, FAO/CP (March 1984)
B. General Documents Relating to the Proiect
B-.   Budget for 1983, Republic of Cyprus
1-2    Development Estimates for 1983, Republic of Cyprus
B-3    Central Bank Annual Report 1983, Central Bank of Cyprus
B-4    Statistics of Imports and Exports, 1983
Department of Statistics and Research, Ministry of Finance
1-5    Census of Agriculture 1977
(i)   Volume I:  a) Aggregate Data; b) Data by Administration District
c) Data by Agro-Economic Region
(ii)    Volume II: Employment in Agriculture
B-6    Department of Agriculture Annual Report, (a) 1981, (b) 1982
B-7    Agriculture Research Institute,
(i)   Annual Report 1981, 1982, 1983
(ii)    List of Publications, ARI 1962-82
B-8    Department of Veterinary Services, Annual Reports 1982, 1983
B-9    Department of Fisheries, Annual Reports 1982, 1983
B-1O   Agroeconomic Analysis Summary for Farms in Cyprus, 1982,
Papayiannis et al; ARJ 1983
B-11   Demand and Price Analysis of Livestock Products in Cyprus,
G.S. Panayiotou; ARJ 1983
B-12   Economic Report 1982, Republic of Cyprus, Department of Statistics
and Research, Ministry of Finance
B-13   Agricultural Statistics 1982,
Department of Statistics and Research, Ministry of Finance, Cyprus
B-14   Cyprus Agriculture, Facts and Figures 1960-1981
Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
B-15   Land Use in Cyprus, 1976, 'Water Development Department MANR



Annex 16                              -46-
Page 2
C. Maps
Base map showing 24 Crop-Ecology Regions, District Agriculture Offices and
Regional Agriculture Centers, MANR
Map from Census of Agriculture 1977 - Grouping of Villages into Regions.
Map showing District Veterinary Offices and Regional Veterinary Centers.
Road Map 1:250,000.  (Administrative Areas.)
Survey of Cyprus General Use Map 1:500,000 showing District Agriculture
Offices, RACs & ARI
Survey of Cyprus General Use Map 1:500,000 showing District Veterinary
Centers and RVC
Maps showing numbers of Cattle, Sheep and Goats, Pigs and Poultry (4 maps)
in Regional Veterinary Areas
Cyprus Economy in Figures 1984, Bank of Cyprus
D. Proiect File
D-1    Agricultural Research Institute
D-2    Department of Agriculture - Extension Section
D-3    Animal Production and Animal Health
D-4    Department of Fisheries
D-5    Project Unit
D-6    Civil Works Program
D-7    Detailed Project Costs



CYPRUS
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Mlnlstry of Agdculture and Natural Resources (MANR)
Present Organizaton Chart
ES1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
Land
ConsoIdaohon
Authaity
AgmctjtLral
OargnlatKon
Worl Bx* -26664



CYPRUS
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Agriculurol Research Institute
Proposed Organization Chart
legend
2  Popo&S   d Nt w Farm Machinery Unit
AH te  Borel-26trr



CYPRUS
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Dsp ment of gdcuffure
Present Orgonizatlon Chart
AecutLi                                                 rm Hfr
I  I  l                                  r ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MnI -Icltg
SECSOc                                                    s      kcno n
LOW&    m bEccrtsW   A   $
VAd68o*-266



CYPRUS
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXrENSION IROJECT
Depa4ment of AgdIucture
Proposed Organizatlon Chart
1r(co of                AconsRgs
A dul IItut      Iootr
I                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
DM rim                    
SECTKM                       >0                                   SECTIONS
* Sectisono
DISRII Ti;IUU  OFFICES
Line d Contrd
_ _ _ _ _ Une d Aswcoticn
Wodd ~ -26872



CYPRUS
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXtENSION PROJECT
Department of FIshedes
Present Organization Chart
Hoad d the
Department
FIM"  Fish   marine                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fishlno  ttitc            Rsh
Lavmaca           Limasso            Paphos
Dlshti            Distr)ct           DistrdcI
Office            Office             Ofice
Would Bonk-26668



\-~~~~~~~~~~                                          *~~~~~33*
-\ ~~~~~                TURKEY
'.^ 1 x- =    ,    .      TURKEYCYPRUS
,GR,EE ' CE;G .s7 +. c              ,_-?v '-- -AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND
r_ ? '-~   '-~  ' SYARAB                                         DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
C-ee -                                ARA,CYPRUS,r-  REPUBLIC
YPRUS    LN-. REUBLIC                                        RESEARCH INSTITUTE INF
MEDITERRANEAN  SEA
ESRAEUI §    t
UBYA                        (                       -_ SAUDI
,JARAB REP.01FEGYP'17\! 
.BYA                .           \,   .ARABI                   M editerraneon    Sea
Th7 Po gu bo prowid by The obW Ba*'s SaW .xcA  for N cwmermuu of
Ome  drs and a exZvte for A* rdan.f a of The NW * Bwud ale hubor
Auca Cavaaej The anmwIbam tiawd ad NW baSldb soes wn Dt OM do not
mg*. an me g of The Vfbvd Bu.* a,wa I   hSreNnWl Faiwe ta,prawor an i 1gn
an VW  sbta of my ftdayy oW a KOrsufluo w cepmw of such boradi.a
Pyirgos                           R      ,                    NICOSu,
Pomos                                     x                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hal~
lis                           -----                       --\
H      \-            ~         t                 t         11     yperouif  i    I               -. ' ,
%~t anYa Trikoukia;~)  ~
-.    -.                            A      ,-.---
awvkittas                  O 1a
-.x  /      ,--                                             / _              cEfta,gonia    ,
VouniKyprond
\  7---   Kelokedhar'ac  ,     C,0Vouni                   J       _               '\Skarinot
' Dit ' n;/ - '' ''M\ \ °/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h'irokitia'>
PAPHOS}                                                                                 -' ,-_=*'
Akkzelia     ~Kouklia                                    ~Zy
<,ukita_    ~ovdiouv                    h u              m4             =       ZY
- -ikx Zkak   UMASSOL
32°30'            MA4e d iterranecr ar;                             Se a
32 30I3



IBRD 18526
33130                                                 34O
_:TENSION PROJECT
- - ID AGRICULTURAL                                                                  R
3TRUCTURE
oAkanthou
/
0 Marathovouno
FAMiAGUSTA
~~~~~~~~~~~I,
Xyko torkbiaiohr                                                                       350,
EHt13    AGRICULTURAL TRAINING CENTER
_    LARNACA                                  i      AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE HEADQUARTERS
(EXPANSION OF EXISMlNGI
/   5  *  NEW DISTRICT AGRICULTURALOFFICES
/Q    EXPANSION OF EXISTING DISTRICT AGRICULTURAL OFFICES
__tos                                                          A     NEWvVURALAGRICULTURALCENTERS
0                                                                     NEW EXPERIMENTAL/DEMONSTRATION FARMS
f  .    EXiSTING EXPERIMENTAL/DEMONSTRATION FARMS
- - - AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
- AG RICULTURAL AREA BOUNDARIES
SELECTED ROADS
PRESENT CEASE-FIRE UNE
UK SOVEREIGN BASE AREAS
O         10          20 KILOMETERS
LI i I 1 I I , I i I.
OCCUPIED TERRITORIES
I  *   '       I  '   I   '  ,   I
o                 10                20 MILES
33030                                                 34e
NOVEMBER 1984



33"
CYPRUS
'GREECE'
'-GEEE'-.':  *-                   AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND-
"*SYRIANOFVII.ItI
cree                                   ARAB                                     DEPARTMENT OF VETERINAE
,- '     CYPRUS            _   EUU
LYBA-       REB                                        DEPARTMENT OF FISHERIES --
ISRAEL 
LBA (          -~ (6 ! °x^B
LIBYA                    f          ~~~~~~~~~~~SAUDI
LIBYA  j                            ~~~~~~~~~~ARABIA
IARAB REP. OF EGYPT             | I                           .         .                       ,_
Tl7s 'nA lEs bo  w urd by The IIrod .w*s saW 1xui u,s for _E cdm.we, &4
Mw Ieuds aid e erc&j,*5 hr Ne aderiul ue of The VbAd Br* ard Dew thwu
FAr   Cwparaon The durmimusod rd lw boundwes sh  an am mw do nl
wy.cnIhpwffrKt d B wf* Wkdwe ll?Fr * e Cavxfto staWAtta
anI * bbgul sd of h lmkry o arm ermiwm o wepance Of such bo* w_es
Kormakitis                               _ -     = R
-            Pyrls o /   >   _  )gos            PHOU                      NICOSIA
Pomos                            -
r~~~~~~~~~~~
A                                                AAak
Khrysohkou                                                   A  Er,kuNisouo                                                 --
Dhrousha 0           |    , _                                       ff
s   +-2 ~-            I- s                              Kyperoujnda                ?          _o
A  '            Trikouki    ki  -        - ,
* '-.    -- - - -Panayiao                                       -
*   --                               . ', /-_                        -  Agros . rPalekhori        ' ,   t \
-                                    aittaS                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ora A  '
a ,,    \                            I) ,titas     oEftagonia        A
-   - < /   - ~            .i        OVouni           x         I        / ~--- --.    kSkarinou
KelokedharaO cV0 :                                      -_          '                  i A         ,'
_APS  .N                         ----  .~ (               -:_.'°hirokitia'>
PAPHO        S        ,>X8       
Akhelia                      7              .-    -                                            /
-Kouklia                                                                          zyy
AcEvdhimu I :1ms~o1                                   --       Z
32U             M         A       S S:AOS
320308-'s                                                 33°



IBRD 18!
3330'                                                    34
JS_s
'AND EXTENSION PROJECT
.NARY SERVICES AND                                                                               Rizokarpaso
IES INFRASTRUCTURE
35
yLeonarisso
f   0Akanthou
A
0 Marathovouno
A   lassa
)       ~                  \                        .    < FAMAGUSTA
loXj}~ ~~~ AI Xyoymo
tokkino koria
_} lMosphlo.Its            \'  
LACil    EXPANSION OF VEIERINARY HEADQUARTERS
- rS /                                                                *     NEW DISTRICT VETERINARY OFFICES
A     NEW RURAL VETERINARY CENTERS
A0    EXISTING DISTRICT VETERINARY OFFICES
Mazotos                                                                A     EXSTING RURAL VETERINARY CENTERS
0
A *itia>                                                                   <it   RENOvATION OF EXISTING DISTRIC FSHERIES OFRCES AND
LABORATORIES
- --   AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
AGRICULTURAL AREA BOUNDARIES
SELECTED ROADS
PRESENT CEASE-FIRE LINE
-   UK SOVEREIGN BASE AREAS
0          10          20 KILOMETERS
Iii t    i   I       I t    
71MM110, OCCUPIED TERRITORIES
O                  10                 20 MILES
33030'                                                   340
I                                                      I
NOVEMBER






