Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFiCaAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8752
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CYPRUS
AGRICULTURE RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
(LOAN 2509-CY)
JUNE 8, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department IV
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be dislosed without World Bank authodzation.



0  OffCIAL U   ONLY
TIK WOtD SANK
Wasdngton. D.C 20433
US A.
OIke el O"w4wGewti
June 8, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECTs Project Completion Report on Cyprus - Agricultural
Research and Extension Proiect (Loan 2509-CY)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Cyprus - Agricultural Research and Extension Project
(Loan 2509-CY))", prepared by the Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office. No audit of this project has been made by the Operations
Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
Thi document has a utrtedditributin nW may be used by recp_ts ony i the Oe anae
of ter o*a dutul Its ontents may ot othwe be dicksed witbout Wodd Bak authwoidion.



FOR OFCUL US ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPOGT
CYPRUS
AGRICULTURE RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
LOAN 2509-CY)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pate No.
PREFACE                                         i
EVALUATION SUMMARY                            Li
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT                       1
ANNEX: COMMENTS FROM THE BORROWER               5
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the peormamce
of their official duties Its contents may not othenwise be disclsed without Wodd Bank authotiation.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CYPRUS
AGRICULTURE RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
LOAN 2509-CY)
PREFACE
1-.         This is the abbreviated Project Completion Report (PCR) for the
Agricultural Research and Extension Project in Cyprus, for which Loan 2509-CY
in the amount of US$7.0 million was approved on March 28, 1985. The loan was
cancelled in two tranches, with the final cancellation occurring on December 11,
1989, without any disbursement having been made.
2.          The PCR was prepared by the Agriculture Operations Division of the
Europe, Middle East, and North Africa Region.
3.          Preparation of the PCR was undertaken following final cancellation
of the loan and is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan
Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower,
and internal Bank memoranda. Comments received from the Borrower on the draft
PCR, reproduced in the Annex, have been incorporated as appropriate.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CYPRUS
AGRICULTURE RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
LOAN 2502-CY)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.   The project was aimed at raising food production to meet growing domestic
demand and expand exports by strengthening research and extension support
services to complement investments in irrigation and rural development.
2.          Implementation of the project was substantially delayed, initially
because of difficulties in meeting the conditions for effectiveness of the loan
and subsequently by the budget crunch which reduced staff and monetary resources
available to the project. The latter led, in 1987, to a reduction in the scope
and content of the project and cancellation of $2.8 million of the $7 million
loan, and full implementation of the revised project did not begin until the
second half of 1988.  (Signing was in April 1985 and effectiveness in March
1986.) However, principal repayments were due to begin in December 1988 (three
years prior to the original closing date of December 1991), reducing to a minimum
the availability of any subsequent disbursements. Therefore, the Government
eventually requested in December 1989 that the remaining $4.2 million of the loan
be cancelled, without having withdrawn any funds. The Government indicated that
it recognized the importance of the project and would proceed with
implementation, utilizing its own funds. However, it remains to be seen whether
the Government allocates sufficient staff and other resources to the project to
enable it to be implemented successfully.1
3.          It seems that the Government's commitment to the project has been
somewhat shallow from the beginning, and the Bank should ensure that adequate
commitment exists for future projects. Furthermore, the Bank should ensure that
the project design and loan terms are in accord.
The recent letter from the Planning Bureau (reproduced in the Annex)
indicates that expenditures for *a revised project* have been authorized for
the period 1990-1992 and that agreement has been reached on additional staff to
be provided.



CYPRUS
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
(LOAN 2509-CY)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
1.          The Government eventually decided not to utilize Bank financing for
this project, and the entire remaining amount of the loan was cancelled at the
end of 1989, without any disbursement having been made. This decision resulted
from the delays in project implementation, combined with the discrepancy between
the implementation period and the terms of the loan. By the time the project
was well underway, initial principal repayment dates had passed, and withdrawals
would have been repaid almost immediately. Therefore the Government requested
full cancellation.
Proiect Identity
Name              : Agricultural Research and Extension Project
Loan Number       : 2509-CY
RVP Unit          : EMA Region
Country           : Cyprus
Sector            : Agriculture
Background
2.          The Government requested Bank assistance  in strengthening the
research and extension services of the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural
Resources (MANR) to complement increased investments in irrigation and rural
development in raising food production for consumption by inhabitants and the
growing tourist population, expanding exports of fresh fruits and vegetables,
and substituting for food imports. Preparation of the project was initiated by
MANR in early 1983 and completed with assistance of the FAO/IBRD Cooperative
Programme in March 1984. Appraisal was undertaken in July 1984.
Obiectives and Description
3.          Objectives. The project was aimed at raising food production to meet
growing domestic demand and expand exports, particularly to the EEC, by
strengthening research and extension support services to complement investments
in irrigation and rural development. This objective would be accomplished by
improving technology for crop, livestock, and fish production and enhancing the
system for delivering this technology to farmers and fishermen.
4.          Desgription.  The project consisted of the following components.
(a)  An Agricultural Research and Extension Council (AREC) was to be
established to formulate policy and coordinate the efforts of agencies
undertaking crop, veterinary, and fisheries research and extension.



A project unit would be introduced to serve as secretariat to AREC and
oversee implementation of the project.
(b)  The capacity of the Agricultural Rese.r'b T Atltmte (ARI) ".ould be
expanded through the provision of additional staff, training, technical
assistance, offices and laboratories, and technical and computing
equipment.
(c) The role of the Department of Agriculture's (DOA's) extensio.. service
would be broadened and its organization restructured. Its .spability would
be strengthened through the provision of additional staff, technical
assistance, new offices and rural agricultural centers, vehicles, technical
and computing equipment, and a new training institute.
(d)  The activities of the Department of Veterinary Services would be
enhanced through the upgrading of diagnostic facilities, establishment of
new district facilities, and the provision of vehicles and equipment.
(e)  The capacity of the Department of Fisheries to assess fisheries
resources and develop improved fishing methodology would be increased
through the expansion of offices and storage facilities, establishment of
new research facilities, and provision of additional equipment.
Imnlementatior
5.          Implementation of the project was substantially delayed, initially
because of difficulties in meeting the conditions for effectiveness of the loan
and subsequently by the budget crunch which reduced staff and financial
allocations available to the project. The delays and the decisions on resource
allocation may have reflected differences of view between MANR and the Ministry
of Finance (MOF) concerning the scope and staffing of the project.  Frequent
personnel changes in MANR, particularly in DOA, probably contributed to the
delays, as well.
6.          The loan did not become effective until almost a year from signing,
as a result of delays in preparation of plans and specifications for buildings,
and restructuring of the extension service. Then the budget crunch, involving
restrictions on civil service employment, led to proposals for reducing the size
of the project. There was also a greater recognition on the part of MANR that
some positions required for the project could be filled through redeployment of
existing staff. The features of a smaller project, involving reduced staffing,
construction, and equipment requirements, and excluding the veterinary and
fisheries components, were agreed at the end of 1987.  In the first half of
1988, changes in the legal documents were introduced, and $2.8 million of the
loan was cancelled. A new preject manager was appointed in the fall of 1988,
and substantive implementation of the project was initiated.
7.          At the time of the last supervision in June  1989,  AREC was
functioning and progress had been achieved on staffing, training, construction,
and equipment procurement programs, although difficulties were being encountered
in obtaining Parliamentary approval for the second round of staffing, and the



- 3 -
construction program for DOA was interrupted by a Government decision on
consolidation of district offices. Officials were uncertain about the use of
Bank financing for the project but maintained that the Government would proceed
to implement the project with itc own fitrn1q  even if the BanLk leap. were
cancelled.   This intention to continue implementation was reiterated in the
Government's request to cancel the loan at the end of 1989, and the recent letter
from the Planning Bureau (reproduced in the Annex) indicates that expenditures
for "a revised project" have been authorized for the period 1990-1992 and that
agreement has been reached on additional staff to be provided.
Prospects and Lessons
8.          The extent to which the project is implemented without Bank funding
remains to be seen. The recent letter from the Planning Bureau does not indicate
how the project as revised by the Government compares with the project which was
to be supported with Bank financing or how it compares with the research and
extension requirements. Certainly the new officials in DOA in particular, and
X4ANR in genieral, will need Lo continue to exert themselves in ensuring that the
needs of the sector are given due attention in the councils of Government.
9.          One lesson gained from this experience would seem to be the
importance of assessing the views of different agencies involved and adjusting
the project during the course of implementation as the balance of views changes.
While agriculture may be less effective in securing resources than other sectors,
the Government's mode of operation by consensus would suggest that the Bank would
wish to be reasonably certain that future projects have a broad base of support.
Secondly, the design of a project should give adequate consideration to the terms
of the loan. While the problem of principal repayments was aggravated by the
delay in implementation, the original closing date of December 1991 was some
three years after the initiai principal repayment date of December 1988.



- 5 -
CO10ENTS FROM THE BORROWER
CYPRUS           REPUBLIC         ANNX 1
Page I of 6
P.. 89/83/6                           CENTRAL PLANNING COMMISMION
PLANNING BUREAU
NICXSMI CYPRtS
2nd April 1990
Mr. Graham Donaldson,
Chief,
Agriculture, Infrastructure and
Human Resources Division,
Operations Evaluations Department,
The World Bank,
1818 H. Street N.W.,
Washington, D.C., 20433,
U.S.A.
Dear Mr. Donaldson,
Re: Cyprus: Agricultural Research and Extension Project
Project Completion Report (Loan 2509-CY)
I would like to refer to your letter of the 21st March 1990
on the above subject and to provide you with our comments as
requested.
1. With reference to paragraph 2 of the "Evaluation Sunmary*, on
the 8th November 1989, the Council of Ministers approved the
implementation of a revised project to be financed from the
Government's own resources (Decision No. 32,591). The above
decision authorizes additional expenditure of C£792,700 over
the period 1990, 1991 and 1992 to be spent on buildings,
equipment, scholarships and consultants for the Agricultural
Research Institute and the Department of Agriculture of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources. Agreement has
also been reached on the number of additional personnel posts
to be provided to the above two Services.
2. In the *preface* it is mentioned that the report provided to
the Government is an "abbreviated project Completion Report".
If  a  complete  PCR  is  available,  the  Government   would
appreciate being furnished with a copy.
3. In the past the World Bank has proceeded to prepare a Project
Completion Report after the Government has submitted its own
PCR according to World Bank guidelines. Since this procedure
has obvious advantages, and would allow the World Bank to be
fully informed on the Government's intentions with respect to
Tdob No.: 4521 PLANBUR CY. Tddb No.: 366610



6-
AMNEX 1
Page 2 of 6
the implementation of the various project components, we
suggest that a final PCR should only be prepared after the
Government submits its own completion rapUXt.
With best regards.
Sincerely,
for Director General,
Planning Bureau.
Czpy to: Director General, Ministry of Finance,
Director General, Ministry of Agriculture
and Natural Resources*



-7-
ANNFX I
IUBL1C                            of 6
REPUBLIC        IOF C7YPIRUS
M.F. 650/83/12
MINISTRY CP .NAIN-F
NICOSIA- CYPRUS
24tlh May 199U
Mr. Graham Donaldson,
Chief,
Agriculture, Infrastructure and Human
Resources Division,
Operations Evaluation Department,
World Bank.
Dear Mr. Donaldson,
CYPRUS: Agricultural Research and Extension
Projeot (Loan 2509-CY).
Project Completion Report.
I  wish  to refer to your letter dated 21st Marclh 1990
on the above subject and to comment as follows on the  contents
of the relevant Project Completion Report dated 9th March 1990.
Please note that the following comments also reflect the  views
of  the  Ministry  of Agriculture and Natural Resources and the
Planning Bureau.
Since the cancellation  of  the  World  Bank  loan  in
X to       December  1989  amounting  to  $4.2 million (Loan 2509-CY), the
$4 >       Government of the Republic of Cyprus  has  proceeded  with  the
* .~     implementation  of the revised Agricultural Research and Exteni-
sion Project, in e cordance with the decision of the council of
Ministers   no.  32.591  dated  8.11,R,   With  this  Decision
gexpeiditure amounting to cE850,000 approx. has been  authorized
ovrer  the period 1990-1952 to be spentc on buildings, eqaipment,
scholarships, computerization, establislment of a farm,  furni-
4i +ture  and  consultants  for the Agricultural Research Institute
; 0        (ARI) and for the Department of  Agriculture  (DoA).  Agreement
*  s       has  also  been  reached  on the niumber of additional persounnel
posts to be provided for the above two Departments.
X @                The Development Budget for 1990 alone includAs a  pro-
visiou  of Cr280,000 for the above Project (i.e. for buildings,._
scientific and other equipment,  furniiture  and  office  equip-
nment, etc.). This amount does not include expenditure on addi-
tiona.l personnel, training and computers provided for in the
Project because these are covered by provisions in otlher head-
ings of both the Development and the Ordinary Budgets for 1990.
It should also be pointed out that the Ministry of
Agriculture and Natural Resources is willing to submit to the



8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
;~~*8                          *AIlII
Pas 4 of :6
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_4 .  .6
World Bank, if. requested, annual reports on the progreas  of thle
Project. Attache4 please find one suclh report giving an up-to-
date account of the progress achievad so far (1.1,99-30.4.90),
prepared by the MAnager of the Agricultural Research and Exten-
&-iou     jt     u  in  the  ainiszry  ot  Agriculture  and  Natural
Rasources.
With reference to your statement in par&. 9 of the
Report that "agriculture may be a neglected sector anid less
able than others to secure the resources that it needs#, we
would like to point out that despite agriculture's low relative
contribution to GDP, the agricultural sector receives particu-
lar attention by the Governmenit, Between 1S85 and 1988 Govern-
ment investments in agriculture constituted on average 25% of
total Governmenit development expenditures.
Finally, it should be stressed that we fully agree
with your conclusion that the Bank slould carefully assess and
take account of the views of different agencies involved in tha
execution of a project anid It should adjust, if necessary, the
project during the course of its implementation as well as the
terms of the relevant Bank loans.
You are kiidly requested to incorporate the above
views in the final copy of the Project Completion Report which
is to be distributed to the Bank's Executtve Directors soon.
tlhanking you for your kind cooperation in this matter,
Yours sincerely,
( M. A. Erotokri tos )
Director-General
Ministry of Finance.
VN/EI



9    ~ ~ ~~*ANN!xI
Pa9e 5 of 6
Agricultural Research and Extension Project
Progress Report (1.1.89 - 30.4.90)
-                  - .-
1. Zntroduction
This  is  the  second progress report for the Agricul-
tural Research aid Extension Project (Loan No. 2509-CY).
The amended Loan Agreement with the World  Bank  dated
10th December 1987 by which the loan had been reduced to $4.2
million, was eventually cancelled following a relevant decision
of  the council of Ministers of the Republic of Cyprus takeni on
8th November 1989 (Decision No. 32.591). With1 this decision the
Government  of  Cyprus also decided to continue the implementa-
tion of the project with  Government  financing  froni  its  own
resources.
The implementation period of the project is five years
i.e. 1988-1992 with the  clear  understanding  that  a  further
extension of one year may be naeded.
The above decision authorized additional expenditure
of about Ct850,O00 over the period 1990, 1991 and 1992 to be
spent  on  buildiugs,  scientific and other equipment, scholar-
ships,  consulta;ts,  computerization,   establishment   of   a
governiment farm, !urniture, office equipment and so on.
ii. Progress durin~g the period under Review (1.1.89-30.4.90-)
= AREC
The   Agricultural   Research  and  Extension  oouncil
(AREC), which is chaired by the Director-General of the hinistry
of Agriculture and Natural Resources, has the responsibility of
setting nationial agricultural research and extension  policies,
strategies and priorities.
AREC has met two times for the period under review and
four times since the starting  of  the  implementation  of  the
project.
- Recruitment of Personnel
All procedures were completed in order to recruit the
nine Agricultural officers (six for the Dept. of Agriculture
and three for the Agricultural Research Institute) and finally
the nine Agricultural Officers were appointed and kresumed
duties.
- BuJildings
The tenders for the buildings of the A.R.I. have been
approved and the awards were made.



- 10) -        . .       P"- 6 1..
The documents have been  signed  ity  the  Miuister  of
CommuniLcations  andl workis. The total cost of the buildings is
C£356,000. This amount do.s not include modifications  on  the
existing buildings' br any other external work.
Works  started  early  in  1989  and they are now well
advanced.
.,f Laboratory instruments and other Equippent
Bids weie invited and consequently evaluated.   Awards
of bids were made to successful bidders by the Main Tender
Doard of the Republic of Cyprus,
All items for the 1988 and 1989 bids were delivered
to the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources.
The total value of the 1989 bids awards is CC65,000.
The bidding documents for the supply of Laboratory
instruments and other equipment for 1990 have been prepared.
The expected value of the items is around CE64,000.
- Computers
Ccmputers  and other necessary equipment valued around
£40,000 were bought and installed at the Ministry of Agricul-
ture and Natural Resources and the Departments of Agriculture
and A.R.I.
- Trinn  and Teclhnical Assistance
Various Officers from the Dept. of Agriculture and the
A.R.I. were  awarded long term and short-term scholarships and
attended or are attending various post-graduate courses abroad
Also some other officers participated in study tours.
_________________
MINISTRY OF AGRIcuLTURs
ANI NATURAL RESOURCES
May 1990
lHAI



