Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFMFCIAL USE ONLY
RePort No. P-3967-t
d                                    REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USt7.O MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
March 4, 1985
This dmemo has a nriest  d disrbtibf  and may be used byr wipint s ony inte perfwme of
ther officbd duties Its  wents may uM oterwW be disclosd witbou World EBnk sutborbadon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1983              October 1984
Currency Unit              Cyprus Pounds (CE)                 CE
US$1                           CE 0.55                        0.62
CE 1                           US$1.8                         1.6
Exchange rate used in the Appraisal Report CE1=US$1.82
Fiscal Year = Calendar Year
ABBREVIATIONS
ARI   - Agricultural Research Institute
AREC  - Agricultural Research and Extension Council
ATI   - Agricultural Training Institute
DOA   - Department of Agriculture
DOF   - Department of Fisheries
DVS   - Department of Veterinary Services
ES    - Extension Section
GDP   - Gross Domestic Product
LCB   - Local Competitive Bidding
LIB   - Limited International Bidding
MANR  - Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
MCW   - Ministry of Communicat-' ns and Works
PU    - Project Unit
VAT   - Value-added Tax



REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS        FOR OMCL4L USE ONLY
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCE AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:      The Republic of Cyprus.
Amount:        US$7.0 million equivalent
Terms:         Fifteen years, including three years grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Project
Description: The project aims primarily to strengthen and improve
coordination among the institutions involved in research
and extension services within the Ministry of Agriculture
and Natural Resources (MANR) in order to support the
substantial investments Cyprus has made in irrigation, and
rural and water resource development and thereby increase
production of food and expand exports of fresh fruits and
vegetables. The project provides for the establishment of
an Agricultural Research and Extension Council to
formulate national policies and priorities for research
and extension and an appropriate committee(s) to develop
and supervise resultant programs. Furthermore, the
Eqtension Section of the Department of Agriculture will
also be given a clearer role to coordinate national
extension programs. To ensure the effectiveness of this
organizational framework, the project will provide
assistance to modernize equipment, increase professional
and technical staff numbers, establish an agricultural
training institute and create opportunities for the
professional staff to obtain post-graduate specialized
training abroad. Research facilities will be expanded,
four additional research/demonstration farms will be
established, and extension services will be provided with
well-equipped accommodation. The project will benefit
some 44,500 farm families and around 900 families involved
in the fishing industry. Project risks are minimal and
confined to the ability of the extension service to
contact farmers and to impart appropriate technological
advances. However, measures included in the project to
intensify the availability of extension services are
expected to minimize these potential risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance I
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Prolect Costa:
Local    Foreign    Total
- (US million)
Agricultural Research Institute               1.0        1.6       2.6
Department of Agriculture                     3.7        2.3       6.0
Department of Veterinary Services             1.1        1.6       2.7
Fisheries Department                          0.3        0.3       0.6
Project Unit                                  0.2        0.1       0.3
Base Cost                                   6.3        5.9      12.2
Physical Contingencies                        0.1        0.3       0.4
Price Contingencies                           1.1        0.8       1.9
Total 1/                                    LI        7a Qii.
Financing Plan
Local    Foreign    Total
(uS$ million)-
IBRD                                           -         7.0       7,0
Government                                    7.5         -        7.5
Total                                       7 5       2           &5
Estimated Disbursements
Bank FY         FY86      FY87       FY88      FY89       FY90     FY91
-(USS million)-
Annual               0.2        1.0       1.4        1.6       1.6       1.2
Cumulative           0.2        1.2       2.6       4.2        5.8       7.0
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 5361-CY, dated February 21, 1985
&ps: Nos. IBRD 18510 and 18526
I/ Exclusive of taxes and duties from which public projects are exempt.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS FOR AN AGRIrULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Cyprus for the equivalent of $7.0 million to help
finance an Agricultural Research and Extension Project. The loan will have
a term of fifteen years, including three years of grace at the standard
variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMYL'
2.       The last economic report on Cyprus (No. 5010-CY) was circulated to
the Executive Directors in July 1984. An economic mission visited Cyprus
in November 1984; its findings are reflected in this part. Although the
political situation has been complicated somewhat by the unilateral
declaration of independence by the Turkish-Cypriot Administration on
November 15, 1983, it has not materially altered the economic realities
that have existed since the de facto partition of the island following the
events of 197;&. In view of the prevailing political situation, it has not
been possible to assess fully the economic situation and prospects of the
whole island. Hence the analysis provided in this and other parts of this
report relates only to the Governmenit-controlled part in southern Cyprus.
The Basic Country Data is provided in Annex 1.
General Background
3.       Cyprus has a long history of good economic performance
characterized by high growth, low unemployment, price stability and
external balance. This good performance has continued in the southern part
of the island, which remains under the Government's control, after the
events of 1974. The economy recovered rapidly from a severe recession
created by the post-1974 dislocations when one-third of the labor force was
unemployed, and full employment was again achieved by the end of 1978.
Rapid economic recovery is attributable to appropriate and timely
Government policies and strong positive response by the private sector. In
particular, when private domestic demand was severely depressed in the
immediate aftermath of 1974, expansionary budget policy and a major export
drive played a key role in reactivating the economy. Although rapid growth
put considerable pressures on prices and the balance of payments, inflation
rate was modest by international standards and the balance of payments
deficit remained manageable.
1/ Substantially the same as Part I of the President's Report (P-3777-CY,
dated April 16, 1984) for the Limassol Sewerage and Drainage Project,
which was approved by the Executive Directors on May 8, 1984.



-2-
Recent Developments and Short-term Outlook
4.       Growth of gross domestic product (GDP) averaged about 3.7 percent
annually during 1981-83, compared to an average of over 6.6 percent during
1978-80. Thi slowdown was due partly to full capacity in selected sectors
and to the recent wor--. economic recession, which adversely affected some
export markets.  The latter caused unemployment to rise somewhat from 2.1
percent Ln 1980 to about 3.2 percent at *nd-1983. Reflecting declining
inflation in Cyprus' main trading partners and lower domestic wage demand
due to easing full employment pressure, inflation as measured by the
consumer price index drastically declined from 13 percent in 1980 to 5.4
percent in 1983.
5.       The Government's expansionary fiscal policies, which %ere
instrumental in economic reactlvation, have proven difficult to curb, even
though their economic justification has long ceased. As a result,
budgetary deficits increased from $114 million (8.1 percent of GDP) in 1980
to $171 million (8.3 percent of GDP) in 1983. They have been financed
mainly by external and domestic borrowing; grants from Greece covered about
15 percent of the deficits over the past three years. The Government is
aware that the current unsatisfactory public finance situation is a result
of both expenditure and revenue problems and has attempted to tackle it
from both aspects. Its attempts to curb the growth in expenditures,
however, have not been successful for two main reasons: (i) civil
servants' salaries have long been indexed to inflation and attempts to do
away with full indexation have met strong resistance from labor unions; and
(ii) similarly, proposals to reduce subsidies for grain production and
imported animal feed have not been accepted by Parliament. The Government,
therefore, has been focusing its attention on raising revenues, which have
been relatively low by international standards; tax collection in Cyprus,
including social security contributionsg, averaged less than 19 percent of
GDP in 1982-83. Some selected tax measures have already been enacted in
the past few fmonths. A proposal to adopt a value-added tax (VAT) is now
before Parliament; adoption of a VAT would be a most significant step
toward reducing the chronic budget deficits.
6.       With continued growth in public sector deficits and strong private
sector demand, imports continued to expand rapidly. Due to recession among
a number of Cyprus' major trading partners and strong competition in export
markets, exports of goods declined by about 3 percent in 1983. Although
exports of services, especially tourism, continued to expand, the surplus
in the services account was not sufficient to cover the deterioration of
the trade account. As a result, the current account deficit in the balance
of payments increased further to about $201 million (9.7 percent of GDP) in
1983 from $135 million (8.0 percent of GDP) in 1981. These deficits have
been more than covered by continued large capital inflows both from private
investment and by public borrowings. Ae a result, both international
reserves and external debt have been rising. At the end of 1983, foreign
exchange reserves stood at $625 million (5 months of imports), a healthy
growth from $407 million (4.3 months of imports) in 1981. At the same
time, external debt has risen from $424 million (25 percent of GDP) in 1981
to $694 million (33 percent of GDP) in 1983. The debt service ratio,
however, remained relatively low at less than 12 percent in 1983.



-3-
7.       Preliminary data show that the public finance situation and the
balance of payments have further deteriorated in 1984 despite increased tax
revenues resulting from adoption of new tax measures mentioned in para. 5.
The budget deficit is likely to be larger than in 1983 necessitating
additional borrowings, both internally and externally. As regards the
external account, goods exports have recovered from a bad year in 1983.
This is accompanied by continued rapid growth in exports of services.
Imports have also continued to grow, but mainly due to a one-time
*        importation of aircraft by Cyprus Airways.  As a result, another large
current account deficit is forecast for 1984.
Medium-Term Prospects
8.       The Government has launched the Fourth Emergency Economic Action
Plan (1982-1986), which calls for a GDP growth rate of about 4.0 percent
per year. This is based on a continuing shift in development strategy
toward medium-scale, higher technology, more capital-intensive investments;
consolidation of small factories into larger units, to realize economies of
scale; and export and tourism as the major engines of growth. In addition,
increased emphasis is put on the promotion of international services, e.g.
off-shore banking, consultancy and professional services, to cater to
Middle Eastern and North African countries.                                 4a
9.       The strategy of promoting investment in, and export of, higher
quality products and services is appropriate. The Plan's target of a
4 percent GDP growth is within the country's potential and the investment
program is sound. Indicators for the first half of the Plan period show
that growth target is being achieved. Sustaining growth and stability to
the end of this Plan period and beyond, however, depends on adequate
policies to reduce budget deficits and generate some public savings and to
increase private manufacturing investment.
10.      Since considerable efforts have been made to increase government
revenues, the Government needs to maintain this momentum by: (i) closing
tax loopholes; (ii) strengthening tax administration and auditing
procedures; (iii) raising penalties for tax evasion; and (iv) implementing
a value-added tax. These measures should be complemented by a slow-down in
the growth of current expenditures, particularly of civil servants'
salaries, and reduction of subsidies for grain production and imported
animal feed. The declining trend in wage increases is a favorable factor
for private manufacturing investment. However, to promote such investment
Cyprus needs also to: systematically gather and disseminate technological
information; establish contacts with foreign firms and promote joint
ventures; explore the availability of licenses, technical know-how
agreements and marketing arrangements; arrange projects for finance and
implementation; and provide extension services.
11.      Cyprus will continue to need an increasing inflow of foreign
capital to help finance the necessary restructuring of its economy.
However, since access to long-term concessionary bilateral and multilateral
support is expected to become increasingly limited, most future public
external borrowing will have to come from commercial sources, either in the
form of export or suppliers' credit, or commercial bank loans. In spite of



- 4 -
continuing political uncertainties, Cyprus' recent experience in mobilizing
external financing from such sources has been encouraging. It successfully
raised eurodollar borrowings of $30 million in late 1977, $50 million in
1978, $48 million in July 1980, $85 million in September 198. and
$70 million in July 1982. The country has also begun to attract
significant export and suppliers' credits. These forms of external
borrowing are indicative of the probable future trend.
12.      The Bank's efforts to date have been directed towards encouraging
Cyprus not only to diversify its sources of official aid, but also to use
Bank projects as catalysts to attract other external support, including
cofinancing with commercial banks. Commercial bank cofinancing was
arranged in 1980 in connection with the Third Cyprus Development Bank
Project (Loan 1744-CY); substantial suppl_ers' credit and a eurocurrency
loan for the Power Transmission and Distribution Project (Loan 1873-CY) in
1980; a loan from the Kuwait Fund for the Third Highway Project (Loan
2128-CY) in 1982; a loan from the European Investment Bank for the
Vasilikos-Pendaskinos Project (Loan 1658-CY) in 1982; and loans from the
Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development and the European Investment Bank
for the Southern Conveyor Project (Loan 2386-CY) in 1984.
13.      Cyprus' external debt has so far remained relatively low, because
of the past policy of financing development from internal resources and the
availability of substantial levels of grant aid from Greece and the United
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. (ranging from $36 million to $59
million per year since 1974), as well as the continuing high inflow of
private capital by Cypriots settled abroad. Total long-term public debt
outstanding and disbursed was $651 million as of December 31, 1983
(31.4 percent of GDP). Public debt service was about 11 percent of goods
and non-factor services in 1983. However, given the increasing reliance on
commercial financing, debt service is projected to reach 15 percent of
exports of goods and non-factor services by 1986, a ceiling set by the
Government for the Fourth Plan (1982-80). The Bank's share of debt
outstanding and disbursed declined from 51 percent in 1975 to about
11 percent at the end of 1983, while its share in debt service declined
from 47 percent in 1975 to less than 12 percent in 1982. Thus, the Bank's
exposure, once quite high, has now declined to a more normal level and is
expected to continue to decline further. Given this background and the
Government's record of economic management, the country continues to be
creditworthy for Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CYPRUS'
14.      Bank lending to Cyprus began in 1963.  As of September 30, 1984,
24 loans totalling $232.1 million (net of cancellations) were made; of
this, about $181.7 million was held by the Bank. The main areas of
1/ Substantially the same as Part II of the President's Report (P-3777-CY,
dated April 16, 1984) for the Limassol Sewerage and Drainage Project,
which was approved by the Executive Directors on May 8, 1984.



concentration have been infrastructure (power, sewerage, highways and
ports), industry through the Cyprus Development Bank, agriculture and water
resource development. A summary statemenit of Bank loans to Cyprus as of
September 30, 1984 is provided in Annex II.
15.      The events of 1974 had a substantial impact on some of the
on-going Bank-financed projects, as well as on planned operations. In
particular, the sewerage project in Famagusta, which lay entirely in the
*        area controlled by the Turkish Cypriots, and the Nicosia-Morphou highway,
the alignment of which coincided, with the cease-fire line, were affected.
The Famagusta Sewerage Project was 90 percent complete when construction
was interrupted and could not be commissioned in the absence of a political
settlement. The undisbursed balance of the loan, therefore, was
cancelled. Construction of the Nicosia-Mornhou highway was suspended after
only one month of work and the unutilized balance of about $3.6 million
transferred to the Second Highway Project. The Nicosia Sewerage Project,
which straddled the Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot areas of Nicosia, was
also incomplete. However, as a result of the initiative of the UNDP and
the Bank, cooperation between the two communities on this matter was
engendered and a formal agreement to complete the project reached in
September 1978. The project was completed in 1980 and continues to benefit
both communities. As regards planned operations, a number of projects
under study, or contemplated, before 1974, which were intended to benefit
directly both communities, could not be pursued because of the de facto
division of the island. The Bank, together with UNDP, continues to explore
areas where cooperation appears possible, although substantial progress may
have to await a political settlement.
16.      Disbursement performance with regard to Bank operations in Cyprus
is generally satisfactory and compares favorably with experience
elsewhere. The only loan on which disbursements are significantly slower
than anticipated is the Fruit and Vegetable Export Project (Loan 1988-CY).
This is mainly due to delays in the appointment of a marketing consultant
and difficulties experienced by the Government in formulating improved
marketing arrangemeuts agreeable to the private sector exporters of fruit
and vegetables (para. 39).
17.      The Bank continues to support activities leading to h;gher
productivity and exports and providing essential infrastructure justifiable
in the context of the whole island. Within this overall context, Bank
lending has made a substantial contribution towa;ds assisting Cyprus to
recover from the 1974 events, especially in acting as a catalyst to
mobilize external sources of long-term financing. The Government
recognizes that given the relatively high per capita income in Cyprus, Bank
lending has continued so far because of the special circumstances
prevailing in the country, and can be expected to taper off gradually in
the medium-term. Bank lending is expected, therefore, to focus
increasingly on critical projects of a complex and innovative nature that
aim at removing major sectoral constraints. These have included such
projects as the FY84 Southern Conveyor Project for Water Resources
Development, which will integrate and transfer scarce water resources
between different basins in the country. The proposed project would
promote future agricultural development by helping to put in place



needed research and extension facilities. Future projects would include
the second phase of the Southern Conveyor Water Resources Development
Project, a project to promote investment in higher technology manufacturing
that would be the first of its kind in Cyprus, and projects in the
transport and water supply/sewerage sectors that would build and expand
upon previous Bank work.
18.      IFC's first investment in Cyprus was in a cement company in 1972.
The company has since become a leader in the country's successful export
drive. IFC has also invested in an asbestos cement pipe plant, a tourist
hotel, and the Cyprus Investment and Securities Corporation, and is
currently exploring opportunities for further ilvestment in the island. As
of September 30, 1984, original gross commitments totalled $5.8 million, of
which $2.0 million are still held by IFC. A statement of IFC investments
in Cyprus is given in Annex II.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Agriculture in the Economy
19.      Agriculture continues to be an important sector of the economy
although its relative importance has declined during recent years,
reflecting the growing importance of the tourist industry and the
manufacturing sector. In 1982, it contributed about 11 percent of CDP,
provided 19 percent of total employment and generated some 30 percent of
export earnings compared with 17 percent, 22 percent and 49 percent,
respectively, in 1976.
Agricultural Holdings, Land Resources and Land Use
20.      The 1977 Agricultural Census revealed that there were some 44,000
holdings averaging 4.6 hectare (ha) in area. The area of agricultural land
was estimated to total some 180,747 ha in 1984, of which 18 percent was
under irrigated crops, 80 percent under rainfed crops and 2 percent
classified as grazing land. By far the most important crops grown on
irrigated land were vegetables, citrus fruits and deciduous and subtropical
fruits and those on rainfed, unirrigated land were cereals, vines and
fodder crops. Irrigated land in Cyprus is usually considered to be 10-12
times more productive in terms of value produced than unirrigated land.
The general trend in agriculture over the past few years has been towards
increased specialization, intensification and localization of production on
irrigated land in ecologically favorable areas so far as individual crops
are concerned, and closer to urban centers in the case of livestock. Many
male farmers only farm their holdings part-time, supplementing their income
by work in towns or in other industries. Consequently, women play an
important role in Cypriot agriculture.
Policies, Strategies and Targets
21.      The Government's agricultural policies under the first three
Emergency Economic Action Plans were directed in the main at the
development of irrigation, the reliability of which is the major constraint
of Cypriot agriculture. They aimned to increase domestic food production,



expand exports f fresh fruits and vegetables and satisEy the demands of a
rapidly growing tourist industry, and were highly successful. Nearly
7,900 ha of land have been brought under irrigation out of about 12,200 ha
projected. The area of irrigated land is expected to total some 44,000 ha
by the end of this decade. Research and extension efforts will have to
focus on the irrigated areas of the country in the future because these
areas will account for most of the increases in agricultural production.
Cypriot growers of fruits and vegetables have been encountering mounting
*         marketing problems at home and increasing competition abroad from other
fresh fruit and vegetable exporting countries. These matters are being
addressed separately under the Bank-financed Fruit and Vegetable Project
(Loan 1988-CY).  The Government is also investigating the possibilities of
processing some of this produce in Cyprus prior to export and of growing
alternative industrial crops. While' some traditional export market
outlets, such as the United Kingdom, ere likely to remain firm and may even
be expanded. outlets for fruits and vegetables to other EEC countries will
become increasingly competitive with the likely expansion of EEC
membership. Market openings, therefore, will have to be found increasingly
in Eastern Europe, the Middle East, and Arabian Gulf countries, where good
outlets have already been developed. Research will need to support these
new marketing developments particularly in regard to consumer preferences,
demand for new products and seasonality factors.
22.      The Fourth Emergency Economic Action Plan (1982-86) aims mainly to
increase the quantity, improve the quality and reduce the costs of food
production (especially of exportable horticultural produce), and to raise
rural incomes by expanding irrigation, improving land and water use,
stimulating agricultural exports, reducing agricultural imports and
consolidating land ownership. The plan, likewise, highlights the need for
strengthening the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR)
research and extension services in order to help ensure the accomplishment
of key objectives and targets for each subsector, discussed in the
following paragraphs.
23.      Crop Production.  Total cereal production has not changed markedly
between 1977 and 1982 but there has been a significant increase in the
growing of barley at the expense of wheat, mainly because of government
subsidies on barley to promote domestic livestock production. Annual
production of fruits and vegetables with export potential increased
significantly during the same period, especially lemons, carrots,
grapefruit, oranges and potatoes. Exports of hortict'ltural produce rose
between 1979 and 1983 by about 36 percent and 14 percent respectively in
the case of citrus fruits and potatoes and declined by around 45 percent
and 30 percent respectively during the same period in the case of table
grapes and fresh vegetables. Under the Bank-assisted Fruit and Vegetable
Project (Loan 1988-CY), a consultancy study dated May 1984 forecasted that
exportable surpluses of citrus fruits, table grapes and fresh vegetables
will reach levels of 302,000, 30,000 and 150,000 tons, respectively, by the
year 2000. The study also set export targets for 1990 at around 135,000
tons of citrus fruits, 21,000 tons of table grapes and 20,000 tons of fresh
vegetables, i.e., increases of around 45 percent, 125 percent and 190
percent, respectively, over 1983 export levels. It is planned to increase
total production by 3 percent annually by improving the utilization of
arable land, developing and conserving water resources, promoting fruit and
vegetable production, and continuing MANR's soil conservation, pla.at



- 8 -
protection, grain storage, hay making, vine replanting and water
utilization schemes. Since there are minimal opportunities for expanding
agricultural land ared in Cyprus, increased production must come from
intensified use of existing land and the development of improved practices
and new crops. Yields are currently average for the ecological conditions
prevailing, and there is. therefore, considerable scope for achieving
increased production from a much improved research base such as is proposed
under the project.
24.      Livestock and Animal Health.  Cattle, sheep, pig and poultry
numbers increased steadily between 1977 and 1982, but goat numbers declined
slightly, probably because MANR has been encouraging farmers to replace
their indigenous animals with Shami dairy goats, which are more prolific
and better milk producers. The most importrnt changes that took place in
the livestock subsector during this period were the high annual increases
recorded in cattle numbers and in meat and milk sales. Most of the common
contagious diseases of livestock have been brought under control and are no
longer a serious threat to the industry. However, several new diseases are
now being encountered with increasing frequency in intensively managed
livestock, and little is known about the epidemiology of these diseases.
It is planned to increase production by about 4 percent per annum by
raising production, improving efficiency, resolving marketing problems,
increasing exports of cheese, continuing MANR's genetic improvement, mixing
farming and smallholders livestock projects, and improving veterinary
services and expanding the artificial insemination services.
25.      Fisheries.  The fisheries subsector of Cyprus has recorded the
greatest improvement in production during the past few years, namely an
average annual increase of about 12 percent in tonnage between 1979 and
1983. This achievement is mainly attributed to research and extension in
marine biology and to improved fishing technology and fisheries
management. It is planned to increase production by about 6 percent per
annum by revitalizing the fishing industry, improving the management of
marine resources and expandirg fishing operations in coastal and
international waters.
Research and Extension Capabilities of MANR
26.      The Ministry of ARriculture and Natural Resources (MANR) is
responsible for the entire agricultural sector including fisheries. It is
divided into ten entities, four of which are technically involved in the
production of human food.  These are the Agricultural Research Institute
(ARI), the Department of Agriculture (DOA), the Department of Veterinary
Services (DVS) and the Department of Fisheries (DOF). The directors of
ARI, DOA, DVS and the head of DOF are all responsible to the Director
General of Agriculture but, in the area of research and extension, tend to
work independently of one another in the absence of representative
organizations within MANR responsible for formulating, implementing,
coordinating and monitoring agricultural research and extension strategies,
policies and guidelines. Cooperative research and extension efforts,
nevertheless, exist and stem mainly from the initiatives of individual
scientists on matters of mutual interest. Expenditures on research and
extension increased somewhat more rapidly than agricultural GDP during



- 9 -
recent years. MANR has had ample experience with Bank-assisted projects
and has implemented them satisfactorily. It is likewise expected to
implement the proposed project competently.
27.      The Agricultural Research Institute (ARI) was established in 1962
with UNDP/FA0 assistance to conduct applied adaptive research aimed at
increasing productivity in crops and livestock. It is organized into six
sections (Agronomy, Horticulture, Animal Production, Plant Protection, Soil
*         and Water Use and Agricultural Economics) and is staffed by 41
professionals, 79 technicians and 14 administrative employees. Research
facilities include laboratories, offices, stores and greenhouses at
headquarters plus four research farms in different agro-ecological parts of
the country.
28.      ARI is the only organization in Cyprus authorized to conduct
agricultural research. It is well managed, and ARI research scientists are
professionally competent and have made valuable contributions to the
sector. These include the introduction of better yielding cereal
varieties, the production of forage crops, the promotion of horticultural
exports (potatoes, carrots and citrus fruits), the estimation of water and
nutrient requirements of various crops, the improvement of water use, and
the control of diseases, pests and weeds. Livestock research, in the main,
has been directed at the formulation of high concentrate rations for
intensively reared animals. The institute is, however, overextended and
must be modernized and strengthened to address the agricultural challenges
of the future, particularly the production of horticultural products
destined for export to the highly sophisticated and competitive markets of
European and Arabian Gulf countries.
29.      The Department of Agriculture (DOA) is responsible for
implementing MANR's development projects. It consists of two divisions,
Agriculture and Animal Husbandry. The former is divided into five sections
(Agronomy, Horticulture, Land Use, Plant Protection and Water Use) and the
latter into two (Animal Production and Animal Breeding and Nutrition).
There are three other servicing sections (namely, Extension, Chemistry and
Agricultural Economics) under the immediate supervision of the Director of
Agriculture. DOA operates out of six District Agricultural Offices, with a
staff complement of 129 professionals and 263 technicians, half of whom are
stationed at headquarters in Nicosia. The field operations of DOA also
include responsibility for managing MANR's six horticultural and three
livestock farms although most of the work being carried out at these farms
is of an investigative nature and, therefore, requires major inputs from
ARI. In the case of crops, this entails the evaluation and propagation of
new crop varieties and, for livestock, feeding and breeding trials.
30.      DOA has subdivided the six districts of the country along
administrative boundaries into a total of 31 agricultural extension "beats"
and has assigned an extension officer to each one of these beats. Most of
the extension officers are university graduates in general agriculture and
are not highly specialized in any particular field of production. They
report directly to the Senior District Agricultural Officer of their duty
station and are, to a large degree, dependent on Subject Matter Specialists
(SMSs) stationed in the districts and at headquarters for technical
assistance and advice. Many are presently overworked because the average



- 10 -
beat consists of some 13 villages and 1,500 farmers, and also because their
responsibilities additionally include regulatory, emergency and special
project work, as well as the collection of statistical data.
31.      The Department of Veterinary Services (DVS) consists of four
operational sections: the Central Veterinary Laboratory, the Public Health
Laboratory, the Biological Products Section and the Artificial Insemination
Section. It provides clinical, preventative, advisory and artificial
insemination services and operates five district veterinary offices and 15
rural veterinary centers. DVS employs 45 veterinarians, 6 pharmacists and
117 technicians, the majority of whom are stationed in the field.
32.      DVS has eradicated ten serious livestock diseases from the island
and has brought several more under control. It now plans to improve the
services being provided to the farming community, maintain strict
quarantine regulations on the island and investigate the new range of
livestock diseases being encountered with increasing frequency in
intensively reared animals.
33.      The Department of Fisheries (DOF) is primarily responsible for
developing fisheries resources and controlling fishing activities in the
country. Research efforts during the past few years have been directed at
assessing the country's fisheries' potential, increasing the annual catch
from inshore waters Jy extending the closed season, opening up new fishing
grounds in international waterr, compiling and analyzing marine biology
information, monitoring effluent disposal into the sea, testing modern
fishing equipment and developing new fishing methods.
34.      DOF staff are also involved in extension and training activities
which, in the main, are aimed at n-ximizing the annual catch without
adversely affecting the marine biology of fishing grounds. These
activities have been instrumental in increasing the annual catch by about
60 percent from around 1,300 tons in 1979 to some 2,000 tons in 1983. The
Department presently estimates that the country's fishing grounds are
capable of yielding around 3.000 tons of fish annually on a sustained basis
with proper management, additional research and extension inputs and
improved fishing methods.
35.      Farmer's Unions.  There are three Farmers' Unions in Cyprus
reflecting different political persuasions of farmers. Most farmers are
members of one or the other of these Unions, which have considerable
influence with Government over such matters as prices, subsidies, marketing
and general services provided to farmers.
Agricultural Training in Cyprus
36.      There is no university in Cyprus; neither is there an agricultural
training school or college to generate MANR's requirement for technicians.
However, there is a forestry training school. To date, MANR has been
recruiting Cypriot graduates of foreign universities as professionals, and
employing graduates of Cylriot high schools and vocational schools and
training them on the job ;.s technicians. Such training sometimes includes
short intensive courses offered by the ARI, DOA, DVS and DOF staff.



- ii -
Bank Group Lending for Agriculture
37.      Agricultural Development Program.  The Bank has supported the
agricultural development strategies under the Government's four Emergency
Economic Action p'lans and has, since the mid-1970s, approved a total of
$92.0 million in loans to assist in financing six projects with total costs
of $348.5 million, namely: the Paphos Irrigation Project (Loan 960-CY);
e           the Pitsilia Integrated Rural Development Project (Loan 1483-CY);  the
Vasilikos-PendaskinoE Project (Loan 1658-CY); the Fruit and Vegetable
Project (Loan 1988-CY); the Khrysokhou Irrigation Project (Loan 2279-CY);
and the Southern Conveyor Project (Loan 2386-CY).  The first two projects
being implemented by MANR have been completed and a third is nearing
completion. Their implementation has been generally satisfactory. A
Project Performance Audit Report (No. 4886) was issued on January 20, 1984
for the Paphos Irrigation Project. The report noted that the project was
implemented successfully and that while it is too early to assess its full
impact, its success in promoting agricultural development is readily
visible in the project area. The report recommended improvements in the
structure of irrigation charges. This was achieved under the Southern
Conveyor Project (para. 38).
38.      Agricultural Sector Issues.  The main policy issues encountered
under the Bank's operations in Cyprus' agricultural sector involve
subsidies and export marketing. The main subsidies are those for
irrigation water, feed grain and vines. The entire structure of national
irrigation water subsidies has been addressed and a revised tariff
structure, designed to gradually eliminate subsidies, has been agreed upon
with the Government in the context of the Southern Conveyor Project (Loan
2386-CY). Other agricultural subsidies are the subject of ongoing economic
policy dialogue between the Government and the Bank. The Government is
considering reduction and eventual elimination of these subsidies in light
of these discussions. For instance, recent Bank policy dialogue has
obtained positive responses from Government on the desirability of
eliminating animal feed subsidies. Studies indicate that the gradual
reduction of such subsidies would result in substantial Government savings
while reducing the excessive profits of efficient firms in the pork and
poultry industry.
39.      The main problems facing Cypriot exports of horticultural products
are (i)  concentration in one particular market, (ii)  lack of coordination
among exporters on the one hand and between exporters and producers on the
other, and (iii) absence of a long-term export marketing strategy. These
marketing problems were anticipated in the late 1970s when the
Bank-financed Fruit and Vegetable Project (Loan 1988-CY) was being
prepared, and specific funds were provided under that project for
consultancy studies to investigate the situation and propose measures for
improved marketing. Private exporters have, however, been reluctant to
alter their present marketing arrangements, thus resulting in delays in
project implementation. Cypriot authorities are now considering the
recommendations made under these studies, including the possibility of
establishing marketing boards, as is the case with potatoes and carrots.
They have asked for further Bank assistance in exploring other alternatives
that would improve marketing while accommodating the concerns of the
private sector.



- 12 -
PART rv - THE PROJECT
Proiect Background
40.      The Government of Cyprus requested Bank Group assistance aimed at
strengthening the agricultural research and extension services of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR) to support increasing
investment in frrigation, rural development and water resources, thereby
increasing food production for domestic consumption and expand exports of
fresh fruits and vegetables, as well as production of import substitution
crops.  Project preparations were initiated by MANR in early 1983 and were
finalized by the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program in a report dated March
1984, which served as the basis for the Bank's appraisal which took place
in July 1984. Negotiations were held in Washington from February 11 to
February 15, 1985 with a Government Delegation led by H.E. Dr. Andreas
Papasolomontos, Minister of Agriculture and Natural Resources. A report
entitled "Staff Appraisal Report, Agricultural Research and Extension
Project" (No. 5361-CY) dated February 21, 1985, is being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors. The main features of the loan and
the project are mentioned in the Loan and Project Summary and in Annex
III. Maps of the project area are attached.
Proiect Rationale
41.      Despite the expanded area under irrigation and a significant rise
in the production of permanent crops, overall crop and livestock production
and exports have not shown any major increase over the last six years.
Yields are generally average for the ecological conditions in Cyprus.
However, increases in production and exports can be achieved through
increased efficiency in crop and animal husbandry farming systems, pest and
disease control, improvement in farming systems including water use,
marketing, use of improved crop varieties and intensification of
coordinated applied research and extension. While agricultural research in
Cyprus is competently staffed, it lacks certain essential facilities as
well as adequate interaction with farmers. Extension services are
inadequate and the interrelationship between research and extension is
weak. MANR appreciates that if Cyprus is to realize the full potential of
its limited agricultural resources and is to benefit fully from the
considerable investments that have been made in agriculture and irrigation
development in the last two decades, the applied research and extension
services need to be restructured, coordinated and strengthened.
Proiect Obiectives and Strategy
42.      The project's main objectives are to:  (i)  strengthen the
capabilities of the Agricultural Research Institute (ARI) so that it can
respond to the demands of a revitalized extension service, identify
solutions to the problems of a more intensified production and meet the
need for higher quality standards of produce; (ii) redefine the role oE
the extension service in its remponsibilities and interrelationships to
research and other arms of MANR and provide it with the means to operate



- 13 -
efficiently; (iii) strengthen the Department of Veterinary Services (DVS)
and its coordination with ARI, the Department of Agriculture (DOA) and the
Extension Section (ES) of DOA, particularly in its capacity to identify and
find solutions to problems being en-ountered as a result of intensification
of livestock production; (iv) provide the Department of Fisheries (DOF)
with the means to expand ongoing research related to the assessment of
fisheries resources and the development of fishing methods aimed at
increasing the annual catch and at minimizing adverse changes to the marine
*          biology of the areas concerned; and (v)  improve the administration of
agricultural, veterinary and fisheries research and extension services by
establishing an Agricultural Research and Extension Council (AREC) as a
policymaking body that would, in turn, establish an executing
subcommittee(s) to implement its policies.
-43.      To achieve these objectives, the proposed project strategy would
include the redefinition of priorities (crop by crop and for livestock and
fisheries) for research work over the next five years and beyond, taking
into account, inter alia, potential export markets, import substitution and
production costs. In order to ensure that research work and extension
would be coordinated and that joint efforts would serve farmers' needs,
more field experiments and adaptive trials would be conducted on
government-owned farms that are presently underutilized. Improvement of
district agricultural and veterinary offices and establishment of new rural
agricultural centers would also assist MANR in improving the utilization of
staff and the identification and investigation of specific problems. The
extension service would be restructured, and staff involved in providing
extension services to farmers would be relieved of all regulatory functions
so as to give it the organizational means of operating effectively in
unison with research and other bodies and the physical means to carry out a
more clearly defined extension role. In addition, more formal links of
cooperation would be established between the various arms of MANR for
preparing research and extension programs, and for monitoring and
evaluating implementation and achievements. These activities would be
augmented with staff and farmer training programs which should
significantly strengthen MANR.
Project Description
44.      Agriculture Research.  The research component of the project would
provide for the reorientation of the work of ARI, its close linkage with
extension and farmers, and the resources, training and technical assistance
needed to achieve this. It would respond to the priority needs defined by
Government for growth in the agricultural sector, namely: increasing
yields from existing irrigated areas and expanding production from new
lands to be irrigated in the future; increasing production of crops and
livestock products for import substitution (notably wheat, barley, high
protein and oil seeds, meat and milk); and improving marketing and
production of fruits and vegetables to meet the changing demands of
external markets. Priority would be given to subtropical and tropical
fruits, vegetables in the open and under protection, flower cultivation,
the introductioit of possible new industrial crops, specific problems of
soil and water use, vegetative propagation including tissue culture, and
mechanized cultivation.



- 14 -
45.      Essential to motivating research workers and ensuring the impact
of research results would be the reorganized and strengthened
interrelationships of the ARI with a restructured extension service. These
interrelationships would be developed under the project through a close
interaction of research and extension workers on the research farms and on
farmeral holdings where adaptive trials would be conducted, extension
workers could become acquainted with current ressarch developments, and
research workers would have the opportunity of establishing communication
with farmers on the field applications of research findings and on the
identification of problems needing research. In addition, research workers
would provide some of the teaching expertise at the Agricultural Training
Institute (ATI) to be established under the project (para. 53).
Furthermore, existing communications with the international agricultural
research institutions would be continued and expanded to ensure receiving
current information on crop developments and introductions and to maintain
close liaison regarding the training needs of Cypriot research scientists.
46.      The construction program under this component would involve mainly
renovation and/or construction of laboratory, office, computer, library,
and greenhouse facilities at the ARI headquarters in Nicosia and new
livestock housing facilities on the adjoining Athalassa Research Farm.
These improvements would permit intensified research work to be carried out
in the fields of toxicology, pesticide residues, soils and water use,
horticulture, agronomy (including evaluation of grain and flour qualities
of wheats), and tissue culture for a range of crops. A new farm machinery
unit would also be established under the ARI's Agronomy Section to
investigate the possibilities of mechanized farming on small horticultural
enterprises and four presently underutilized government-owned farms would
be developed for applied research purposes. Establishment of the new farm
machinery unit is a condition of effectiveness of the loan (Loan Agreement,
Section 5.01 (a)).
47.      A range of scientific laboratory equipment for the AlI (including
a computer facility), furniture, library requirements, machinery and
vehicles would be included under this component. Headquarters staff of ARI
would be increased by a total of 11 professionals and 7 technicians.
Postgraduate study amounting to 360 and 300 staffdays of training abroad
would be provided for existing and future ARI staff in order to redress
specific skill gaps, further education, and update professional skills.
Provision is likewise made for 15 staffmonths of technical assistance which
would be used to introduce consultancy services on short (2-3 month) visits
to assist in solving specific problems as they are identified during the
course of project implementation.
48.      Agricultural Extension Component.  This component focuses on the
role of the extension section of the DOA, which is presently limited to
coordination (not execution) of departmental extension programs, audio
visual aids, home economics and publications programs. The private sector
provides farm inputs for farmers together with some extension in the form
of sales promotion. However, in view of the size of the country, varying
agricultural conditions, and the present state of development of the
sector, any widespread provision of private extension services,
particularly by consultant firms replacing government-provided services, is



- 15 -
unlikely. Extension of nformation to farmers is currently an integral
part of the various speL.alist departments of MANR (e.g., veterinary and
agricultural services) and tends to be submerged by the departmental
regulatory functions. As a result, there is no clear channel of
communication between research and farmers. Increased agricultural
productivity in Cyprus is dependent upon intensifying the research base and
on providing the means of effectively extending this information to farmers.
49.      To address this problem, MANR proposes to subdivide the six
administrative districts of the country into a total of 32 agro-ecological
land-use areas to better deploy extension officers and subject matter
specialists where their specific skills are needed most, relative to
locale-specific agricultural production. The project would follow up on
this proposal by redefining the role of the present ES of DOA from the
relatively passive one of coordination to an active one as the primary
channel of information from applied research to farmers and the means of
ensuring that research scientists are kept abreast of farmer requirements.
A particularly significant means of achieving this would be the removal
from the extension service of any requirement to perform regulatory or
statistical functions which would be performed by existing specialist staff
of the Agricultural Division of DOA. Subject Matter Specialists located
within the Departments of Agriculture and of Animal Husbandry would
function in support of the newly defined ES and would be responsible to the
head of ES on technical matters while remaining for administrative purposes
within their existing departments. Their number would be increased by 37.
Extension units developed under earlier Bank-financed irrigation projects
would become part of the restructured and revitalized national extension
service and because of their effectiveness in the irrigation schemes, would
play an important catalytic role in achieving the aims of the newly defined
national service.
50.      The reorganized ES would be headed by a senior agriculturalist
with longstanding experience in extension. He would be stationed in
Nicosia and would be responsible to the Director of DOA for all the
department's extension-related activities, including field services in the
districts, the Audio-Visual Unit and Home Economics Unit at headquarters.
He would also be expected to maintain a close liason with and marshal the
technical capabilities of the specialized sections of DOA and ARI in
developing effective extension packages and programs for the different
farming communities of the country. As a condition of loan effectiveness,
the Government would restructure ES and appoint a senior agriculturist to
head it (Loan Agreement, Section 5.01 (b)).
51.      The physical and manpower capabilities of ES would also be
revitalized by: the construction of six new District Agricultural Offices
to replace old, unsatisfactory rented quarters; the establishment of seven
new Rural Agricultural Centers to bring extension staff and Subject Matter
Specialists into closer contact with the farming communities they serve;
the assignment of one extension officer and one technician to each
agro-ecological land-use area and at least one home economist to each
District Agricultural Office and Rural Agricultural Center to increase
contacts with farmers (especially women farmers, who play a key role in the
agricultural scene); the recruitment of additional Subject Matter
Specialists for the District Agricultural Offices and Rural Agricultural



- 16 -
Centers to back up extension staff; and the provision of various scientific
and technical equipment, transport, agricultural machinery, demonstration
and audio-visual facilities and equipment to help improve the quality of
extension services. DOA would assign 47 additional professionals and 37
additional technicians to ES, making a total of 176 professionals and 300
technicians. Forty-four professionals and 34 technicians would be posted
in District Agricultural Offices, Rural Agricultural Centers and
research/extension farms and the remaining three professionals and three
technicians would be assigned to ES headquarters in Nicosia.
52.      Experimental/demonstration farms have successfully promoted
improved production practices in the past. Four additional
experimental/demonstration farms would be developed that would also be used
as nurseries to produce seedlings and root stocks and would provide
laboratory and office space for ARI staff, thereby contributing to the
integration of the activities of research and extension services.
53.      An Agricultural Training Institute (ATI) would be established to
generate agricultural technicians for the future and to continuously
upgrade, through a series of short, intensive courses, the professional
skills of the various extension offices and staff. A suitable,
Government-owned site has already been found for ATI near ARI headquarters
and adequate trained staff are available for its operation. The
establishment of ATI was agreed at negotiations (Loan Agreement, Section
3.06), and the Government has likewise established a timetable towards its
completion as a fully operational entity.
54.      Provision is made under this project component for a total of 12
postgraduate fellowships covering 216 staffmonths of overseas study in
countries with Mediterranean-type agriculture for DOA staff. Ten of these
scholarships would be in specialized agricultural disciplines, one in home
economics and one in agricultural training and education. Financing would
also be included for a total of 300 staffdays of consultancies for highly
qualified experts in specialized fields to offer brief, intensive courses
at ATI from time to time.
55.      Veterinary Services Component.  Although the veterinary and animal
health services are soundly based with a long history of successful control
of major diseases, the facilities from which DVS operates are inadequate.
The department needs support particularly to find solutions to the
veterinary problems that are now becoming evident with intensified
livestock rearing. There is also a need for staff to update their
knowledge of international innovations in combating animal health
problems.
56.      Thus, under the project, the animal health extension services
being provided by DVS to livestock owners would be strengthened by
expanding and upgrading existing diagnostic facilities at headquarters in
Nicosia and by establishing two new District Veterinary Offices and ten
Rural Veterinary Centers in the districts closer to the areas where
livestock numbers are concentrated. The project would also finance the
establishment of an economic epidemiology unit to: survey the diseases
that are encountered with increasing frequency in intensively managed
animals and assess the economic impact of such diseases; expand and



- 17 -
upgrade the central diagnostic veterinary laboratory; and also provide
modern veterinary equipment for the District Veterinary Offices and Rural
Veterinary Centers.
57.      A total of 100 staffmonths of postgraduate fellowships would be
awarded to five DVS veterinarians, three of whom would specialize in
clinical pathology and the two others in veterinary epidemiology. Funds
would also be provided for 100 staffdays of training abroad for DVS staff
and 12 staffmonths for internationally recruited consultants to assist the
department in establishing and operating economic .epidemiology unit. DVS
would recruit two new veterinarians to staff the economic epidemiology unit
and would provide for their eventual training abroad for a period of 18
months each to earn postgraduate degrees in veterinary epidemiology.
58.      Of the 75 private veterinarians in Cyprus, about 50 are practicing
veterinarians, mostly specializing in small stock in the cities or employed
by large, commercial pig or poultry enterprises. It is the Government's
policy to promote private veterinary services to the fullest extent
possible. Towards this end, it has recently undertaken a study of
veterinary services in Cyprus that resulted in, among others, provision of
loans to private veterinarians to help them establish their practice.
Nevertheless, in less accessible areas not attractive to private
veterinarians, Government provides and will continue to provide the needed
veterinary services.
59.      Fisheries Services Component.  Present studies indicate that the
safe sustainable yield of fish from Cyprus waters could be increased by
50 percent. To achieve this, DOF's administrative and research facilities
need to be improved, and better fishing methods devised and promoted
through intensified extension. Research would focus on stock assessments,
fishing technologies and pollution control. Extension would focus on
improved fishing technique, navigation and vessel maintenance and
management. In addition, constant surveillance needs to be maintained on
ecological controls.
60.      The project would address these limitations to the expansion of
fisheries production Dy: (a) providing DOF with the capabilities to
expand ongoing research related to the assessment of fisheries resources
and the development of fishing methods aimed at increasing the annual catch
and at minimizing adverse changes to the marine biology of the areas
concerned; (b) renovating and expanding the district offices and storage
facilities of DOF in Paphos and Limassol as well as financing new research
facilities in Paphos; (c) supplementing and modernizing the scientific and
technical equipment being used in oceanographic and marine biology
research, including computer facilities and calculators, and providing the
department with a range of modern fishing aids and fishing equipmenit to
test under local conditions and subsequently to use for demonstration
purposes; and (d) strengthening the mobile extension capabilities of DOF
by supplying additional vehicles, fishing aids and audio-visual equipment.
61.      DOA, on behalf of DOF, would recruit two scientists under the
project--one specialized in oceanography and the other in marine
biology--and two technicians to assist them. Two DOF staff members would
be provided with overseas graduate fellowships--one in marine biology and
the other in fishing technology. The project would also finance a total of



- 18 -
75 staffdays of overseas training for DOF staff as well as three
staffmonths of consultancies by internationally recruited experts to visit
Cyprus on specialized staff training assignments to be identified during
the course of project implementation.
Prolect Implementation, Organization and Management
62.      Prolect Unit.  The Director General of MANR would be responsible
for the project and would serve as Project Coordinator as he has done for
all previous..Bank-financed agricultural projects in Cyprus. A Project Unit
(PU), headed by a Project Manager who would report directly to the Director
General, wou.ld be established within MANR to expedite and coordinate
project impiementation. The PU would continue during the life of the
project, after which staff concerned would revert to regular MANR staff
positions. The PU would be headed by a senior agriculturalist with
experience in management and agricultural extension, assisted by an
economic/financial analyst and support staff. The PU would also be
provided uith a microcomputer facility to monitor the project on a regular
basis. The directors of ARI, DOA and DVS and the heads of DOF and ES would
execute the project for their respective components, reporting to the
Director General of Agriculture who would be assisted by the Project
Manager in coordinating all project affairs. Establishment of the PU and
the appointment of a Project Manager are conditions of loan effectiveness
(Loan Agreement, Section 5.01 (d)).
63.      Agricultural Research and Extension Council.  The project would
improve the administration of agricultural, veterinary and fisheries
research and extension services on a national scale by establishing within
MANR an Agricultural Research and Extension Council (AREC) that would be
charged with the responsibility of setting national agricultural,
veterinary and fisheries research and extension policies, strategies and
priorities, and reviewing them annually in the light of accomplishments and
new developments. AREC would be chaired by the Director General of MANR
and would have as members the directors of ARI, DOA and DVS, the
heads of DOF and ES, a representative each from the Ministries of Finance
and of Commerce and Industry, and the Planning Bureau, and farmer
representatives. AREC would be served by a secretariat operating from the
office of the Director General of MANR. AREC's first order of business
would be to examine and redefine, as necessary, research and extension
policies and priorities for the next five years, starting in 1986. The
Government has prepared terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank for
AREC. It has agreed that AREC would establish by December 31, 1985 a
committee(s) to assist in policy implementation (Loan Agreement, Section
3.07). The establishment of AREC itself is a condition of loan
effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Section 5.01 (c)).
64.      The project would also institute the formation of joint
ARI/DOA/DVS working committees with farmer participation for each of the
principal agricultural commodities of the country to ensure collaboration
and interaction of research and extension personnel at field level. From
these committees would spring a bottom-up identification of farmer problems
requiring solution by research.
65.      Staff Requirements.  A total of 64 additional professionals and 48
additional technicians would be required by the project on a permanent



- 19 -
basis to strengthen the research and extension capabilities of MANR and
establish the PU. This would bring total numbers of staff in these
services to 290 professionals and 545 technicians. The recruitment of
incremental staff would be phased over a period of four to five years.
More than 75 percent of both the professionals and the technicians would be
assigned to ES; 90 percent of these would be posted to the districts close
to the farming communities of the country and 10 percent to headquarters in
Nicosia. New professional ES staff in the districts would consist mainly
of Subject Matter Specialists and each extension officer would be provided
with an extension technician to share the work load. A home economist
would be stationed at each District Agricultural Offices and Rural
Agricultural Centers and one more would be assigned to each of the farmer
training centers at PAphos and Agros to stimulate interest among rural
women in modern farming methods. These staff increases would raise DOA's
current annual staffpower input in extension by about 50 percent from
around 127 staffyears to about 185 staffyears.
66.      The Government would increase MANR's staff by a total of 60 new
positions over the project's five-year implementation period. In addition,
30 existing but unfilled positions in MANR would be wide available to the
project. The balance of 22 positions would be generated through internal
reassignments from the ministry's present staff allocation. Agreement was
reached at negotiations that the Government would carry out a mid-term
review of the project, including the status of staffing, and furnish the
results of said review to the Bank not later than June 30, 1988 (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.04).
67.      Staff Training.  The staff training programs financed by the
project and indicated in preceding paragraphs under Project Description
involve:  (i)  graduate and specialized training abroad - all MANR
organizations involved in the project are provided with funds to send
professional staff abroad for graduate study, or to attend short courses
and conferences in specialized agricultural disciplines (such training
would be organized wherever possible in countries with a Mediterranean-type
climate); or (ii) training within Cyprus - ATI would fill the need for
practical training, in particular, of non-graduate technicians.
68.      Role of Women.  A typical farm in Cyprus is small and fragmented
and in the main, farmed part-time by the owner during weekends and holidays
with most of the day-to-day labor provided by the women of the family.
1982 statistics show that nearly 60 percent of the persons gainfully
employed in agriculture were women and that more than 75 percent of working
women were employed in the agricultural sector. Under the project, the ES,
which currently has responsibility inter alia for the Home Economics Unit,
would be strengthened and re-equipped with the manpower and resources to
provide an efficient extension service to farmers including improved farmer
training services focussed to a large extent on women.
Project Costs and Financing
69.      The total project cost, inclusive of incremental staff and of
physical and price contingencies but exclusive of taxes and duties from
which goods and services destined for public projects are exempt, is
estimated at about $14.5 million, of which the foreign exchange cost is
about $7.0 million or about 49 percent of the total. The above costs are



- 20 -
based on 1984 prices and include physical contingencies of 5 percent on
civil works and 10 percent on equipment and services. Civil service
salaries prevailing in mid-1984 were also raised by 8 percent to cover
expected cost of living increases to December 1984. An annual price
contingency of 6 percent was applied to all local and foreign costs during
the five-year period of project implementation. Import prices have been
lower in Cyprus than in several other countries especially in the 19806,
and there are sufficient reasons to expect that they would not exceed 6
percent on average during the project period. Project coats are summarized
in the Loan atnd Project Summary of this report.
70.      The proposed Bank loan of $7.0 million equivalent would be on
standard Bank terms and would finance 100 percent of the foreign exchange
costs of the project. The Government of Cyprus would contribute about
$7.5 million equivalent to meet the local cost requirements of the project
and has already included fundi for this purpose in its FY85 budget.
Disbursements
71.      Disbursement of the Bank Loan would be spread over a period of six
years. Withdrawal of the proceeds of the loan would be made against
52 percent of total costs for civil works for houses, offices, laboratories
and ancillary facilities; 100 percent of foreign expenditures and
82 percent of local expenditures for equipment and machinery; 100 percent
of total costs for overseas fellowships, training, short courses and study
trips; and 100 percent of total costs for consultancy services.
72.      To facilitate timely withdrawal of the proceeds of the loan, the
Borrower would open, maintain and operate a Special Account in the Central
Bank of Cyprus or a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The initial deposit into the Special
Account will be $0.4 million equivalent.
Procurement
73.      Civil Works.  The project would finance the constructior of
huildings at 35 separate locations. The total cost of this construction
program is estimated at $5.4 million. Since this civil works program is
unlikely to attract international interest because the structures involved
are small in size, large in number, diverse in design and wideiy scattered
throughout the country, local competitive bidding procedures (LCB)
acceptable to the Bank would be followed for the contracts involved.
However, the Government may carry out some of the works by force account in
an aggregate amount not exceeding $1 million. Force account has been used
in other Bank-assisted projects in the past and experience therein has been
satisfactory. Plans and specifications for the first year's building
program, which are in an advanced stage of preparation, were reviewed by
the Bank during negotiations.  It was agreed that the completion of final
designs, specifications and cost estimates for the first year's building
program would be a condition of loan effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Section
5.01 (e)). Assurances were also obtained during negotiations that final
plans, specifications and cost estimates for each subsequent year's
building program would be submitted to the Bank for review by December 31
of each year (Loan Agreement, Section 3.05). Overall construction time is
estimated at about three years. MCW would be responsible for day-to-day
supervision of construction and for monthly inspections of the building
sites.



- 21 -
74.      Equipment.  Project equipment includes office and laboratory
furniture, scientific and technical equipment, computers and calculators,
vehicles, tractors and farm machinery expected to cost about $2.2 million.
The PU would channel all procurement through the Tender Joard which,
whenever possible, would attempt to bulk orders and to subject those
estimated to cost $50,000 or more to limited international bidding (LIB).
Such LIB will consist of evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a
(          list of at least five qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits dated August 1984. Contracts
for goods estimated to cost not more than $50,000 each and not exceeding
.4         $600,000 in aggregate may be procured by LCB procedures acceptable to the
Bank.
75.      Services.  The project would finance a total of 60 staffmonths of
consultant services, estimated to cost about $0.9 million. Recruitment of
consultants, in all cases, would be carried out under the Bank's Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants.
76.      The project's procurement arrangements, as they relate
specifically to the utilization of the proceeds of the proposed loan, are
summarized in the table below:
Table 1: ESTIMATED PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million) a/
Project Element                                Procurement Method
L.C.B     L.I.B.   Other  Total
Civil Works                              5.4        -         -       5.4
(2.8)     (-)        (-)    (2.8)
Scientific/Technical Equipment           -          1.3       -       1.3
(-) ( i3)                 (-(1.3)
Vehicles, Tractors and
Agric. Machinery                                  0.5       -       0.5
(-)       (0.5)      (-)    (0.5)
*           Office Furniture and Equipment           0.3        -         -       0.3
(0.2)     (-)        (-)    (0.2)
Fellowships and Training                            -         1.3    1.3
_  (-)    (-)        (1.3)  (1.3)
Consultancies                                       -         0.9    0.9
(-)       (-)        (0.9)  (0.9)
a/ Differences are due to rounding.
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts
financed by the Bank loan.



- 22 -
Accounts and Audits
77.      Separate accounts on each component of the project would be
maintained by MANR's Accounting Office which would provide PU and the
departments concerned with quarterly statements of project accounts. The
PU would maintain a separate account of all transactions passing through
the Special Account and would make these available to the Bank for review
during the course of project implementation. The MANR's Accounting Office
has for several years been responsible for keeping the accounts of
Bank-financed agricultural projects in Cyprus and is considered competent
in this regard.  Project accounts would be audited annually by the Auditor
General of Cyprus who also has been responsible for auditing other
Bank-financed projects in the country according to a standard acceptable to
the Bank. The Special Account would be audited as such during annual
audits. The Government would carry out an annual audit of project accounts
and submit these to the Bank not later than June 30 of each year.
Monitoring and Evaluation
78.      The Project Manager would be responsible for monitoring project
implementation based on data submitted to him by the project's executing
departments. Data would be collected not only on physical and financial
implementation. but also on other project-related activities such as
training, numbers of farmers reached by extension and progress in reaching
research objectives. The PU would prepare semiannual progress reports
based on the monitoring data, and evaluate progress in attaining targets
and objectives. The Government is at present conducting its first
nationwide agricultural census, which is scheduled for completion by
December 1985. This census is expected to yield important baseline
information for evaluating the project. At negotiations, it was therefore
agreed that, not later than June 30, 1986, the Government will devise a
monitoring and evaluation system acceptable to the Bank to be used for
determining progress made under the project both at the time of the
mid-term review and upon completion of the project (Loan Agreement, Section
3.03).
79.      An in-depth analysis of the impact of research and extension
activities would be carried out in three stages: first, at commencement of
the project, to establish a monitoring and evaluation process; second, at
mid-term for an evaluation to be carried out at the end of the third year
(para. 66); and finally, an ex-post evaluation after completion of the
project. The above activities would be set up by MANR and PU with help of
internationally recruited consultants, as necessary, for which 5
staffmonths has been provided.
Environmental Impact
80.      Environmental considerations are given particular attention under
the project. Support to the ARI would include additional laboratory
facilities, which would permit extended work to be carried out on insect
toxicology and pesticide residues. The insect toxicology program is
designed to monitor resistance of insects to environmentally safe



- 23 -
pesticides and develop counLermeasures. The pesticide residues program
would assess residual factors on marketable produce and in the field, and
determine remedial measures. Under the project's fisheries component, DOF
would maintain existing relationships with FAO, the United Nations
Environment Programme, the International Atomic Commission for Thermal and
other Pollution Studies and the World Wild Life Foundation. There is
growing evidence from research findings, that, by banning fishing during
certain times of the year, the annual catch can be increased to some 3,000
tons per annum on a sustained basis without adversely affecting the marine
biology of the area concerned.
Benefits and Risks
81.      The economic benefits of the project are difficiult to quantify
with anv degree of accuracy since improvements arising from research are
generally embodied in the returns associated with other agricultural
projects (i.e., irrigation, rural development). In the case of Cyprus,
this becomes even more problematic since several major agricultural
projects are being developed and implemented at the same time and
intensification of crop and livestock production is also underway.
Consequently, no attempt has been made to compute an economic rate of
return. Calculations, however, indicate that an annual increase of 0.5
percent in total agricultural production in current terms would cover the
capital investment costs of the project over a period of four years.
82.      The project would rectify the physical deficiencies of ARI, DOA,
ES, DVS and DOF and would enhance MANR's capability to render better
applied research and extension services to the farming and fishing
communities of the country on a continuing basis. The project would also
have a beneficial impact on efficient manpower resource utilization in
MANR, since the reassignment program proposed under the project would
require reapportionment of duties among many staff within DOA, DVS, DOF,
and ES to meet the incremental requirements of the project, and would
result in improved direction and focus of existing manpower resources.
83.      The significance of part-time farming in Cypriot agriculture and
the key role of women represent some potential risks, since it may prove
more difficult for extension agents to transfer research findings to and
establish contact with part-time farmers and women farmers. The more
intensified availability of extension services, including audiovisual aids,
the production of immediately applicable and financially attractive
research findings, and the intensified focus on women farmers under the
project, are expected to minimize these potential risks.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
84.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Cyprus and the
Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article 3, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Special conditions of effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement include: (i) establishment of the Project Unit and appointment
of the Project Manager; (ii) the restructuring of the Extension Service
and appointment of its head; (iii) establishment of the Agricultural
Research and Extension Council; (iv) establishment of a new farm machinery



- 24 -
unit in the Agricultural Research Institute; and (v) submission to the
Bank, for review, the final plans, specifications and cost estimates of the
first year's building program (Loan Agreement, Section 5.01 (a) to (e)).
Special conditions of project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
85.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
86.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
March 4. 1985
Washington, D.C.



- 25                                              ~~~~~ANNEX I
-25-                                               ~~~~~~(P-age 1 of 5)
06....ika  .a.    gIWtd. lb.    ds...t  tRS.IlI.4 dul .t-i.   a   samepa. -g.5  ditflap... m...l.igl 41.   I  m4.Tu41   u.                       ht-454 
lb.rugra..rawat li   M ssn s.l KrPwea   114  t...jg  smtudlg  aS (2  a wntP aur- n nighL laugumAg  =gb    WsIsa  asa   m..lbe ..ga~  gg   . 
.ghjae  asset (smspa tp ~4I  tue..It  g.a .e   s It.1.u. "imISt    -tlu.mpks Airs., adHM.b  be    . kanltua  at  lp.1cg   ut.a.tg. Mulo
sPti.tt.mt.  I.m r.g..a.  gp.  data 's sn.s. gu payluga   atgga    pte.         a.s Is  .p tidIng.,n  s       ..dsu  al  .14  eagi   at l.meaI    .
sua  b  dta      141t.damgp  lip OWL... Laea.  at esspa   -Rmus - -k.t Fdaalfm d.M    -  Its a.ttu-Iy..t d..a   6. ---%numgm.lM
-4 i'll   M.                      -utI .1.. w -oWu.al lobe.                                                   - tsuign 41.84.4 by    Msut aI.-S.ge
p5514mg, -nut .5  higptgu gards.. sIt. tEa fatIma 194M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  Nun's sgut.,tt'spmeu.1.
tPm.d  gu da'gis.                                                                     flpujsgtd 9yap dbugtp.    ..1mt.y.dp-I-  PauIsmim - tatat.
P., ..Pa..   Ad _'_.I _AW  "i.-T111.sm I.gJ .rsttis   k p a6tu W.upn(a tuh.s   ula   i
.g u.s   -p ..suutn msgiud .a  Ispd asS It a.. taqnG-M  DRAWLm                     -Mat.ahltsga  SAne...  MasPagtg su A maithum    p.uuaagmtty ugafud
1940. altO. .44 meSa isga.                                           by am  mass~~~~~~ emsat    inytaak glltget bpatIdig prtep.tp   uStu
12P                                                              I.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~uu   u  tutaud   brlolat"l kpmuats.w "e p  a=.t .ad gIAg,g pAd
imrs, ad  mm  ds.                                                                                                     -.s  su   gPmW.W-uta. gu-dt.sboaus
-u~~Aptsgms;gA.Vj1}jm, m4I   -a. at JumIta                                                         -Mid,F., W.s.d 14134p-p114
-In - -ft-              -                                                             ppa    l.s  Hgghl  yPus  s   mlsd   _.gl  ru.a_aa
Ofla  Psutaga. Iuptsa p uggtl   1st..8aplugapssm   apmtm-Id,               -    a.sat  g.uug   laMam   g .dllmas.4gg -~ALim.gg  epuu
s4444pmu.ptsm  iPS. ies .4  144 dsg.   m-11                                                          -r. l.ahm   gpaglu isat A p.supas .         1        M
IM-uPn.g-  ugslga-pu-                            ptnaa.t"s     9k                        Jjii          "ii.u .11uuaadpp1as.tdem                       lss
iiYjpuit         Iip    gjse  a    b.u  ulstt   5  sug  a                               dpttu.4uauui.ip   ummmmusma..a-pgngp  lusurm  .
gala..  Pul.tag  urlu.  tgp ag.tlg              W.1411.wut.s Mt gtw.u                   WgI.e--.ud pa9
t..al  .sea    tt. ugutss 4.111  lIk     as.a.  taul e. 1.mmy   u                     ap.  .l. gutumaeg  -up.sa i-1t'  .tt          -s .glig  g   aa
na.Il   apsup   a  tammtg Rags gls1 baa gRgg  tumum                              .1gua   uaadgplS.t.M    ap                      ea
Wumtg  utg RIA'tfup, Atttgp  1eapt.  Pu`m-dm 1.4-J.i a     PssmP-. a,1
ytsmmgg pptaus..  tsk a.agp  -ug, ags. 4a   k..at mNM
jf    M~~SPWAAl  - tuna .L. LIul *1*  ad...sttM.gtt                                   p.P~ula      nt  u.44at  -  r_a.-g.at mats adl Pasta
"as  au  p"gg  s.     1 l.  p.p. uEI .-patptullu                                  s.  -..   IT! IaFu Sauau  Is._ - Rupuua.4s .4 rasuag
gaa u.  -.td =gag IFt uggtIII M1 uploaa    saul lus                                 yalapy usPat-as 7pug;llautI caumtt  tlsIsi  d=tdu    gd  "-I
gad aq1at I. l-b.dsg  uulu -Ps ad  utuggan I. aiua es.ats.  adahpgtm. Utah simugus Sdupff.uI101  aua                                  Pul mp uIaIssd I   faua
deta saLb. puajIlat 1hpa1 ulgusa gI.Lt  t.aaaa i- tl.4 -aa                              l.aspghs .pai gt  a  tgi -byt-t                          Mntg~
PaO    d lb., p4. at dgetg  at tunalmI   p4I I4   .lunt. - -                          -drga   sgpg5'ln   uupg..  .put..d pp-ga, tusgusig.
ucgats    1sla- Ia  l.tstuupLa tpaasg h-                                             IIN. PI = -iWh upalnsusrt eura  I?ut  au lus-   ptt5  .mga   g
asl.  tapsgagI      . 1   .a     '   .aa.      aplL  4akltu  .as  aatgtg   u-p.mataIMdn  -Pettat ulggla
gLiusa  -it.u    aplla   .  l  saMIg       l  ggL                                         ns  gaektagt ttnutgal.    atl.  prIaga alas spurag
gl a.wag e.g  ugltygmuaa Igptspa-  lu-I tp---   papit.utslyua  MI aaugl  t.naa.it.
pap   -14 -lId-ing  umgtptegusp  .a-s I.,gau   11.I11-te3p. at,                                  IFrasgtt   IaS                      -a
lg-t14 sura.gllati -c.        au  assls.tglolletagi  ..                               pueaawMt1- .1s""           ppg.gI'sll,ip.u  a  sg
fty.ml..17 ad    - teS  dta-         11-            .         Id                   al
PgsaluAa  agpp  gptps,m 0.-F Otldug  IPt-it ysant. ga1tiacpsa. Cli-                                                                                 t.tPWfl
pupaiIli R. ttwo.aw.aigadt.pp  .geisakastl nrWa,j e: a.pt-  Mu aub.ta. l.a.,..                                                                                   I ad
Pgaafa WCpah 1g tp.g,n -gaal- I       gl  g ra papa-g at Mpal  -                     at tigur        dalts ..F-.7- . o-,1 RL-                                  t
I.u  .psStgtpqct.14-S   dICa.1*m   slmu4-   lssdstllS    ala Iypua  .-duaau TaV   .dt.
bud.lankpug (pup gkgs.4  -  sutat.  baul  Iu tgu  I Wd                                      gap.  . -    Ig.t.p-  L.gmI tar pup...pag mu  M-l asi Lpbt  tfn- g
PSPpuaste 1tmt tillga   1.52ala.A.mats. h.iAMu   t.ll
pupulaptga; two.  mm. ad iNSI iagg.                             a.a.ni pullIp pup~~-1 gk"ssgd patgm g      L.P-adsL g        Rtn   7  u.e. -
tsL=~  M.:aal    l-upagas  pagI  1105. IPa,a                                            tptgapa    al jnpa OR.nag              -  -sypu   OUtd -S plb.ls.
rWult. PlnIga-APultasgtIgsutda      sm.  ttua  pulu dgu 14 .-sIp  atU.                                          n.,m   s41tptu.aa*
asF uhpgua   peg.dp   suPga  atnlPdI pnmsCgu  "mmua  "ptu..p   u   amp   .  au-ted-u aua
uAIadu-                                                                                   glp,IWl  T.s'tg a.-i  fuu.. ""14  NaIP .magdlg 4tltsmu- as dm-t1. .tMu .-
- phI i5~~l.apta4   . gS.s sus pugsPt pimp i.u algg_ IA hspdg arR
Pu.pgltAIR t FRffas tsp.at  .uagpsgttnI.  il  apggd   mg.   .s  t4LSUAM.1
allil.au..g a.-  gqgslip        as- (mUl-4*. atl.at gp 1.                         tagila. (ps-ps tmi. Rasi            - Pss1ul P-".stl    pus.1 tI.".a  al-
pspaaus 8 al ass.        Rtgu.a . au-rip- .m t.%Wsug ga
Pm OS mgta.gara                                                                saguapakls:~pl-.  L.R.  t.M   tw   a9,Pa ad til  dal,t :lt.    0 111 
s.a atga   u-cap u_l mat a     ..-dls ad   -.Ia.  -tm..u. C ..,:l.ur  (puppe) - Lahg  PgPn I. MWuae.                                                    MAnta.  .u.aat    u
P IPuIs'd   sea.ddl    SP4g  pulauml.. aP -ahpa 1p I.snpegp   s                                            da.         - -puus.P W, anal ighup trau  14M0. 9870
dna.                                                             P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W.ntptnma  bau 1pepge1  -..   gnt  ..d  Pat -LP'. t:etputt,g ap
Pgupl dapa  It~W aau.a (uksIIg ... uualPa.-,lt - C-gpsleA g.Pd.                       gpPt.atp Pgu  ap. -s       _  r -    pg-eut .  u  tat  lbg  tarn. a
",..daasuteu   P- a_mopl.sulhsZ   tep  pupI.4-tM_  pSpls p.                     pu-ngtsau u  gnat  at  adPk  ugla...   i  qtpaacuy
eqrm.Md  lg4uIgMnk   .agpum. giM.sa- P"S   a.1.                                       atteaaiu  -      U. aaI.  Sn pg g.  pspuMi41Ilm.  as IAM glu  g.4  I
M1t    ml.dI.tv  igk ;-a, 11Pmf saWrg dSls                g.e.gtTml  gS
Pa  slagel  P.umt  5Mn   at-Pplt   ug..a  u f"Apap .         -- m-mPpsas  NPret  gM   Im  ta m0 ad;; Itd)-bnd WI                                    by.   P .luP
-   upg.:t g  pupa,,ge supi  p  n UI  dPrtg  -  hug-                                pugpp-~ ptd..Itpuua.ytu 20uPsPmdpunuM   usiae
-                     aglugam. Pap .lt  pp .luta ns lg.d by-PS  ePnt.u.e uta..                              lv-.aS.t
pu..   .gg.   ag 51-1 gap     s'Msud 14 su..I upI-u. m41a..                           PPPPP RTItanp mumpM                                                  -I.s-
asrsPa-.e,,  alma. ggsg.171ra   at t.as Id.        ut a LI   oa.                   Tb1.t~. pIaua  sauts   u.u    spurs.lb.  n1-p.ma   anptg.   d
.tZ gual-l Pa.,,aW~     s npl   Pup g~.e ON ui.  prsp.usd b.                                                                                                  R-M g-ulsd1  umuptdem patgaleastp
ThrdMPh  Pa.d bapt     tit . llt    wr114  twIwI.uals  iMut 1sPeul   ,pg lega (041  Fa S Iq.)  -gbAa ada.t -1
dna.                                                                                       sP,P, dshlegI
pta  d-g`Lpps  fs lit.s gaIts: tota. 1980 ad I", dt Apunugut Iuing Wb psgtPy                                          g ls. Isu  I d.ptnd fg. Il. aunt
nat sIl  "dIWalgan lap ll4l.  nS  .t lt.lmu Ia u.-
U7 Plaplsp  M1 pant C-apt-)A.sg                .ua    as  atlIP. pg1.tul                    adI rags  -Pap.  -sa   uguls  (eute  -ad  -rau.t:m.Sa 
41   ut;  il. ama-1 mi- 4514.                                                     puFuu.l
yguP*t pe  .. gisaa -dItt.  MAul.  tl)l Wul 4.4 194  duma.n.
apug a  Nts5Sap(prpW at    f-ualu     aa  at.,a    ma 
-1- atp.Ie (au.  gahum  as papL, U-tPh pea.gIe Ang. pa.at                                                                        uupas   algggtkaMtt
gggg ..lss   ue  aI          gu P  u..1-t  WIIII pPeIsd ha.atga gpt%R u  ad
.etgp  aIt), b..  usa4uab.lu4 Ph.ups btP   pusa.u. .R.t t-
flu6g  ut lb. hsp-Mo1d d.  Ru a. as  .p.* diupypaul__aua  Pal SI
lnePaS bp.l naI e. luaap.  a             gu.gtet - -aat ugRML.  ad raps!
adinlaatpby aeuua   oy                  r a   b   -at pig pptels  at



~ 26 -                                   ANNEX I
'-26  TaZ of 5)
t  9.  2.3  3
ACRICUSLTUZ                          5.3       5.3         5.3'                        
SI  M  Wll (U16                   390.0     900.0      3840.0             2345.              11071.0
ma-slt    ZOmuuwnau ps CAssx
KIsLOORANI OF OIL EQUIVALINT)      541.0     930.0      1404.0             1122.6             4976.9                                    )
POSULATIOS AS; VitAl. U!TIISUC
IOPIILtION.MIBD-1N41 (TIlOUSANDS)  573.0     015.0       045.0.                        
3APOULATI ON  0S orTALs            35.6       0.6       47.*.0             6.1                76.0
oommma m  CTS0
POPUATION  IA PSOJATlUT
POMUATION IN LAR 2000 (HILL)                             0.7
SrATIO !PAOY PULATON (HILL)                              0.9
POPULATION INHINTE                                       1.3
POPULATION CNSITY
Ptx Sq. NI.                       61.9      66.3        66.1               62.9               139.3
PIt Sq. Mt. AGRI. LAND           106.7     117.L       121.3             156.3                313.2
POPULATIOSN AE STRUctuM  CZ)
0-14 YS                          36.7      31.0        25.5               31.6                22.1
15-64 Y                           57.4      59.0        64.0               61.1                16.1
65 AND ABOVE                       5.9       10.0       10.0                7.1                11.7
POPUXTtIDN CoM  RATZ (2)
rorAL.                             1.5       0.7 n       0.4 IC             1.6                 0.S
URBAN                              3.3       2.1         1.7                3.7                 1.3
CRUDE SBKTH RATE (PER THOUS)        25.8      19.7        19.7              23.4                13.6
CR-UDE DLATH RATE (PER TiMUS)       10.3       9.6         6.4 A.6                               9.2
03053 RPRODUCTION MAU                L.S       1.2         1.1                1.6                0.9
PANSLY PlUNING
ACCEtRS. ANNIAL (TOlUS)            ..         ..         ..                  .
UrS (3 01 HRME.D                                         ...EM)
gm An 1mm
INDZE OP FOOD PRO. PR CAPITA
(196-71-t100)                       64.0      31.0       109.0              114.5              114.1
11K CAPITA SUPPLY OP
CALOIlES (t oF KQUlIRNTS2        102.0      114.0      127.0              126.6               132.3
PROtINS (MNS  PER DAY)            74.0      63.0        95.0              69.7                96.3
Op WHICH ANIHMI  AND 31LSI5     30.0       40.0       51.0 Id            34.5                61.3
CHILD (ACmS 1-4) DEATH RATE          1.7       1.7         0.9                5.2                0.4
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)       66.7      70.9        74.2              67.4                74.9
INFANT IT. RMUT (PER THOUS)         29.9      29.4        19.5              54.2                10.3
ACCESS TO SAFE MATER (2POP)
TOTAL                             26.2       95.0       95.0 /a
URBAN                             67.5      100.0       94.0 /a
RIURAL                             7.1      92.0        96.0 17
AC     0 EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(I i. POPUJLATION)
TOTAL                                       95.0        95.0 /a
URN                                         100.0      94.0 7               .
RURAL                               -       92.0        95.0 re
POPUIATION PER PHYSICIAN          1470.0    1250.0      1120.0            1065.6               553.7
POP PER NURSINC PERSON            1180.0 lf  590.0      360.0              764.4               166.9
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TorAL                            220.0      190.0      190.0 hk           326.3               120.8
URBAN                            230.0 If  250.0       260.0 rd           201.5               143.1
RURAL                           3320.0 if 3170.0      6600.0 /1
AMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL DED                    16.2        16.7 1.           20.0                17.8
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEIHLO
TOTAL                              4.0
URAN                               4.0
RURAL                              3.9
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROON
TOTRAL                             1.5
URBAN                              1.3        10o
RURAL                              1.6
ACCESS TO ELECT. (Z OF MELLINGS)
TOTAL                             43.1
URBUAN                            90.4
RURAL                             21.5



-27 -                                       ANNEX I
(Page 3 of 5)
TS A 8 L C 31%
CYRUS                  - SOCIAL  DICAS DATA SHET
cYPRUS                               uREEREN COUPE (EWEZXTED AVERLAQS) l
MOST               (MOST RECENT EBTINATS)A
b.   197Lb   1RECENT        NXMID    INCOME       1vaI
i96       1O         ESTiihTE            IUUO,E        MAULXT :commxs
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRZMAt  TOTAL                    102.0       84.0 lh    84.0 l k           101.1               101.3
MALZ                   103.0      67.0 I      63.0              105.3                103.0
FENALZ                 100.0      68.0       060                 96.7                102.7
(                SECONDARY: TOTAL                  47.0       54.0 /b    66.0 /h k           59.1                90.3
MILe                    53.0      57.0 i      66.0               66.9                84.6
FDLALZ                  39.0      52.0 I      66.0               50.6                67.8
VOCATIONAL CE or SECONDUY)           3.5       Lo.s /h    11.3 /h             21.6                17.9
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMAY                            34.0       30.0 /b    21.0 /h             25.1                20.2
SECONDARY                         24.0       21.0 I     16.0 /F             20.5                15.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (Z)             75.9       85.0       69.0 /1             75.6                99.1
cloo_no
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSND  OP          47.6       90.2      149.6                54.7               367.2
UD10 RCEIVERS/TROUSBID POP         148.3      271.5      497.6               164.9              1090.7
TV FICEIVERS/YHOUSAND POP            2.8       79.7       236.5              123.6               451.0
NlSPAPE  ("DAILY GENAL
INTERESr) CIRCULATION
PEr THOUSAND POPULATION          123.9      110.6       107.5 /A            96.3               331.2
CIDM   AUIAL ATTDANCE/CAPITA         6.4        9.9         ..                 2.9                 3.6
LABOR YOMG
TOTAL LANOR FORCE (STOUS)          237.0      258.0      238.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  33.3       33.6       35.1                34.5                36.2
AGQICULTURE (PERCEN)              42.0       38.6        26.8               40.7                 6.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                27.1       27.7       26.7                23.3                37.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             41.4       42.0        44.7               42.9                45.7
MAL4                              56.1       56.4        56.1               34.7                59.3
FEMALE                            27.2       27.9       31.3                31.0                32.7
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO            1.0        1.0        0.8                0.9                  0.7
-    DISU7R1UT=
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCONE
RECEIVED xi
HICHESS 52 OF HOUSEHOLDS            ..       12.1
ICHEST 202 OF OUSEEOLDS             ..       39.4 /4 *-                                         43.1
LOUEST 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS            ..        7.9 1       ..                 ..                  5.4
L06EST 40S OF HOUSEHOLDS            ..       19.6 I]       ..                ..                 16.4
ESTINATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URIAN
RURAL                               ..         ..      376.7 /d
ESTDIATED RELATIVE POVERTY NCME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
U                                   ..         ..      746.7 /d
RURAL                               ..         ..      512.7 /.
ESTIIATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVEtry INCOME LEVEL (Z)
URUB                                ..         .
RURAL                               ..         ......
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLCABLE
NO T E S
/a   Te group averagp  for eah indieator are populacton-weighted arittetic mau.  Coverage of countries among the
indicatare depends on availability of data and La not uniform.
hb  Unlema otherwise noted. "Dta for 1960' refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; 'Data for 1970" betwen 1969 and
1971; an data for Moat Recent Eatiaste" between 1980 and 1982.
/e  Duo to Ir gation population growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase; /d 1977; /a 1975; If 1962;
/Jg 1972; /h Ezcludlns Tirkieb schools; Li 1979; /J1966. urban only; /k 1978.
JUNE. 1984



(A"
CYPRUS - uaaosc zuD:aAOI'1
GROSS KATIOWAL PRODCT IN 1953                                                             ADAL tATZ Op GROWtH (C Constant Prices)
US$ Million     Percent                                    1979-81             1981-83
GOP at Market Prices                    2,116.6         100.0                                      8.6                  3.1
GrGsc ogastLc Znveatunt                   655.5         31.0                                      -3.4                  2.4
Grove National Savins                     476.9          22.5                                     -5.8                -21.7
Current Account llalaue                  -178.6         -S.4                                     -77.5                165.1
Ixports of goods, UPI                   1,090.2         31.5                                       9.6                 11.3
tuporte of GOoda. NrB                   1,3S4.0         65.4                                       3.3                 13.1
OUTPUT, LABOR AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 19U3
Value Added                Labor Force                       V.A. Per Worker
Ui3 Million   Percent       Thourand    Pereent                  Us$        Percent
Agriculture                                  184.9        9.7           43.4       18.2                  4,260         53.1
Industry                                    636.5       33.3            64.9       27.3                  9.807        122.2
Services                                  1,089.5       57.0            97.0       40.7                 11,232        140.0
Unallocated 1                                      -                    32.8       13.8
Toral/Average                           1,910.8      100.0           238.1      100.0                  8,025        100.0
OVERNHMNT ?ZNAMCE
General Goverment
Cl Million      Percent of GDP
Current Receipts                    274.1          25.1   23.7
current Zxpenditure                 307.7          23.2   26.3
Current Surplus                     -33.6          -3.1   -2.6
capital Sxpenditures                 60.S           5.6     5.1
External Assiatance (netJ            11.5           1.1      1.0
MO.EY. CRDIT AND PRICES
1978      1979      1980      1981      1982         1983
(Million Cyprus Pounds Ourtstanding nd Period)
Money and Quaei Money                363.3    433.5      501.1      600.2     707.9        791.1
Bank Credit to Public Sector          31.0      49.6      76.2       89.7      87.7        111.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector        292.9     356.7    404.7    462.4    543.0            609.5
Money and Quasi Money as Z of GDP     71.1      69.3      66.6      69.8       71.1         72.4
Retail Price Index (1977 - 100)        1.074      1.760     1.335     1.479     1.574        1.654
Annual Percentage Caneges in:
Retail Price Indx                      7.4       9.5       13.5      10.8       6.4          5.1
Bank Credit to Public Sector (not)   49.6       60.0      53.6       32.0      -2.2         27.3
Bank Credit co Private Sector         17.9      21.9      13.5       14.3      17.4         12.2
1/ Refer to the area under Government's conerol only.
2/  Includes unplonymet. workers enployed in British bases, foreign organizations and in other countries.
February 1985
EM2DC



- 29 -
ANNIX I
(rpae 5 of 5)
CYPRUS - TRADE PAYMNTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
MLANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                             MERCaANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1981-83)
r                                    1978      1980       1982      1983                                               08 MLillion      Percent
(Nill=on Usk)
Exporta of Coods CitS)         571.1     954.6    1,028.4  1,056.0                         Clothing                   69.4           19.2
Imports of Goods (NFS)         831.4   1 319 3    1,298.0  1.350.?                         Footwear                   30.3            8.4
Resource Cap (Deficit -          0) -260.3         -269.6  -294.7                          Potatoes                   32.3            9.0
Citrus                    23.6            6.5
Interest Payments (net)         -4.3      -3.4      -15.L   -39.1                          Portland Cemnt             23.0            6.4
Workers' Remittances            44.5      58.1        55.4     86.5                        Paper Products             15.2            4.2
Other Factor Psyments (net)      0.3       9.6        17.9     -5.4                        Cigarettes                 15.1            4.2
get Transfers                   22.5      32.5        35.3     46.2                        All other coaodities   151.9             42.1
Balance on Current Account   -197.3   -2b7.g    -17t61   -206.5                              Total                   30.8           100.0
Direct Foreign Investment       57.1      85.0        80.4     68.4                        EXTERNAL DEBT. DECENBER 31. 1983
Net MLT Borrowing               65.7     108.7       146.2     74.3
Disbursements                 78.1     138.9       202.7    148.8                        Public Debt, including guaranteed       649.7
Amortization                  12.4      30.2        56.5     67.5                        Non-Guaranteed Private Debt               58.7
S-ub-Total                -74.5    -74.2         50.5   -b3.8                            Total Outstanding and Disbursed       1I0X
Capital Grants                  45.0      40.8        35.9     27.9
Other Cap:tal (net)             21.4      25.1         9.0     28.5                        DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1983
Other Items n.i.e.               7.0      32.7        18.3     12.5
Increase in Reserves (z)        -1.1     +24.3     +113.7      -5.3                        Public Debt, including guaranteed         12.3
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt               1.2
Fuels and Related Materials                                                                  Total                                   13.5
Imports                       83.0     222.6      246.3    227.8
Of Which Petroleum          83.0     222.6      246.3    227.8                         IBRDIIDA LENDING (END 1983) (Nillion US$)
Exports                        -         -            -
Of Which Petroleum           -         -            -                                     IBRD     IDA
RATE OF EXCHAICE                                                     Outstanding and Disbursed    74.4      -
Undisbursed                   68.7     -
Average 1981-83                   December 1983              Outstanding, including
Undiabureed                143.1     -
US$1.00 - CEO.47                 US$1.00 - CE0.56
CE1.00 - US$2.13                 CEI.00 - US$1.79
Febxaury 1985
EM2DC



- 30 -
ANNEX II
(Page 1 of 2)
A. CYPRUS - STATEMENT OF BANK LOANBI'
(As of September 30, 1984)
----- USS Million-
Amount (less cancellations)            )
Loan
Number   Year    Borrower      Purpose                Bank        Undisbursed
Thirteen loans fully disbursed                        90.4               -
1344     197A    Republic of  Highway II
Cyprus                              10.0               0.1
1540     1978    Cyprus Ports Ports II
Authority                            8.5               0.4
1658     1979    Republic of  Water Resources
Cyprus       Development            11.0               7.9
1873     1980    Electricity  Power V
Authority of
Cyprus                              16.0               1.7
1988     1981    Republic of  Fruit and Vegetable
Cyprus       Export                 14.0              12.8
2128     1982    Republic of  Highways III            12.2              11.4
Cyprus
2279     1983    Republic of  Khrysokhou Irrigation
Cyprus                              16.0              13.8
2286     1983    Republic of  Energy Planning and
Cyprus       Conservation            3.6               3.6
2287     1983    Electricity  Energy Planning and
Authority of Conservation
Cyprus                               6.6               6.4
2386     1984    Republic of  Southern Conveyor
Cyprus       Project for Water
Resources Develop-
ment                 27.0             27.0
2411 2/  1984    Republic of  Limassol Sewerage
Cyprus       and Drainage           16.8              16.8
Total                                       232.1            101.9
of which has been repaid                  50.4
Total now outstanding                       181.7
Amount sold                  2.29
of which has been repaid 2.29
Total now held by Bank                      181.7
Total undisbursed                                            101.9
1I/  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate
report on all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated
twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.
2/ Not yet effective.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
(Page 2 of 2)
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1984)
-Amount in US$ Million--
Year           Obligor            Type of Business       Loan     Equity      Total
1972    Cyprus Cement Company          Cement             2.3       0.5         2.8
1977    Cyprus Pipes Industry          Construction
material           0.5       0.2         0.7
1983    Dome Hotel                    Tourism             1.8       0.3         2.1
1983    Cyprus Investment and          Money and
Securities Corporation      Capital Markets    -          0.2        0.2
Total gross commitments                          4.6        1.2         5.8
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                           3.4        0.4        3.9
Total commitments now held by IFC                1.2        0.8         2.0
Total undisbursed                                           0.04        0.04



- 32 -
ANNEX III
CYPRUS - AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the Borrower to prepare project:. Eighteen months (from
January 1983 to June 1984)
(b) Agency which prepared project                   : Ministry of Agriculture and
Natural Resources with
assistance from FAO/CP
(c) Project first presented to Bank                 :  October 1982
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission                  :  July 1984
(e) Completion of negotiations                      :  February 15, 1985
(f) Planned date of effectiveness                   :  July 1985
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III   Special Conditions
1. Conditions of Effectiveness:
Ca)   Establishment of the Project Unit and appointment of a Project
Manager (para. 62).
(b)   Restructuring of the Extension Service Section and appointment of
its head (para. 50).
(c)   Establishment of the Agricultural Research and Extension Council
(para. 63).
(d)   Establishment of a new farm machinery unit in the Agricultural
Research Institute (para. 46).
(e)   Submission to the Bank for its review the final plans,
specifications and cost estimates of the first year's building
program under the proposed project (para. 73).
2.  Other Measures to be taken by the Government include:
(a)   Establishment of the Agricultural Training Institute (para. 53).
(b)   Mid-term review of the project, including status of staffing, and
furnishing results of said review to the Bank by June 30, L988
(pars. 66); development of a monitoring and evaluation system for
this review (para. 78).



33.
TURKEY
GREECE                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~CYPRUS-
GREECE   \}                                 r- t~ ~'''                      AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH At -
SYRtAN                               DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTU':
CYPRUS            -.REPUBLIC
LEION%         ,                                         RESEARCH INSTITUTE 11
ISRAEL e        SAU
LIBYA                                              A RNABIA
ARAB REP. OF EGYPT            \         ,-
M e dit e rrr rea cr   Seo
Tim mnp hos bo ppwd bV' Ttw WIbld Bu*'& sra omckom* 1b Nw coramw.,re of
Me ,NdeN*k Unil mexmvat bll hf aIim# upn of The bwbW Bank aid Ow itlaubnst
FScone Coipo.relon The d_nruailiusid ane w Mi. bounCahsaan Mm amp do nol
a,*. an lh paI of The WbM am  d lbf hJm1lianal Fawice Corpwa.4L any jufnrd'e
an VWe bowa SAlAu of any leMonty ora,w' udofsunhlu or accep*anc or such boua.dmnas
.Kormakitis ~                _
tKYRENIA
Pyrgos                              P             f            NICOSL
Pmos. -                         
iq ~
-35                        N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
---   1                            Jy      wIf~~~~~~-~    /                 ;              .  Aak. 
1 ~  ~~~~ ~~~~ /                         , ^        S                     \ --,-A , i
*       ~PolI.     X                        [                             Evrykhou    /     I                       -,
K  ihrysohkoii A                                                )                {      |            Kiarou .-   *   NisoOU
Dhrousha(.                               )                                               '           V | 
=       ( -     |lo<  Kyperounda  IJ
5   Panayoa-             Trikoukias-          '                             '-
Panay.a0                          ~~~~~Agro 
(t    t_/  S\<                     )   A9r05~~~~~~~~~~~~Palekhori  (    l f       i
aittas                   Ora   N          
4    _             J                     |            /     \   +\ IokedaraO -\                           -- 'lkrio
/                      ~       ~      ~~~/ _ ~  -  i                  .Eftagonia\
;^                   J         ,,~~~~ ~ ~~            ~ ~~~~Vouni  <         -       Ska anu        ;
/       . ~~~Kelokedhara.,  0x__                                                         .     Z     > 
*Dv  f {_                                         -                     \     yFKhinrok~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~itia=
PAPHOS                                                                                                                hiro' itia
Akhelia                        -                          )                                       /
Evdhimou                                                        yi
A0     - ~Limasso/
Lakaki /8  UMSS r-~.~_OL
32 30



IBRD 18526
33`30'                                                34
D EXTENSION PROJECT
* AND  AGRICULTURAL                                                                       Rlzokarpaso
--RASTRUCTURE
35030L
Leonarisso
,,Marathovouno
_lassa
N         ~~~\_>__                           ( M FAMAGUSTA
no or 4okkinokhoria    >                                           35e
0Mosphiloti                                                            [      AGRICULTURAL TRAINING CENTER
i  LARNACA                                     W      AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE HEADQUARTERS
(EXPANSION OF EXISTING)
!  /  *  NEW DISTRICT AGRICULTURAL OFFICES
l    EXPANSION OF EXISTING DISTRICT AGRICULTURAL OFFICES
_ Mazotos                                                            I     NEW RURAL AGRICULTURAL CENTERS
0                                                                     NEW EXPERIMENTAL/DEMONSTRATION FARMS
EXISTING EXPERIMENTAL/DEMONSTRATION FARMS
AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
AGRICULTURAL AREA BOUNDARIES
SELECTED ROADS
PRESENT CEASE-FIRE UNE
JK SOVEREIGN BASE AREAS
0         10          20 KILOMETERS
P0//1,0: OCCUPIED TERRITORIES
I   *  *   ,  *                   '        I
0                 10                 20 MILES
3330'                                                 34'
NOVEMBER 1984



33"
TURKEY                                                                                  CYPRUS
GREECE                                                                                                                CP U
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH ANC
Crete                             "*SYRIAN
ARAB                                       DEPARTMENT OF VETERINA
CYPRUS             _REPUELIC
CEYPRU  -ON,)                                        DEPARTMENT OF FISHERIES
ISRAEL IX*:       .
L               ARAB REP OF EGYPT            .A
r~~~~~~
Tim lwV two 199n prurud by nW  "fl'Ai d e gInO vwkuve* kr th convwwue of
Ow reades NIII.9 ciAumv* kw the Ilnuel use of TM Wba ft U  and f me iemb
Fewriu. lAj,poiaun The du.ftmiveNls ueend an fl bouaiderwx men an oIlA imp do nof
ftv*. an Vl phn of fne WmrU Bn kd wwur hhwenba FNe  Corpore ay judpnlenf
n he tegal sts of  nk mv or ary cildereen or accep r. of ach booudane
Kormakitis
-       ~~KYRENIA
Pyrgos                         MOPHO           ~                ICOSIA
p..d
Pomos,
A Akaki
:;~~~~~~~~~~~~ a' ' 
Pol's   -                         .       I-i    ,.Evrykhou    /                  I                      -
Khlysonkou  A                                                                                                         AL ' A  _  .  Kirou  Nisou,,
350                                                                1 
Dhrousha       ..                                                     N
I .     perKyperounda
Panayia. A               Trikouki       a -  -                                r)     /   x_--_ J
--_ ;. ~ ~          )   Agros          Palekhori        '.   f
' Aa~~~~lttas /AS ;
* A \ -. ,^ < J                                                                                              Ora A  '
(    .     ._;x -Eftagonia
VouniounS -                I                       lSkarinou        .
Kelokedhara.
PAPHOS                                                                                                      ,      ' /
Akheha                                                   )
KX:ouklia:        A, Evdhimou                                                      ZYYj
A        ~~Lamassol!
Ekpi            LIMASSOL
320301                                                     330 -



IBRD 1851
330301                                                  340
-) EXTENSION PROJECT
:-RY SERVICES AND                                                                          Rizokarpaso
~ INFRASTRUCTURE
35"30
Leonarisso
Akanthou
Marathovouno
alassa
thien_                _ iJ XylotymboFAMAGUSTA
Kok knok or,a                                                            350
I n Mosphilot-
/  f  LARNACA                                   13    EXPANSION OF VETERINARY HEADQUARTERS
/  *  NEW DIl .1ICT VETERINARY OFFICES
A     NEW RURAL VETERINARY CENTERS
*     EXISTINC r 'STRICT VETERINARY OFFICES
Mazotos                                                               A     EXISTING RURAL VETERINARY CENTERS
? -  3  RENOVATION OF EXISTING DISTRICT FISHERIES OFFICES AND
LABORATORIES
AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
AGRICULTURAL AREA BOUNDARIES
SELECTED ROADS
PRESENT CEASE-FIRE LINE
UK SOVEREIGN BASE AREAS
O    ~  10          20 KILOMETERS
i/////FY. OCCUPIED TERRITORIES
I             ~~~I  ,       ,.  I
0                  10                 20 MILES
33030'                                                  34
NOVEMBER 1984



