Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24039-IND
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-39130; SCL-39136)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$28 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR THE PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROVISION
OF INFRASTRUCTURE
June 27, 2002
Urban Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2001)
Currency Unit = Rupiah (Rp)
Rp 1 = US$ 0.000096
US$ 1 = 10,412.5
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB                  Asian Development Bank
ASEAN                Association of Southeast Asian Nations
BAPPENAS             National Development Planning Agency
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
CIDA                 Canadian International Development Agency
CV                   Curriculum Vitae
GOI                  Government of Indonesia
KIMPRASWIL           Ministry of Settlements and Regional Infrastructure
MOF                  Ministry of Finance
NOL                  No Objection Letter
PERUMKA              Indonesia Railways Authority
PDAM                 Water Supply Enterprise of Local Government
PIU                  Project Implementation Unit
PMU                  Project Management Unit
PSP                  Private Sector Participation
TAP4I                Technical Assistance Project for the Public and Private Provision of
Infrastructure (first and second projects)
TOR                  Terms of Reference
USAID                United States Agency for International Development
WATSAL               Water Resources Sector Adjustment Loan (Ln. 4469)
Y2K                  Year 2000
Vice President:  Mr. Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAP
Country Manager/Director:   Mr. Mark Baird, EACIF
Sector Manager/Director:  Mr. Keshav Varma, EASUR
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Mr. Stephen Dice, EASUR



INDONESIA
Second Technical Assistance Project for the Public and Private Provision of Infrastructure
CONTENTS
Page No.
l. Project Data                                                                   1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         1
4 Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5 Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6 Sustainability                                                                 11
7 Bank and Borrower Performance                                                  12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
9. Partner Comments                                                               19
10. Additional Information                                                       20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            28
Annex 8. Loan Amendments and Introduction of Y2K Program                         29
Annex 9. Sub-projects and Their Performance                                      31
Annex 10. Effects of the Economic and Political Crisis on the Project            33






Project ID: P039754                                      Project Name: Second Technical Assistance Project
for the Public and Private Provision of Infrastructure
Team Leader: Stephen R. Dice                              TL Unit: EASUR
ICR Type' Core ICR                                       Report Date: June 28, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: Second Technical Assistance Project for the Public  L/C/TF Number' CPL-39130;
and Pnvate Provision of Infrastructure                       SCL-39136
Country/Department: INDONESIA                                           Region' East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: DI - Private Infrastructure
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   03/10/1995                             Effective:                    09/11/1995
.4ppraisal:  03/24/1995                              MTR:
Approval:  06/22/1995                              Closing. 03/31/2000         12/31/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agencvy REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA/National Development Planning Agency
(BAPPENAS)
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jamnil-ud-din Kassum                      Russel Cheetharn
County Manager:      Mark Baird                                Marianne Haug
Sector Manager:      Keshav Varna                              Anupain Khanna
Team Leader at ICR:  Stephen Dice                              Alain Locussol
ICR Primary Author:  Stephen R. Dice
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Fighly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability' L
Insti ttzonal Development Impact. M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
In the mid 1990s it was realized that private financing would play an increasing role in power



generation, telecommunications, water supply, mass transit, ports and toll roads, in order to free public
resources for other vital needs such as other roads, health and education. Based on information from
Indonesia's National Development Planning Agency (Bappenas), of the US$75 billion projected for
infrastructure investment during Indonesia's Sixth Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita VI), about
US$21 billion (28%) was envisaged to come from private sources. The project was thus seen as
strategically important to GOI and fully consistent with the Bank's then-current Country Assistance
Strategy.
However, at the time enhanced management efficiency was not so much the government's driving
force for increased private sector participation (PSP) in infrastructure. Concessions were mostly awarded
after direct negotiation, usually based on unsolicited proposals. The "deal-by-deal" approach was slow,
added nsks, resulted in high costs and consumed scarce managerial and technical resources. Without
greater transparency and competition, efficiency gains expected from the private sector might not
materialize, and the risks of poor decisions and corruption would be increased. Development of a suitable
regulatory framework was deemed to be critical. It was against this backdrop that the project was
formulated. It was planned to follow on from the previous Technical Assistance Project for Public and
Private Provision of Infrastructure (TAP4I-I Loan 3385-IND) which, from 1991 to 1997, supported the
development of infrastructure with public and with private funds mainly in the power and transportation
sectors.
The project's objectives were to assist the Republic of Indonesia to: (a) assess strategic priorities
for reducing infrastructure bottlenecks; (b) develop an updated strategy for public and private partnership
and suitable frameworks for private participation in the provision of infrastructure services; (c) redefine the
relative roles of central and local authorities in the implementation of infrastructure projects; and (d)
enhance program evaluation capability in central and regional planning bodies, and imnplementation
capabilities in line agencies and local governments. The project intended to build on the lessons of
experience obtained during the initial TAP4I project, and to improve the targeting and management of
delivery of technical assistance in infrastructure sub-sectors other than telecommunications and power. It
was recognized that achieving these objectives would be complex and risky, as several of the targeted
sub-sectors were at least partially decentralized (e.g. water supply, solid waste management and others),
but the importance of these services to support furither investment and growth made these efforts essential
to the Bank-GOI strategy.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objectives were not revised. However, in November 1999 the project was formally
restructured following no-objection to a proposal submitted to the Executive Directors to amend the
project's Loan Agreement The restructuring included adding a fifth objective:. "Carrying out of
Sub-projects designed to assist the Borrower to contain and minimize the disruption, if any, in the social
and economic infrastructure in the Republic of Indonesia that may be caused by failures in the critical
systems of key sectors due to possible problems related to year 2000." The restructuring also reallocated
US$1 million for studies and US$1 million for the purchase of goods, both pertaining to Y2K, from the
"unallocated" category. (See Section 3.4 below and Annex 8 for more details.)
3 3 Original Components
The project supported sub-projects designed to strengthen the Borrower's capacities for designing
and implementing infrastructure development activities through the provision of advisory services to
prepare: (a) national sector policies and planning frameworks; (b) strategies to develop institutions and
- 2 -



design regulation to strengthen public/private partnership in the provision of infrastructure services; and (c)
feasibility studies, engineering designs (for public projects), environmental and resettlement assessments
and remedial plans. It also included reviews by independent experts of studies as well as unsolicited
proposis by private investors, and audits of selected major assignments to evaluate their impact of
institutional development. Finally, the project would finance the training of staff of the PMU and the
various project implementation unites (PIUs) in the selection monitoring and evaluation of TA services,
project management, private provision of infrastructure, and negotiating techniques. The main focus of the
project was on regional planning, power generation and distribution, ports, toll roads, transportation,
communication, water supply and environmental sanitation systems development, and water resources
management
3 4 Revised Components:
An additional component was added by amendment of the Loan Agreement in November 1999 so
that the project could carry out sub-projects designed to assist the Borrower to contain and minimize the
disruptions related to the year 2000. This component successfully addressed the so called Y2k problems in
a range of sectors. Further details are given in Annex 8.
3 5 Quality at Entry:
The project's quality at entry was satisfactory. No Staff Appraisal Report was required for this
technical assistance loan. The key preparation document was the Memorandum and Recommendation of
the Bank to the Executive Directors and its Technical Annex dated June 2, 1995. Preparation of this was
done relatively quickly based on work done and experience gained in the still on-going TAP4I-I project and
building on the experience gained in implementing the preceedin technical assistance. Risks relating to slow
procurement of sub-projects were minimized by utilizing the experience and expertise of the TAP4I-I PMU
for the project and by identifying in advance a shortlist of sub-projects suitable for initiation in the first
year of project implementation. However, with the benefit of hindsight, it would have been better if loan
effectiveness had occurred a year later in view of the delays in completing some of the TAP4I-I
sub-projects.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Owt'come/achievement of objective:
Overall, the outcome of the project is considered satisfactory. A summary of achievements by
objective follows.
Objective (a): Assess strategic priorities for reducing infrastructure bottlenecks. This
objective was addressed by 36 sub-projects mainly in the highways, railways and water sectors. In addition
there were six multi-sectoral sub-projects and two sub-projects related to Y2K issues. Thirty of these
sub-projects were evaluated as having good or fair quality studies. Thirteen were evaluated as having a
substantial impact, and five a modest impact, whilst 11 had a negligible impact and the remainder have
only been recently completely or were not evaluated. A list of the key sub-projects and their evaluation is
given in Annex 9, Table 9.1. This objective has been reasonably well achieved for the sectors covered. Poor
impacts mainly relate to delayed downstream implementation because of a lack of private or public
investment in infrastructure as a result of the political and economic crisis which has been affecting
Indonesia since 1997. A summary of the effects of the economic crisis on the project is given in Annex 10.
Objective (b): develop an updated strategy for public and private partnership and suitable
- 3 -



frameworks for private participation in the provision of infrastructure services was addressed by 23
sub-projects covering highways, railways, water supply, solid waste management, and postal services.
Seventeen of these sub-projects were evaluated as having good or fair quality studies. Nine were evaluated
as having a substantial impact, three a modest impact, whilst seven had a negligible impact and the,
remainder were only recently completed or not evaluated. Overall substantial success was achieved with
this objective. Key outcomes included development and dissemination of the Presidential Decree (Keppres
7/1998) and supporting documents, establishing a framework for private sector participation. Work under
several sub-projects included disseminating the ideas of open transparent competitive bidding for private
sector participation projects enshrined in Keppres 7/1998 to officials from central and local governrments
and to potential investors. The project played a leading role in coordinating the activities of experts working
on vanous other programs involving PSP funded by USAID, CIDA and ADB. Government developed a
better understanding of private participation in infrastructure (PPI) and the role of government as an
enabler rather than an implementer. However there is still much work to be done in order to change the
mind set of government officials and the public who for the last three decades have only experienced
infrastructure services provided by government and state-owned enterprises.
Objective (c): redefine the relative roles of central and local authorities in the
implementation of infrastructure projects was addressed by 25 sub-projects mainly covering highways
and water supply. Twenty-one of these resulted in good or fair quality studies. Twelve were evaluated as
having a substantial impact and three a moderate impact, whilst six had a negligible impact and the
remainder were only recently completed or were not evaluated. This objective was adequatelv achieved but
the changing political and organizational environment since 1998, together with the introduction of
decentralization at the beginning of 2001 has reduced the value of some of the work done. This is because
some of the central government authorities studied were closed down or radically restructured during or
after the studies were done and decentralization occurred more rapidly than was anticipated at the time of
the studies.
Objective (d): enhance program evaluation capability in central and regional planning
bodies, and implementation capabilities in line agencies and local governments was addressed by 17
mainly multi sector or highway related sub-projects. Thirteen of these sub-projects were evaluated as
having good or fair quality studies. Eight were evaluated as having a substantial impact and two a
moderate impact, whilst two had an insignificant impact and the remainder were only recently completed or
were not evaluated. This objective was reasonably well achieved, but decentralization and reorganization of
central government ministries followed by the transfer of many officials to new posts could reduce its
immediate effectiveness for some officials whose duties and tasks may have radically changed. The project
explained and disseminated Bank procurement procedures and provided sample documents to all of the
procurement teams involved in appointing consultants for sub-projects. Through these activities many
officials in central and local government gained expertise on procurement. The results of the training and
experience received by officials from the seven sub-projects implemented for local governments are likely
to be very useful as more infrastructure development will be done under local government control in the
future.
4 2 Oiitputs by components:
The project supported around 40 large and 70 small technical assistance sub-projects for the
implementation of the project components listed in Section 3.3 and 3.4. The project also included reviews
by independent experts of studies and unsolicited proposals by private investors and audits of selected the
above studies by independent experts and provision of training for the staff of the PMU and PLUs.
-4 -



Component (a) was done well with more than 30 sub-projects addressing the development of
policies and or planning with substantial outputs. As a follow on from work initiated under TAP4I-I, good
progress was achieved in the development and restructuring of the railways authority (PERUMKA) which
became a state owned corporation (PT KA) based on policies developed under the project. Substantial
outputs were made in relation to policy and planning for strategic transport corridors and arterial road
networks in Java, and for the development and management of toll roads. In addition the foundations were
laid for improvements to the planning of road maintenance and for the introduction of earmarked road
funds to improve the allocation and use of funding for highway maintenance.
Substantial progress was achieved in water supply master planning for local governments in four
regions of Indonesia. These local governments achieved a better understanding of the different options for
introducing private participation and the critical success factors involved in the provision of improved
water supply services and (in one region) solid waste management. Progress was achieved towards
cooperation between adjacent enterprises so that they could become a large enough regional operation to
attract private investors and operators. However decentralization has made local governments less willing
to share revenue-generating enterprises, making cooperation more difficult to achieve. Substantial progress
was also achieved on the sub-project for the development of housing policy. This has laid down the
foundations for maling the housing market work better and will be followed on by other technical
assistance for implementation of the policies developed.
Component (b) had substantial outcomes and the project's PMU became the de facto
Public-Private Partnership Center and played a key role in the development of Keppres 7 and its
implementing regulations and guidelines. It also served as a central repository for information and expertise
relating to private participation in infrastructure. Although substantial results were achieved, it should be
noted that to date no public private partnership project has reached financial closure as a direct result of
project activities. This is because of a lack of private investment in infrastructure during the political and
economic crises which has beset Indonesia since mid 1997. In addition to work done under specific
sub-projects, the PMU and its advisors played a significant role in progressing several other water supply
projects with PSP including those for Jakarta and Medan.
Under component (c), advisory services were provided for six feasibility studies and one
engineering design sub-project One of these was related to irnproving railway infrastructure, four were
related to highway projects, one was related to water resource development and one to flood protection.
Technically and economically feasible solutions were found for each of these sub-projects. However
implementation has not taken place because of a lack of public or private finance for infrastructure
development. Environmental and resettlement assessments were carried out for two of the above water
related sub-projects and for two of the highway related projects. Although the quality of most of these
studies was good, the outcomes have mainly been modest or negligible. In addition to the lack of funding
for implementation, these sub-projects, which were done for central government prior to decentralization,
have lacked owners or champions willing to promote the sub-project, arrange funding for implementation
and expedite implementation in a decentralized environment.
Various studies and investment proposals were reviewed and commented on by the PMU and its
advisers. In the water sector these included proposals for the development of Umbulan Spring for the
supply of water to Greater Surabaya, water supply in Serang, Medan and Malang. Reviews and comments
on changes proposed to the on-going Jakarta water supply cooperation agreements were also made. Other
proposals reviewed or commented on included the proposed Jakarta Subway and the proposals for
resuming Jakarta Outer Ring Road. The outputs from most of the sub-projects were reviewed by the PMU
and its advisers, and by a team of local consultants carrying out impact assessments. The outcomes from
- 5 -



this component were substantial with sound advice provided to and appreciated by local govenmuents
facing private sector investment proposals for the first time.
Training was provided to the PMU by sending key staff on management and finance courses at
institutions in Jakarta. In addition PMU and other Bappenas staff and some staff from PIUs attended
overseas training, seminars and workshops on PSP and on regulatory bodies. Some officials from the PMU
and PIUs also visited other ASEAN countries to discuss and review progress with introduction of PSP in
these countries and to compare progress with Indonesia. In-house and on-the-job training was also
provided to the PMU by its advisers throughout the duration of the project. This training increased their
knowledge and understanding of the critical success factors required for private participation in
infrastructure development. PIU officials also received training and guidance in the use of World Bank
Guidelines for the selection and appointment of consultants and for procurement of contracts for goods and
services.
The sectors and sub-sectors addressed under the project included transport (highways, railways,
toll roads etc.) postal services, water supply, water resources, solid waste management and housing as well
as Y2K related activities. Sub-sectors mentioned in the Loan Agreement which were not addressed included
power generation and distribution, ports, environmental sanitation development and management, and
commuunications. In general, this was because technical assistance was being provided by other donors for
these sub-sectors. Power was not included because it had already received considerable attention under
TAP4I-I. In addition after the economic crisis struck Indonesia, there was an excess of power capacity and
no immediate need to develop new schemes for power generation and transmission. Telecommunications
was not included because the sector was already largely privatized and commercialized and did not require
further technical assistance. At least five port-related sub-projects were formulated by implementing
agencies for inclusion in the project. However the quality of the terms of reference (TOR) was in most
cases poor, lacking adequate recognition of environmental issues, or insufficiently comprehensive and
agreement to the TOR with the Bank could not be concluded. An attempt was made to include a sub-project
for introducing PSP in wastewater treatment and disposal in Jakarta. The TOR was submitted to the
Bank several times in various forms but these were unsatisfactory and no agreement was reached with the
Bank. With the onset of the economic crisis, it became clear that it was pointless pursuing this sub-project
further as no investors were likely to be interested. The sub-project concerning solid waste management in
Bali was, therefore, the sole representative of environmental sanitation development and management
projects.
Sectors not specifically mentioned in the Loan Agreement but included in the project were postal
services and housing. These were included in the work program at the request of the Govemment of
Indonesia (GOI) with Bank agreement. GOI also requested inclusion in the project of assistance on the
restructuring of state-owned enterprises prior to privatization. This was agreed by the Bank but, after
fonnulation and discussion of TOR, the implementing agency decided to fund the work using grant aid
from a different donor.
4 3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable
-6 -



4.5 IliJ%fltuttonaldevelopment imp(ctt:
In the broad context of attempting to change the institutional dynamics of public and private
cooperation in infrastructure investment in Indonesia, the impact of this project must summarized as being
positive, but modest. The project has increased the understanding of private investment in infrastructure
amongst officials in a wide range of local governments and in various central government institutions
including the National Development Planning Agency (Bappenas), Ministry of Communications and the
Ministry of Settlements and Regional Infrastructure (Kimpraswil). As a result of the project, more officials
realize that the old way of publicly funding all infrastructure development is inefficient, unaffordable and
unsustainable, and have begun to understand that pnvate investment in infrastructure is essential to provide
the infrastructure needed to maintain and support the national development program. Achievement of this
paradigm shift is a major task and this project, following on from TAP4I-I, has helped to develop and
disseminate the change process and increase awareness amongst government officials. The project has
considerably developed understanding of private participation in infrastructure in Indonesia but much more
remains to be done to achieve broad scale acceptance by more government officials and the general public.
Many government officials, entrenched in the old ways and suspicious of change, still need to be convinced
that more cost effective services can and should be provided by the private sector. Also relatively little was
done under the project to raise public awareness and understanding of the benefits of private participation
in infrastructure development and management. Public awareness campaigns are needed so that ordinary
people cease to associate private participation with increased tariffs and corruption and appreciate the
improvement in infrastructure services made possible by private participation and competition.
The project made a start on the establishment of regulatory bodies for water supply, by promoting
discussion on alternative institutional arrangements at workshops, coordinating the work with that of other
projects which included establishment of regulatory bodies and by reviewing and assessing the
arrangements for the regulatory body for Jakarta water supply. This has resulted in the establishment of a
new body as the Regulatory Authority for Jakarta water supply.
The project also supported preliminary studies on the establishment of a road funding program and
development of appropriate institutions intended to improve the allocation of funding for road maintenance
by creating direct linkages between payments by road users and improvements in road condition.
The project has explored altemative ways of getting local govemments to cooperate in the
provision of essential services. In South Bali a model for cooperation in solid waste management and
disposal has been developed which could be applied to other groups of neighboring local governments.
Various ways of getting water enterprises to cooperate have also been examined, but a replicable model,
which works in practice has not been found yet.
One sub-project addressed the institutional development required to enable and promote private
investment in water resource development and management in conjunction with the Bank-funded Water
Resources Sector Adjustment Loan (WATSAL) (Ln.4469). However the results of this study were
disappointing. Various ideas were formulated and proposed to the implementing agency, but these did not
lead to crystallization of any firm policies or strategies, partly because of changes in direction by the PIU
as a result of reorganization of the former Ministry of Public Works during the study. In addition the
consultant lacked prior knowledge of the policies being developed under the WATSAL program and failed
to coordinate his work with that of the WATSAL consultants who were working for a different
implementing agency. However the sub-project did increase awareness of the complexities of private
investment in water resources and introduced new perspectives on PSP in water resources.
The overall impact of the project on institutional development will only be sustained if continuing
support to the process of raising the awareness and understanding of govemment officials and the public at
- 7-



large is continued. In particular more independent sectoral regulatory authorities are needed as well as more
effective linkages for promoting private investment in infrastructure. There is also a need to develop
institutions or networks, which are capable of providing good quality infornation on potential
infrastructure projects to potential investors in infrastructure projects more effectively. The current GOI
Coordmnating Ministry for Economic Affairs has formally requested the Bank to prepare a new technical
assistance loan to continue support for these matters.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The whole investment scene changed as a result of the crisis. During TAP4I-I and the formulation
of TAP4I-2, private investors had been queuing up to finance infrastructure projects. After the crisis, there
was very little private or public finance available for infrastructure development. This lack of downstream
investment has had a major effect on the immediate impact of the project. A summary of the effects of the
crisis on the project is given in Annex 10. The events in East Timor further reduced international
confidence in Indonesia and increased the perceived risk to potential foreign investors.Political instability
caused three rnajor changes in govemment and several other changes in national Cabinet composition, line
ministrnes' organization, key officials and their staff. This led to delays in decisions, changes in policy
direction and prioritites, and a general loss of continuity.
Public and private debt, denominated in foreign currencies, increased considerably as a percentage
of GNP as a result of devaluation of the rupiah during the economic crisis. Indonesia's intemational credit
rating was downgraded making it almost impossible to raise the long term debt required for infrastructure
development project finance.
In a prolonged situation of political and economic uncertainty it is very difficult to introduce
private sector participation in infrastructure development successfully. However at the time an optimistic
view was taken that the crisis would soon be over, as it was not realized that the political and economic
problems would be so deep and persist for so long.
Y2K Issues. Fears of disruption of critical services, through the failure of software and hardware
systems at the start of the year 2000, resulted in the use of some project resources for technical assistance
required to safeguard critical systems. This was addressed by the project under the objective concerning the
reduction of potential bottlenecks. Amending the Loan Agreement took longer than expected, and
preparation, procurement and implementation of suitable sub-projects had to be done rapidly by an
implementing agency with little experience with Bank procurement procedures. This gave the PMU staff
considerable additional work.
5 2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The project commenced prematurely, some 18 months before its predecessor TAP4I-I was
completed. The resources of the PMU were insufficient to cope with the two projects and concentrated
initially on finishing TAP4I-I. As a result much of the project's pipeline of planned sub-projects were taken
up by other bilateral or multilateral technical assistance programs (mainly in the form of grants) which
proceeded more rapidly. Other sub-projects in the pipeline had to be abandoned or radically altered as a
result of unsatisfactory terrns of reference and other delays, and very few sub-projects in the original
pipeline were actually taken up by the project. Thus, disbursements were initially slow and the pipeline of
tchnical assistance requests from the participating agencies essentially had to be rebuilt from 1997 onward.
- 8 -



The Loan Agreement stipulated that 20% counterpart fund contribution was required for feasibility
studies caried out for the central government. This was intended to encourage a sense of comnmitment by
central government to carry out useful studies and get good quality results. However in reality obtaimng
counterpart funds was a problem for many agencies and many potential sub-projects were financed from
other agencies providing 100% support through grants or loan.As a result of the economic cnsis, at the
request of GOI, all categories of the project became 100% Bank financed, (net of taxes). Following this, far
more sub-projects were proposed for inclusion in the project, but many had little to do with the project
objectives and were rejected after screening.
More than 270 sub-projects were formulated by government agencies and proposed as candidates
for inclusion in the project. About 70 of these sub-projects were small projects and training activities with a
value of less than US$ 100,000. From the remaining 200 sub-projects only approximately 40 sub-projects,
with a value exceeding US$100,000 have proceeded to implementation. With less than 20% of the
sub-projects identified being approved for implementation, it is clear that the capacity of many govermment
agencies to properly identify and formulate technical assistance projects is inadequate. In the future, if most
projects are identified and prepared by local government agencies who have even less capacity than central
government officials, this will become an even greater problem.
Although the project was supposed to enable the rapid selection and appointment of consultants,
this was not possible within the existing government procurement regulations. Only eight of the 24 larger
sub-projects analyzed succeeded in having a signed contract in less than the target time of 375 days from
review of initial project brief/terms of reference by the PMU to contract signature. The existing
procurement process is too complicated and inflexible with too many different steps and too many people
involved, many of whom have little knowledge or training in procurement. When problems arise,
procurement teams have little incentive to take decisions and long delays occur. For procurement teams the
need to satisfy the state audit department (BPKP) is paramount, and a fault free audit trail is more
important to them than getting a sub-project rapidly to the implementation stage. In addition the
no-objection letters required from the Bank caused additional delays on some of the sub-projects.
The rapid introduction of decentralization in January 2001 following promulgation of Laws 22 and
25 in 1999 resulted in more uncertainty because their implementing regulations were issued late and in
some cases lacked clarity. Decentralization also caused a loss of continuity as local governments lacked the
experience and expertise to take over studies done for the central government and they did not promote
implementation because they were generally unable to arrange finance for the projects studied even when
found economically and technically feasible.
For this multi-sector project, the PMU was in Bappenas and sub-projects were implemented by a
range of line ministries and local governments. The PMU was responsible for ensuring that loan funds were
used in accordance with the Loan Agreement and that government and Bank procurement procedures were
complied with. The government implementing agencies were responsible for implementing the sub-projects
and ensuring outputs and outcomes were satisfactory. This division of responsibility was not always
satisfactory, particularly if changes in the terms of reference or contract were required in the view of the
implementing agency to obtain the results required.
The project steering committee, chaired by the Head of Bappenas was responsible for high level
liaison between the line ministries and for deciding which sub-projects should be included in the program.
In practice the full Steering Committee rarely met formally and this isolated the project from high level
strategy and policy issues.
-9-



A "single door" policy was adopted for the project whereby all correspondence between
implementing agencies and the Bank (and vice versa) was passed through the PMU and the Bank's Task
Manager who was based in Jakarta for most of the project. This generally worked well, but from time to
time, on some sub-projects, implementing agencies and Bank staff reached decisions directly without
reference to PMU or the Task Manager. When this occurred, confusion and delay were often the end result.
A one-to-one relationship made possible through a "single door" policy is essential on a project of this
nature which involves many implementing agencies and a separate PMU managing the use of the loan.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
This multisector project was coordinated and managed by a PMU under Bappenas, who was
responsible for managing and supervising use of the loan but implemented by many different central and
local govemment agencies, who were responsible for supervision of the sub-projects. The relevant factors
have therefore all been included in Section 5.2 above in order to improve clarity and avoid repetition.
5.4 Costs and financing:
The original project cost was US$33.6 million. In 1999, US$3 million was cancelled due to
project savings from the depreciation of the rupiah. Combined with the elimination of the cost-sharing
requwrements (other than $2.5 million for tax obligations), the resulting revised project cost was estimated
at $27.5 million, of which the Loan was to finance $25 million. (See Annex 2) As of mid-June 2002, final
withdrawal applications totaling $22.43 million had been paid, leaving some $2.57 million remaining
undisbursed. The original closing date was March 31, 2000; the final closing took place 18 months later on
December 31, 2001. Reasons for the implementation delays are discussed in the "Major Factors" section
above.
Project cost variations result from a number of factors. First, the instability of the rupiah during
and after the economic crisis made the preparation of accurate sub-project budgets difficult. This resulted
in underruns on some of the early sub-projects and delays in payment on some of the later sub-projects, if
the budgets had to be increased. Second, many of the sub-projects required specialist management
consultants to tackle institutional development, financial and change management issues. Budgets based on
govemment billing rate guidelines derived from rates for technical consultants were often inadequate. It was
often impossible to persuade project managers to prepare budgets using rates well above these guidelines
because they feared being held personally responsible by the state auditor (BPKP). It was possible to obtain
permission to base contracts on bids which exceeded the budget with adequate justification and approval
from the relevant minister. This was done for some sub-projects, where the PMU and the PIU were
convinced that specialist expertise was essential but the process caused long delays. In general the PMU
and PIUs preferred to use consultants with billing rates in line with the guidelines to avoid such delays and
administrative problems.
Delays in disbursements occurred for a range of reasons. Disbursement categories, defined in the
Loan Agreement, were allocated to each sub-project. For some sub-projects, the category used by Ministry
of Finance (MoF) differed from that used by the Bank. This resulted in misallocation of expenditure and
the eventual apparent overrun in Category 1-A. The errors were eventually corrected after prolonged
discussions between PMU, Bank and MoF staff. Other problems include: (a) problems with budget
reallocation; (b) delays in appointing project managers; (c) changes of implementing agency as a result of
reorganization; (d) delays in issue of the NOL for disbursement, (later replaced by Form 348c) by the
Bank; (e) difficulties in arranging a bank guarantee for advance payments during the economic crisis; (f)
delays in preparing and agreeing memoranda for changes in technical inputs; (g) difficulties in getting
- 10 -



evidence of payment which was acceptable to the implementing agency for reimbursable items; (h) slow
processing of invoices by payment officers, concemed that the state auditor might object to some of the
items paid.
The delay in official notification of approval of the first loan extension in March 2000 also caused
a range of disbursement problems and delays. Sub-project project managers could not be reappointed until
after the loan extension was agreed and revised budgets could not be submitted until after these project
managers were reappointed. Disbursements could not resume until the revised budgets were approved.
This chain of events resulted in little disbursement over a period of about three months. In addition Bank
Indonesia froze the loan account and no withdrawals could be made for disbursement requests submitted
prior to loan closure until the account was re-activated.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustamnability rating:
Based upon the ICR mission discussions with key GOI agencies and officials, the sustainability of
the project outcome is rated as likely, primarily considering the strong committment of the Coordinating
Minister of Economic Affairs, his staff and related ministries, as evidenced by the formation of an
Interministerial Infiastructure Policy Team (KPPI Committee) by Presidential Decree in late 2001 with the
specific task of improving the policy framework for public and private investment in infrastructure,
building upon the outputs and results of this project. However, with a radical decentralization in progress
and continuing low investor confidence due to ongoing economic and political unrest, the most appropriate
rating would be "uncertain" but the ICR template no longer allows this rating. It is clear that some of the
benefits expected under the project are likely to be sustainable. These are mainly related to policy and
strategy development related to private participation in infrastructure development and management. The
understanding of PSP in infrastructure development amongst government officials has been markedly
increased as a result of project activities. Policies requiring open transparent competition have been
introduced and the concept of accountability and the need for regulatory authorities where there is a lack of
competition are now accepted by many government officials. These changes have gathered sufficient
momentum and support from senior government officials to be sustained. In addition, an understandmng
among key officials of the need for a change in the role of government from implementer to enabler is
emerging. If nurtured properly, this will flourish into a fundamental change in attitude among government
officials which will sustain more effective government and PSP infrastructure development. With this
objective in mind, the Coordinating Minister of Economic Affairs has formally requested the Bank to
prepare as quickly as possible an new technical assistance loan to support the operations and policy
development work of the KPPI Committee and related infrastructure agencies, including local governments
with greater infrastructure roles after decentralization.
There has been a loss of continuity as a result of decentralization. It is clear that many local
governments have different priorities and objectives from the central government and are not always keen to
implement projects prepared by central government agencies. In many cases local governments are not
interested in the big picture, and only want to develop infrastructure to satisfy their own local requirements
rather than looking to maximize economic development from a national or regional point of view. With the
benefit of hindsight sustainability would have been better if more sub-project studies had been implemented
directly for local governments. However the lack of capacity of local governments to identify and formulate
feasible sub-projects would have made this difficult to achieve.
Despite changes in the role, organization and structure of Bappenas during and after the project,
- 11 -



Bappenas has continued to play a significant role in defining national strategy on infrastructure
development, although it will now do so as a member of the KPPI team. The benefit of the training,
expertise and experience gained by Bappenas staff from the project will therefore have a sustained value
when dealing with issues relating to PSP in infrastructure development in the future.
There is no public or private funding inmmediately available to implement the sub-projects which
have been shown to be technically and economically feasible. If this situation continues for long, the studies
will become out of date and will have to be revised and updated, limiting the value of some work done in
the project.
A weakness of the technical assistance loan generically is that many of the sub-projects ended with
a report containing recommendations for action. There is a need to continue support for implementing these
recommendations and persuading central and local government officials and other stakeholders that real
benefits will accrue from implementation in accordance with the recommendations. Where changes in
attitudes and institutions are required, change management is often more demanding and tume-consuming
than identification and analysis of the technical issues. Some provision for implementation support should
be considered when designing future technical assistance projects.
6.2 Transition arrangement to reguilar operations:
Not applicable.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance during identification, preparation and negotiation was unsatisfactory. Bappenas
and the Bank worked closely together to develop the project concept, based on increasing the coverage to
other infrastructure sectors with the approach taken in the then-ongoing TAP4I-I loan (focused primarily
on the power and telecommunications sectors). The project concept was clearly consistent with Bank and
GOI strategy at the time and was obviously needed in response growing number of unsolicited pnvate
proposals for infrastructure investments and/or concession arrangements. However, as noted elsewhere, the
project was processed quickly and prematurely. A pipeline of sub-projects to be included in the first year of
the loan was identified, but not fully prepared by the time of loan negotiation. With GOI making initial
efforts at decentralization of urban services delivery responsibilities (in part with Bank urban project
assistahce), an increased emphasis on sub-projects with a local government as the Executing Agency was
provided, but there was essentially no dialogue with local govemments during the project preparation
process. The project was effectively accelerated by 12-18 months from the agreed lending program to meet
a shortfall in targeted lending for FY 95. Using the simplified processes for technical assistance lending, the
entire preparation process from PCD to Board approval was less than 15 weeks (March 10-June 22, 1995),
but even more telling is the fact that less than 10 staff weeks was spent in the entire process (see Annex 4
for details). As noted elsewhere, this resulted in the PMU being unprepared to effectively utilize the funds
and delays in disbursement of more than 18 months. The pipeline of sub-projects prepared to reduce the
delays contained many sub-projects which were unsuitable or had terms of reference which were
unacceptable to the Bank without major changes.
The project documentation states that delays in procurement were to be reduced by using existing
PMU staff familiar with Bank procedures and standard procurement guidelines prepared under TAP4I-I.
The Bank perhaps underestimated the problems associated with the existing system which is inflexible and
provides little incentive for procurement teams to resolve problems and get procurement completed quickly.
- 12-



7.2 Suipervision:
Supervision by the Bank was generally satisfactory. After the slow start of the project resulted in
the rating of project implementation progress as "unsatisfactory" and the previous Team Leader departed
for a new assignment, the newly appointed sector manager decided that a decentralized supervision strategy
was to be undertaken from late 1997, especially in light of the then-breaking crisis. The Urban Sector
Coordinator in the Jakarta office was assigned as Task Team Leader, with assistance and support available
from the TAP4I-1 TTL (also in Jakarta) and an appropriate mix of sector specialists available during
mission visits.
Regular informal meetings were held between the PMU and the Task Manager, in addition to
formal supervision reviews when key specialists were in Jakarta on mission. This decentralized supervision
approach resulted in good cooperation and understanding being achieved during implementation, because
this made possible regular direct discussion of issues with government officials. Delays and
misunderstandings sometimes arose between government officials and Washington based Bank staff, who
were responsible for specific sub-projects but had many other competing demands on their time. In some
cases when Bank staff were away on mission for other projects there were delays in issuing NOLs, but
these occaisions were rare.
In the early stages of the project a single door policy was introduced and most correspondence
between the Bank and the government implementing agencies was passed through the Task Manager and
the Head of the PMU. This arrangement generally worked well and reduced the number of
misunderstandings and supported the complete, accurate documentation of all sub-projects and issues.
The Bank supervision also attempted to deal with the rapidly changing economic, financial,
political and social conditions in Indonesia from 1997 onward. The project financed a review of
restructuring options for the Ministry of Public Works, in light of new legislation requiring increased
participation of business and professional groups in the conduct of infrastructure development and greater
transparency in the budgeting and contracting processes. By 1999 there was growing concem that most
Indonesian public service providers had done practically nothing to prepare for the potential problems
associated with the effects of the year 2000 on older computers, and the Bank and GOI saw TAP4I-2 as the
most flexible project available to provide the urgent assistance required by a wide variety of GOI offices.
With a rapid loan amendment in November 1999 the project financed the preparation of contingency plans
and the purchase of updated equipment for more than a dozen key service providers, including utilities,
transport, civil service, immigration and others. (see annex 8 for additional details) In short, flexibility and
responsiveness to very quickly changing needs were the essential demands upon the Bank supervision
capacity for this project, and approaching this situation with the decentralized supervision team proved to
be an effective means of dealing with a very dynamic project.
- 13 -



7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory. A complicated project, addressing complex
institutional issues connected with private investment in infrastructure, through many sub-projects and
implementing agencies, was carried out from 1997 onward in a satisfactory manner during a period of
exceptional economic instability and political change. This was in part due to the understanding and
guidance provided by all members of the project team to the PMU and the various government agencies-
involved. Despite the difficult times, Bank team never gave up on the project and always tried to provide
helpful support and advice.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
GOI's activities during the accelerated preparation were mainly concentrated on discussing the
experience of TAP4I-I and in identification of a sub-project pipeline for the project. Although the project's
slow start was mainly because the PMU's resources were initially concentrated on completing TAP4I-I, if
the pipeline of sub-projects had been better prepared, there could have been less delay in getting the project
started. As it tumed out, few of the pipeline sub-projects were implemented under this project. Taking
account of this and the speed with which the project was prepared, the Borrower's performance was
marginally satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance was rated satisfactory. The PMU was pro-active in
resolving problems which arose and assisted procurement teams in following Bank guidelines on the
selection and appointment of consultants. More could have been done in the initial stages of the project to
promote the concept of PSP in infrastructure development to the implementing agencies and to guide them
in the formulation of appropriate sub-projects.
GOI remained fully committed to the project through the political and economic turmoil and the
PMU, headed by a senior official from Bappenas, fulfilled its responsibilities well. The Steering Commnittee
was set up and chaired initially by the Vice Chairman of Bappenas. After the change of Bappenas from
Ministry to State Ministry and subsequently to an Agency, the Steering Committee was chaired by the
Chairman of Bappenas. The Steering Committee itself held formal meetings infrequently, but frequent
informal contact was maintained. The Chairman of Bappenas, with the support of his Deputy for
Production, Trade, and Infrastructure Development (Deputy HD) was responsible for final selection of
sub-projects, overseeing overall management and implementation of Project activities throughout the loan.
All concerned have played a significant role in supporting the introduction of PSP in infrastructure
development in a transparent and accountable way and in increasing the understanding of the issues
involved amongst governument officials.
The government implementing agencies at national, provincial and local government levels were
responsible for preparing sub-project proposals including project documentation packages and for their
implementation. Local governments were generally unable to prepare adequate project proposals and
considerable assistance was provided by the PMU. They were also unfamiliar with Bank procurement
procedures and needed considerable assistance in this area. Central govenmment agencies were able to
formulate sub-projects but many still required considerable assistance. Familiarity with Bank procurement
procedures varied from agency to agency and many needed assistance, support and training.
According to Schedule 5 of the Loan Agreement, the Borrower was to prepare and furnish to the
Bank for its approval an annual program of sub-projects including TOR. In practice, because of difficulties
- 14 -



in formulating sub-projects and finalizing TOR, sub-projects were presented to the Bank as and when
ready. Revisions to the TOR following comments from the Bank made it impossible to comply with
submission of an annual program as envisaged in the Loan Agreement.
Progress reports were prepared every three months by the PMU and submitted to the Bank. These
contained comprehensive and accurate information on the progress of the project.
Impact assessments, including audits reviewing the performance of the consultants were carried out
by national consultants with support from the PMU. Information on the quality of outputs has also been
provided at periodic review meetings with Bank staff. When problems arose, the Task Manager was
informed of the situation and remedial action taken.
Compliance with key covenants.
Section 3.3 of the Loan Agreement:
(a)    prepare on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank andfurnish to the Bank not later than
six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreedfor this purpose between the
Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project.
This plan was not prepared as it was inappropriate in view of the changes which have occurred
since the Loan Agreement was formulated. As previously GOI has requested further Technical Assistance
in the form of a further loan to continue support for private provision of infrastructure.
According to Section 3.04 of the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a)    in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and with the assistance of
consultants employed in accordance with Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, carry out a
comprehensive review of the externally financed technical assistance received by the Borrower with the
view of assessing the effectiveness and efficiency of such technical assistance, and preparing an analysis
of the impact thereof on the Borrower's institutional development; andfurnish to the Bank for its review
and comments, the results of such review, by not later than May 31 1997; and
(a)    by not later than September 30, 1997, review together with the Bank the findings and
recommendations of the review referred to in paragraph (a) above.
This was a general requirement for all technical assistance in Indonesia at this time and was
intended to assess the effectiveness of technical assistance. It was implemented on few projects and was not
done on this project by the dates stated above because of delays in procurement of many of the
sub-projects. As mentioned above, impact assessments of most of the sub-projects have been carried out.
These include an assessment of the effectiveness and efficiency of the technical assistance. Detailed
commnents on each sub-project have been provided to the Bank at each review meeting. These comments
since March 2001 have also included an indicator of the quality of the work done and the lessons derived
from these impact assessments.
All the Financial Covenants set out in Article IV of the Loan Agreement, concerning maintenance
of records and accounts, and provision of information to the Bank have been complied with by the
Borrower.
- 15 -



7.6 Implementing Agency:
In view of the nature of this project with many implementing agencies, this information has been
included in the preceeding section.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance.
Taking account of the complexity of the project and the achievements gained in the face of difficult
political and economnic conditions, it is considered that the overall performance of the Borrower was
satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Many lessons were learned from the project relating to introducing PSP in infrastructure
development in Indonesia. These lessons will serve as one of the starting point for dialogue between the
Bank and GOI regarding the requested continuation of technical assistance for supporting the further
improvement of policy frameworks and regulations governing private provision of infrastructure in
Indonesia. Some of the key lessons and issues include:
1)    Integration ofprivate participation in infrastructure development within the overall
infrastructure development framework: A coherent holistic approach is needed so that public and private
infrastructure development do not compete with each other. The undermining of private sector initiatives by
the introduction of government-funded alternatives using subsidized debt financing should be avoided at all
costs. Each form of development has its place, and government officials must learn that PSP is most
effective where efficiency gains are possible from pnvate sector involvement. As a result of
decentralization, the presidential decree governing PSP (Keppres 7) needs to be (and is being) updated.
This is an opportunity to promote the integration required.
2)     Resistance to institutional change: It was clear during the project that resistance to change from
the old ways of infrastructure development is difficult to overcome. On many sub-projects the most difficult
and time consuming part was change management and the development of a real consensus for change
amnongst government officials and the public in general. Vested interests resist change and many fear that
the pnvate sector will win concessions through corrupt connections and exploit consumers by maximizing
profits and providing poor quality service. Introducing effective competition and effective independent
regulatory bodies working with consumer associations is necessary to allay these fears and demonstrate the
existence of effective safeguards for the public.
3)     Establishment of a Public-Private Partnerships (or P3) information center or network: During
the project the PMU acted as a defacto P3 Center, gathering and disseminating information about PSP and
trying to identify suitable potential projects and private investors. This was a valuable service which needs
to continue. With decentralization and improved access to the intemet, a network exchanging information
rather than a single physical center may be the most appropriate way forward.
4)     A needfor champions: It was clear from the project that sub-projects with an enthusiastic and
influential supporter within govenmment were much more likely to proceed to the physical implementation
of infrastructure development. These champions can help to overcome government and public resistance to
PSP and raise awareness of the potential efficiency and other benefits which should come to consumers and
the region from well designed infrastructure projects with private participation.
- 16 -



5)     A need to strengthen and deepenfinancial markets: Many of the problems of on-going
infrastructure projects with PSP during the economic crisis, resulted from raising debt and equity in foreign
currency. Projects with a revenue stream in US dollars became unaffordable to consumers and projects
with a revenue stream in rupiah became unaffordable to investors unless massive tariff rises were mvoked.
There is a need to improve the availability of project finance from domestic sources. Until this is done and
more domestic funds can be mobilized, infrastructure projects with private investment will always be
vulnerable to economic shocks. After the lessons of the economic crisis, potential investors, reliant on
foreign financing, will demand a high risk premium before investing in Indonesia.
6)     Continued supportfor development of the PSP policyframework: It is clear that there is still
much to be done in this area. Policy on regulatory bodies is still under development, the future role of
central and local government owned enterprises (including water enterprises) after the introduction of PSP
is unclear. The privatization of state-owned industries and the introduction of private participation in
infrastructure development need to be brought into an integrated program with inter alia shared effective
regulatory bodies.
7)     Demonstration projects are essential: Although theoretical frameworks are needed for the
introduction of PSP in infrastructure, it is only when faced with the real situations arising in pilot projects
that the practical difficulties are highlighted. Overcoming these problems and demonstrating to government
and the public that real improvements in service delivery at affordable prices can occur is the best way to
gain support for PSP.
In addition, lessons were learned on the project relevant to the design of future technical assistance
loans. Key lessons and issues include the need for:
1)     Clear objectives and a logicalframework: The objectives of the project were deliberately broad
and covered public and private participation in infrastructure development, although in practice the main
thrust was towards private participation. No logical framework was provided and it was difficult to link
some of the components with the objectives. Consequently the sub-projects and their outputs range over a
wide area and some are difficult to relate to the objectives. With more focused objectives supported by a
logical framework and performance indicators, much effort expended on weeding out unsuitable
sub-projects proposed by implementing agencies could have been avoided.
2)     Effective linkages to senior decision-makers: The PMU and its advisers were not located in the
main Bappenas office although they did report to a senior Bappenas official based in the project office. The
Steering Committee did not function well and seldom met after the initial stages of the project. These two
factors limited contact between the PMU and senior decision-makers in Bappenas and other government
agencies. As a result senior government officials involved in PSP tended to appoint and rely on their own
in-house advisers who were more immediately accessible. This led to some duplication of effort and
inefficient use of scarce resources experienced in PSP. In future projects, efforts should be made to ensure
that the core team of experts is able to work closely with senior decision-makers and maintain daily contact
on an as needed basis with them.
3)     Strong ownership and continuity with sub-project users: Many sub-projects ended with a Final
Report and there was little downstream action thereafter. This was partly because of decentralization which
resulted in studies being done for central government agencies but implementation became the
responsibility of local governments who felt they did not own the sub-project. Future projects should
involve local government officials and stakeholders at all appropriate stages. A sense of ownership by the
- 17 -



organization which will eventually enable implementation is essential. Attention should also be given to
ensuring continuity from planning, feasibility study through to contract preparation and implementation.
This can be a long period for infrastructure projects with private participation. A system of staged
consultancy contracts is required, where a subsequent phase only proceeds with the same consultant if the
previous phase has been completed successfully.
4)     Clear rolesfor participating agencies: There was some duplication of effort between the PMU
and implementing agencies. There were also some conflicts when changes requested for technical reasons
by the implementing agency appeared to conflict with requirements of the Loan Agreement. Delays resulted
in both cases. These were avoided when implementing agencies had a better understanding of the Loan
Agreement and worked closely with the PMU to achieve the changes required. A document explaining the
Loan Agreement and containing a matrix defining who does and is responsible for what, would be useful in
future similar projects. This could be issued to key officials in implementing agencies, who ensure their
staff cooperate with the PMU and comply with the Loan Agreement.
5)     Positioning of sub-projects: In some cases, sub-projects were established at too low a level in the
government agency concemed or in the wrong agency or enterprise. Policy developed in these
circumstances could only be applied narrowly if at all. In particular asking agencies and enterprises to
reform themselves is seldom successful. In the initial screening process for new sub-projects, efforts are
required to ensure that the sub-project is being undertaken by the most appropriate govemment agency and
that effective linkages to other key relevant central and local govemment agencies are in place.
6)     Better quality TOR: Few TORs submitted to the PMU were adequate without major changes.
Central and local government staff need more training and support so they can produce logical, well
constructed TORs.
7)     Better trained procurement teams: It was clear that where implementing agencies had procurement
teams with extensive previous Bank (or other donors) project experience, the process of acquiring
consultants was much more rapid. More training and support, particularly in local governments, is required
to raise the capability of procurement teams.
8)     More flexible procurement and consulting contracts: Many of the sub-projects were quite
different from engineering consultancy contracts with which officials are mostly familiar. For institutional
development and management consultancy, where the work required is difficult to fully define in advance,
there is a need to develop and adopt procedures which allow more flexible use of consultancy services and
introduction of additional expertise quickly as and when needed. This is best done by framework-type
contracts or indefinite quantity contracts, which have been seldom used in Indonesia to date. More
flexibility on billing rates is also required when top quality specialist expertise is needed.
9)     Greater emphasis on quality outputs: Existing procurement systems focus on the inputs to be
provided and government agencies scrutinize the detail of CVs and often apply the results to a mechanical
evaluation process in order to select the winning bidder. However, even where this process is done
accurately based on good quality CVs, long delays in procurement and contract award often result in many
expert staff no longer being available, effectively invalidating the evaluation process. More emphasis
should be given to evaluating the methodology used and the quality of outputs promised and actually
delivered. If the outputs are substandard payment should be reduced or withheld. Such an output-oriented
approach would yield better quality results and make it more difficult for sub-standard consultants to
survive in the market. To work such a system government agencies would have to be trained or provided
- 18 -



with support to enable them to evaluate methodology and output quality in a rational way and to accelerate
the entire evaluation process.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agenc.v.
No. JQDI2O2katao 20~ I= 2002
Mr. Kesbaw VAr
But rtn ut ?adfemRagjen   owkaRew
DM12 R Sre. V=0 .
1n6ntnsRw(CeR. I.oam WYikWto. 3f dol34a4     u   mdS4fft
Our commarsonantksIMa Cm sfaUoesg
1. TAP4I ins weeeded to becme a *daao* pree to e  mdamdl.of pqall
pr,io"puazftacrs1*p potiiofhflstetre prpe .Vi, coul be amn In ame
samo =nh as h=ming the hipsvtnc of holidk and mu*"ln pub   -w
plaspmnawshlps in weve  projeora (d) a butoi solt pwobitm a tVdfv
p   vthi=Vuv=bwetp&
2, Unihewoataiy, Owee va ueconouk aish dwiv Ut. isaptesasatos of the pei$eU.
rdis ecosomk an cris hd owdtozeg  banwswd in Indonei #d HIndemd 6l
comleio o te rojctWehoe 1 bbpreee *"Ml to edhmed to fbrdp Ixvestu
1*66216 iveaZnW etmateIn idonesi a betto off,. lids probaw   has Ian
the InteteadAns                                 J,24siinet
3. TMe Couvaae=et of W&Mhtsl has mnagblshe  a Cosnhele. an i*sMUCb=e
d*VelopnznL The hieehtVnof rho Cmmtte i to 00=9donl and to =tafclrte th
deflopineok oft 6tWhun   done by both gotnoeosai aNW PUGil p?I  pa=rg*rsi. It
is hoped by eseUdtstlt   -the Comtnmhtk the dewlepseen of i*nfountmm ca* be
Iinplmmtzd   onloesly and A1 memw relatd to htnlashswmn vvill be isvof
Mr.~ ~   ~  ~   h Xm goMV* 2 &
Ik"= M2I)2620. MNOW.5%"Wim OMU5114B57l Uw * i.-..b.paL5Uj
- 19 -



4L cwtu9~~In wbuwoA      eI.u- b$ow' we bhg wk ano
Imcadud iba OM            u=&Ow ip lAss ?jwu  22 Yuw
Im aduNo     2sVus SMf.     dhe Xien  ad' a   a
the bide     of pvinh?  .pub hAftMIU &wk  , vmm
s  u   ofTrOf somws ab. oua J ka -iTMW nk.9 pNWaum
pnam~a R su ofth wmsglaso .V109 is b*W hsdot C*2=bw cmt bip
y so -       t   OOl and _atm C be a9flWy tudid
Gwovaniez of bAttaws * e Uaw , ,*  ume uuwea at  The eb sts. l
ftiwfado A. Sndu Opwsda PO*vz&dM   ea 6  us td UA. of
WiTh b X k
UbpTV4TW~~SZ_ie
tix o'ad _h xi 1o b
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable
(c) Other- partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable
10. Additional Information
None
- 20 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
No indicators or log frame matrix were provided in the Memorandum of the President and its
technical annex for this project. Key achievements have included:
-      Finalization of the Presidential Decree governing PSP (Keppres 7), production of supporting
regulations and dissemination and discussion of the decree. Through this and other work done under the
project, the understanding of private participation in infrastructure development among key government
officials was increased.
-      Development of ways in which local government water enterprises (PDAMS) may cooperate to
form viable entities for PSP. Such a cooperation agreement has been implemented by local governments in
South Bali for water supply and for solid waste management. Local governments in the vicinity of
Semarang in Central Java have also agreed to cooperate but up to now the cooperation agreement has not
been implemented.
-      Development of policy on regulatory bodies to regulate private sector agreements. Based mainly on
work done under the project, a regulatory body has been established for the Jakarta Water Supply
concession.
-      Advice given on various existing agreements for PSP, particularly in the water supply sector has
resulted in concessions in Serang and Medan being rationalized and a concession for bulk supply to Greater
Surabaya being postponed and replanned and a specific concession developed for Gresik.
-      A master plan for the development of arterial roads (including toll roads) in Java has been
developed which will form an urgently needed blueprint for the furither development of Java's road network.
-      The state railway organization was successfully restructured into a "PT" (limited liability)
company based on policy and advice provided by the project.
-      A comprehensive review of Indonesian housing policy and programs has been completed, and
options for a revised housing policy framework prepared which stresses the roles of community
organizations, private banking institutions, clarification of land rights and new approaches to government
participation in housing.
- 21 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing              - ,                L                           ;
(Based on Memorandum of the President June 2 1995 and Data from PMU's Sub-ProJect Monitoring S9ystem)
Project Cost by Component (In USS million equivalent)      Appraisal Actual/Latest' Percentage
-      - valen~       Estimate     Estimateo   of Appralsala
Cost by Component          J                        ,USS Million  USS Million
1    Policy, Strategy and Planning Studies                       9 70         i2.i87       133%
2    Feasibility and Engineering Studies                        18 00          7.92!        44%
3    Training                                                    1.75          0.86|        50%
4    Equipment                                           '       0.25          0.0O6         0%
5    Administration                                              1 10          1.461       133%l
6    Y2K related Cpmponent (added 1999)                          0 00          13i
Total Baseline Cost                                         30 80        24.47,         79%
Price Contingences                                           2.80            0!
Total Project Costs                                         33.60        24.47          7i%;
Total Financing Rtequired                                   33.60        24.47i         73%
GOI                                 5.60          2.12,        38%'
IBRb                                28.00         22.34;        80%
Project Cost by Procurement Arra gements (M morandum Estimate) (in USS million equivalent)
-I           iI                 
Expenditure Category                             Procurement Method
ICB         NCB       Other 2       N.B.F.      Total Cost I
1    Consultant Services                             -          30.50       -  -           30 50
-  -  (25.30)                    (25.3061
2    Training                                            i       i            1 75          1
- ;      (1.5?           -   !       (1.50)1
3-A  Goods for Y2K critical systems s
3-B  Goods and Equipment for PMU                     60.3        0 12           -           0 25
(O.10k)     (O 10)          -          (O 20)1
4   'PMU Administration                                          1 10                       1.10,
-  - .1   (100)           -           (1 00)!
Total                                           0.13       33.47                      33 60
(0.10)1    (27.90)          -(28.00)
Project Cost by Procurement Arrangements (Actual Latest Estimate) (In US$ m Illion equlvalent)
Expenditure Category                             Procurement Method
ICB         NCB     I Other 2       N.B.F.      Total Cost
1    Consultant Services                              -  ;      20.12           -          20 12
2  Training  -  i (20.12)            (20 12)1
2  Training                                                                            6 gi-  -  I  0  -  053
-  i      (0.48)             ,       (0.48)1
3-A  Goods for Y2K critical systems                      ,       0 68                       0.66
-      (0.60)         -           (0.60)1
3-B  Goods and Equlpment for PMU U                                       -                       i
4    PMU Administration                               -          1.35                       1 35
-       -   1~     (1.23)         -           (1.23)1
Total                                            -   I     22.66               j      22 66
-  g  (22.43?    -  '      ~~~(22.43)1
Notes                                     -           -          2
t Figures In parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan. All costs Include contingencies
21 Includes goods purchased through national shopping, international shopping, consulting services, services of contra ctld
staff of the PMU, training, technical assistance services
Financing plan foreseen In Mem orandum           Local      Foreign       Total 
.GOI                                              5.61          0           5.6!
IBRD                                              6 71       19.3           28:
Total                                            14 31       19.3          33-61
- 22 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing           |
1(liased on Loan Agreement and Data from Bank database)  I      |                                                    i
Project Cost by Category (In US$ million equivalent)      Loan Agreement
zCategory  Brief DescrIptIon                      Bank' Loca    Tax      Totalnancing 
Sector Policies and Planning Frameworks           a    a          ! t
1 -A-1    and Srategiestodevelop                 1000;    000'    1 00ool 1"0 IO%                        i.
institutions, PSP etc. for Central                                                              i
Govemment                                           i             i
1-A-Il    Feasibility Studies for Central Government  500  1.25i  0.631 8 881   80%i
Technical assistance for Y2K critical                             i -                           j
1-A-Ill   systems for Central Government          col    99           0.00
Technical assistance for Local
1-B       Governments                             7.301   00     0.731  8.031  100%:            | 
2         Training                                150     000    O.15   1i5    100%j                      1
3A        GGoods for Y2K critical systems                 000  0            -.65j
'3-B      Goods and EqulpmentforPMU                0201   0.05    063j   0.281  80%   pprox                         i
4         PMU Administration                      1.01    000    0.iOj  1.10j 100%             | lo
Subtotal                               25.00S   1.30    2.631 28.931
Unallocated                                     0       0o!-0   30  3 30  100%iassumed  i
Total                                  i8.001   1.30    2.93  3i.23 
fter mo!t recent (May 2001) Loan Amendment              Actually Dlsbursed
iank   Ui.i    a     To     II' iiclng'31ank       Local   Tax (tI    Total % of AllocatIon
Sector Policies and Planning Frameworks  _                        n                                                                 I
1-A-1     and Strategiesto develop                9.80    0 ool  09 81 10 78i 100%1        10 28|     0,001     1.031    11 31   1049%        j
institutions, PSP etc for Central       - .j       -.
*Government                                  i
1-A-tI    FeasibilityStu7iesforCentra! Government  7.35  000    074i   8.09   100%i        609        OOOj     0811      6.70    829%|
Technical assistance for Y2K critical                       I I                                                                     |
1-A-Ill   systems for Central Government          0.70           0071 0.771 1%;            l 0.00 00.0      0.001     0o00     0.%        !
Technical assistance for Local                                     I                  I
1-B       Govemments                              4.59j   000!   O45}   4.951  100%         3.63I     oool      036       3.99    807%'
Training                                         -1~~~~~~~~~~~ 2i1          6b1
2   Training                           0.55   0.00    008    081   100%:         o                    o 0051   053     87%i        i
'3-A       Goods for Y2K critical systems          0.70   0.00    0.o        7  10%          0.63                0.068     069 ,90O%
3-B       Goods and Equipment for PMU             0.00    0.00     70  07   10ool OOOj                             0.00i
4         PMU Administration                      125     0.00    0.3    1 38i 100           10.23    001      0.121     1.35    98.4%j
Special Account                          .                                I        0 09                                    .
Subtotal                               24.88    0.OO    2.8B  i7.ii.                        0.002     2.231    24.i8     89.9%1
'Unailocated                            __ is   0   i00  0,029 -o171 100%2         0.001     0.Ooi oo99 o.!        9
Ea-,                                           I                      i,661~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~-  --6  - 
Cancelled                               30o1    0.00    030    3.30i              3.00      00 0      0.30.     3.30
Total                                  28.001   0.00    2.80  i6.80io             25.43     0.001     2.53i1   27.88
Notes                                Assumed Tax rate= 10.00X%
(   Assumed tax rate 10%            1
(2)       Although disbursement Is shown as i in this category. It is known fhat USS0.628 expenditure was incurred. This was probably misallocated to Category I-A-I 
Disbursement based on June 20. 2002 data, breakdown by procurement method not yet available  r
FinanCing Plan foreseen at appraisal:
Local                         Foreign                          Total
GOI                                          5.6                              0                             5.6
IBRD                                         8.7                            19.3                           28.0
Totals                                       14.3                           19.3                           33.6
Final Financing Plan
Local                         Foreign                          Total
GOI                                          2.5                              0                             2.5
IBRD                                         8.0                            17.0                           25.0
Totals                                       10.5                           17.0                           27.5
- 23 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable to technical assistance projects.
- 24 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty           Perfornance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                     Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
Feb/March 1995              3    1 sanitary engineer, I financial
analyst, I transport specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
March/April                 3    1 transport specialist, I
1995                            sanitary specialist, I
financial analyst
Supervision
May 1996                     1   1 financial analyst               U             S
August 1996                 2    1 financial analyst, 1 transport  U             S
specialist
March 1997                  2    1 sanitary engineer, I transport  U             S
specialist
March 1998                  2    1 urban planner, 1 economist      S             S
July 1998                    2   1 urban planner, I economist      S             S
March 1999                   3   2 urban planners, I sanitary      S             S
engineer
November 1999                4   2 urban planners, I sanitary      S             S
engineer, I information officer
May 2000                     3   1 urban planner, I sanitary       S             S
engineer, I transport engineer
March 2001                   2   1 urban planner, I sanitary       S             S
engineer
November 2001                2   1 urban planner, I sanitary       S             S
engineer
ICR
April 2002                       1 urban planner, 1 program        S             S
management specialist
(b) Staff.
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               7.0                        20.8
Appraisal/Negotiation                     1.8                        5.8
Supervision                             86.5                       229.8
ICR                                       17                        43.1
Total                                   100.3                      299.5
- 25 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
CI Macro policies                      O H  O SU * M   O N   O NA
L Sector Policies                      O H  OSUOM      O N   O NA
O Physical                             O H  OSUOM      *N    O NA
Li Financial                           O H  OSUOM O N        * NA
O Institutional Development            O H  O SU *M    O N   0 NA
L Environmental                        O H  OSUOM      * N   O NA
Social
LI Poverty Reduction             O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
El Gender                        O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
O Other (Please specf)           O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
O Private sector development           0 H  O SU 0 M   0 N   0 NA
L Putblic sector management            0 H  0 SU * M   0 N   0 NA
I Other (Please specify)               OH   OSUOM      O N   * NA
- 26 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                              Rating
O Lending                                         OHS OS *U OHU
OI Supervision                                    OHS OS       O u    O HU
O Overall                                          OHS OS      0 U    O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                           Rating
OI Preparation                                     O HS * S    O U    O HU
3 Government implementation performance            0 HS 0 S    0 U    0 HU
OI Implementation agency performance               0 HS * s    0 U    0 HU
Ol Overall                                         OHS OS      OU     O HU
- 27 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
The information in this report was based on the following:
1. Quarterly Report No 4 FY 2001 prepared by PMU-TAP4I-II, May 2002, 200 pages.
2. Final Report and Appendices of PMU Advisers, Mott MacDonald Limited, March 2002, 300 pages
3. Additional information provided by PMU Adviser, January 2002, 20 pages
4. Borrower's Implementation Completion Report, May 2002, 70 pages
5. Impact Assessments for selected sub-projects, PT Sehat Pratama Sejati, January 2002, 200 pages
In addition information from some of the many reports produced by the sub-projects was used to provide
background information. A list of reports and other outputs prepared under the project is given in the above
mentioned Quarterly Report.
Discussions were also held with staff from the PMU, and some of the local and foreign consultants
advising the PMU during the project in order to obtain the latest available information on the impact and
outcomes of some of the sub-projects.
- 28 -



Additional Annex 8. Loan Amendments and Introduction of Y2K Program
The Loan Agreement for the project was amended five times as shown in the attached Table 8.1.
The first amendment in May 1998 changed the percent funded by the Bank to 100% for all categories, of
the loan. It was backdated to May 15, 1997. The reason for the amendment was the difficulty Indonesia
had in finding matching counterpart funds as a result of the economic crisis which began in mid 1997.
The second amendment in November 1999 added two additional components relating to Y2K
critical systems. These were emergency programs needed to ensure that critical systems which could not be
allowed to fail as a result of the Y2K problem had adequate and effective contingency plans in place.
Although this work did not fit the original loan components, TAP4I-II was the only available source from
which the funds needed could be made available rapidly.
The first component provided up to US$1 million for consulting services in selected government
agencies'to prepare contingency plans for critical activities which needed to be safeguarded against possible
software or hardware related problems which might arise at the start of the year 2000. Ten different
consultancy contracts with a total value of US$0.6 million were procured and implemented successfully.
The contract packets comprised:
Packet 1  Project Management (Intemational Technical Advisor)
Packet 2  Project Management (Local Technical Advisors)
Packet 3  Assisting the Preparation and Implementation of Contingency Plans for Ministry of Home
Affairs, BPS and BAPPENAS
Packet 4  Assisting the Preparation and Implementation of Contingency Plans for Board of Meteorology
and Geophysics (BMG) and Ministry of Foreign Affairs
Packet 5  Assisting the Preparation and Implementation of Contingency Plans for Agency for Civil
Service (BAKN) and Directorate General Immigration
Packet 6  Y2K Contingency Plan Review and Evaluation for Utilities (Power) Sector
Packet 7  Y2K Contingency Plan Review and Evaluation for Utilities (Oil and Gas) Sector
Packet 8  Y2K Contingency Plan Review and Evaluation for Utilities (Telecommunications) Sector: PT
Telkom
Packet 9  Y2K Contingency Plan Review and Evaluation for Utilities (Telecommunications) Sector: PT
Indosat
Packet 10  Y2K Contingency Plan Review and Evaluation for Transportation Sector: DG of Air
Communication
No unexpected Y2K related problems arose in the critical systems of the agencies where the work
was done. The second component provided for the purchase of computers and electronic equipment to
replace equipment known to be not Y2K compatible, which was performing critical activities. The amount
allocated was US$1 million and a total of US$0.59 million was disbursed for this component. The
equipment arrived late because the implementing agency did not initially follow the correct procurement
procedures for some of the packages. Once delivered and installed the equipment successfully replaced
computers and other equipment which had failed.
The third loan amendment agreed in February 2000, cancelled US$3 million from the loan and
extended the closing date by 12 months to March 31, 2001. The reduction in the total value of the
loan was part of a review of all loans by the govemment of Indonesia, aimed at reducing the total
amount of committed borrowing in the face of the economic crisis. The extension was required
- 29 -



because of delays in the procurement and implementation of sub-projects, which were partly as a
result of the economic problems and political changes which Indonesia experienced in 1998 and
1999.
A fourth loan amendment in February 2001 further extended the loan closing date to December
31, 2001 in order to complete the on-going work program.
The fifth loan amendment in May 2001 altered the ceiling amounts in the various loan categories.
Summy of Lomn Caies and Loan Ammdmml  Table 81
Low Aarwt  Aiwb har39B A_MflE8d N1B S9 AnwdN31 AIT*d Fa13  Anwd Mby 9Flu Bq2su&n
a         OOm 01E9             oi      US$
1-A4 CazWiWsuwAlosnladKtw  1 10DW0W000 1  O   0 1 10,000  10DS' 9,700,C00 10DS 9,700,0D0 100' 9,O00,cD 10D 9,791,545 999S
(a) C&* ygM--  b:GuWsJ
(I) S8FP&FPc*& Ff3TwWala
(il) S esto  ebp dc
__  )  Aaass kig pok , st 3aiw lc   a' _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __e  _ _ _   _ _ _   _ _ __J_     _
1-A-A Crmul savbsesu aroadwli 5C00,000,  8D 5,000  10% 5,ODO,O  10DS 7,250,000 10DS 7,250,000 10  7,360,O0 10CY 5M,060 77.1
(a) C-" gvnrt g  for.
1-A411 CalltV s8ev rler Wlh   0           0       1=,0O   10   800,0C0 10S  80,0C  1009 700,0D0 CDO  0 OOS
(a) Cwtlch-wtagerisfo
1-B CaO1LvseVstvkmubder  7,0D.00D0  10DS 7,3DO,  100i 7,30OODC0  10D 45,  1  45,0D0 10DS 4500,O00 100% 33,462 73-1'
Loa Imengt 9-mnies
2  TrA-th                1.0K=    1009 JDiD   I9A 15DQ0   10  55QD0 1    55QOD0 100DS SS0,DO 10D0i 481,i7 87.6S
3.A G   rPatA2 YO* Psr        0           0       10QC         80QC      80        7C0,0X0    591378 845S
3B   o                     2C00 IODS   Z    11 200iDCO1D00fl      0         0          0         0
4   FPMU   Pd            1,000,0nI 00)100 1400D00  10fi 1DO,00 1DS0=i 1010D  900OD 10D 1,250,000 10i 1,150fi5 9Z1i-
5   Uakxaed               3           3           1       1    5    13P  5     1   150,0D0 IOD/  0
_   .Awo_                _   _     _     __l_                                              17450
_ Td~,wi*aldaik*wuui .M2 ' d         28U00                                        25O       21,19
C_  _    _lad                                             3,0DO,ODO  3,0DO,ODO  3,000,ODO
(t) Eybty 98 Mac 31a 2001 &Vrdcbn b 2% t5Qta 0
R53{fda ardbhsedcift,a ai May22 2X
-30 -



Additional Annex 9. Sub-projects and Their Performance
A list of the more important sub-projects is given in Table 9. 1, Evaluation of Key Sub-Projects. In
addition there were around 60 further small (value less than US$100,000) sub-projects with a total value of
US$ 0.65 million which were procured using the statement of expenditure procedure. These sub-projects
mainly funded attendance at Itaining courses and seminars related to infrastructure development and PSP
for PMU staff and Bappenas and other government agency officials.
In Table 9.1, sub-projects which have had extensions have been grouped together and the total cost
of each group is shown. The table also indicates the sector addressed, whether done for central or local
govermment, whether related to PSP and the broad type of sub-project. An assessment of the quality of each
study and the impact up to January 2002 is also shown in the table. These assessments are based mainly on
the impact assessment evaluations carried out for most of the sub-projects by a local consultant team with
support from the PMU and its advisers as part of the project. They are of course to some extent subjective
and a longer time horizon is needed to see the real impact of the sub-projects completed towards the end of
the project. An indication of the project objectives addressed by each sub-project is also given. In many
cases a sub-project addresses several of the objectives.
The results have been summarized in Section 4 of the text. For the majority of sub-projects good or fair
quality studies have been prepared. The impacts have been more varied for reasons described in Section 5
of the ICR.
- 31 -



No               Loan                                 Titde                                Value Sector        Central PSP     Type             Quality  Fstimate
Cat.                                                                        US$               or Local Related                    Of        of
06   ____          Gov                              Studly   fmpract
I 7,7a,7b         1-A-I  TA services for Sub Directorate Toll Roads                            813 Highways     Central Yes      Policy/Planning   Good   Substantial
2 21              1-A-I  Strategic Plan for PSP in DGWRD for water resources development       484 Water         Central Yes     Policy/Planning   Poor    Negligable
3 57              1-A-I TA services for MOC Inter Agenicy Coordinating CormmIttee              391 Ratways       Central  Yes    Policy            Good   Substantaia
4 71              1-B    SURIP lA Extension                                                    624 Highways      Central No      FS                Good   Substantial
5 74              1-A-Il project preparation support-Bid documents for MOC/ PERUMKA            871 RaIlways      Central Yes     FS/Design         Good   Substantial
6 85              1-A-lI Surabaya Integrated Transport network Planning Project (Addendum Nol)  1,530 Highways   Local   No      Policy/Planning    Fair    Modest
7 88              1-A-I TA services to Bapperkas Bureau ASHOP for O&M StrategIes               351 Multi         Central  No     Policy/Planning    Fair   Negligable
8 87              1 -A-I  TA services for Directrate of Urban Road Development (Blnkot)        481 Highiways     Cenlra  No      Policy/Planning   Good   Substantia
9 88              1-A-I TA services for preparation oyf artenal road network studly for Java  1.256 Highways     Central Yes     Policy/Planning   Good       ny
10 94.94a          1-A-I TA to improv effidency. transparency, openiness of procurenment system  114 Multi       Central No       Policy            Fair     Modest
11 95              1-A-Il TA serviesfor preparation ofFS for SURlP-IB                         1,032 Highways     Central No       FS                Good       ny
12 97              1-A-Il Devalopmnent of strategy action plan for extending national postal network  299 Postal  Central  Yes    Policy/Planning   Fair    Negligable
13 98              1-A-I Developmenttof strategy forPPP in provision of postal services         284 Postal,      Central  Yes     Policy            Good    Negiigable
14 99              2     Foreign fellowhips for PhD Programmes in Illinois, USA                  34 Training     Central Yes      Training          Fair    Negligable
15 108             1-A-I  Developrnent of polides to strengthen local consultant sector         357 Multi         Central No      P~olicy           Fair    Negligable
16 109.a.b         1-A-I Advisory Support to PMU TAP41 Bappenas                               1.580 Multi        Central Yes      Policy/Planning   Good   Substantial
17 110, 126, 169.a,b  4  Manpower Supply arid Office Support Services to PMU TAP41 Bappenas   1,071 PMIJ          CenIral  Yes    Poliscy/Planning  Good   Substantial
18 112             1-A-lI Projctdlmplementation preparation review Jatigede Multipurpose Reservoir  1.496 Water  Central  No     FS                Good    Negligable
19 113,113a        1-A-Il Semararng Flood Control Project consotidated preparation study        761 Water         Central No      FS                Good    Negligable
20 115             1 -A-I Review of Cikampek Patmanan FS and DED                                186 Highways      Central No      FS/Design         Good    Negligable
21 116             1 -A-I TA services to PERUMKA on budgeting and trDek access systems           48 Rabiways      Central Yes     Policy/Planning   Good    Negligable
22 117. 158, 168,a,b 4    Exchange Nouse Office Space Rental for PMU TAP41 Bappenas             438 PMU           Central Yes     Other               not assessed
23 '1211           1-B    TA to PDAM Kab Serang for water services development through PPP      193 Water         Local   Yes     Planning          Good     Modest
24 124             1-8    TA services to C Java for improved water supply etc (Phase 1)         621 Water         Local   Yes     Planning          Poor     Modest
25 125             1-A-I  Advisory support to PMU TAP41 Phase 11, Amendment 2                   1112 Multi        Central Yes     Policy/Planning   Good   Substantial
28 134             1-8    TA services to PDAM Sulawesi Seiatan (Phase 1 only)                   720 Water         Local   Yes     Planning          Good    Negligable
27137.137/2        1-8    TA services to PEMDA Bali for PPP in water supply (Phase 1&2)         914 Waler         Local   Yes     Planning/Pre-FS   Good   Substantial
28 138,138/2       1-B    TA services to PEMDA Bati for PPP in solid waste management (Phase 182)  6812 Solid Waste  Local  Yes   Planning/Pre-PS   Good   Substantial
29 148             1-A-lI Project preparabion support. prep of bid document addendum for PERUMKA  73 Railways     Central No      Planning          Good     modest
30 153             1 -A-l I TA servioes forpreparation of UTS for SURIP-1 B                    1.506 Highways     Central No      FS                Good       ny
31 164             1-A-I TA services far establishment of PDAM benchmartdng system              569 Water         Centra  Yes     MIS                Fair      ny
32 171             1-A-I  Programme Management Advisory Assistance for Pnfvate Sector Inveslment  273 Multi       Centra  Yes     Policy/Planning     not assessed
33 182             1-A-I Improvement of strategic expendituire planninig for Indonesian road sector  491 Highways  Central  No    Planning          Good  ISubstantial
34 198             1-A-I  Support Reformation of Ministry of Public Works for Decentiralsation (7 SOEs)  517 Mulbi  Central  No   Policy/Planninig   Fair   Neglhgable
35 199             1-A-Ill TA for Contingency Plans for Y2k/MKr 2000 (10 SOE Packets)           628 IT            Central  No     Planning          Good    Substantial
36 203             3-A    Y2K Equipment Procremfenvt                                            489 IIr           Central  No     Equipment           not assessed
37 205             1-A-I  Devaloping Stirategic Management for Perum Perumfnas (SOE)            100 Houaing       central Yes     Policy/Planning   Poor  I Negligable
38 237             1-A-I TA for Impact Assessment of TAP41-2 Sub-Projects (SOE)                  66 Multi         Central Yes     Planning            noteassessed
39 243             1-A-I TA services to PDAM GFwsk (SOE)                                         80 Water         Local   Yes     Planning          Good    Substantia
40 245. 282.253    1-A-I  Ascertaining Appropriateness of Establishing a Road Funid In IndoniesIa (3 SOE)  300 Highways  Central Yes  Policy/Planning  Good  Substantial
41 248             1-A-I TA for Operation sod Maintenance System for Toll Roads In Jabotabek (SOE)  100 Highways  Central Yes     Policy/Planning   Poor    Negligable
42 249             1--A-I  TA for Passenger Transport Pricing Policy (2 SOEs)                   200 Transport     Central Yes     Policy              not assessed
43 254             11-A-I I olicy Development for Enabling Housing Market to vwork In Indonesia  I600I Housing I Central lNo      1Pgjicy           Good   I SubstantialI
Loan Otyecfrves   (a)  Assessing strateg/cpdiorlf/es for reducing lnfrastnictu,e boutenecks                                         ny /ndicafes project completed fooi mc
(b)  Developing anupdatedstraegy for publ/cand p*afe parfnesrhipsaendsuitable frameworks for PSP                     sma// sub-projects (mersinly for fran
(c)  Redefiningreisa/yerolesof cenfraland local auffontoie n theimplemenfetonof infrastructure p]ojecs
(o) Enhancdng program evalual/on capabr/4y in cenftra and reg/onal planining bodies end /mp/ementafion oapabildies /n tine agencies and focal govemrnments
- 32 -



Additional Annex 10. The Effects of the Economic and Political Crisis on the Project
In mid 1997 intense pressure was exerted on the currencies of several countries in the Asia-Pacific
region, where for many years the local currency had been pegged to the US dollar or a basket of foreign
currencies. As a result the value of the rupiah started to decline from around Rp 2,500 to the US Dollar in
August 1997. Following flotation this decline accelerated towards the end of 1997 reaching a value of
around Rp 15,000 per US Dollar in February 1998. Instability in the value of the rupiah then continued
until the present when the value is around Rp9,000 per US Dollar (June 2002).
In parallel with this, as prices rose and the economy unraveled, political instability occurred
following the fall of President Soeharto in May 1998. Over the following four years there have been three
different presidents and a series of changes to the organization of government. Of these, the sudden
introduction of decentralization has been the most far reaching. Increased democratization has also reduced
the authority of government and given more voice to the people, but there is a lack of mature institutions
through which the peoples' views can be articulated in a consistent manner.
These dramatic changes had a significant effect on the project, some of which have been referred to
in the main text and are summarized below:
I)     The project was formulated at a time when the private sector was eager to invest in infrastructure.
The main thrust was to act quickly to regulate and control private participation so that it would be done in
an open, transparent and competitive way. A further objective was to develop project proposals and
pre-feasibility studies for projects suitable for PSP. As a result of the crisis hardly any private investors
were interested in investing in Indonesia and there was no project finance (public or private) available.
Consequently the policies developed and embodied in the key Presidential Decree (Keppres 7 of 1998)
could not be tried out on any major new PSP projects, and there was no funding available to implement
sub-projects found to be technically and economically feasible. This limited the physical impact of the
project measured in terms of downstream projects implemented but provided valuable "breathing space" for
disemination and training activities for central and local officials.
2)     The economic uncertainty resulting from the crisis slowed down decision-making, planning,
procurement and implementation of sub-projects. For example Bappenas reviewed all sub-projects to see if
they were still worth doing in view of the crisis. This process took several months during which the
procurement process almost stopped because no implementing agency was sure its sub-project would
proceed. The instability of the rupiah also made it more difficult to prepare accurate budgets. The
continuing weakness resulted in many sub-projects with a high mpiah content costing less in US Dollar
terms than was predicted in the contract. As a result of these unused amounts in each sub-project, the total
amount disbursed from the loan has been less than was committed.
3)     The changes in government caused government institutions to be changed as part of the desire for
reformation. Procurement and implementation of sub-projects was particularly affected by the changing of
the Ministry of Public Works into a State Ministry (with no implementation authority) and the creation of
Ministry of Settlements and Regional Development. This caused delays while officials in the new
organizations were appointed and further delays when there was a dispute over which agency should
execute a sub-project after reorganization. On-going sub-projects which were moved to a different agency
suffered dislocations as the new implementing agency staff often had a different view of how the
sub-project should be implemented and what the outputs should cover. In a few extreme cases, the
implementing agency lacked understanding of and interest in the sub-project or lacked the power to
- 33 -



implement the results of the study as a result of the reorganization. The eventual closure of the State
Ministry and transformation of the Ministry of Settlements and Regional Development into the Ministry for
Settlement and Regional Infrastructure prolonged the pain of reorganization. In parallel with this, Bappenas
itself was reorganized and ceased to be a Ministry. This affected the operation of the project's Steering
Committee and also delayed decisions when the management and staffing of bureaus were changed. It also
caused a drop in morale as the role of Bappenas appeared to be diminished for a time. Further changes near
the end of the project restored Bappenas' role as the key strategic planning agency and noticeably increased
the enthusiasm of its staff.
4)     As a result of political events during the crisis, the Government under President Habibie decided to
expedite decentralization. Laws were passed in 1999 and implemented in 2001 with implementing
regulations which are not sufficiently detailed and precise. This has lead to confusion and uncertainty. For
example some local government officials were keen to ignore Keppres 7/1998 and revert to direct unsolicited
bids and direct negotiation to secure new PSP projects, taking advantage of the uncertainty concerming the
application of presidential decrees after decentralization.
After decentralization, local governments were generally responsible for implementing
infrastructure development in their districts. These governments prefered to concentrate on projects which
would serve the people in their district and were less interested in larger projects which may be economically
more attractive from a national or regional point of view. The desire to use the autonomy granted, meant that
initially it was difficult to get distnct heads to cooperate with their counterparts in neighboring districts,
although this may be essential in order to achieve the critical mass required for efficient PSP projects. These
factors have made it difficult to gain local support to implement feasible sub-projects which were studied
under local government. They have also made the establishment of agreements for cooperation between
neighboring local governments, e.g.for the development and management of water supply services and for
the management of solid waste disposal in Bali, time consuming and difficult to achieve in practice.
5)     Increased democratization has followed from the crisis and subsequent attempts at reformation.
However the general public has a poor perception of and experience with PSP projects mainly stemming
from the corrupt processes and favoritism practiced by the previous government. For them PSP and
privatization of state-owned enterprises are associated with corruption and collusion, increased tariffs and
no real increase in service quality. Publicly voiced opposition to privatization has deterred potential
investors. There is a strong need for a public information campaign to raise public awareness of the
benefits of PSP.
- 34 -






IMAGING       -_  _   _  _
Report No.:    24039
Type:  ICR



