Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. T-6606-IND
TECHNICAL ANNEX
TO THE
MEMORANDUM OF THE PRESIDENT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
FOR
PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROVISION OF INFRASTRUCTURE
JUNE 2, 1995
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department III
East Asia & Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of March 31, 1995)
Currency Unit = Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00 = Rp 2,200
Rp 1 million = US$454
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAPPENAS           National Development Planning Agency
BOO                Build, Own, Operate
BOOT               Build, Own, Operate, Transfer
CAS                Country Assistance Strategy
ERP                Expert Review Panel
GOI                Government of Indonesia
I1BRD              International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
PDP                Project Documentation Package
PIM                Project Implementation Manual
PIU                Project Implementation Unit
PMU                Project Management Unit
PPP                Public/Private Partnership
Repelita           Five-Year Development Plan
TAP4I              Technical Assistance Project for Public and Private Provision of
Infrastructure
TOR                Terms of Reference



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
FOR PUBLIC AND PRrVATE PROVISION OF INFRASTRUCTURE
TECHNICAL ANNEX
TO THE
MEMORANDUM OF THE PRESIDENT
1.           Backeround.  After a quarter century of steadily rising incomes, Indonesia's
economy has become more diversified, less dependent on oil, more industrialized, more urbanized,
increasingly driven by private initiatives and much more integrated into the global economy.
Moreover, Indonesia's record on poverty reduction since the mid-1960's has been impressive by
any international measure. Longer-run development challenges facing the country are now being
shaped by fundamental structural transformations underway such as (a) the shift from a primarily
natural resource-based economy to a more human capital productivity-based economy; (b) the
transition from a largely rural economy to a more urban society, especially in Java, and the
consequent environmental management, social and infrastructure challenges; and (c) a political
transition featuring a more open debate of public policy issues and a rethinking of the role of the
Government, private sector and community organizations.  Enhanced competitiveness and
poverty reduction through increased deregulation, reduced cost of finance and improved
infrastructure services are key objectives of Indonesia's development strategy.
2.           The Infrastructure Sector.   Recognizing the critical role of infrastructure
development in sustaining rapid economic growth and in reducing poverty during the last 15
years,  the Government of Indonesia (GOI) has allocated over 40 percent of development
expenditure to infrastructure, which led to a rapid increase in the infrastructure stock. However,
high urban and industrial growth rates are outpacing the supply of infrastructure services,
resulting in a substantial unmet demand. Concurrently, economic diversification and the general
rise in living standards are leading to an increasing premium on quality, reliability and variety of
infrastructure services. The investment program for the major infrastructure sub-sectors --
power, telecommunications, transport, municipal services -- under the current (1994-99) five-year
plan (Repelita VI) is likely to be about six percent of GDP, or about US$75 billion. This is an
increase of approximately one percentage point of GDP over Repelita V, and represents a
reasonable compromise between infrastructure needs and macroeconomic stability. Increasing the
level of investment in infrastructure will not suffice in itself, and equal importance needs to be
given to the efficient utilization of assets and achieving the greatest economy in planning and
construction of facilities and service delivery operations.
3. .         The quest for cost-effectiveness, coupled with the need to mobilize additional
financial resources, lies behind the changing role of the Government, particularly at the center,
from directly supplying most services to relying more on the private sector and markets as well as
on iocal governments. Like many other developing countries, however, Indonesia is still at an
early stage in this transition with unclear frameworks for regulation and govemance, fragmented
institutional responsibilities and a need to update policies, technical standards and financial
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
arrangements. The systemic and cross sectoral nature of these challenges means that the national
planning agency (BAPPENAS) must pay more attention to strategy design, program evaluation
and monitoring, in addition to taking a leading role in weaning central ministries away from
project execution and into policy making and technical advisory functions.
4.            The vast geographic expanse of Indonesia and the wide disparity in conditions
across the regions pose a particular challenge for infrastructure development. While the nation's
fiscal structure implies that central resources will remain important for financing, nevertheless the
service standards and designs have to be tailored to location specific needs, physical conditions
and econormic capacities which puts a great premium on effective decision making at local levels.
As GO5 shit's to wards increased responsibility of local agencies in the planning and delivery of
services, the latter would need considerable assistance and capacity building to face this new
challenge.
5..          Private  financing  will  play  an  increasing  role  in  power  generation,
telecommunications, water supply, mass transit, ports and toll roads, in order to free public
resources for other vital needs such as other roads, including rural roads, health and education.
Of the US$75 billion projected for infras.ructure investment during Repelita VI, about US$21
billion (28%) is envisaged from private sources. Thus far, enhanced management efficiency has
not been a driving motivation for GOI to seek increased private sector participation in
infrastructure. Concessions to date have mostly been awarded after direct negotiations usually
based on unsolicited proposals. A "deal-by-deal" approach slows progress, adds risk, results in
high costs and consumes scarce managerial and technical resources; without greater transparency
and competition, efficiency gains expected from the private sector may not materialize.
Development of a suitable regulatory framework is therefore critical.
6.            As economic  activity  and  the  scale  of infrastructure  required  expand,
environmental sustainability is increasingly an issue, particularly in urban centers and their
periphery. Population concentration and congestion often mean dealing with difficult resettlement
issues when building roads, drains or power plants. Effective protection of Indonesia's rich
natural and cultural resources requires close integration of sound environrnental and social
practices into standard operating procedures and monitoring of infrastructure projects. Indeed, of
the five top "brown" concerns identified recently, four -- water supply, sewerage and
environmental sanitation, solid waste management, and vehicle emissions -- are directly related to
infrastructure.
7.            Project Obie tives:  The proposed project will assist Indonesia to:  (a) assess
strategic priorities for reducing infrastructure bottlenecks; (b) develop an updated strategy for
public-private partnerships and suitable frameworks for private participation in provision of
infrastructure services; (c) redefine the relative roles of the central and local authorities in the
identification, preparation and implementation of infrastructure projects; and (d) enhance program
evaluation capability within BAPPENAS and regional planning bodies and project preparation and
implementation capabilities (including development of sound environmental and social practices)
in line agencies and local governments responsible for various infrastructure investments.
8.           Proiect Description. The proposed project would support the preparation of: (a)
national sector policies and planning studies; (b) strategies to develop institutions and design



- 3 -
regulation to strengthen public/private partnership in the provision of infrastructure services; and
(c) feasibility studies, engineering designs -- for public projects --, environmental and resettlement
assessments and remedial plans. It would also include reviews by independent experts of studies
as well as unsolicited proposals by private investors, and audits of selected major assignments to
evaluate their impact of institutional development. Finally, it would finance the training of staff of
the PMU and the various project implementation units (PIUs) in the selection, monitoring and
evaluation of TA  services, project management,  private provision of infrastructure, and
negotiating techniques. The main focus of TAP4I-2 is on regional planning, power generation
and distribution, ports, toll roads, transport and communication, water supply and environmental
sanitation and water resources management (Annex 3).
9.           Environmental and Social Impact. The proposed project has been classified in
environmental category C.   It could finance generic studies on infrastructure related
environmental issues. Also, appropriate provision for the preparation of environmental and
resettlement assessments and remedial plans consistent with Bank and GOI procedures would be
incorporated in terms of reference for feasibility studies and engineering designs whenever
relevant.
10.         Impact on Poverty. While the proposed project has little direct impact on poverty,
it will support increased access to basic infrastructure services which has been recognized as a key
contributor to Indonesia's impressive record on poverty reduction.
11.          Project Benefits and Risks. The principal benefit of the proposed project would be
its support to GOI's effort in the provision of sustainable infrastructure services, the strengthening
of BAPPENAS' focus on strategic issues and the overall decentralization process in project
preparation. A second benefit would be the continued improvement in the management of T'A
services resulting from the combination of a pro-active Steering Committee and a competent
PMU. A third benefit would be the replenishment of the pipeline of adequately prepared and
bankable infrastructure projects that has become somewhat depleted.
12.          Risks pertaining to slow appointment of consultants would be minimized by the
role the PMU would play in providing assistance to the various PIUs. Other risks are that too
many studies are managed at the central level -- and not enough at the local level -- and that not
enough attention is devoted to the preparation of feasibility studies and engineering designs for
infrastructure projects earmarked for public funding. This would be minimnized in part by the
"marketing" of the available funds and the potential assistance which the PMU would provide to
decentralized agencies to help prepare infrastructure projects, and in part by regular supervision
by the Bank, for which an adequate budget would be allocated.



Annex 1
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
FOR PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROVISION OF INFRASTRUCTURE
The Main Infrastructure Sub-Sectors
1.          Power Sector. Between 1980 and 1990, power generating capacity has nearly
quadrupled, electricity sales have grown in excess of 15 percent per year and the number of
connected households and villages have increased by over seven-fold and fourteen-fold
respectively. Despite this impressive record, many challenges lie ahead. Only about 50 percent of
villages are served and only around half of the industrial consumption is met by the National
Power Utility Company, PLN. Repelita VI proposes to increase generation capacity by an
additional 15,000 MW -- compared with the additional capacity of 4,600 MVW achieved under
Repelita V -- of which about one third would be financed by private sources. Demand
management needs to be improved by appropriate pricing policies and other incentives for
conservation. Also, the mix of public and private supply needs to be optimized through the
development of a regulatory and policy framework that would maximize the private response
while protecting the public interest and, within this context, through the progressive
corporatization and unbundling of PLN.
2.           Telecommunications Sector. Achievements in telecommunications have also been
impressive, with new customers connection rate now at 18 percent per year and a significant drop
in investment cost per connection.  However, demand is still outpacing supply and the
sophisticated telecommunications services needed for Indonesian businesses to compete in a
global market are still in their infancy. Repelita VI proposes to create an additional five million
lines (compared to three million under Repelita V) of which two million would be provided by
private sources through joint operating companies which are being bid at the present. In addition,
GOI was recently successful with an initial public offering of its international telecommunications
company, Indosat, and has also indicated interest in private share offering in the domestic
telephone company, PT Telkom.
3.           Transportation Sector.  The capacity, standards and efficiency of Indonesia's
transport services and infrastructure have improved significantly in recent years as a result of large
public expenditures coupled with concerted efforts to improve the legal and regulatory
framework, enhance capabilities of GOI's agencies and facilitate private sector participation.
Road remains the dominant transport mode and competition among transport operators is
generally intense. Traffic volumes on many key inter-urban roads are close to their capacities, and
major investments in widening links or constructing new ones are scheduled under Repelita VI
either under public or private financing. Road user charges for commercial vehicles remain low,
thereby impeding efforts to attract traffic to other modes, such as rail, which could potentially
play a more important role in Java and some other regions. Maritime transport services have also



Annex 1
Page 2 of 2
improved in recent years as a result of the deregulation of shipping and the corporatization of the
public port enterprises.  State enterprises continue to dominate the domestic air transport
subsector, although now private companies are increasing their market shares and GOI is
considering partial privatization of its flagship company, Garuda.
4.           Urban Infrastructure. Service coverage has not kept pace with one of the fastest
growing urban populations and industry in East Asia, in part because the level of public
investment has been limited to only about 0.4 percent of GDP or four percent of total public
investment in the late 1980s and early 1990s. Indonesia's urban population rose from 33 million
in 1980 to 55 million in 1990, i.e. 22 percent and 31 percent of the total population respectively.
Cities and towns have accounted for some 70 percent of the total population increase during the
1980s and about 60 percent of non mining GDP comes from urban based economic activities.
Greater Jakarta -- Jabotabek -- alone was home to 17 million people in 1990 and about 20 percent
of the Indonesian industrial capacity. Only about 20 percent of urban households have access to
piped water through house connections, and less than one percent, to public sewers; solid waste
collection and disposal, drainage and flood control are also grossly inadequate. Operational
efficiency of water utility companies is generally poor, with about 40 percent of the water
produced unaccounted for -- more than 50 percent in Jakarta -- and thus generating no revenues.
Understandably, Repelita VI gives high priority to water supply -- an additional 22 million people
should be connected to the piped system -- drainage and kampung improvement. However,
investment programs for the water supply sector are not ready and decisions on key major
investments -- such as sewerage in Jakarta -- have been delayed. GOI is seeking ways to involve
private operators to improve water supply operations and to provide additional financing,
although there is still room for increased self financing through user fees. Opportunities for
private sector participation in waste collection are also being pursued. Although significant
resources have been allocated to urban roads and transport, congestion is mounting rapidly, and
Repelita VI also gives high priority to mass transport in larger cities and air pollution reduction.
5.           Village Infrastructure. Although the Government has invested considerable sums,
e.g. in rural roads, infrastructure at the sub-district level remains deficient: access to many villages
is poor with some being cut-off during the rainy season, and drinking water and sanitation
services are scant. Investment needs at the subdistrict and village level are addressed through the
GOI's poverty reduction program, other small GOI programs and self-help schemes. The OECF
and the Bank are assisting with village level projects to provide infrastructure needed in some of
the poorest villages through grants and implementation by the villagers. The TAP4I-1 helped
finance preparation of the Bank's project which started implementation recently.
6.           Bank Lending for Infrastructure. Since 1986, the Bank has financed 23 projects in
the power, telecommunications, road urban and rural infrastructure sectors for about US$4,900
million.



Annex 2
page 1 of3
INDONESIA
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
FOR PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROVISION OF INFRASTRUCTURE
Project Management, Work Program, Procurement, Disbursement,
Reporting, Accounts and Audits
1.          Project Management. The proposed project would be implemented under the
overall responsibility of the Project Management Unit (PMU) established under BAPPENAS by
decree KEP./KET/6/1994 dated April 2, 1994, replacing decree 593/KET/1993 dated June 2,
1993. TAP4I-PMU consists of:
(a)   a Steering Conmmittee chaired by the vice-chairman of BAPPENAS and comprising
senior staff from BAPPENAS and other relevant line Ministries responsible for the
identification and implementation of sub-projects aimed at the public and private
provision of infrastructure services. Its role is mostly to provide overall guidance
on implementation of TAP41 and to select the various sub-projects proposed by
the Project Implementation Units (PIUs);
(b)   an Executive Team comprising senior staff from the same ministries, responsible
for daily implementation of the various sub-projects, and
(c)   a Project Director and Treasurer responsible for overall project implementation.
This position is filled in by an expert staff from BAPPENAS and is attached to the
position of expert staff. The Project Director is assisted by an expatriate technical
adviser and a local administrative team. The expatriate technical adviser,
administrative team, office rental and operating costs would be financed by the
proposed loan, as it is the case under the first project.
2.          The PMU has developed a Project Implementation Manual (PIM)  which
standardizes all activities related to the preparation of Project Documentation Packages (PDPs)
and Terms of Reference (TORs), the evaluation of proposals, the negotiations of fees with
selected consultants, the contracting procedures and the monitoring of sub-projects. The PIM,
available in the project files, has been reviewed during appraisal and found acceptable. In
particular, it is consistent with the Bank guidelines for the "Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" (August 1981).
3.          Annual Work Programs. The PMU would firnish to the Bank for review annual
studies and training programs starting not later than September 30, 1996. Such work programs
would include a brief description of the studies and training activities proposed, together with an
outline of the TORs, preliminary budget and implementation schedule, and a clear indication of
the PIU responsible.



Annex 2
page 2 of 3
4.          Procurement of TA Services. Consultant services will be procured in accordance
with the above mentioned Bank guidelines and PIM. In particular, fee levels and overhead
expenses will be negotiated to reflect the nature and length of the assignment and level of
expertise required. Also, TORs, budgets, shortlists, selection procedures, letters of invitation,
proposals, evaluation reports and contracts would be subject to Bank's review and approval for:
(a)   all contracts estimated to cost above US$100,000 equivalent or more with
consulting firms or US$50,000 equivalent or more with individual consultants;
(b)   all training activity to cost US$50,000 or more;
(c)   assignrnent considered critical by the Bank for Expert Review Panels or the expert
review of unsolicited private investment proposals.
5.          Procurement of Equipment. Office equipment to be purchased under TAP4I-2
amount to about US$250,000 equivalent. Equipment would be procured in accordance with the
Bank Guidelines for the Procurement of Goods and Works (January 1995).
(a)   goods estimated to cost more than US$50,000 equivalent per contract may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding;
(b)   goods estimated to cost US$50,000 equivalent or less per contract and
US$100,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of National Shopping procedures;
(c)   the PMU would submit a proposed procurement plan when the proposed loan
becomes effective and update it in its quarterly monitoring reports; and
(d)   the PMU would furnish to the Bank for review the standard bidding document to
be used for the procurement of equipment under National Competitive Bidding
and National Shopping procedures prior to initiating the bidding process.
6.          Disbursement. Disbursement percentages for each category are given in Schedule
B to the Memorandum of the President. In order to facilitate disbursements under the proposed
Loan, a Special Account in the amount up to US$2.8 million would be established in Bank
Indonesia. This Account should be maintained by the Directorate General of Budget in the
Ministry of Finance.  The Special Account would be used for all eligible expenditures.
Replenishment applications to the Special Account should be submitted to the Bank on a monthly
basis, or when 20 percent of the initial deposit has been used, whichever comes first.
7.          Disbursement Procedures.
(a)   Disbursements from the Loan for contracts for goods exceeding US$100,000
equivalent, consulting firms exceeding US$100,000 equivalent, individual



Annex 2
page 3 of 3
consultants and training activities exceeding US$50,000 equivalent will be made
against full documentation.
(b)   All other disbursements would be made against Statement of Expenditures
(SOEs), for which relevant documents would be retained by responsible agencies,
and made available for review as requested by visiting Bank missions.
8.          Reporting. The PMU would prepare and submit quarterly progress reports on a
format similar to the one used for the first project.  In order to properly monitor project
implementation and achievement, the following performance indicators would be used:
(a)   number of requests received from the PrUs and processed by the PMU; initiatives
taken by the PMU to attract suitable requests, in particular in the provinces;
(b)   man days of training provided; evaluation of the training by the participants;
(c)   elapsed time in procurement of TA services; adherence of PIUs to procedures of
the PIM.
9.          Audits of Accounts. The PMU would maintain separate project accounts in a form
satisfactory for annual audit. These accounts, including the Special Account would be audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and will include opinions on all
expenditures, including those made against SOEs. The PMU would submit the audited accounts
to the Bank for review not later than six months after the close of each fiscal year.
10.         Technical Audits. Annual technical audits, in accordance with current practices in
Indonesia, are not practical for this technical assistance project. During negotiations, it was
agreed that (a) technical audits of selected completed sub-projects and training programs would
be carried out, in accordance with TORs satisfactory to the Bank, to review performance and
institutional development impact of these sub-projects and training programs; and (b) promptly
after completion of said audits, the PMU would furnish to the Bank the recommendations
formulated by the auditors.



Annex 3
page 1 of 4
INDONESIA
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
FOR PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROVISION OF ENFRASTRUCTURE
Outline of Terms of Reference
of Key Activities
1.          As of end March 1995, the various PrUs had submitted to the PMU requests for
about 40 sub-projects that could benefit from financing of the proposed loan.  Sub-project
description sheets have been screened by the TAP4I Steering Comrnittee. Among the sub-
projects that have obtained a favorable review, nine sub-projects totaling about US$16.0 million
are in an advanced stage of preparation and have sufficiently detailed TORs. Full PDPs are now
being prepared by the PIlUs, with the PMU's assistance, and are scheduled to be ready in July
1995 and furnished to the Bank for review and approval. Proposals from consultants could be
invited as soon as the loan is approved; with streamlined evaluation and contracting procedures
that have been developed under the first project, these sub-projects could actually start during the
first quarter of 1996, i.e. three to six months after loan effectiveness.
2.          In addition, BAPPENAS and the Coordinating Ministry for Economy and Finance
have expressed during appraisal their willingness to rapidly launch a coordinated exercise to help
develop an adequate framework for the development of public/private partnerships (PPP) in
infrastructure. This would include the review and the revision of existing laws and regulations
and the preparation of standard solicitation procedures and contracts. TORs for this sub-project
are being prepared. It is expected that this sub-project can be launched during 1996.
3.           TA to be Initiated during the First Year of Project Implementation. Below is a
summary description of the sub-projects that are ready to be launched during the first year of
implementation of the proposed project. More detailed descriptions are available in the project
files. Since these sub-projects were all initiated by the respective departments and their agencies,
there is a heavy representation of technical analysis, physical planning and economic evaluation of
major infrastructure programs.  In addition to reviewing their development priority and
consistency with stated GOI objectives, Bank input in their formulation will pay particular
attention to (a) environmental and social aspects are properly reflected in the scope of work; and
(b) institutional reforms and incentives necessary for sustainability of investment are also
addressed.
(a)   Provincial Analysis and Planning for Regional Infrastructure Development
(BAPPENAS): identify conditions, problems, challenges and opportunities to
develop Java/Bali (6 provinces), Sumatera (8 provinces) and the rest of Indonesia
(13 provinces); assistance to the preparation of the National Budget in order to
reduce regional disparities; reinforcement of the bottom-up planning approach.



Annex 3
page 2 of 4
(b)    Feasibility Study for West Java Phase II Private Power Project (Directorate
General for Electric Energy Development): identify and justify the site of a 2x600
MW steam power plant in West Java to be later offered to private developers,
including the preparation of environmental assessment and remedial plan.
(c)    Development Plan for Public/Private Partnership  (PPP) for Public Works
Infrastructure (Secretary General of the Ministry of Public Works): identify issues
and opportunities for PPP in highways, water resources development, water
supply and environmental sanitation.
(d)    Senior Technical Adviser to  Directorate  of Urban  Roads Development
(Directorate General of Highways): assistance to local governments in solving
their urban transport problems, coordination with agencies involved in Integrated
Urban Infrastructure Development Projects (IUIDP), assistance to the preparation
of the Strategic Urban Road Improvement Project (SURIP).
(e)    Senior Technical Adviser to the Sub Directorate of Toll Roads (Directorate
General of Highways): assistance to the sub-directorate of toll roads in developing
selection and design criteria and technical standards.
(f)    Feasibility Study of the 170 km Surakarta - Mojokerto Toll Road (Central and
East Java Provinces,  Directorate General of Highways): site reconnaissance,
socio-economic analysis, route selection, preliminary engineering study, economic
and financial viability, induced development and environmental assessment and
remedial plan.
(g)   Feasibility Study of the 125 km Kudus - Tuban section of the Semarang - Gresik
Toll Road (Central and East Java Provinces, Directorate General of Highways):
same as (f) above.
(h)    Air Transport Policy Frame Study (Directorate General of Air Communication):
inventory of present organizations and policies, analysis of global trends of world
air transport and identification of air transport policy options for Indonesia.
(i)    Feasibility Study of Long Haul Car Ferry Networks (Directorate General of Land
Communication and Inland Waterways): preparation of a master plan for long haul
car ferry, feasibility studies of selected routes, feasibility of private provision of
such services and of relevant solicitation documentation.
4.           Training Activities to be Carried  out during the First Year of Project
Implementation.  Under TAP4I-1, training modules are being developed and tested by a
specialized consultant for (a) procurement of consultant services; (b) monitoring and evaluation of
consultant assignments; (c) project management; (d) development of public/private partnership in
infrastructure services; and (e) negotiating skills. During the first year of project implementation,



Annex 3
page 3 of 4
it is envisaged to conduct decentralized training sessions for senior official of several provinces on
the above topics.
4.            Other Sub-Projects Identified. Further rigorous review by the Steering Committee
is needed for approximately 30 other applications received by the PMU, to eliminate duplication
of previous work, establish clear ownership and commitment and of course ensure consistency
with the national development objectives. In particular, TORs need to be refined to ensure
effective and implementable results while maintaining a strategic context. Further effort will be
made to see if management of these sub-projects could be decentralized to regional entities. PDPs
for these sub-projects are expected to be finalized during the first year of project implementation,
with the assistance of individual consultants contracted under TAP4I-1 for this specific purpose.
(a)    Directorate General of Sea Communication: review of master plans and feasibility
studies, identification of opportunities for PPP in the development of strategic
ports in Western Indonesia and Eastern Indonesia.
(b)    Directorate General of Human Settlement: advisory and training services in the
development of PPP in urban services; identification of PPP in the provision of
water supply, waste water and solid waste and environmental sanitation services in
several cities.
(c)    Directorate General of Water Resources Development: strengthening of project
preparation of the Jatiluhur Authority (POJ); identification of water resources
development projects with potential PPP; pricing of water; feasibility study of
provision of (i) Jatiluhur raw water to the North cost of West Java, (ii) provision
of raw water in the Brantas river basin in East Java, (iii) development or resources
in the Cipunegara river basin in West Java.
(d)    Directorate General of Air Communication: studies of pioneer transport services in
remote areas; management information system for users and suppliers of air
services.
(e)    Secretary General of the Ministry of Communication: development of strategies
for a sustainable transport sector; human resources development  within the
Ministry; evaluation and assessment of performance of State Enterprises in
(f)    BAPPENAS: formulation of a development and tourist strategies of North
Sumatera in conjunction with the Indonesia - Malaysia - Thailand triangle.
(g)    Directorate General of Human Settlements: development of building and safety
codes.
5.           While maintaining  the primacy of demand  driven  sub-projects, the PMU
particularly through its Steering Committee, will identify key systemic constraints inhibiting
efficiency in public investments or effectiveness of private provision of infrastructure, design



Annex 3
page 4 of 4
suitable sub-projects to address and market them to appropriate agencies. A significant part of
the Bank supervision effort is expected to support this, particularly during the first year of
implementation. Through the proposed project and associated Bank instruments (e.g. IDEF,
PHRD grants), the Bank also expects to respond to recent high-level Government requests made
to senior Bank management including inter-alia (a) a senior policy colloquium followed by a
public conference on managing and regulating enhanced private sector participation in major
infrastructure projects; (b) support for domestic consulting industry; and (c) development of
effective quality assurance systems for infrastructure investments.






IMAGI NG
Report No: P-   6606 IND
Type: MOP



