Page  1
                                                            CONFORMED COPY
                                                       LOAN NUMBER 3913 IND
                               LOAN AGREEMENT
                  (Second Technical Assistance Project for
                Public and Private Provision of Infrastructure)
                                   between
                            REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                                     and
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                               AND DEVELOPMENT
                             Dated July 11, 1995
                                                       LOAN NUMBER 3913 IND
                               LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 11, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                  ARTICLE I
Page  2
                       General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)       The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)       The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
           "Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals 
shall be made:
           (a)   on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which 
is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services supplied 
from, such territories; or
           (b)   for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or  for any 
import of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is 
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
      (c)  In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph (l) and 
a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
           "(k)     An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions 
of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
       Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
      (a)  "BAPPENAS" means the Borrower's National Development Agency and any 
successor thereto;
      (b)  "the PMU" means the Project Management Unit established and operating in 
BAPPENAS pursuant to Decree KEP/KET/6/1994, dated April 2, 1994;
      (c)  "PIU" and "PIUs" mean singularly any of the Project Implementation Units 
and collectively the Units established within the Borrower's Ministries and government 
agencies referred to under paragraph A.3. of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
      (d)  "Project Performance Indicators" means those indicators designed to measure 
the Borrower's performance in achieving Project objectives and agreed between the 
Borrower and the Bank;
      (e)  "Project year" means each period of twelve months beginning from the date 
of this Agreement;
      (f)  "Project Implementation Manual" means the operational manual prepared by 
the Borrower, in consultation with the Bank, to assist the PMU and the PIUs in the 
implementation of the Project including, inter alia, procurement procedures of goods
and consultants' services, training programs, Project Performance Indicators, 
environmental criteria to be included in Sub-project design, and criteria for the 
selection of Sub-projects;
      (g)  "Sub-projects" means the studies and reviews described in Part A of the 
Project and selected pursuant to the provisions of paragraph B.1 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement and "Sub-project" means any one of the Sub-projects;
      (h)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement; and 
      (i)  "fiscal year" means the Borrower's fiscal year which runs from April 1 to 
March 31.
ARTICLE II
Page  3
The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of twenty eight million dollars 
($28,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in Bank Indonesia on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2000 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Quali-fied Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued 
on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated 
at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
      (c)  For the purposes of this Section:
           (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
           (ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank 
has allocated to fund:
(A)
the Bank's investments; and
 
(B)
loans which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 
bearing interest rates determined otherwise than as provided 
in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the 
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest 
Period."
Page  4
"(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c)
(iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 
1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on March 
15 and September 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, technical, financial and environmental practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
      Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the
continued achievement of the objectives of the Project;
      (b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan; and
      (c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Bank's comments 
thereon.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
      (a)   in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and with 
the assistance of consultants employed in accordance with the provisions of Section II 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, carry out a comprehensive review of the externally 
financed technical assistance received by the Borrower with the view of assessing the 
effectiveness and efficiency of such technical assistance, and preparing an analysis 
of the impact thereof on the Borrower's institutional development; and furnish to the 
Bank, for its review and comments, the results of such review, by not later than May 
31, 1997; and
      (b)   by not later than September 30, 1997, review together with the Bank the 
findings and recommendations of the review referred to in paragraph (a) above.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the Ministries or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
Page  5
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section including those for the Special Account, for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01 The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
c/o Directorate General of Budget
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
P.O. Box 139
Jakarta 10710
Indonesia
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINMINISTRY
45799 DJMLN-IA
Page  6
Jakarta
44319 DEPKEU-IA
 
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ Budiman Darmosutanto
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Marianne Haug
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                 Amount of the
                                Loan Allocated          % of
                                 (Expressed in      Expenditures
     Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1)  Consultants' services
     under contracts with:
     (a) central government
         agencies of the
         Borrower for:
         (i)  studies under         10,000,000     100%
         Parts A.1(a)(i),
         A.1(a)(ii) and A.1
         (b) of the Project;
Page  7
         and
         (ii) studies under          5,000,000     80%
         Parts A.1(a)(iii)
         of the Project
     (b) provincial and local        7,300,000     100%
         government agencies
         of the Borrower
(2)  Training                        1,500,000     100%
(3)  Goods                             200,000     100% of foreign
                                                   expenditures, 100%
                                                   of local expendi-
                                                   tures (ex-factory
                                                   cost) 65% of local
                                                   expenditures for
                                                   other items
                                                   procured locally
(4)  PMU Administration              1,000,000     100%
(5)  Unallocated                     3,000,000
                                    __________
     TOTAL                          28,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
      (c)   the term "PMU Administration" means the cost of rented office 
accommodations for the PMU and other services contracted by the PMU under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank in relation to the PMU's Project implementation 
and management responsibilities.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement
4.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under such terms and conditions as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower for: 
      (a)   contracts for goods not exceeding $100,000 equivalent;
      (b)   training not exceeding $50,000 equivalent;
      (c)   the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000;
      (d)   the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than 
$50,000; and
      (e)   PMU Administration.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
1.    The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in carrying out its 
long-term plan aimed at the sustainable development of its infrastructure sector, 
including:
      (a)  assessing strategic priorities for reducing infrastructure bottlenecks;
      (b)  developing an updated strategy for public and private partnership and 
Page  8
suitable frameworks for private participation in the provision of infrastructure 
services;
      (c)  redefining the relative roles of central and local authorities in the 
implementation of infrastructure projects; and
      (d)  enhancing program evaluation capability in central and regional planning 
bodies, and implementation capabilities in line agencies and local governments.
2.    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A:    Sub-projects
1.    Carrying out of Sub-projects designed to strengthen the Borrower's capacities 
for:
      (a)  designing and implementing infrastructure development activities, through 
the provision of advisory services to prepare:
(i)
sector policies and planning frameworks;
 
(ii)
strategies to develop institutions and increase public and private 
partnership in the provision of infrastructure services; and
(iii)
feasibility studies, engineering designs, environmental and 
resettlement assessments and remedial plans for proposed 
activities, inter alia, in the following sub-sectors: power 
generation and distribution, port, toll roads, water supply and 
environmental sanitation development and management, water 
resources management, transport and communications; and
(b)
assessing policy and strategic studies and private investment proposals, 
through the review of said studies and proposals by panels of independent experts.
Part B:    Strengthening Implementation Capacity
Provision of training and equipment for the staff of the PMU and PIUs, to 
strengthen their capacity for the selection, monitoring and evaluation of consultants' 
services and for project management and privatization and negotiation
techniques.
*        *        *        *        *          *
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1999.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
                                                  Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                                 (expressed in dollars)*
March 15, 2001                                        540,000
September 15, 2001                                    555,000
March 15, 2002                                        575,000
September 15, 2002                                    600,000
March 15, 2003                                        620,000
September 15, 2003                                    640,000
March 15, 2004                                        665,000
September 15, 2004                                    685,000
March 15, 2005                                        710,000
September 15, 2005                                    735,000
March 15, 2006                                        765,000
September 15, 2006                                    790,000
March 15, 2007                                        820,000
September 15, 2007                                    845,000
March 15, 2008                                        875,000
September 15, 2008                                    910,000
March 15, 2009                                        940,000
Page  9
September 15, 2009                                    975,000
March 15, 2010                                      1,010,000
September 15, 2010                                  1,045,000
March 15, 2011                                      1,080,000
September 15, 2011                                  1,120,000
March 15, 2012                                      1,160,000
September 15, 2012                                  1,200,000
March 15, 2013                                      1,240,000
September 15, 2013                                  1,285,000
March 15, 2014                                      1,330,000
September 15, 2014                                  1,380,000
March 15, 2015                                      1,430,000
September 15, 2015                                  1,475,000
___________________
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                         Premium
                                           The interest rate (ex-
                                           pressed as a percentage per
                                           annum) applicable to the
                                           Loan on the day of
                                           prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                        0.15
      before maturity
More than three years but                        0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                          0.55
      not more than eleven years
      before maturity
More than eleven years but not                   0.80
      more than sixteen years
      before maturity
More than sixteen years but not                  0.90
      more than eighteen years
      before maturity
More than eighteen years before                  1.00
      maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I    Procurement of Goods
Part A:      General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable.
Part B:      Procurement Procedures
1.    National Competitive Bidding
Page  10
Goods estimated to cost more than US$50,000 per contract shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provi-sions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.
2.    National Shopping
      Goods estimated to cost US$50,000 equivalent or less per contract and US$100,000 
equivalent or less in the aggregate may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of National Shopping Procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.5 and 3.6 of the guidelines.
Part C:      Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph.
2.    Review of Standard Bidding Documents
      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contract, the standard bidding documents for goods shall be furnished to the Bank for 
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 of Appendix 
1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken on the basis of 
such standard bidding documents as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 2.
Section II  Employment of Consultants
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consul-tant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such 
con-tracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for consul-tants' services 
issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. 
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other 
standard forms accept-able to the Bank shall be used.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, 
shortlists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports 
and contracts shall not apply to:
      (a)   contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent each; or
      (b)   contracts for the employment of individual consultant estimated to cost 
less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall 
not apply
to:
           (i)    the terms of reference for such contracts;
           (ii)   single-source selection of consulting firms;
           (iii)  assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the 
Bank;
           (iv)   amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or
           (v)    amendments to contracts for the employment of individual 
consultant raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or 
above.
SCHEDULE 5
Page  11
Implementation Program
      The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the following 
implementation arrangements:
A.    Implementing Agencies
      Responsibilities for implementation of the Project shall be vested as follows:
1.    BAPPENAS shall be responsible for the overall implementation of the Project and 
to this end, shall maintain the PMU with competent and qualified staff in adequate 
numbers and headed by a senior official of BAPPENAS, with the following
responsibilities:
      (a)  promoting effective planning of technical assistance services;
      (b)  assisting PIUs in the preparation of bidding documents, evaluation of 
proposals, contracting and monitoring performance of consultants' services; and
      (c)  overall management of the Project.
2.    The Steering Committee, chaired by the Vice Chairman of BAPPENAS shall comprise 
representatives of BAPPENAS and other relevant line Ministries responsible for the 
identification and implementation of sub-projects aimed at the public and
private provision of infrastructure services.  The Steering Committee shall be 
responsible for:
      (a)  selecting Sub-projects proposed by the PIUs to be financed under the 
Project; and
      (b)  overseeing the overall management and implementation of Project activities, 
including  the selection and employment of consultants' services in accordance with 
the provisions of Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
3.    The PIUs at the national, provincial and local government levels shall be 
responsible for:
      (a)  preparing Sub-project proposals including project documentation packages 
for the selection of consultants' services; and
      (b)   monitoring implementation of Sub-projects and performance of consultants' 
services employed under the Project.
B.     Implementation Actions
1.    The Borrower shall by September 30 of each year, starting on September 30, 1996, 
prepare and furnish to the Bank through the PMU, for its approval, Sub-project 
proposals, including terms of refer-ence for the studies therein, and training
programs to be carried out during the next Project year and, promptly thereafter, 
carry out the Sub-projects and training programs as so approved
2.    The Borrower shall:
      (a)  monitor and evaluate the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project, in accordance with the Project Performance Indicators; and
      (b)  by not later than December 31, 1995, and every three months thereafter, 
until the completion of the Project, prepare and furnish to the Bank, for its review 
and comments, a report which shall, inter alia, describe the following:
           (i)
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed by 
the Borrower during the preceding three months; and
(ii)
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
next three months.
3.    The Borrower shall, on selected completed Sub-projects and training programs:
      (a)   carry out technical audits aimed at reviewing the performance of the 
consultants therein, in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank; 
and
Page  12
      (b)    promptly after completing said audits, furnish to the Bank the 
recommendations thereof.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $2,800,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $5,600,000.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
Page  13
      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
      (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories of the Project, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account:
(i)
was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or
(ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:
(A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or
 
(B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so 
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank,  refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
