Document of
FILE  COPY                         The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-22 50-Pl
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A
EDUCATIONAL RADIO TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
March 8, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
January 1978
Currency unit = Peso (P)
US$1.00       = Pesos (P) 7.4
P 1.00        - US$0.135
ABBREVIATIONS
DEC      -  Department of Education and Culture
ECO      -  Educational Communication Office
EDPITAF - Education Development Project Implementing Task Force
NEDA     -  National Economic Development Authority
PTCRD    -  Philippine Training Center for Rural Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
EDUCATIONAL RADIO TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:        Republic of the Philippines
Amount:          $2.0 million equivalent
Terms:           Repayable in 10 years, including 4 1/2 years of grace, at an
interest rate of 7.45% per annum. The loan would be refinanced
under any later loan or credit the Bank Group might make for
mass media education.
Project
Description:    The proposed loan would help finance a pilot project for devel-
oping and evaluating the cost effectiveness of educational
radio in two areas: (a) in-service teacher training, and
(b) primary classroom teaching. The project would develop
radio programs in these two areas and would have them trans-
mitted and evaluated in two provinces (Pangasinan and Leyte)
over a period of three years. The project also provides for
related studies and for preparation of a possible future
project. The pilot project would establish a basis for
possible nationwide implementation of educational radio
as a means to improve educational quality, a priority require-
ment of the Philippine education system. The project is being
financed on a pilot basis initially because of the need to
determine the receptivity of both students and teachers to
this form of instruction before the Government undertakes a
major investment in this area.
Estimated Costs:                       Local       Foreign       Total
----- (US$ million) -------
Equipment                       .10          .69          .79
Program materials               .11          .37          .48
Technical assistance            .52          .54         1.06
Administration                  .76           -           .76
Sub-total                    1.49         1.60         3.04
Contingencies                 .37          .40          .77
Total                        1.86         2.00         3.86
Financing Plan:                       Local       Foreign       Total
------ (US$ million) -------
Bank                 -          2.00         2.00
Government         1.86          -           1.86
Total            1.86         2.00         3.86
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated                                         Bank fiscal year
Disbursements:                          1978     1979      1980      1981   1982
-------- (US$ million) ----------
Annual             -         .6        .7      .5       .2
Cumulative         -         .6      1.3      1.8     2.0
Rates of Return: Not applicable
Appraisal Report: None
Consultants: 9 man-years to assist the Education Communication Office
in implementing the project.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A EDUCATIONAL RADIO TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PILOT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of the Philippines for the equivalent of $2.0 million to help
finance an Educational Radio Technical Assistance Pilot Project. The loan
would have a term of 10 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest at
7.45% per annum. The loan would subsequently be refinanced under any later
loan or credit the Bank Group might make for mass media education.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        An economic mission visited the Philippines in July/August 1977 and
its report, "The Philippines: Country Economic Memorandum" (No. 1765-PH of
October.26, 1977), was distributed to the Executive Directors under Secretary's
Memorandum PHL77-2 on October 27, 1977. A basic economic report, entitled
"The Philippines: Priorities and Prospects for Development" (SecM/76/366)2was
distributed to the ExecutiLve Directors on May 18, 1976.
Macroeconomic Performance
3.        During the 1960s, the Philippine economy grew in real terms at
an annual rate of about 5 1/2%. However, the rate of growth was less than
what might have been achieved if its considerable natural and human resources
had been utilized more effEectively. The benefits of growth were also distri-
buted relatively unevenly. The growth of productive employment opportunities
failed to keep pace with the growth of the population and labor force. Low
levels of taxation resulted in inadequate public expenditure for necessary
infrastructure and social services. Poor export performance combined with a
failure to reduce the import dependence of domestic industry resulted in a
chronic weakness of the balance of payments.
4.        The growth of t'he Philippine economy accelerated slightly to an
annual rate of 6% during 1970-75. Fluctuations, however, were significant.
In the period 1970-72, when the effects of a balance of payments stabilization
program initiated in 1970 were being felt, the economy grew less rapidly at
5% per year; exports and imports of goods and services were roughly equal;
and the shares of public and private fixed investment in GNP were stable.
/1 This part of the Report is the same as the Second National Irrigation
System Improvement Project (See M/R78-31), which was considered by the
Executive Directors on February 28, 1978.



- 2 -
Economic performance was exceptional in 1973 when real GNP grew by almost
10% and the current account registered a substantial surplus as sharply
higher prices for traditional export commodities stimulated demand and
agricultural production rebounded strongly from the natural disasters of the
previous year. The export-led income boom of 1973 was followed b) an
investment boom. The resulting high investment rate together with favorable
sugar prices temporarily sheltered the economy from the impact of the oil
price increase in late 1973 and the following world recession, and real GNP
growth was sustained at 6% in 1974-75. However, the collapse of sugar prices
in late 1975, following earlier declines in the prices of other major export
commodities, changed the external situation dramatically. The terms of trade
dropped by 23% in 1975, and the current account recorded a deficit equal to
6% of GNP.
5.         In 1976-77, the economy, led by exports and construction, has
continued to grow at 6% per year. Exports (GNFS) increased by 19% in real
terms in 1976 and are estimated to have risen by 11% in 1977. Uniortunately
until 1977 the stimulus of the expansion in export volume was largely offset
by further deterioration in the terms of trade. Inflation, which reached a
peak of 40% in 1974 as a result of externally generated pressure on domestic
prices, has slowed to an average of about 7% because of the deceleration in
international inflation and a conservative monetary-fiscal policy.
Investment and Savings
6.        Due largely to the buoyant export performance in 1973 and the
subsequent increase in incomes, investment boomed in 1974-75. Private
investment rose from 14% of GNP in the early 1970s to 20% in 1975. Public
investment was raised from 2% to 4% of GNP with the growth in revenue from
international trade taxes, improvements in tax administration, and improved
project implementation capacity. Subsequently, public investment has been
raised further to an estimated level of 6 1/2% of GNP in 1977. The private
investment rate, on the other hand, has fallen somewhat to an estimated 18%
of GNP but still is well over the 14% average of the early 1970s. hlowever,
the high incremental capital-output ratio, the relatively modest growth of
manufacturing output and employment, and the structural underutilization of
capacity in some industries, suggest that the efficiency of investment needs
to be improved.
7.       Aggregate savings performance has improved during the last decade
and is comparable to that of other countries at a similar stage ofi economic
development. In 1976-77, gross domestic savings maintained the level of 25%
of GNP achieved in 1975 and financed about 80% of total investment, with the
balance coming from foreign savings. In order to increase the efiiciency of
financial markets in intermediating between savers and investors, the Govern-
ment has made significant improvements in financial policy. Organized banking
institutions have been strengthened. Interest rates were restructured in 1976
to encourage a greater flow of financial savings into time and savings deposits
relative to short-term deposit substitutes, but further reforms are required
to increase the availability of long-term domestic currency resources. Special
credit programs have been adopted to expand lending to the credit-short agri-
cultural sector and rural areas and to serve the needs of medium- and small-



- 3 -
scale industries. However, a deterioration of loan recovery rates has been
experienced by all governmient financial institutions and credit programs,
creating a difficult policy dilemma. On the one hand, the programs have
become costly means of achieving their ojectives, and the growth of arrears
reduces the overall efficiency of resource mobilization and allocation. On
the other hand, the programs do redress imbalances in the availability of
credit so that arrears have to be reduced without closing necessary credit
channels.
Government Expenditures and Revenues
8.        Public expenditures and revenues have historically claimed a much
smaller share of national resources in the Philippines than in many other
developing countries. In the early 1970s, general government expenditure
averaged only 12% of GNP, public investment was strikingly low at about 2%
of GNP, and tax revenues stood at 11% of GNP. Government expenditures were
dominated by general administration and social services, particularly
education. This situation had resulted from a variety of factors including
difficulties in raising tax revenue and weak implementation capacity in the
public sector. Since the early 1970s, the Government has taken steps to
correct the situation and raise both the overall level of expenditures and
the share going to economiLc services and public investment. By 1977 govern-
ment expenditures had reached an estimated 18% of GNP and public investment,
which has risen very rapidly in the last two years, equaled about 6-1/2% of GNP.
9.        Recognizing that a large increase in tax revenues would be required
to finance expansion of the public investment program, the Government has
undertaken a comprehensive program of tax reform to raise the needed revenues
equitably and efficiently. In the short term, needed revenues were raised
through revision in indirect taxes. In the long term, structural changes are
to be made to raise the built-in elasticity of the tax system, to reduce distor-
tions in economic incentives and dependence on cyclically volatile taxes on
international trade, and to improve equity by increasing the proportion of
revenues coming from direct taxes. The Government has increased the ratio of
domestic taxes to GNP by <an impressive 1.5 percentage points between 1975 and
1977 through new tax measures and vigorous efforts to improve taxpayer compli-
ance and collection performance. However, much of the success in mobilizing
revenue from domestic sources had been offset by a sharp decline in the yield
of export taxes and import duties due to cyclical fluctuations. Total tax
revenues, which had been raised from 11% of GNP to 13.6% by 1975, rose to
only an estimated 14.1% in 1977. Greater resource mobilization by government
corporations, whose investment programs have grown rapidly, is also needed.
Agriculture
10.       Despite fairly good soils and a relatively literate rural population,
agricultural yields in the Philippines are among the lowest in Asia. Possible
reasons for this paradox are the low quantity and quality of irrigation facili-
ties and high vulnerability to weather risks; land tenure patterns; and weak
agricultural credit extension and other supporting services. Agricultural
production has, nevertheless, grown at an average rate of 4.4% per year in



- 4 -
the 1970s. The performance of the sector was strong in 1976 and ]977, as
production increased by 7% and the country was able to provide for rice and
corn consumption solely from domestic production. The Philippines has been
virtually self-sufficient in rice for the past three years. If this trend
continues, prospects for sustained self-sufficiency in this main staple of
the country appear to be good. The Government continues to give the highest
priority to agricultural development and has initiated a number of programs
designed to increase the use of fertilizer, credit and irrigation. It has
also greatly expanded programs to improve living conditions in rural areas,
including rural electrification, health and family planning, and rural roads.
11.       For historical reasons, land ownership in the Philippines is
inequitably distributed. The land transfer program, which has been in opera-
tion for five years, proceeded quite rapidly when larger landholdings in the
rice and corn areas covered by the program were the focus of concentration,
but progress has been slower recently because of the greater difficulties
inherent in dealing with a large number of medium-sized, often middle-class,
landowners. As of June 1977, an estimated 120,000 tenants, or 30% of the
total tenants under the program, had received Certificates of Land Transfer
which established their claim to the land. Despite the difficulties in the
process of implementation, the transfer program remains an important part of
the Government's rural development strategy.
Industry
12.       During the 1960s, Philippine industrialization was promoted by
tariff protection and subsidized finance, and consequently industrial growth
was primarily in the area of import-substitution with a high capital intensity.
Performance was disappointing with respect to employment and exports. In the
early 1970s the Government floated the exchange rate and introduced policy
changes to reduce tariffs and realign industrial incentives. Further efforts
to reduce biases in favor of import substitution and capital intensity are
needed to sustain a higher level of industrial growth, which has averaged
around 8% during the 1970s. Due to the slow growth in national income and
demand, because of the decline in the terms of trade in the last two years,
manufacturing output has also grown slowly. On the other hand, industries
producing nontraditional exports have expanded rapidly as their exports
increased almost fivefold in the four-year period 1973-76. The construction
industry has also grown rapidly as the expansion of relatively construction-
intensive public investment and large tourism investment in the Manila area
raised construction expenditure from 6% of GNP in the early 1970s to 12% in
1976.
Employment, Incomes and Population
13.       Employment increased by about 4.6% annually during 1973-76, a
considerable improvement over the historical growth rate of 2.4%, and was
able to keep pace with the rapid growth of the labor force. Particularly
noteworthy was the growth of employment in manufacturing, which essentially
stagnated during 1970-74, but grew by 8% annually during 1975/76, resulting
in part from the growth of labor-intensive production for export. However,
because manufacturing's share of total employment is small, agriculture and
services continue to function as residual sources of employment and accounted
for most of the growth in total employment.



- 5 -
14.       Preliminary survey data show that the share of income received by
the poorest 40% of familLes, which remained constant during the 1961-71
period, increased from 12% in 1971 to 15% in 1975. The income share of the
top 20% of families remaLned about the same as in 1971, while that of middle
income families declined somewhat. Due to the improvement in agriculture's
terms of trade, the growth of agricultural production, the decline in urban
real wages following the devaluation in 1970, and the stagnation of industrial
employment until 1975, the ratio of the average rural income to the average
urban income rose from 48% in 1971 to 57% in 1975. Real per capita consumption
increased by about 2% anaually in 1971-75. Hence, after allowance for price
increases, real incomes in rural areas, where most of the poor live, have
probably increased somew]hat, while real urban incomes have remained about the
same.
15.       The population is estimated at 43.3 million in 1976 and is currently
growing at 2.7% as compared to a 3.0% growth rate during the 1960s. The
Philippines has an active family planning program registering approximately
650,000 new acceptors per year. Although the number of new acceptors has
reached a plateau as the program faces the increasingly difficult problem of
reaching rural areas, the estimated proportion of married women of reproductive
age practicing family planning increased from 20% in 1974 to 25% in 1977.
Development Strategy
16.       The Government's objectives and policies for the period 1978-82
have recently been set out in a five-year plan, which calls for an accelerating
economic growth first to 7% and then to 8%. The development strategy focuses
on an expansion of more productive employment opportunities at a rate of
3.6% per annum, reduction of income disparities, greater self-sufficiency in
food and energy, strengthening of the balance of payments and increased
development in rural areas. In addition, the plan includes strategies for
development in each of the country's thirteen regions. In general, the
strategies outlined in the plan represent an elaboration of the policy
directions pursued by the Government in recent years. They are also broadly
consistent with the Bank's basic economic report although investment,
manufacturing output, and exports are projected to grow more rapidly than
visualized two years ago. It should be feasible to accelerate the overall
growth rate to 7% as the terms of trade stabilize, but more rapid expansion
of manufacturing is necetssary to do so, and efforts need to focus on improving
the efficiency of investment.
External Sector
17.       Largely as the result of a 23% decline in the terms of trade, the
current account of the P'hilippine balance of payments recorded a deficit of
$900 million, or 6% of GNP, in 1975. To maintain the momentum of growth and
investment, the Government drew down its international reserves, obtained
loans under various ItF facilities, and expanded its borrowing program to
finance necessary imports. For the longer term, a strategy was adopted of
accelerating export growth both to hold the current account deficit about
constant, while it declined relative to GNP, and to meet the debt service
payments on the higher level of external borrowing.



- 6 -
18.       Some progress in this direction was made in the last two years.
In 1976, in spite of a further 11% deterioration in the terms of trade, a
substantial increase in export volume and slow growth of import payments
narrowed the trade deficit and partly offset the higher net interest payments.
Although somewhat larger than in 1975, the current account deficit stabilized
at $1.1 billion or 6% of GNP. Net capital inflows were nearly doubled to
$1.1 billion. Most of the inflow was from medium- and long-term loans, two
thirds of which were public loans reflecting, in part, increased disbursements
from official sources. Estimates for 1977 show a further substantial expan-
sion in export volume which, with little expected change in the terms of
trade, import volume, services or transfers, would reduce the current account
deficit to 4% of GNP. Hence, on the whole, the balance of payments position
has strengthened significantly.
19.       To achieve a 7% growth rate in real GNP, as projected for the
period 1978-82, imports will have to grow faster than they have recently and
a net capital inflow of at least $1 billion per year will be required.
Assuming continued sound debt management and the maintenance of a balanced
maturity structure of foreign borrowings, the overall level of external debt
of the Philippines is expected to remain within reasonable limits. The ratio
of debt service payments to exports and nonfactor services would average about
19%, of which 7% would be public debt service, during the rest of this decade.
In order to ensure that the long-term capital transfer is commensurate with
the level of development expenditures which will be required during 1978-82
and that debt service obligations remain within reasonable limits, the Govern-
ment sought commitments of official assistance of $750-800 million in 1978 at
the meeting of the Consultative Group for the Philippines held in Tokyo on
December 1 and 2, 1977. This amount is likely to be available. Many of the
planned projects have a low foreign exchange component. In these circumstances
it is necessary to finance some local costs, in appropriate cases, so that the
Philippines external financing requirements could be met.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN THE PHILIPPINES /1
20.      By February 28, 1978, the Philippines had received 50 Bank loans
(of which two were on Third Window terms) and three IDA credits for a total of
$1,362.7 million, net of cancellations. About one-third of Bank lending
($465.4 million) has been for infrastructure projects in power, transporta-
tion, and water supply and another third ($428.4 million) has been for
agriculture. Of the remainder, $278.4 million has been for industry and
$125.6 million has been for social sector projects in education, population
and urban development. There has been a marked improvement in the execution
of Bank-financed projects in the last four years compared with experience in
the 1960s, when there were serious problems caused by a shortage of peso
counterpart funds and poor administration. All ongoing projects are now
being implemented reasonably well. Annex II contains a summary statement of
Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of December 31,1977, and notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.
/1 Same as that of President's Report on the Second National Irrigation
Systems Project (SecM/R78-31) which was approved by the Executive Directors
on February 28, 1978.



- 7 -
21.       The Bank's lending program has been designed to continue to support
the Philippine development effort with its emphasis on agriculture and infra-
structure and its growing attention to the needs of lower income groups. More
than 40% of Bank lending planned for the next few years would be for agricul-
ture and rural development projects and about a quarter would be for needed
basic infrastructure projects, mainly in the fields of transportation and power.
The amount of lending for social sector projects, including education, popula-
tion and urban development, is expected to continue to grow rapidly and account
for more than 15% of future lending. The balance of future lending would be
for industrial development, where growing attention is being given to the needs
of small and medium industries with high employment potential. The rapid
growth in public revenues during the past five years has allowed for a
significant expansion in public investment, and both the ambitious Philippine
development program and the Bank's growing lending program have been designed
to meet the country's substantial future needs. In view of the per capita
income of the Philippines, its level of external debt, and the generally good
management of the economy, a limited amount of IDA financing will be proposed
in the Bank Group's overall lending to the Philippines.
22.       This is the fourth loan to be presented to the Executive Directors
in FY78. Loans for rural infrastructure, rural electrification, a multipurpose
irrigation and power project, and two for industrial finance projects
are expected to be ready for consideration by the Executive Directors within
the next few months.
23.       As of December 31, 1977, IFC had made commitments in the Philippines
totalling $86.3 million for investment in 16 projects in the fields of develop-
ment banking, power, telecommunications, ceramic tiles, petroleum products,
nickel mining and refining, chemicals and synthetic fibres and edible oils.
Of these investments, $35.7 million had been sold, cancelled and repaid, leaving
a net portfolio of $50.6 million, including $5.0 million undisbursed.
24.       At present the share of the Bank Group in the Philippines' total
external debt disbursed and outstanding is about 11% and its share in debt
service is about 5%. These ratios are expected to increase to around 19% and
8%, respectively, by the end of the present decade.
PART III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
25.       The Philippine education system is characterized by high enrollment
ratios at all levels. The formal school system accomplished universal
primary enrollments more than a decade ago. Adult literacy is now around
90%, among the highest in Asia. It has also achieved secondary enrollment
ratios above 60% and tertiary ratios around 20% of the relevant age group.
More than half of the secondary students and nearly all (90%) tertiary
students are in private institutions. Enrollments of females equal or
surpass those of males at all levels. Student:teacher ratios are generally
good. Nonformal education and training have also reached impressive propor-
tions, with around two million persons receiving instruction annually.



26.       These quantitative indices of performance, however, give a somewhat
misleading impression of the achievement of the education system. The duration
of primary and secondary schooling is 2-3 years shorter than in most countries
and repetition inflates the enrollments. The overriding problem in the
system is the poor quality of schooling. Graduates from all levels tend to
be poorly prepared. Other major issues concern equity and internal efficiency.
The greater part of educational resources is concentrated in urban areas and
two fifths of education expenditure go for students who repeat or drop out.
27.       Education Structure and Administration.  The education system as a
whole has been carefully scrutinized on numerous occasions in recent decades.
The last major review was the "Presidential Commission to Survey Philippine
Education" of 1970 which in turn led to the Education Development Decree of
1972. This decree provided for a structure composed of a six-year primary
level, a four-year secondary level, and a four-year tertiary level. The
formulation of educational policy lies with the National Board of Education,
chaired by the Secretary of Education and Culture. Administrative responsi-
bility for public schools, as well as supervision of private schools, rests
with the Department of Education and Culture (DEC). Following recommendations
of the Presidential Commission, the DEC was reorganized in 1975 with the
establishment of three bureaus organized by level of education (primary,
secondary, and higher). Each of the DEC's 12 regional offices deals with all
levels of education. The establishment of regional bureaus, accompanied by a
decentralization of authority as planned, should speed up decision-making on
local matters.
28.       Educational Financing.  Planning and budgeting for the education
system is a widely shared activity, directed by the DEC, but heavily influ-
enced by the National Economic Development Authority (NEDA) and the Budget
Commission as well as by local authorities and the actions of private schools.
Total expenditure, public and private, on all formal education and training
amounted to 3.2% of GNP in 1975; about two-thirds of this was public expendi-
ture. While nominal public outlays on education have more than doubled in
the last decade, overall real expenditure is no higher and real outlay per
student is about two thirds of what it was a decade ago. Partly as a result
of the rapid increase in total government budget and partly because of
restrictions on teacher salaries, education's share of public recurrent
expenditure is about 15%, about half of the share devoted to education
10 years ago. Over 90% of public operating expenditures go for personnel
costs.  Primary level schooling is financed almost exclusively by the national
government. About half of public secondary costs are covered by local
government and the other half by private tuition fees; fees finance virtually
all of private secondary schooling and 95% of post secondary education.
Consequences of this financing pattern are substantial variations in the
quality of instruction according to the ownership of the school and the
income of the locality and social inequities in terms of the access to higher
education.
29.       Primary Education (Gr. 1-6, ages 7-12).  At the elementary level,
the enrollment ratio continues to be over 100% due to repeaters along with
underage and overage students. Some 40% of entering students are overage and
repetition is common in the later grades. Dropouts are still over 10% annually,
although automatic promotion introduced in 1972 is spreading gradually. A



- 9 -
recent study found that about three fourths of the students who enroll in
Grade 1 reach Grade 4 but less than 60% reach to Grade 6. Almost all
students (95%) are enrolled in public institutions. Pupil:teacher ratios are
about 32:1. Some 98% of public school teachers are fully certified and 78%
of these hold four-year bachelor degrees in education. Teacher turnover is
only 5% per annum. The pupil:classroom ratio is 40:1 and physical facilities
are generally adequate in quality. The curriculum is heavily weighted toward
language arts; this accounts for half the study time in the first two grades
and a third in the remaining four. About four fifths of completing students
have been continuing at secondary level.
30.       A basic problem in primary education has been the low quality of
instruction, particularly in rural areas. The Presidential Commission (para.
27) observed that the curriculum is crowded with factual subject matter and
textbooks are in short supply (an average of I book per 10 students), learning
by rote is universal, and standardized achievement testing is rare. Although
the majority of teachers are college graduates, the quality of preservice
training has been weak. Mathematics teachers, for example, receive only six
units of preparation in the subject. Some in-service teacher training pro-
grams exist, but they are costly, limited to the summer term and the program
content tends to become diffused as it passes from the national to local
level. Only 40% of primary teachers surveyed in 1976 had received any in-
service training. Student achievement averaged only 50% of the expected
standard items tested in a recent sample survey; the poorest overall perfor-
mances were in reading, ]Languages and mathematics. Substantial variations in
achievement were found between urban and rural areas, with test scores
ranging from an average of 30% in rural areas to 70% in Manila. Ways need
to be found to improve edlucational quality and remove the disparities between
urban and rural areas.
31.       Secondary Education (Gr. 7-10, ages 13-16).  The four year secondary
cycle is given through four types of schools: general (90% of enrollments),
vocational (6%), barrio and special science high schools (4%). The voca-
tional schools have programs in trade, agriculture and fisheries but, along
with the general schools, are being converted into a comprehensive secondary
system combining both general and vocational training. Just over half of all
secondary enrollments are in private schools. Secondary school attendance
has climbed sharply in recent years (more than 10% annually) and the enroll-
ment ratio for the 13-16 age group reached 62% in 1976, but with substantial
variations between urban and rural areas. Enrollment ratios are only half as
high in Western Mindanao as in Southern Tagalog in Luzon. Pupil:teacher
ratios are 36:1 and about 95% of all teachers are college graduates in educa-
tion. Teacher turnover is negligible. The dropout rate for studends is
however high, with dropouts approximating 12% annually. About three quarters
of those who graduate have been continuing their education.
32.       At the secondary level, the quality of education is even less
satisfactory. Studies of graduating students found weaknesses in all the
basip skills - language, mathematics and science. Books and supplies are no
more plentiful than at primary level. This is mainly a consequence of the
very uneven quality of private secondary schools, which accounts for more
than half the students, and inadequate Government support for public secondary
schools. Expenditures per student, low in comparison to other Asian countries,
vary widely reflecting wide variations in secondary school quality.



- 10 -
33.       Higher Education.  Higher education includes 2-3 year nondegree
programs and 4-5 year bachelor degree programs. The participation rate for
all higher education is now an extraordinarily high 21% of the relevant age
group. More than half (56%) of the students are women. Private schools
continue to account for nine tenths of the enrollment. In spite of the large
number of institutions (659), metropolitan Manila has approximately one half
of all higher education students. A few institutions, particularly in
Manila, have good facilities and well-qualified staff. The more typical
situation is one of high pupil:teacher ratios, overworked and underqualified
staff and poor facilities. Fewer than 5% of all private institutions are
accredited and most private schools are open to anyone able to pay. The low
revenue per student only barely supports the relatively inexpensive courses
of study in commerce and arts and is inadequate to provide quality instruction
in science and technology.
34.       Nonformal Education.  The formal school system is complemented by a
loosely integrated but widespread system of nonformal education. Though
diffuse, the main activities relate to support for basic education, skill
training, and agricultural extension. The DEC in 1975 reached over one million
persons with various forms of adult education and literacy training programs.
Middle level skill training in technical skills is moderate in scale (30,000
participants in 1976), but is increasing as a result of the expanding program
of the National Manpower and Youth Council. Such skill training tends to be
highly concentrated in urban areas. Nonformal agricultural training is
largely in the form of extension although recently farmer training centers
have demonstrated their effectiveness in providing short courses on modern
rice technology.
35.       Languages.  There are eight dominant local languages spoken in
the Philippines by about 86% of the people, and some 80 dialects spoken by
the remainder. The language closest to a national language is Pilipino
(Tagalog) which is understood by about 60% of the population. English is the
most important non-local language, known by about half of the population and
is the chief language of government, business and industry, mass media and
universities.
36.       In 1974 the Government announced a new bilingual policy which made
English the medium of instruction for all science and mathematics courses and
Pilipino for all other subjects. The auxiliary use of local dialects is still
permitted in Grades I and 2. The implementation of the new language policy
is to be phased over an eight-year period and to be completed by 1982. Its
implementation, however, poses difficulties for those sections of the popula-
tion that speak little Pilipino at present. For those people, it will
be necessary to accompany introduction of the bilingual education policy with
intensive language training in Pilipino.
37.       Mass Media.  Media coverage is more limited than might be expected.
Despite igh literacy levels, the 60 Philippine newspapers and periodicals
reach only about a quarter of the adult population. The circulation of other
printed educational material is but a fraction of this. In the case of
broadcast communications, Metropolitan Manila has 47 radio and 5 television
stations. Formal educational broadcasting, supporting training provided by



- 11 -
schools is undertaken by one television and 23 radio stations. Nonformal
education broadcasts are made by more than 200 stations. It is estimated
that about 20% of all broadcast time is alloted to broadly educational
subjects. Nonetheless, geographic coverage is limited and many rural areas
have no radio coverage at all, much less television. The isolated valleys
and coasts of the 7,100 Philippine islands are barely touched by existing
educational mass media programs. Evaluation of some direct primary school
instruction via radio in the early 1970s showed that the programs were
educationally successful. However, due to limited coverage, unsystematic
use, and inadequate programming capacity, the DEC discontinued formal educa-
tional radio broadcasts in 1975, pending comprehensive reassessment of the
role of educational radio.  The presently limited coverage of educational
broadcasting represents a constraint on the Government's ability to reach some
five million out-of-school youths and to improve the quality of both formal
and nonformal education in rural areas.
38.       Educational Sector Plans and Programs.  Following the recommendations
of the Presidential Commission, a "Ten Year Educational Development Program"
was adopted in 1972. Th,e program aims at: (a) administration improvement;
(b) expansion and improvement of technical and agricultural training, both
formal and nonformal; (c) reorientation and improvement of secondary schooling;
and (d) quality improvement through curricula development, textbook production,
improved in-service teacher training and quality control in higher education.
An important aspect of the 1972 reform program was the creation of a special
fund (E 50 million annually during 1973-83) for education projects. This fund
is administered by the Educational Development Projects Implementing Task
Force (EDPITAF) under the Office of the Secretary of Education and Culture.
The Government has succeeded in establishing EDPITAF as a strong agency,
capable of implementing the Government's education reform projects. Since its
creation, EDPITAF has been the executing agency for all Bank Group education
projects.
39.       Bank Education Lending Program.  The World Bank Group has made four
loans/credits totaling $69 million to support educational development in
the Philippines. One project has been completed. The principal focus of this
lending program has been to support quality improvements in higher agricul-
tural education to provide the trained manpower necessary for increasing
agricultural production. Loan 393, Credit 349 and Loan 1374 (in 1964, 1973
and 1977, respectively) provide about $35 million (50% of the total outlays
for education projects) for improvements at the central University of the
Philippines at Los Banos and key regional agricultural institutions. A
second objective has been to effect quality improvement in basic education
with a view to improving the basic skills of the population and equalizing
educational opportunities throughout the country. Cr. 349 and Ln. 1224-T
(1973 and 1976) support curriculum and staff development centers and the
development, production and delivery of textbooks at primary and secondary
levels. Thus far, quality improvements in basic education account for about
40% of the allocation of education project funds. A third objective has been
funding for expansion of vocational/technical facilities to meet manpower
requirements in industry. This has absorbed about 10% of education project
funds.



- 12 -
40.       The performance audit report of the First Education Project
(Sec. M-75-516, July 30, 1975) reported that a more integrated layout of
buildings would have been less costly and would have allowed greater effi-
ciency in the future growth of the University. The audit report also referred
to the proliferation of agricultural education in the Philippines which led
to excessive expenditure on a large number of institutions of inadequate
quality. These comments were specifically taken into account in the physical
and institutional design of the Fourth Education Project. Implementation of
the three subsequent projects has been satisfactory, and EDPITAF, the project
implementing agency, has become a highly effective institution which is doing
an excellent job in planning and executing Bank Group financed projects.
41.       As part of its strategy of improving and equalizing the quality of
basic education throughout the Philippines, EDPITAF, with the assistance of
UNESCO and foreign and local consultants, carried out under the Third Education
Project, a preinvestment study of the possible role of mass media in Philippine
education. The study, which was completed in June 1977, recommended the
establishment of a nationwide network for educational radio to serve two
purposes: quality improvement in basic education and educational support for
rural development. After carefully reviewing the report, the Government
decided that the natural phasing of a national program would be a first phase
pilot program in a limited area which could provide the empirical basis for
deciding whether to undertake the larger investment which would be necessary
to provide a nationwide program of educational broadcasting. The proposed
project, which focuses on the use of mass media, particularly radio, would
support the improvements of in-service teacher training and direct classroom
instruction in two provinces. Since UNDP funds allocated to the Philippines
are fully committed for other purposes and no other external grant funds were
available, the Government requested the Bank Group to finance the proposed
project which would provide the technical assistance and experience necessary
to support the possible future development of a larger mass media education
program in the Philippines.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
42.       The project was appraised in September 1977.  Negotiations were held
in Washington in February 1978; the leader of the negotiating team was His
Excellency Eduardo Romualdez, the Philippine Ambassador to the United States.
As is normal for technical assistance projects, there is no separate appraisal
report for this project. Annex III of this report provides supplementary
project data.
Project Description and Objectives
43.       The proposed four-year pilot project seeks to develop the use of
communication technology to improve educational quality in the Philippines.
The central purpose is to develop and evaluate the cost-effectiveness of two
approaches for improving primary education. The first approach is indirect,



- 13 -
using radio for in-service teacher training, with the expectation that addi-
tional teacher training will improve the quality of instruction received by
primary school students. The second approach would broadcast radio lessons
directly to students as a component of their classroom activities. Since
improvement in language training is one of the central objectives of the mass
media program, the proposed project would focus on Pangasinan on the island of
Luzon, and on Leyte in the Visayas, both predominantly rural provinces where
Pilipino is not the major language, Only 55% of the population in Pangasinan
and about 28% in Leyte speak Pilipino. In addition, recent studies have shown
that students from Leyte have very low achievement performances.
44.       The pilot project has three subsidiary purposes:  (a) the use of
radio for rural education would be explored by examining its use as a comple-
ment to the activities of the rural and farmer training centers being financed
under Ln. 1374-PH; (b) the! project would include funds to continue the evalua-
tion of communications technology appropriate to the Philippines; and (c) prep-
aration of a possible second phase project.
In-Service Teacher Trainira
45.       This component of the project, a program to facilitate mass training
of teachers, stems from the need to provide continuous training of teachers on
key subjects within a short period of time (para. 30). The effect of this
training on student performance could then be assessed. Instruction would be
given via open radio broadcasts supplemented by printed materials and periodic
meetings. The proposed training program would provide semester-length courses
for primary school teachers in five basic subjects - Pilipino, English, social
studies, mathematics and science. The courses would be designed to upgrade
teacher mastery of subject: matter and teaching skills and to create a favorable
attitude towards educatiotnal changes being introduced. These distance study
courses would involve daily radio lessons (80 programs, 30 minutes each).
The first course (Pilipino) would be broadcast in the second semester of the
1978-79 school year (July--March). Subsequently revised broadcasts would reach
a larger audience over expanded geographical areas; concomitantly, courses
would be developed in the other subject areas. A total of 12,600 primary
school teachers would be reached during implementation; about two thirds
would be in Pangasinan province and the remainder in Leyte province. Teachers
would receive either in-service or academic credit for the courses, depending
on the nature of the requirements they fulfill.
Radio-Assisted Instruction in Primary Schools
46.       This component of the project would employ radio for direct class-
room instruction as another means to minimize urban/rural differences in the
quality of primary instruction. The pilot project would provide primary
school pupils with daily 30-minute radio classroom lessons in Pilipino.
Pilipino is chosen as the subject area because of its importance to achieve-
ment in over half the school subjects and the prevailing low level of achieve-
ment in communication skills in Pilipino. During the first school year (1978-79)
of the project the radio-assisted teaching series would be developed for
Grade 4 students and field-tested in a small number of classrooms. Grade 4



- 14 -
is chosen since many students drop out after completing the fourth grade.
The content of lessons would be drawn from social development topics like
agriculture, nutrition and health. In the second year, Grade 4 Pilipino
would be revised, broadcast more widely and evaluated; simultaneously, Grade
5 Pilipino would be developed. The same pattern would continue into the
third year with two exceptions: first, the Grade 6 curriculum being developed
would include social studies as well as Pilipino; and second, the Grade 4
curriculum would be much more widely broadcast to the entire project sites
in the provinces of Pangasinan and Leyte, in order to gain experience
with the problems of operational implementation on a larger scale.  During
the pilot period, this component would reach about 2,500 classes, about
75,000 primary pupils, two thirds in Pangasinan.
Evaluation, Studies and Project Preparation
47.       Evaluation.  The principal purpose of the project is to provide
cost-effectiveness information on the in-service training and radio-assisted
teaching in primary schools so that informed decisions could be made on their
expansion. The project, therefore, includes a strong evaluation component.
The basic evaluation design would address the question of: to what extent
does in-service training through radio and textbooks, separately or in combi-
nation, affect student performance? Tests woud be administered to students
before and after the project to measure its impact on student achievements.
This evaluation would be carried out by the Institute of Mass Communication
and the School of Economics of the University of the Philippines at Diliman
Campus in Manila.
48.       Study of Rural Education Radio.  The project would also explore and
evaluate the use of media-based programs to complement the activities of the
Philippine Training Center for Rural Development (PTCRD) in Laguna Province.
The PTCRD is a component of the Fourth Education Project (Loan 1374-PH), the
main objective of which is to support the Government's agricultural productivity
program by upgrading the quality and quantity of extension workers who serve
as educational links to rural families. This study would be designed to
explore the potential of radio to reinforce, complement and supplement efforts
of the PTCRD. The study would be undertaken by the Department of Development
Communication of the University of the Philippines at Los Banos.
49.       Assessment of Technological Options.  Several substudies and experi-
ments are planned on the technological aspects of the communication support
system. These are categorized under four broad headings: methods of produc-
tion of mass media material, distribution/transmission options, arrangements
for reception of mass media communications, and two-way administrative
communication for implementation of nationwide education programs. The
purpose of these studies is to provide educational and technical planners
with an up-to-date assessment of the cost and performance characteristics of
the technological options (including satellite communications) potentially
available for an operational system.
50.       Preparation of an educational materials project.  Based on the
findings of the above-mentioned studies, together with findings of an evalution
study under the Textbook Project (Loan 1224-T-PH), an educational materials
project (including mass media and textbooks) would be prepared under the



- 15 -
overall coordination of EDPITAF. The terms of reference for the three
studies would be reviewed and approved by the Bank (Section 8.02 of the Loan
Agreement).
Project Implementation
51.       Administration.  An Educational Communications Office (ECO) has
been established within EDPITAF, and will be responsible for project implemen-
tation. ECO's location within EDPITAF will allow it to avail itself of
EDPITAF's pool of technical and professional consultants, administrative
services, and linkages to domestic and international development agencies.
ECO is divided into four sections headed by directors responsible respectively
for in-service training, radio instruction, engineering and studies. EGO
would employ about ten professional staff. ECO is constructing its own radio
studio by expanding existing premises, and would lease the necessary production
and transmission facilities (possibly including satellite linking systems)
from the Government, commercial radio stations, and DOMSAT (a private satellite
communication agency). A detailed operational plan for implementation has
been prepared. The Senior Staff of EGO have already been appointed and ECO
expects, by June 1978, to complete its staff training program, select technical
assistance consultants and acquire the equipment it will initially need to
implement the project. The preparatory activities are being funded by
the Government and, partly, by the preinvestment funds under Ln. 1224-T-PH.
ECO plans to engage technical consultants to assist in the implementation of
the project. It has been agreed that the Government would maintain ECO with
organization and staffing satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.05 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
52.       ECO would enter into a contract with the University of the Philippines,
Diliman, and a separate contract with the University of the Philippines, Los
Banos, and with the Philippine Training Center for Rural Development, on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, for carrying outJrespectively, the
evaluation and rural education studies (Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
These institutions have th,e capacity to carry out these studies effectively.
Project Costs and Financing
53.       The total project cost is estimated at $3.9 million (P 29.5 mil-
lion), of which $2.0 million would be in foreign exchange. The project cost
estimates provide for price contingencies, amounting to about 20% of total
project costs; these assume price escalation on all items of 8% in 1978 and
1979 and 7% thereafter. The Bank would finance the foreign exchange costs,
or 52% of the total costs, and the Government would finance the balance of
project costs.
54.       The estimated cost covers about 9 man-years of foreign consultant
services to ECO and two man-years for fellowships. The average cost of
consulting services for technical personnel, excluding contingencies, would
amount to $50,000 per man--year.



- 16 -
55.       Procurement.  To the extent practicable, purchases of equipment would
be bulked to allow for reasonably sized procurement packages. Contracts for
equipment exceeding $50,000 equivalent would be awarded on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. In bid
comparison, domestic manufacturers would be allowed a preferential margin of
15% or the existing customs duty, whichever is lower, over the c.i.f. price of
competing imports. Equipment purchases which cannot reasonably be grouped to
form contracts for at least $50,000 equivalent would be awarded on the basis
of normal government procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
56.       Disbursement.  The Bank loan would be disbursed for 100% of the
foreign exchange costs of imported equipment and materials, 100% of the
exfactory price of domestically produced goods and materials and 65% of the
cost of goods procured locally. The loan would also be disbursed for 100% of
the foreign exchange costs of consultant services and fellowships.
Project Benefits and Risks
57.       The proposed project would develop a program of in-service
primary teacher training. Although the majority of Philippine teachers are
qualified, the quality of their pre-service training has been weak. The less
able teachers tend to be concentrated in rural areas. The pilot project
holds the promise of developing more systematic in-service training with a
capability to transmit quality programs directly to teachers in remote
areas. A successful in-service training system by radio would greatly
enhance the flexibility of the Philippine education system in the use of its
resources. For example, a radio training system would improve the speed and
effectiveness of introducing nationwide improvements in teaching programs
and techniques.
58.       The pilot project would also seek to achieve its objectives
by direct instruction in the Pilipino language and other subjects in about
2,500 primary classes in two project sites (Pangasinan and Leyte provinces).
Pilipino is the medium of instruction in over half the school subjects. Good
instruction in Pilipino therefore could have an important impact on student
performance in other subjects. This is particularly important for the large
segment of the population who are not native speakers.
59.       The project is being financed initially on a pilot basis because
of the need to determine the receptivity of both students and teachers to this
form of instruction before the Government undertakes a major investment in this
area. Since this is a pilot project, it is not possible to determine at this
time whether it will lead to a much larger future program or the extent to
which mass media, including educational radio, will improve educational
quality in the Philippines. However, the pilot project has been carefully
studied and the prospects for its successful implementation appear good.
By providing information on the cost-effectiveness of educational radio in the
Philippines through experiments and evaluation, informed decisions could be
made on whether nationwide use of educational radio in the future would be



- 17 -
justified. Should the pilot project prove to be successful, the core of an
educational radio curriculum thus developed in the pilot project would make
such a nationwide implementation feasible. The project is justified by its
potential contribution to widespread improvements and equalization in educa-
tional quality, a priority requirement of the Philippine education system.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of the Philippines
and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii), of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are listed
in Section III of Annex III of this report.
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 8,      1978
Washington, D. C.






ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                             Page 1 of 4 page.
PHILIPPENES         - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KH2)                  --- ------------------_----____________________
LAND_AE__(_____                    .             PHILIPPINES                         REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      300.0                                       MOST RECENT
AGRIC.     109.6 0960                             1970   ESTIMATE          THAILAND        TURKEY         AOPEA SOUTH *4
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                    140.0*    230.0*   410.0*/&              210.0 *    500.0*       280.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)           27.4       38.9      43.3La              36.3        35.6        32.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SOUARE KM.                       91.0      123.0     144.0                71.0        46.0      327.0
PER sQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       328.0     375.0      395.0la             263.0        65.0      1371.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU. AV)         45.1       44.2      43.8                44.3       40.6         35.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)          17.9       13.2      10.5                13.7        14,4        11.4
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)       84.6       Si.0       72.0               *0.0       153.            *
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRAS       49.4      55.5       5u.5               55.5        54.4        65.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.5        3.3       3.3                 3.2         2.qLb.c    2.6
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                 3.0       3.0        2.8                 3.1         2.5        2.3
URBAN                                 4.0        4.0       3.9                 4.9         4- .d      6.4
URBAN POPULATION (I OF TOTAL)          21.3       27.5      29.8                15.0        38.7       41.2
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       45.7      45.6       43.2               45.1        41.7        42.1
15 TO 64 YEARS                       51.6      51.6       54.0               51.6        54.0        54.5
65 YEARS AND OVER                     2.7       2.6        2.8                3.1         4.3         3.4
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    0.9        0.9        .9                 09          0.          0.
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.3        1.5       1.3/b               1.1         1.1/C      1.4
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)           ..     320.0   4065.0/a              470.0          ..      4424.7
USERS (t OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..       3.0       25.0 DT            10.0         0.2        42.0
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)        10100.0   12400.0  15400.0/a            16700.0    14500.0/f  10200.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)         61.0      55.0       52.67i             79.0        67.0        50.4/a
IlNF.PLOyfn [% o0  LASOR FOPCE)        8.3        7.S       4.0                            4.0Fj       4.S-
INCOME DISTRISUTION
S OF PRIVATE INCOME REC'D BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS            28.8         ..        ..               22.0        32.W/       17.1
HIGHEST 20% OF NOUSH"LSS             56.2      5&.Q       53.3               5           60.6        44.5
LOIEST  20l OF HNO4IHOLDS             4.2        *          .                 5.6         2.9 71      7.1
L9WST  46M OF  0O4HOL02              11.9      11.7      14.7                14.3         9.4   h    17.7
*ISTRIDUtION Of LAND OWNERSHIP
S OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS             ..         ..       43.0/c               .,       53.0        28.0
S OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS           ..         ..        2.0 .T*                        0.9        2.0
HEALTH AND NJTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                 ..         ..   10.04d              7970.0      2250.0      2110 0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON            ..         ..   470.                6650.0      1770.0 /i  2170:. 
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED          1180.0      850.0    880.0               890.0       800.0      1900.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)         63.0       93.0    105.7               103.0       110.0       103.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              44.0      45.0       55.6               52.0        78.0        65.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         19.0      22.0         ..               17.0 /a    22. Oa       19.0
DIATH RATI (/THOU) AGIU 1-4             u@0        6.6       7.5                  ,,       14.7/k
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                      95.0      113.0    117.0                 81.0       109.0       104.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                     26.0      49.0      49.0                 16.0       28.0        41.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             10.0      10.0       10.0               12.0        11.0        12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLRENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                     14.0       6.0        9.0               14.0 /b     14.0        16.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (5)                  ..         ..      87.0                79.0       55.0 /1    87.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                 ..         *-         ..                 ..        1.9         2.7
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                      80.0      76.0          *                  ..       64.0        80.0/C
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                 17.0      23.0       31.0                  ..       41.0        50.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (S)                     .-       7.0       10.0                  ,,       18.0        30.0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)         22.0       72.0         ..               78.0       89.0       126.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)           3.0        8.0       8.0                 5.0        4.0         2.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)          100.0      235.0     291.0               124.0      247.0       307.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)               1.3        2.0       1.5                 1.0        0.7         3.5
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



Ake7X I
page 2 of 4 pages
$Ms
union othet ise .oe1,  uoca for 1960 refer to any year beween 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970 and for Most Recent Estimata between
1973 and 1975.
cIp yet captti  daa e   booed on the World Bonk Atlas m thodology (1974-76 basis).
K- -tco hla  hbon  olettod      an objective country on the basis of its sinilar population, location and income level and, like the Philippimea, it
is oxp.ctod to Roc/ topidly in the coming Yora.
Yh7l'IPIS L      IOtA    /c  1950-55;    /b  Ratio of population under 15 eon 65 and over to total la*hr force;    /c  Ac percentage of employment;
/d  1960-62;    Ia  1962;    If  Not including vocational 'sbort-tern couaee.
197;    /a  As percentage of employment;    /b  Not including private vocational schoola or vocational ehort-tern courses.
I0ost cicEtoT ESlTr1ATE     h   1976:    /b  Ratio of population onder 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    /c  1971;
/d Ragistered only; believed to be over-estimate of number actually precticlna.
TrhAILAND         1970    /a  1964-66;    /b  Public schools, which include technical aduction at the post-secondary level.
TURKEY            1970    /a  1967;    /b  Excludes 17 eastern provinces;    /c  1965-67;    /d  1965-70;    /a  Ratio of population under 15 and 65
and oVer to labor force 15 years end over;    /f  15 years and over, excludes unemployed;    ?R  Rsgietered only;
/h  Dispocable income;    /i  Including as..taint              annura  ad nidwivee;  i.  1964-66;    /k  1967-68;    /L  Pereone
Six years and 00cr who tell the census takers that they can reed and write.
KOREA REP. OF   1970    /a  A. percentage of eploVnt;    /b  Registered, not o11 practicing in the country;   /L  Water piped inside.
RlO,  November 17, 1977
DWFINITIOS OF SOCIAL IN(DICATORS
Land Area (thou i 2)                                                                        Population or nursing Percon - Population divided by ncber of practicing
Toctl - Total ourface area compi.ing land arca  nd inlnd -eters.                               uls and f-1a  graduate nuresa, "trained" or "certified" norsee, and
AMUrl. -       ---c raccc eotiate af cAagricultur-l area-  od te_p-rrily or pr--             anciliary peronna  with training or expari-no.
mcntly for oropo, paotur.e, mrket & kitchen gerdo or to lie fsllow.                      pOpultion pr hospital bsd - PoPlation  dfvidad by mbatr of hospital bode
QhLMr__cA_itA_JUS$  - GNP pe  c.pit. etimates  t..rre.available in Public and Private general and specialiead hospital and
NliP car cavctqJ0%i - G17P per capita catixatnas at current market prices,                   rshabilittion centers; ..cludea nursing homes and eatabliahoents for
caIculated by came co-vercion method ac World Sank Atlaa (1973-75 basis);                  custodial and preventive cars.
1960; 1970 sod 1975 date.                                                                Per capita anoPly of calorisa (7 of r-quirmente) - Computed from  energy
equivalent of met food Supplies aveilable in country per capitc  per day
Poculutico and vital ctatiatco,                                                              avUilabla aupplice comprise do-tic production, ficprc- l    -pxport-    d
PoPultion (.id-year . .illion)   .0 of July firslt   if not available, average                 hbangea in stock; net supplies exclude jLmal feed, -aeda, quantitico  -ccd
of two and-Ystr e-tim-es; 1460, 1970 and 1975 data,                                         in food procesing and loseaa in distribution; requirante   were estimated
by FAO based  n physiological neods for normal activity and health crid-
Population deceity - car aquore kb  - Mid-year population per square kilot_r                  ering envirOmnotel tinperature, body osight, age end see diatributiona  of
(100 hectarec) of tocl are.S                                                               population, ad *lloing 10  for ween  t hou;ehold leel.
P?opulation danaity - per equate be of agric. lod - Computed aa above for                   Per capita Supply of protein (grmw  par day) - Protein content of per capita
agrlioltu-l Iuod only.                                                                      net Supply of food per day; mt eupply of food is defimed as abova; -equOt-
Vitarl t.tr.ttl l-nd                                                                        remte for a11 contrias established by USDA Economic R esarch Servicce
Vital atatiatich                                                                              provide for a ninim- allowsnce of 60 grne of total protein par day, and
Crudo birth rate car thounand. average - Annual live births per thoucand of                   20 grna of animal and puIls  protein, of which 10 gra Should be animal
mid-year population; ten-yetr  rithcatic average  ending in 1960 and 1970,                  protein;  eae standard  r  Ioer then chie of 75 grin  of total proceic
and fivo-year average ending iL 1975 for moot recent estimate,                              and 23 grin    of aniSal prot in la an average for  the world, proposed by Fp
Crude deach race par thoucand. avergea  - Annual detheh  per thonusad of  id-year             in the Thiod World Food Survey.
populacirn; ton-year ariLh1setic f veragna ending in 1960 and 1970 and five-              Per capita protein supply from animl  nd pulae - Protein supply of food
year average ending in 1975 for moat recent  etimace.                                       derived from animals and pules in gra per day.
Infanc rootality rate 1/thou) - Annual deathe of infant under one year of age              Death rate (/thou) ages 1-4 - Annual deatha per thooceod in age group 1-4
pat t touoand live birtha.                                                                  years, to children in this age group,; uggested as Rp icdicator  f
Life e,pectanh   at birth (yre) - Average ocnbar of years of life remaining at               pmlontritinn.
birch;  uIIly five-year averagac ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
iny countriea.                                                                            Education
Crorr roproductiontatrdr-   tageuo aobr of livo daughtera woma ctll bear                    Adluted  nrollnt ratio - primary School - Eirollmeoc of *11 agee aa pat-
in her no.-al -rproducttov  perIod if she experiennes present age-specific                  cmntage of prtimry achool-sge populetiom; includes children aged 6-11 Y-eo
fertility roteo;  - ily fif0-year oyeragea ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                    but adjuated for different lengtha of prisary education; for countriea with
for deP 1 loping crut trioct                                                                universal education, enrolLmenet my e.ced 100% Since a    oa e pupils are ..b1
Population growth rate CL) - total - Compound annual grovth rate of mid-yar                   or above the official  cho_l age.
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                              Ad1uSted enroll1ment ratio - secondry   hool - Computed  a  bove; aeconday
Population cr-rth r-te (7%  - urban - Computed like growth rate of toetl                      education requires at lease four years of approed primry inatructio,
population; differeoc definitiona of urban ereae mey affeut comparability of                providee general, vocational or teacher training instructions for pupilo
data among countria.                                                                        of 12 to 17 yeara of ag; correspondence coursa are generally eeluded.
Urban population  (7, of total) - gatio of urban  tot al poplation; different               Yers of chooliom  providd (firt end secod levels  - Toeta  yers- of
definitiono of urban areao msy affect comparability of data among countries,                schooling; at ae.cary 11, e       ocatioal inatruction may be partially or
Aff-  t--C-  (P--t) - hildrn (0-4 yse.),  -ig-ag  (15_4 yeas)completely exclded.
md acructure (percentl - Children (0-14 ye rs), worfie_-ege (15-64 years)                   Voetioml enrolinet nl of secondary) - Vocational institutions i-cludo
An~d,rpe,6.         ereadae)a   erafgeo   i-ya   ouain                                       technical, industrial or other pragraw  sbich  ,perats lodapend-ly or as
on depecdaccy  a tric - Ratic of population under 15 nd 65 and over to these                  departeente of  eadary intitutions.
of agec 15 through 64                                                                     Adul                c       lta    u
cnnic depoodecc taeo tic-aRtio of population under 15 acd 65 and ovor to                      cent ge of tortl adult population adults 5be t  read ovd erit) a. per-
tbe labor force io ago grou.p of 15-64 years.                                               ..tg   fttlautPPlto   9d1   -r    dmr
Fmnily plannmno - acceptors (c-ol.tive.  thou) - Cumulative number of acceptors             Hou Log
of birth-cot-.ol dovicee under auapiceo of national family planning progrm                Persona per room (urban) - Average ouber of personc per room In occupied
Fitny plioetng - .-  (7 of  rried wome) - Pe-cnt-ge f                                         conveoionat   dwelling in urban area.; dwellings extlads non-pernenc
rhiyd-b-an g -    (1cro    Yearrie wae f married wboen of                                   ctructo1rea ed unoccupied parts.
cb    in d-a  age (15-4  e) wone birth-ct1 devi    to al married                          Occupie.d dli        ithout piped water ('1) - Occupied conventIonal dwelling
rn urban  nd rural areas  ithout inaide or outaide piped water f-olitiee
E,plon-.t                                                                                     as percentage of a11 occupied dwellitga.
Total  bor Jorce (thAOd)                                                                     USieccees to electricit   % of all dllixsa) - Comnvational dwellings witb
forcta   and fo ployed bou   - Etconiclly  ctive   P     n, incldi   ad                     elctricity n  iving quarters .s percent of total delilng  isn urbsr end
force  and  cenpiped bt exluding hou.e-Jiv., atudenta, etc..; definitiona           rt..Irslaras.                               tfttId-l9   n-b mo
icuorcous cooncries are not comparable.                                                    u   d           c          to e             )  - C          c  ao   f
Labor force in agricultur  Cl) - Agricoltural Iabor force (in farming, forestry             dural    ings                        rition (ly  - Conp.ted Se    for r-1
hunting and fishing) Sa percentage of total labor force.
llomployed (7 of labor force) - Unomplayed are usually defined as person  who               Conacaption
are able  nd willIng to take a job, out of a job on a given day, rmained out              Radio reeiver  (a  tho  pop) - All type  of rcivers for redio broadcasts
of a job, nd -eeking work for a specified miniv m   period not exceeding one                to geners  public per thousand of pop),i -ltof secludes uorli-ned receivers
web; may not be comparable between countries due to different definitio                    it   -tunri   and in yer_s hen registrationo  rdcse we in effect;
of unomployad and source of data, e.g., B   ployment Office  tatitei,   amsple              dt  for rece       io years    not b  compralson  of edto Setcs tin efaect
eurceys, compuglsory unomploymott insurance                                                d.t. fo  r"nt yr   Y  not b  carpnrcble iince eot eogntrie.  b.li.h.d
Piamsaengsrcr  erto.a)-Pasgrcr   opiemtrcr   ccn
Inco  dictributco  - Percentage of private income (both in cah and kind)                    Peaa t    eigh person   excl            buoas    , harse  and mary
received by rlohbct 5%, richest 207, poorest 20%, end poorest 407 of hogee-                 v i      e     epereos; sclud.  _bul se, h 4`2   nd ailit.r,
holds.                                                                                        oil.                                     :r
hols.rbto        -dbtrhi     t.tg.o   -                                                    Electricity (kwh/yr Per capS  - Annua  -omePtion of industrIal, oeri
Moid-_bY -athi..t 10%P,alic and private elcrciy . klilett hour  per ospita, generally
Sitributeon .fln  aseaip-Pronae of land nand'ywalbea,0                                        based on Production data, without ellmomeme for Iomsa in grids but aIlo-
and poorest 10%of I  d *hip -          t of land oI ndrs.                                  ing fo  iprta end epo;ts of electricity.
h.lth mod N.trition                                                                         tHrint (hk/yr per ce0) - Per capita t        nuel copevptiom  in kilogr
Population pee  physici-n - Popul-tion divided by nucber of practicing                                    fr  do_tic produtim pi.. nt i P-t- nf npriot
phy-ician. qualifted from a mdical School at university lavel.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1976                             ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH t%, constant prices)
US$ million      X           1966-71           1971-76              1976
GNP at Market Prices            17,631       100.0           5.1               6.6                 6.4
Gross Domestic Investment        5,519        31.3           5.9              12.5                 6.3
Gross National Saving            4,413        25.0           2.4              10.8                 6.6
Current Account Balance         -1,106        -6.3
Exports of Goods, NFS            3,115        17.7          -0.5               5.6                18.0
Imports of Goods, NFS            4,270        24.2           4.1               6.5                 1.5
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976
Value Added                  Labor Force                  V. A. per worker
US$ million           %        Million         Z              US$              %
Agriculture          5,156              29.0        8.1         50.0               637           58.0
Industry             6,029             33.9         2.3         14.2            2,621          238.7
Services             6,607             37.1         5.0         30.9             1,321          120.3
Unemployed              .                .          0.8          4.9               .           _
Total/Average    17,792              100.0       16.2        100.0            1,098           100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                      Central Government
(P billion)          % of GDP             (P billion)           % of GDP
1976         1976          1971           1976         1976           1971
Current Receipts          20.9          15.8          11.3          18.3          13.8           9.2
Current Expenditure       18.2          13.7          10.1          16.1          12.2           7.6
Current Surplus            2.7           2.0           1.2           2.2           1.7           1.6
Capital Expenditures       4.9           3.8           1.6           4.5           3.4           1.3
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1972      1973       1974       1975       1976     August 1977
(P million outstanding end period)
Money Supply                        6,500      7,300      9,000    10,300    12,100        12,800
Bank Credit to Public Sector        3,900      2,400      2,000      5,800     8,900        9,200
Bank Credit to Private Sector    12,600    16,200    24,200    28,500    23,600            34,900
(Percentage or Index Numbers)
Money as % of GDP                     11.5      10.1        9.0        8.9        9.2
General Price Index (1972 = 100)  100.0        117.6      154.4      166.8      180.1
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                    6.7      17.6       31.3        8.0        8.0
Bank Credit to Public Sector         -2.1      -38.5      -16.7      190.0       53.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector        21.7       28.6       49.4       17.8       17.9
/a All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.
not applicable



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1974-76)
1974    1975    1976                                      US$ million    %
(US$ million)
Coconut Products                     539       21.4
Exports of Goods, NFS          3,431   3,076   3,330   Sugar Products                          613       24.3
Imports of Goods, NFS          3,784   4,116   4.383   Forest Products                         298       11.8
Resource Gap (deficit = -)    -353  -1,040  -1,053   Mineral Products                          437       17.3
Fruits & Other Agric. Products       178        7.1
Interest Payments (net)            26     -53    -185   Other Manufactures                     456       18.1
Other Factor Payments (net)   -154    -149    -138          Total                            2,521      100.0
Net Transfers                     276     318      269
Balance on Current Account    -205    -924  -1,107   EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1976 /c
US$ million
Direct Foreign Investment          28      125     144
Net MLT Borrowing                                         Public Debt, including Guaranteed          2,216
Disbursements                   456     677   1,407   Nonguaranteed Private Debt                   1,812
Amortization                   312      318      368   Total Outstanding and Disbursed             4,028
Subtotal                     144      359   1,039
Other Capital (net) /a            143     -80    -236   DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1976 /d
Increase in Reserves (+)          110    -521    -160
Public Debt, including Guaranteed            7.2
Gross Reserves                                            Nonguaranteed Private Debt                  10.5
(end year) /b                1,978   2,079   2,205   Total Outstanding and Disbursed               17.7
Petroleum Imports                 573      710     801
IBRD/IDA LENDING, December 31, 1977 (US$ million)
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                   IBRD    IDA
Annual Averages         End Period  Outstanding and Disbursed              430.2   28.7
1975   1976  Jan-Aug 1977   Aug 1977   Undisbursed                               728.5    3.4
Outstanding, incl. Undisbursed   1,158.7   32.2
US$1.00    P   7.275  7.447        7.418         7.403
P 1.00  =  US$ 0.138  0.134        0.135         0.135
/a  Includes SDRs, short-term private loans, Central Bank liabilities, use of IMF credit, and errors
and omissions.
/b  Gross reserves of the Central Bank.
/c Excludes short-term debt and IMF standby credit and is on a disbursement basis.
Id Ratio of Debt-Service to Exports of Goods and Nonfactor Services.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PHILIPPINES
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
As of December 31, 1977
Loan or
Credit                                                           Amounts ($ million)
Number      Year       Borrower          Purpose             Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Fifteen loans and two credits fully disbursed               218.5     19.5
637-PH    1969    Republic of the
Philippines      Irrigation          34.0                 0.3
720-PH    1971                         Rice Processing
"1             and Storage       14.3                5.0
809-PH    1972    National Power
Corporation      Power               22.0                 4.4
349-PH    1973    Republic of the
Philippines      Education II                 12.7        3.4
891-PH    1973                          Fisheries           11.6                1.1
939-PH    1973                          Ports                6.1                3.5
950-PH    1973            "             Second Highways   68.0                 14.6
984-PH    1974                         Aurora-Penaranda
Irrigation        9.5                 6.3
998-PH    1974            "            DFC-DBP I            50.0                7.6
1034-PH    1974    National Power
Corporation      Power               61.0               28.8
1035-PH     1974    Republic of the
Philippines      Population          25.0               20.4
1048-PH     1974           "             Shipping            20.0               15.5
1052-PH    1974    Philippine
National Bank   DFC                   30.0               19.9
1080-PH    1975    Republic of the   Tarlac
Philippines         Irrigation        17.0               11.8
1102-PH     1975                         Rural
Development       25.0               22.8
1120-PH    1975                          Small and Medium
Industries       30.0                9.2
1154-PH     1976                        Magat
Irrigation       42.0               34.3
1190-PH    1976            "            DFC-DBP II           75.0               61.4
1224-T-PH  1976            "             Education III       25.0               20.5
1225-PH    1976            "             Livestock II        20.5               13.3
1227-PH    1976            "             Chico Irrigation  50.0                 48.2
1272-T-PH  1976            "            Manila Urban         10.0                9.2
1282-PH    1976            "            Manila Urban         22.0               20.2
1269-PH    1976                          Second Grain
Processing        11.5               11.5
1270-PH    1976            "             Second Fisheries  12.0                 10.9
1353-PH    1977                          Third Highways      95.0               94.9
1367-PH    1977             "            Jalaur Irrigation 15.0                 15.0
1374-PH    1977            "             Fourth Education  25.0                 24.7
1399-PH    1977    Central Bank of   Fourth Rural
the Philippines   Credit             36.5               36.5
1414-PH    1977    Republic of the   National Irriga-
Philippines         tion Systems
Improvement      50.0               49.9
1415-PH    1977            "             Provincial Cities
Water Supply    23.0                22.8
1421-PH    1977                          Second Rural
Development-
Land Settlement 15.0                 15.0
1460-PH    1977    National Power
Corporation      Seventh Power        58.0              58.0
1506-PH    1978    Republic of the   Smallholder Tree
Philippines         Farming            8.0                8.0
1514-PH    1978    Philippine
National Bank   DFC                   30.0               30.0
Total /a                                         1,265.5    32.2    758.9
of which has been repaid
(Bank and third parties)                         106.8        -
Total now outstanding                            1,15B.7    32.2
Amount sold                         22.0
of which has been repaid
(third parties)                  12.6              9.4        -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange rate
adjustments)                                  1,149.3    32.2
Total undisbursed                                  755.5      3.4    758.9
/a The total inclujdes loan 1514-PH, which was signed on February 9, 1978.
In addition, a loan of $65 million was approved by the Executive Directors
on February 28, 1978, for the Second National Irrigation Systems Improvement
Project, which is expected to be signed shortly.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of December 31, 1977
Fiscal                                                       Amounts ($ million)
Year                      Company                           Loan   Equity   Total
1963 & 1973  Private Development Corporation of the
Philippines                                 15.0     4.4      19.4
1967          Manila Electric Company                        8.0        -       8.0
1967          Meralco Securities Corporation                   -      4.0       4.0
1970          Philippine Long Distance
Telephone Company                            4.5        -      4.5
1970 & 1972  Mariwasa Manufacturing, Inc.                    0.8      0.4       1.2
1970          Paper Industries Corporation of the
Philippines                                    -     2.2       2.2
1971 & 1977  Philippine Petroleum Corporation                6.2      2.1       8.3
1972          Marinduque Mining and Industrial
Corporation                                 15.0        -      15.0
1973          Victorias Chemical Corporation                 1.9      0.3       2.2
1974          Filipinas Synthetic Fiber Corporation          1.5        -       1.5
1974          Maria Christina Chemical Industries, Inc.  1.5          0.5       2.0
1974          Republic Flour Mills Corporation               1.2        -       1.2
1975          Philippine Polyamide Industrial
Corporation                                  7.0        -      7.0
1976          Philagro Edible Oils, Inc.                     2.6      0.2       2.8
1977          Acoje Mining Company, Inc.                     2.3      1.2       3.5
1977          Sarmiento Industries, Inc.                     3.5       -        3.5
Total gross commitments                       71.0    15.3       86.3
Less sold, acquired by others,
repaid or canceled                          23.7    12.0      35.7
Total commitments now held by IFC             47.3      3.3      50.6
Undisbursed                                    5.0        -       5.0



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Agricultural Sector
Loan No. 720    Rice Processing and Storage; $14.3 Million Loan of
February 4. 1971; Date of Effectiveness: May 10, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
This project provides long-term credit through the Development
Bank of the Philippines ito finance a program for the development and modern-
ization of the rice and corn processing industry. Originally the project
was restricted to rice and to the private sector, and the emphasis was on
the construction of new Lntegrated large capacity rice mills. Due in part
to poor harvests and in part to large cost increases for rice mills, the
demand for subloans for new integrated rice mills turned out to be small
and, as explained in the President's Memorandum, dated June 8, 1972 (R72-40),
the Loan Agreement was amended to shift the project emphasis to rehabilita-
tion of existing rice milling facilities. The Loan Agreement was further
amended in April 1974 to: (a) expand the scope of the project to include corn
in addition to rice, (b) enable local governments and the National Grains
Authority to borrow funds under the project, and (c) streamline procurement
procedures (President's Memorandum SecM74-244 of April 15, 1974). As a
result of these amendments, the project is now generally progressing satis-
factorily, although mounting arrears are a source of concern and DBP is now
stepping up its supervision and collection efforts to deal with this. Bank
loans for subloans have been fully committed; however, because of the long
construction period of the large subprojects, full disbursement will be
delayed until mid-1978 and the Closing Date has been postponed to
June 30, 1979.
Credit No. 472 Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation; $9.5 Million Credit and
Loan No. 984    $9.5 Million Loan of May 14, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
August 22, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The project diverts water from the Aurora basin into the Pantabangan
reservoir to provide year-round irrigation for 30,000 ha of rice land in
Central Luzon. Although the need for foundation and abutment area grouting on
the two diversion dams was more extensive than originally expected, progress
on the transbasin diversion was excellent. Diversion of 75% of Aurora water,
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. Thety should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evalua-
tion of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12 pages
on closure of the first dam in July 1975, was an early benefit for the Central
Luzon rice growing area. The second dam was closed on April 1, 1976, about one
year ahead of schedule. In the service area, lack of competition and high bids
delayed awarding of contracts, but five small local construction firms are now
at work. Urgent work is being done by government forces. Project costs have
increased about 54% over appraisal estimates, largely as a result of rapid
inflation.  Although there are added benefits from early diversion resulting in
additional water for irrigation sooner than planned, and nearly 5,000 ha have
been added to the project, the rate of return is expected to fall from 17% at
appraisal to around 14%. The Credit has been fully disbursed and disbursement
on the Loan has begun.
Loan No. 891    Fisheries; $11.6 Million Loan of May 21, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: December 5, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
This project is designed to provide long-term credit to the private
sector through the Development Bank of the Philippines for marine and inland
fisheries development. The demand for subloans has been adequate, and the
organization to implement them has been properly established. The project is
progressing satisfactorily, and all funds were fully committed by July 1976
and are likely to be disbursed by the Closing Date. A moderate arrears
problem has developed, which DBP is tackling by increasing its supervision
and collection efforts.
Loan No. 1080   Tarlac Irrigation; $17.0 Million Loan of January 27,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 27, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980
The project is assisting the Government to improve 21,000 ha of
land under three existing national irrigation systems and expand irrigation
on 13,000 ha of additional land in Central Luzon. Progress on the groundwater,
water management training and NISIS components of the project has been good.
All major civil works contracts are now awarded and remaining work is all
under way. Also, most equipment contracts are awarded. Progress under the
project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1102   Rural Development; $25.0 Million Loan of April 16,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: July 28, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project is assisting the Government to carry out a rural devel-
opment project on the island of Mindoro. This includes constructing and
improving 150 km of national highways and 280 km of provincial roads, rehabil-
itating and upgrading Calapan Port, improving and extending two national
irrigation systems to serve 12,000 ha of rice land, and 3,000 ha under
communal irrigation systems, providing an agricultural program involving seed



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12 pages
testing laboratories and rat control, providing protection programs in four
watersheds, schistosomiasis control, and assistance to Mangyan tribes. Pro-
gress is satisfactory on irrigation and after substantial initial delays, is
improving steadily for the road component. These two components are being
implemented by agencies having experience with Bank-funded projects, and
construction has begun on Calapan Port. With the exception of the Mangyan
Assistance Program, however, there was little early progress under the other
programs because of inadequate budgeting by the various agencies for the new
programs. More adequate budgets have now been approved and all work is
expected to proceed rapidly.
Loan No. 1154   Magat Multipurpose Project; $42.0 Million Loan of
August 7, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 4, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is assisting the Government to improve and expand
irrigation on 35,000 ha of land in the Cagayan Valley of Northern Luzon.
Consultant's work on the engineering and economic evaluation studies is
almost completed. The water management training is under way and satis-
factory progress is being made on civil works.
Loan No. 1225   Second Livestock; $20.5 Million Loan of April 8, 1976; Date
of Effectiveness: September 13, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project is designed to increase domestic production of livestock
products. As of June 30, 1977, disbursements were $5.0 million, which is
about 70% above appraisal estimates. However, arrears under the First
Livestock Project are quite high and DBP is now taking steps to improve
subloan appraisal and supe!rvision as well as project monitoring.
Loan No. 1227   Chico River Irrigation Project; $50.0 Million Loan
of April 8, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project will assist the Government to improve and expand
irrigation on 19,700 ha in the Cagayan Valley. Consultants for the Erosion
Control Study and for input-output monitoring have been engaged. A start
has been made on civil works for rehabilitation of the Chico West and Tuga-
Gobgob areas. Bids have been received for the three road links included in
the project and contracts have been awarded for two of them. Government
evaluation of the third is still under way. After substantial initial delay,
the road component of the project is now progressing more satisfactorily.



ANNEX ]I
Page 6 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1269   Second Grain Processing Project; $11.5 Million Loan of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 12, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project provides long-term credit through the Development Bank
of the Philippines to assist in modernizing and expanding the Philippine
grain processing industry. Initial progress under the project is satisfactory.
Subloan commitments are expected to begin shortly, now that Loan No. 720 is
fully committed.
Loan No. 1270   Second Fisheries Project; $12.0 Million Loan of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 12, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project provides long-term credit through the Development Bank
of the Philippines to assist in increasing fish production for domestic con-
sumption. Initial progress under the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1367   Jalaur Irrigation Project; $15.0 Million Loan of
February 14, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 12, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This Loan will assist the Government in rehabilitating about
22,000 ha of existing irrigation schemes and constructing new irrigation and
drainage facilities for about 2,900 ha of rice land on the island of Panay.
Construction work on the existing main and secondary canals improvement has
now begun.
Loan No. 1399   Fourth Rural Credit Project; $36.5 Million Loan of
April 11, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 2, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project provides medium and long-term credit through partici-
pating banks to finance farmers and local entrepreneurs for farm mechanization,
livestock, fisheries, and cottage and agro-industries. The project became
effective on June 2, 1977. Initial implementation was delayed because of the
time required for preparation, but commitments are expected to increase in
the coming months. The major problem is to minimize disqualification from
participation due to high arrearages and to encourage eligible rural banks to
participate.
Loan No. 1414   National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project; $50 Million
Loan of May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: August 9, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project consists of rehabilitation of irrigation facilities
serving 28,000 ha and extension of irrigation facilities to 22,000 ha



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12 pages
of farmland in Northern Luzon and Leyte, and a schistosomiasis control
program in Leyte. The Loan became effective on August 9, 1977.
Loan No. 1421   Second Rural Development (Land Settlement) Project;
$15.0 Million Loan of June 10, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
October 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project will assist the Government to strengthen its planning
and implementation capability for its land settlement program and will also
upgrade three existing land settlement areas. The Loan became effective
on October 27, 1977.
Loan No. 1506 Smallholder Tree Farming and Forestry Project; $8.0 Million Loan
of January 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: Not Yet Effective;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This Loan was approved by the Executive Directors on December 22, 1977
and signed on January 23, 1978. It is not yet effective.
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 939    Second Ports; $6.1 Million Loan of October 24, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: December 19, 1973; Closing
Date:  JulY 15, 1979
Progress on civil works construction for both General Santos
and Cagayan de Oro has been slow, due mainly to frequent breakdowns of the
contractor's dredger in C;eneral Santos, and the slow mobilization of con-
tractor's plant in Cagayan de Oro. These problems have been resolved and
progress on civil works construction at both plants is improving. By June
1977, work was 36% complet4d in General Santos, and 6% in Cagayan de Oro.
The present estimated total project cost is 75% higher than the appraisal
estimate due to worldwide price increases. However, foreign exchange costs
are lower than appraisal estimates as the contractors are locally based.
Total traffic at the project ports is in line with appraisal forecasts and a
reasonable financial rate of return is being earned. By June 1977 the
Philippine Port Authority had taken over 7 of the 18 national ports.
Loan No. 950    Second HLghway; $68.0 Million Loan of December 12,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: December 27, 1973;
Closing I)ate: December 31, 1978
Overall progress on construction has been generally satisfactory,
with about 90% of the project works completed. However, progress on one of
the national roads is not satisfactory and this is expected to delay project



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12 pages
completion by about 12 months compared to the appraisal estimate. UNDP-
financed road feasibility studies were completed in June 1975, and detailed
engineering for the Third Highway Project (Loan 1353-PH) was completed in
August 1976. Detailed engineering for the proposed Fourth Highway Project was
substantially completed in October 1977. The total cost of the project has
risen substantially (about 40% above appraisal estimate) because of inflation
following the oil price increase in late 1973. About $12 million still remains
undisbursed and hence the Closing Date has been extended to December 31, 1978.
Loan No. 1048   Inter-island Shipping; $20 Million Loan of October 29,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: January 15, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
The Government is relending the proceeds of the Loan to the
Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) for onlending to beneficiaries
for the acquisition of new and used ships and for major repairs and con-
versions. Commitments were initially slow because of lack of demand from the
private sector due to the lengthy period required for the processing of
loans, restrictive collateral requirements by DBP, and unfavorable lending
terms offered by DBP in comparison with those extended by other lending
institutions in the Philippines. However, these problems are now being
resolved and subloan commitments have begun to move again.
Loan No. 1353   Third Highway Project; $95.0 Million Loan of
January 12, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project will assist the Government in improving the national and
rural road systems and their maintenance. Most construction contracts have
been awarded. The major problem is delayed implementation of the road restor-
ation/maintenance component of the project. However, priority attention has
been given to this problem and, as a result, these components are expected to
accelerate during the coming year.
Education Sector
Credit No. 349 Second Education; $12.7 Million Credit of January 5,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: April 11, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
The Credit provides $12.7 million to finance improvements to
existing middle and higher level agricultural education institutions, curric-
ulum development, and new technical and vocational institutions in rural
areas. Physical progress is now good under the project and disbursements have
reached 75% of planned levels. All but 6 of the 32 project institutions
have been completed; the remainder will be completed by the end of 1977.
Three fourths of the technical assistance program has been completed. Cost



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12 pages
overruns of 13% are expected in dollar terms because of inflation and earlier
lack of cost control over civil works; the amount of equipment purchased has
been reduced to compensate for cost overruns.
Loan No. 1224   Third Education Project; $25 Million Loan of April 8,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 29, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project covers the first phase (1976-80) of the Government Is
eight-year textbook program and provides for the development, production
and distribution of 27 maillion textbooks. It also provides for curriculum
development, teacher training and technical assistance. Progress under
the project is satisfactory. Disbursements are more than twice the planned
level.
Loan No. 1374   Fourth Education Project; $25.0 Million Loan of
March 2i. 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 9, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project iLs to assist the Government in developing agricultural
education and training. It includes assistance for: specialized facilities
for forestry, animal sciLence, and veterinary medicine; a regional agricultural
college in the Visayas; and training for extension workers and farmer leaders.
Implementation of all aspects of the project is on schedule.
Urban Sector
Loan No. 1272T Manila IJrban Development Project; $10.0 Million and
Loan No. 1282 $22.0 M:Lllion Loans of June 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
December 9. 1976; Closing Date: September 30, 1981
The loan will finance: (a) improvements in basic sanitary services for
families living in the Tondo Foreshore and Dagat Dagatan areas, and (b) improve-
ments in transportation and traffic in the Greater Manila Area. Construction
on 1,500 of 2,000 serviced lots at Dagat Dagatan is nearing completion. The
high school and health clinic in Tondo have been constructed and the subdivision
of lots in the Tondo pr:Lority area is also nearing completion. A paper on the
status of this project will be submitted to the Executive Directors in December.
Loan No. 1415   Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $23 Million Loan of
May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: September 9. 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
This loan will finance: (a) water supply improvement and expansion
in six provincial cities; (b) feasibility studies for water supply improve-
ment in ten additional cities; and (c) feasibility studies for Manila sewerage.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12 pages
The Loan was made effective on September 9, 1977. Progress is generally
satisfactory according to the review of the preliminary engineering studies
and detailed design of the water supply construction. The water supply
feasibility studies for ten cities and the Manila sewerage design study are
expected to begin in January 1978.
Power Sector
Loan No. 809    Fifth Power; $22.0 Million Loan and $10.0 Million Credit
Credit No. 296 of April 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness: July 1, 1972;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The project is helping the National Power Corporation (NPC) to
finance the construction of a second thermal unit of 150 MW at Bataan and
transmission facilities in Luzon. Although there has been some minor delay
due to the late delivery of transformers, the project is proceeding satis-
factorily. The erection of transmission lines has also been completed.
The loan is expected to be fully disbursed before the Closing Date, which has
been postponed from June 30, 1976 to June 30, 1978. A tariff increase was
approved in October 1976, but this was insufficient to enable NPC to achieve
the expected rate of return of 8% on its net fixed assets in operation.
Further tariff increases are currently under consideration.
Loan No. 1034    Sixth Power;  $61.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974:
Date of Effectiveness: November 15, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
The project is helping the National Power Corporation (NPC) to
finance a 100 MW hydro plant at Pantabangan and transmission lines for the
further expansion of the Luzon grid and feasibility studies by consultants
for a future power project. The generating plant has been commissioned.
However, the transmission component of the project is behind schedule because
necessary design work has been delayed due to NPC's heavy construction
program. For this reason the Closing Date may have to be extended. Costs
have increased by 21%, largely due to inflation.
Loan No. 1460   Seventh Power Prolect; $58.0 Million Loan of August 9, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: January 6, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project will assist the Government in expanding the transmission
system in Luzon, establishing the first stage of a communications system and
control center, and training NPC staff. The loan became effective on January 6,
1978.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12 pages
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 998    Industrial Investment and Smallholder Tree-Farming;
$50.0 Million Loan of June 12, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: September 9. 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The proceeds of the Loan were relent to the Development Bank of
the Philippines (DBP). The industrial portion of the Loan ($48 million)
has been used by DBP to finance direct imports for medium and relatively
large industrial projects. DBP is using the balance ($2 million) to finance
about 1,300 smallholders in a pilot tree-farming project in Mindanao. Subloans
are expected to be fully committed by mid-1978.
Loan No. 1052   Private Development Corporation of the Philippines;
$30 Million Loan of November 12, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: February 7, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
The project assists in the financing of economically desirable and
financially viable industrial subprojects. As of November 2, 1977, commitments
for subloans totaling $19.1 million had been made. While subloan commitments
have been somewhat slower than originally expected due to the generally slow
pace of business activity, the implementation of the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1120   Small and Medium Industries Development; $30.0 Million
Loan of June 5, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 20,
1975; Closing Date: August 31, 1979
The DBP portion of the funds has been fully disbursed. After a
slow start, commitment and disbursement of funds under the Industrial Guarantee
Loan Fund are now proceeding well. However, the Rural Industrial Cooperative
Program ($2.3 million) which is being implemented by the National Electrifica-
tion Administration is, because of its experimental nature, facing management
and staffing problems. Disbursements on this component have therefore been
slow. Overall progress of the project is, however, satisfactory.
Loan No. 1190   Industrial Investment; $75.0 Million Loan of
January 28, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 6, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The proceeds of the Loan are relent by the Development Bank of the
Philippines for subloans to finance direct imports for medium and relatively
large industrial projects. Commitments of funds, which were initially much
slower than expected due to a slowdown of investment in the industrial sector
as a whole, have recently improved. The Executive Directors approved a
proposal to reallocate $25 million of the funds for small and medium industries



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12 pages
on February 25, 1977, and an amendment to the Loan Agreement to this effect
was signed on March 16, 1977. As of November 2, 1977, commitments for subloans
amounting to $17.5 million had been made. In addition, $5.4 million had been
disbursed against the allocation for small and medium-scale industries.
Loan No. 1514   Private Development Corporation of the Philippines; $30 Million
Loan of February 9, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: Not Yet
Effective; Closing Date: March 31, 1982
This Loan was signed on February 9, 1978 and is not yet effective.
Population
Loan No. 1035   Population; $25.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: November 13, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project is assisting the Government in expanding rural health
infrastruct'ure, and in providing staff training facilities and technical
assistance for the development of a management information system and for
training. Under the direction of the Project Management Staff in the Depart-
ment of Health, overall project implementation is progressing well. Training
activities are ahead of schedule in all 12 regions. The civil works component
is behind schedule but is expected to be completed ahead of the appraisal
report timetable due to simplification of construction design. Progress under
the project is satisfactory.



ANNEX III
PHILIPPINES
EDUCATIONAL RADIO TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable for Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare the project:  9 months
(b) First presented to Bank: September 1977
(c) Departure of appraisal mission: September 1977
(d) Completion of negotiations: February 1978
(e) Planned date of effectiveness: June 30, 1978
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
(a) The Bank and the Philippine Government have agreed on an implemen-
tation timetable to help ensure effective project implementation.
(b) Bank staff will need to review during the coming months:
(i)  arrangements for appointment of consultants;
(ii)  progress in training staff;
(iii)  arrangements between ECO and the University of the Philippines
and the Philippine Training Center for Rural Development
for carrying out, respectively, the evaluation and rural
education studies; and
(iv) terms of reference for the project studies.
Section III:  Special Conditions
(a) ECO would enter into arrangements satisfactory to the Bank with the
University of the Philippines and the Philippines Training Center
for Rural Development for carrying out, respectively, the evaluation
and rural education studies (para. 52); and
(b) the Government would maintain ECO with organization and staffing
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 51).






co -t
w  :  E   og  l  E               <               o~~~~~~~~~~~~  V
m U I 0 ,,                t
C;    UJ  '   '  ' '% i " f   ;  f   "  :       f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c
CL                  |                , <    5
i'>l''C' ' t '' W X   ' 0 i '' ' M;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z
t X  w < G < 5 5 5 8 g   5 1 3;  3 i W  8 2 { { ffi E }; 3 5  W | | ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ op,  Q
0 >OQnOtZonSSSSOOS s_ X   
0                                                                     gg3 i   6  X     5  3;6        6  . rA*i  
4   N    P)   t    [D    (D.>.   Q  X  @  O C n st 8 S S bX m  4 N n c> Z 3  e N nv S O ) 0 Z4n
;   ,    ,    ,,>,>,NN   <n  zz  A 1 a Z 4> Z &~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
* 6 1 | . . . 2 i _ i . Z L . .! . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z   0iL>{UF5, 



