Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13741
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 2116-TA AND CREDIT 2116-ITA, 2116-2TA(SUPPLEMENTAL))
DECEMBER 1, 1994
Agriculture and Environment Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TANZANIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 2116-TA & CR. 21 16-1TA, 21 16-2TA (SUPPLEMENTAL))
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =  Tanzanian Shilling (TSh)
Exchange Rate at Appraisal  =  US$ 1.00 = TSh 145.0
Exchange Rate at Credit Effectiveness  =  US$ 1.00 = TSh 190.0
Exchange Rate at Completion  =  US$ 1.00 = TSh 500.0
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Tanzania = 1 July to 30 June
World Bank = 1 July to 30 June
ACRONYMS
BOT                The Bank of Tanzania
CP                 FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme
DAFCO              Tanzanian Dairy Farming Company
ERP                Economic Recovery Programme
ESAP               Economic and Social Action Plan
FAO                Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FSD                Food Security Department
GDP                Gross Dormestic Product
GOT                Government of Tanzania
IC                 Industrial Companies
IDA                International Development Association
IMF                International Monetary Fund
IRTA               Industrial Rehabilitation and Trade Adjustment Credit
MALDC              Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock Development and Cooperatives
MDB                Marketing Development Bureau
MRC                Multi-sector Rehabilitation Credit
NAFCO              National Agricultural and Food Corporation
NMC                National Milling Corporation
NAPOCO             National Poultry Company
NARCO              National Ranching Company
OGL                Open General License Facility
PPMB               Project Preparation and Monitoring Bureau
PSRC               Public Sector Reform Commission
SGR                Strategic Grain Reserve
TA                 Technical Assistance
TANAA              Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (CR 2116-TA)
TFC                Tanzania Fertilizer Corporation



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation                                                       December 1,1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Tanzania
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit
(Credit 2116-TA and Credit 2116-1TA. 2116-2TA (Supplemental))
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Tanzania-Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Credit (Credit 2116-TA and Credit 2116-ITA,2116-2TA (Supplemental)) prepared by the Africa
Regional Office. Parts I and Im were prepared by FAO/CP and World Bank staff and have been
reviewed by the Agriculture and Environment Division of the Eastern Africa Department. Part II
was prepared by the Borrower. These comments have been reflected in Parts I and HI.
The PCR reports that significant progress was made in market liberalization, a reduced
(regulatory) role for Marketing Boards and good Government commitment to the reform program.
Despite this there were some delays due to institutional problems, such as disputed land ownership
as production parastatals tried to hand over to the private sector. The project was cofinanced by the
Netherlands, Norway and United Kingdom, and parallel financing was provided by Germany and
Sweden.
The project was one of a series of adjustment credits tracing back to the Export
Rehabilitation Credit (Credit 1133-TA) approved in 1981, which have supported the Govemment's
Economic Reform and Economic and Social Action Programs which in total have achieved major
reforms throughout the economy and society. The project was basically successful in converting the
National Milling Company from a parastatal to being simply one milling company in a competitive
food grains sector; introducing competitive marketing for coffee, cotton and cashews with dominant
private sector participation; starting the withdrawal of parastatals from agricultural production;
introducing competition in the supply of seeds and fertilizer; rationalizing and substantially reducing
the number of agricultural projects; and providing continuing support for agricultural policy analysis
and project management.
The project outcome is rated as satisfactory, its institutional development impact as
substantial, and sustainability of results achieved is likely. Major contributions to this gratifying result
were a well established policy dialogue, based in part on long run support for the well respected
Market Development Bureau of the Ministry of Agriculture, and credibility of Bank advice gained
from earlier adjustment credits.
The PCR is of satisfactory quality. An audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization,






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT CONfPLETION REPORT
TANZANiA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTIMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 2116-TA & CR. 2116-ITA, 2116-2TA (SUPPLEMENTAL))
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE  ................................................. i
EVALUATION SUMMARY                    .....................................  ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE .........                             1
1. Project Identity . ........................................... 1
2. Background   ..
3. Objectives and Description  ..........................  2
4. Credit Design ..........................  4
5. Irnplementation ..........................5 
6. Results and Impact ..........................  9
7. Sustainability ..........................                                            13
8. Bank Performance ..........................                                          13
9. Borrower's Performance ............................... 14
10. Lessons Learned ..........................                                          14
11. Project Relationship ..........................                                     15
12. Consulting Services and Studies ...........................                         15
13. Project Documentation and Data ..........................                           15
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE                                 17
PART mf: STATISTICAL INFORMATION                                                        19
AŽNNEX  1                                                                               27
APPE,NDIX 1                                                                             29
This document has a restricted disttibution and may be used by recpients only in tho performmnce of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bankc authorizaton.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CR.2116-TA & CR.2116-1TA, 2116-2TA (SUPPLEMENTAL))
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Agricultural Adjustment Credit, for
which Credit 2116-TA in the amount of SDR 150.4 million (US$200 million) was approved in March
1990. Following effectiveness, further supplemental Credits of SDR 11.5 million (equivalent to
US$16.1 million) and SDR 8.6 million (US$11.3 million) were approved bringing the total amount
available under the Agricultural Adjustment Credit to SDR 170.5 million (US$227.4 million). A total
of some SDR 166.5 million (equivalent to US$229.9 million) or about 98 percent of the credit was
disbursed. The credit became effective in April 1990, and closed on June 30, 1994, after two
extensions for a total period of two years.
The report (Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) was prepared by FAO/CP and World Bank
staff. Preparation of Parts I and III of the PCR are based, inter alia, on the President's Report, the
Development Credit Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the
Borrower, internal Bank memoranda and on discussions held with the relevant institutions in the
country. Part II was prepared by the Borrower, these comments have been reflected in Parts I and
III.
i






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CR.2116-TA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background, Objectives and Design
The Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (TANAA) was conceived as a support to the Economic
Reform Program which was launched by the Government of Tanzania (GOT) in 1986. Its objectives were
to introduce policy and institutional changes in the agricultural sector within the framework of the broader
economic reform program.  Specifically, the credit proposed to improve producer incentives by
liberalizing marketing, and to improve the efficiency of agricultural marketing in order to reduce the cost
of food crops to consumers. To this end, the Credit proposed to support policy changes in the pricing
and marketing systems of food crops and three major export crops - coffee, cotton and cashewnuts.
The credit, which was expected to be implemented over a two year period, was designed in such
a way that half of the credit was to be disbursed immediately after effectiveness and the remainder - the
second tranche - after the accomplishment of a number of conditions. These conditionalities included the
restructuring of major marketing institutions, the liberalization of export crops, restructuring of export
crop processing plants, consolidation of agricultural development projects being executed by the Ministry
of Agriculture, Livestock Development and Cooperatives (MALDC) and restructuring agricultural
production parastatals. A number of studies were conducted, whose results would develop the foundation
for the reforms to be undertaken.
Implementation
The credit was approved in March 1990 and signed and declared effective in April 1990. The
credit was originally scheduled to close on June 30, 1992 but was extended three times, closing finally
on June 30, 1994. Soon after credit effectiveness, the first tranche of the credit was disbursed through
the Open General License facility (OGL). Overall, progress on the implementation of the studies was
uneven. The three studies concerning the re-structuring of the marketing boards were delayed because
of a tax question concerning the monies earned by expatriate consultants. Other studies were also
delayed, for various other reasons; for example, there were delays in the early stages of the project, while
the implementing units under MALDC sought to determine the appropriate design of the studies (and
related action plans) that were to serve as the foundation of future reform programs. While these studies
were being carried out, the reorganization of the three marketing boards, including changes in internal
structure as well as reduction of superfluous personnel was initiated. Based on the studies, MALDC
proposed a modification of the existing legislation concerning the marketing boards. The main aim of this
revision of the existing legislation, was to take away the quasi-monopolistic status of the boards in
handling the export crops, limiting their role to a regulatory one. Thus the Special Bill No. 2 of July
1993, while accepting the idea of liberalizing the export crops, ruled that the boards could also carry out
the marketing function, in competition with traders. This has left open the possibility of a conflict of
interest.
..



There was important progress in the area of grain trading liberalization under the Credit; grain
prices are determined by market forces and the role of GOT has been reduced to regulation and provision
of marketing services. Thus, notwithstanding the failure to repeal the National Milling Corporation
(NMC) Act of 1984, at completion it can be said that grain marketing was basically liberalized and the
NMC has definitely left the marketing business to producers, traders, cooperatives and to the Food
Security Department (FSD) for the Strategic Grain Reserve (SGR). However, the expected private sector
investment in grain marketing business, including construction of warehouses did not take place. In the
area of inputs liberalization, the project concentrated on: increased competition within the seeds industry
and reduction of the (politically sensitive) fertilizer subsidy. Progress in both of these areas was quite
rapid. The evaluation of the agricultural investment portfolio was completed by February 1991 and the
action plan was implemented by April 1992. The guiding principle has been to confine Government in
undertaking service projects, and to terminate commercial type ventures, leaving these activities to the
private sector; the immediate effect of this measure was a reduction in the total number of development
projects from 160 to 90; of these 90, 22 projects were transferred to the recurrent budget.
As the project progressed, the required conditionalities for the release of the second tranche could
not be fulfilled within the envisioned time-frame, and consequently, the release of the second tranche was
approved only in April 1992 (after a delay of about ten months). During the execution of the credit, the
MALDC was confronted with other difficulties as well. The reforms were implemented at such a rapid
pace in the country, that there was some loss of control over the entire process. For instance, the
anticipated privatization of cotton ginneries could not be carried out, since legislation transferring the
control of the cooperative unions away from GOT, and into the hands of the producers, had already been
passed. As a result, the ability of GOT to meet the conditionality (under the credit) that 50 percent
control of the ginneries be transferred to industrial companies could not be achieved. Likewise, many
of the state held farms did not have clear land tenure status. Hence, their privatization could not be
accomplished until these issues were clarified.
Results
Tanzania has been pursuing a program of reform since the early 1980s. TANAA was initiated
as an effort to expand upon the reforms launched previously in certain sub-sectors (e.g., grains), as well
as to introduce reforms in other sub-sectors (e.g., export crops). The project thus commenced, facing
varying stages of reform with respect to different commodities and sub-sectors within agriculture.
Additionally, not surprisingly, as with any reform process entailing changes to the old order, the project
was launched in an environment wherein various interest groups sought to undermine the reform
program. Inspite of this, a number of changes have been introduced to agricultural processing and
marketing practices, inter alia, through legislative reform, re-organization of institutions, and capacity
building measures. Thus, when viewed in this context, the progress achieved under TANAA should
be considered quite noteworthy, and overall project performance may be deemed satisfactory. However,
like any adjustment program, the true impact of the recent policy reforms and institutional changes may
not be evident for several years. Additionally, the impact of the project on Tanzania's agriculture sector
should be considered in conjunction with the positive effect of other macroeconomic and structural
reforms, such as exchange rate liberalization and export marketing and pricing reform.Nonetheless,
undeniable progress has been made in Tanzania's agricultural sector since the inception of TANAA.
A major achievement of the project is the general improvement in producer incentives, as the
reliance on market forces for price determination increases, and distortions are steadily eliminated; as
such, the liberalization of food (grains) and export crop marketing, has been secured. The marketing
restrictions imposed through the quasi-monopolistic marketing boards, have been removed, and as a
consequence, multi-channel, privately operated markets have developed and replaced the archaic single
.i.i



channel markets from the socialist regime. The marketing of food crops has in particular undergone a
major change, because the de-confinement of domestic trade which had started before TANAA, has now
been completed. All food crops are now freely marketable and this has brought about competition and
development of markets and has led to increases in producer prices. The level of improvement in prices
does, however, differ from area to area depending on the accessibility and availability of markets. While
GOT no longer determines producer prices, it does establish the SGR floor price for the purchase of grain
for food security reserves. Food crop production which accounts for some three quarters of sectoral
GDP, has maintained a steady growth rate; maize and paddy crop production increased from 1,530
and 296 thousand tons average annual production, during the period 1973-83, to 2,335 and 568 thousand
tons on average, respectively, during the period 1984-93. Partial credit for this sturdy performance may
be attributed to the improvement in producer incentives. The trend portrayed by the increasing value of
the ratio of domestic to world prices of the major agricultural commodities such as coffee, cotton, maize
and rice, provides an indication of the growing efficiency and transparency of the Tanzanian agro-
products' market. In each case, the ratios, at both the official exchange rate and the open market rate,
increased towards one, during the period 1990 (1988 for coffee) through 1992, i.e., while the project was
being implemented. The marketing of agricultural inputs (seeds and fertilizer) has been completely
liberalized.
Improved efficiency and reduced agricultural marketing and processing costs, have resulted
from the substantial re-structuring of the marketing boards, which included measures to streamline
operations, redefine functions and reduce staff (for instance, there was a striking 90 percent reduction
in the Coffee Marketing Board staff numbers). The coffee Export Division, run by a separate management
is now independent, with more transparency in its buying operations. For cotton, savings realized from
re-structuring have allowed the Board to reduce its fee from 4.5% to 2.5% of sales proceeds. For
cashewnuts, licensing procedures and standards have been developed to allow for free trade. As a direct
result of the liberalization of grain trading, and the related reduction of NMC's role, the markets are
operating more efficiently, thereby resulting in reduction of costs to consumers. With respect to the
state owned processing facilities for these crops, rationalization / restructuring measures are
underway, and privatization of these parastatals is being pursued vigorously. However, the planned
privatization of the parastatals has not proceeded at the pace envisaged at appraisal. This goes to prove
that while Government commitment to the process is crucial, it is not the overriding factor. Other
considerations, e.g., the willingness of foreign investors and the purchasing power and absorptive
capacity of the domestic private sector, as well as the strength of the domestic financial sector, also play
a determining role in the process. Yet another complication in the privatization process relates to the
unclear land tenure status of state held farms.
The credit has also contributed positively to the national budget, by reducing the burden
imposed by state subsidies related to food crops and agricultural inputs. Although there have been
no readily available figures, the savings are estimated to be in the order of tens of billions of TSh.
The downsizing, restructuring, and (eventually) privatization of various agriculture sector entities, i.e.,
the boards and production and processing parastatals, have also translated into reduced demands
on GOT's budget. The rationalization of the agricultural investment portfolio, has resulted in the
closure of some 70 non-viable projects, transfer of 22 projects to the recurrent budget, and the re-
evaluation of the remaining projects. This measure will result in considerable savings to GOT.
Another important contribution of TANAA was the strengthening of the MALDC units, viz.,
Project Preparation and Monitoring Bureau (PPMB), Marketing Development Bureau (MDB) and
the sectoral planning department. The capacity of these units has been strengthened such that, the
staff can undertake all the necessary tasks in project preparation and monitoring, market and policy
analysis as well as in sectoral analysis and programming, with very little outside assistance.
iv



The shortcomings in project performance, other than the lack of rapid progress in the
privatization process (discussed above), have been noted under the section on project implementation.
In many cases, these problems could be considered an inevitable part of embarking on a fairly ambitious
sector adjustment program of TANAA's scale and scope. However, with the benefit of hindsight, it
appears that although TANAA was successful in meeting a number of its objectives and unleashing a solid
reform program, the substantial delays in the completion of various reforms (linked to the release of the
second tranche of the Credit), could have been avoided and the substantive content of the reforms
undertaken enhanced, had the Credit design called for the early completion (i.e., at the time of the release
of the first tranche itself) of the studies and action plans. As mentioned earlier, these action plans were
to function as the blueprints for the envisaged reforms. (As designed under the Credit, the action plans
were to be prepared as part of the studies which would be undertaken under TANAA, subsequent to
Credit effectiveness). Thus, a clear, up-front engineering could have resulted in more effective project
performance, and undue delays in implementation may have been avoided.
Sustainability
The sustainability of the policy and institutional reforms introduced by TANAA will depend
mainly on a continuation of the macro-economic reform measures instituted so far, which is directly
dependant on the level of GOT's resolve to tackle any pre-existing or emerging hazards to the reform
program. Thus, the long-term success of the initiatives launched under TANAA, will depend on the rapid
resolution of the outstanding policy and institutional obstacles. In this context the support of donors will
be important. However, the most important factor will be the improved performance of the economy in
general and the agricultural sector in particular. The frequent droughts affecting the agricultural sector
in the past few years are a cause for concern, since there is always the possibility that the devastation
resulting from such natural setbacks, may lead to the relaxation or reversal of certain exacting reforms
or policies. A strong negative reaction to the imposition of rigorous policies, from powerful interest
groups in the country, may also subvert the progress of a reform program.
Having noted the hazards, one should also recognize the progress achieved in the implementation
of various policy reforms and institutional strengthening measures which are by now fairly well
established, surpassing initial expectations. For instance, the deconfinement of food crop marketing and
the sale of export crops to traders on cash basis are highly appreciated by both farmers and
traders/merchants. This change appears to have had a lasting impact on the way people conduct business.
Likewise, the strengthened MALDC units will be able to operate on a sustainable basis, although some
risk of losing staff to the Tanzanian private sector cannot be disregarded. Perhaps most importantly, there
is strong Government commitment to continue with the macro-economic and sectoral reform program;
additionally, the key policy and institutional reforms implemented to date have taken root and appear to
be established quite firmly; these factors combined with the positive impact of TANAA over the four
short years since its inception, (which has translated into undeniable progress in the agriculture sector),
should be enough to guarantee the sustainability of the major initiatives under the project.
Lessons Learned
The following lessons may be drawn from the implementation of TANAA:
-      Agricultural policy reforms can be effectively established by linking these reforms to
macro-economic reforms and institutional strengthening measures on the one hand, and
donor support to precarious balance of payments situation on the other.
v



With the benefit of hindsight, it appears that the substantial delays in the completion of
various reforms (linked to the release of the second tranche of the Credit), could have
been avoided and the substantive content of the reforms undertaken enhanced, had the
Credit design called for the early completion (i.e., at the time of the release of the first
tranche itself) of the action plans. Thus, a clear, up-front engineering could have resulted
in more effective project performance, and undue delays in implementation may have
been avoided.
The appropriate sequencing of reforms is particularly crucial to the success of a broad
sector adjustment intervention such as TANAA. The project was successful in meeting
a number of its policy and institutional reform objectives. This success can certainly be
attributed, among other factors, to the proper sequencing of reforms. Under TANAA,
those policy reforms which produced swift, striking results, with broad coverage and
benefits were launched first, thereby strengthening Government's hand.
It is simplistic to assume that parastatals can be privatized expeditiously, and that
Government commitment to the privatization process is the overriding factor. Other
considerations, e.g., the willingness of foreign investors and the purchasing power /
absorptive capacity of the domestic private sector, also play a crucial role in the process.
In addition, overall financial sector capacity to buttress structural changes in the real
sectors of the economy, would need to be assessed.
Greater private sector involvement will take place only when a reforming Government
provides a clear indication of change without equivocation. The reform of the marketing
boards by assigning them both the regulatory, and the commercial functions, may
unwittingly lead to conflict of interest, as the boards attempt to juggle both roles.
vi






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 2116-TA)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Project Name              Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit 1/
Credit No.                2116-TA
RVP Unit                  Eastern Africa Department
Country                   Tanzania
Sector              :     Agriculture
2. Background
2.1          Tanzania experienced serious economic difficulties in the late 1970s to early 1980s.
Between 1978 and 1982, average GDP growth amounted to only 0.4% per annum, while inflation
accelerated to 30%, and fiscal deficits increased to 16% of GDP. Agriculture, in particular, assumed
more than its share of the burden because of the discouragingly low producer prices offered by the
inefficient state-run marketing boards. In response, food crop production failed to keep pace with
population growth and the total value of agricultural exports declined (from under-production and inferior
quality). Diminishing export earnings aggravated the country's balance of payments position, and
reduced available funds to finance imports. Moreover, combining the above described production and
trade environment with the mounting losses of the marketing boards - which approached about 8% of
GDP - led to an excessive expansion of credit and higher inflation.
2.2         In order to counter the deteriorating economic situation, GOT launched several major
reform programs. The first set was the Economic Survival Plans of 1980 and 1981, and the Structural
Adjustment Program in 1982. However, these programs did not result in any tangible improvements to
the economy. Realizing this, Government launched the Economic Recovery Program (ERP) in 1986.
This package offered more far-reaching reforms than any previous efforts and was to extend over three
years.
1 / The Project has been referred to as: Agricultural Adjustment Program (President's Report),
Agricultural Adjustment Credit (Development Credit Agreement), Agricultural Adjustment
Project/Program (Supervision Reports) and as TANAA by GOT.
1



2.3         The ERP's goal was to restore economic growth and achieve monetary and fiscal stability
by introducing reforms in the exchange rate, foreign exchange allocation, trade policy, pricing, fiscal and
monetary policies, and interest rates. The reforms would cover agriculture, industry and transport. The
ERP was endorsed by the donor community, including the World Bank and the International Monetary
Fund (IMF), and obtained considerable financial support. Among others, IDA provided assistance
through the Multi-Sector Rehabilitation Credit (MRC), and the Industrial Rehabilitation and Trade
Adjustment Credit (IRTAC).
2.4         During the three year period, 1986-1989, the ERP introduced significant economic reforms.
These included the devaluation of the exchange rate (from TSh 17=US$1 to TSh 190 = US$1), the
establishment of an Open General License Facility (OGL) for improved allocation of foreign exchange,
the achievement of positive interest rates in real terms, the drastic reduction of goods subjected to price
controls (from 400 categories of goods to 12); increased producer prices of export crops, initiation of
agricultural market reforms and establishment of fiscal and monetary targets.
2.5         Based on the measures implemented through the ERP, the economy changed its course and
began to improve. First of all, the availability of goods expanded. On the basis of this supply response,
economic activity intensified and the economy experience significant real growth for the first time in a
decade. Annual real GDP grew by 3.3%, 5.1% and 4.2% respectively, during the years 1986-1988.
For the first time in many years, these increases were above the population growth rate. Agriculture
recorded highest growth across sectors and agricultural exports increased.
2.6         Although remarkable achievements were attained under ERP, the limitations of this program
in reforming a centrally planned economy in a short period of time should be recognized. Therefore, a
number of macro-economic difficulties still persisted. These included, limited reserves, structural
problems in the financial and agricultural marketing systems, persistent high inflation, and a pronounced
increase of the parallel exchange rate which overtook the adjusted one.
2.7         In order to consolidate the reform process, in 1989, GOT decided to implement the second
phase of ERP - labeled the Economic and Social Action Program (ESAP). ESAP was launched to
continue the policy reform process, by linking social aspects with the economic adjustment programs in
order to improve the living conditions of the population. ESAP's main elements were to continue the
exchange rate adjustment program and reform of trade policy; reform public sector management and
agricultural marketing; restructuring of the financial and industrial sectors; and rehabilitation of
infrastructure and social service delivery capacity.  In 1988, the Agricultural Adjustment Credit
(TANAA) was conceived in support of ERP & ESAP. It was appraised in June/July 1989. The credit
was approved in March 1990 and signed and declared effective in April 1990. The credit was originally
scheduled to close on June 30, 1992, but due to difficulties in implementation it was extended three times.
It closed on June 30, 1994.
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.1         The overall objective of GOT has been to place the economy in a sustainable growth mode,
while rehabilitating and improving infrastructure, improving social services, addressing the basic needs
and increasing the overall standard of living for its citizens. Since agriculture has been and remains the
foundation for the economy (accounting for 50% of GDP and 80% of exports), much of the anticipated
progress for the country was centered around the success of this crucial sector. In order to accomplish
reform within this sector, market distortions and policy constraints had to be removed, so that the
agricultural economy could become viable and contribute positively to the overall growth of the country.
Thus, the principal objectives of this operation were to:  (i) improve producer incentives through
increased reliance on supply and demand forces in price determination; (ii) improve the efficiency of
agricultural marketing and processing, and reduce marketing and processing costs;  (iii) ease the
2



macroeconomic burden of the existing system; and (iv) reduce the cost of food grains to consumers.
Moreover, to sustain growth in both macroeconomic and sector terms, the country required advances in
technology - to increase both productivity and efficiency. From agriculture's standpoint, the operation
was to formulate plans to examine and re-structure the agricultural investment portfolio, so that the
development projects being evolved would yield the largest returns on investment.
3.2         In order to achieve these objectives, TANAA was to support operations in policy and
institutional changes in the pricing and marketing systems of food crops and three major export crops -
coffee, cashewnuts and cotton. Measures contemplated under TANAA were:
(a)     Price deterniination: food crops by market forces; export crops by auction or
tenders; and inputs involving reduction of subsidies.
(b)     Liberalization of marketing:  grain marketing by allowing free trading of
cooperatives and private traders (across district and regional boundaries), and by
terminating privileged trading status of the National Milling Corporation (NMC);
export crops by allowing cooperatives to retain ownership of their crops until
final sale and by terminating crop purchase by the marketing boards; and inputs
by liberalizing seed production and marketing as well as licensing private traders
to sell fertilizers.
(c)     Restructuring of crop processing facilities: transferring coffee curing factories
to producers; establishing industrial companies (IC) to own and operate the cotton
ginneries of the cooperative unions (CU); utilizing the idle cashewnut processing
factories by renting or selling to interested parties; and possible closure of the
fertilizer factory at Tanga.
(d)     Streamlining the investment project portfolio: by evaluating existing projects
and proposing restructuring or rehabilitation of those found viable and closure or
consolidation of non-viable projects; and evaluation of production oriented
parastatals for the same purpose.
3.3         The credit was designed to be implemented over a two year period. TANAA was co-
financed by several donors 2/, with IDA contributing SDR 170.5 million. The original Credit amount
was SDR 150.4 million (US$ 200 million); however, following effectiveness, further supplemental
Credits3/ of SDR 11.5 million (equivalent to US$ 16.1 million) and SDR 8.6 million (US$ 11.3
million) were approved bringing the total amount available under TANAA to SDR 170.5 million (US$
227.4 million). A total of some SDR 166.5 million (equivalent to US$ 229.9 million) or about 98 percent
of the IDA Credit was disbursed. The Credit was to be disbursed in two tranches. Apart from a small
amount of US$7.0 million earmnarked for technical assistance to undertake marketing, processing and
restructuring studies, and to cover the costs of monitoring and evaluation activities, the bulk of the funds
were to be disbursed through OGL for import support. The Bank of Tanzania (BOT) was responsible for
maintaining credit accounts, for submitting withdrawal applications, and arranging for annual audits of
credit accounts. The monitoring and evaluation function of the credit was delegated to the Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock and the Ministry of Local Government, Community Development,
2/ Including the Governments of Germany, Netherlands, Norway, United Kingdom and Sweden.
3/ IDA overflows to Tanzania
3



Cooperatives and Marketing. However, the Cooperative and Marketing functions of the latter Ministry
were transferred to the Ministry of Agriculture, soon after Credit effectiveness, and as such it was no
longer involved in project implementation.
4. Credit Design
4.1 In terms of financing, TANAA was designed to be an import support program aimed at alleviating
the country's balance-of-payments difficulties. While supporting the balance of payments under an agreed
macro-economic framework, the credit was designed to institute important market based reforms within
the agricultural sector.  In order to foster these reforms, the operation supported structural/policy
improvements in the processing, pricing and marketing of : (i) export crops; (ii) food grains; (iii) inputs;
and, the streamlining of the agricultural investment portfolio, as well as the restructuring of crop
processing / production-oriented parastatals. To ensure that the stipulated reforms in each of these areas
made headway, the project was set-up to disburse the fund in two equal portions. The first disbursement
would be made right after credit effectiveness. In the one year period following the release of the first
tranche, the preparation and implementation of the agricultural policy reform and institutional
strengthening measures would be undertaken. To ensure the accomplishment of this objective, the release
of the second tranche was conditional on the achievement of agreed actions in policy and institutional
reform in the agriculture sector. The conditionalities for releasing the second tranche, were as follows:
(i) Export Crop Marketing.
1.      Completion and implementation of the action plan for the re-structuring of the
Coffee, Cotton and Cashewnut Marketing Boards.
2.      Decisions satisfactory to IDA adopted on the continuation or termination of: (a)
Tanzania (Coffee) Marketing Board - (TCMB) coffee Export Division and (b)
coffee sales to predetermined buyers under the Coffee Pre-Export Financing
Facility, based on the recommendations of the Coffee Auction Study.
3.      Establishment of industrial companies (IC) to manage at least 50%  of the
effective cotton ginning capacity in Tanzania.
4.      Adoption by the GOT of an action plan satisfactory to IDA to facilitate the
implementation of appropriate actions to enhance the IC's efficiency and income
generating capacity.
5.      implementation of the action plan to utilize, rent or sell the cashewnut processing
plants in accordance with the agreed timetables.
(ii) Food Grains.
1.      Completion and implementation of the action plan for the re-structuring of the
NMC.
(iii) Parastatal & Agricultural Investment Portfolio Restructuring.
1.      Adoption of action plans acceptable to IDA for the closing down of non-viable
agricultural development projects.
2.      Adoption of action plans acceptable to IDA for the closing down of non-
profitable activities of the agricultural production parastatals.
4.2 Overall Evaluation. Using hindsight and allowing the positive results of the project to be the main
criteria for judging the success of the credit design, then the project was fairly well designed. The design
4



targeted all the major areas where reform was needed (domestic food markets, exports, inputs and GOT
managed projects). In addition, the conditionalities, agreed to by both IDA and GOT, were broad enough
in scope to achieve real progress, yet were few enough in number so as not to be overwhelming. The
transparency of the conditionalities also allowed for easy monitoring. However, TANAA's execution was
beset by persistent implementation delays which culminated in doubling the project's life to over four
years. These delays stemmed from holdups relating to the fulfillment of the conditionalities for the
release of the second tranche. The delays may be attributed to what appears to be a combination of
factors, including an apparent weakness in project design. With the benefit of hindsight, it appears that
although TANAA was successful in meeting a number of its objectives and unleashing a solid reform
program, the substantial delays in the completion of various reforms (linked to the release of the second
tranche of the Credit), could have been avoided and the substantive content of the reforms undertaken
enhanced, had the Credit design called for the early completion (i.e., at the time of the release of the first
tranche itself) of the action plans. As mentioned earlier, these action plans were to function as the
blueprints for the envisaged reforms. (As designed under the Credit, the action plans were to be prepared
as part of the studies which would be undertaken under TANAA, subsequent to Credit effectiveness).
Thus, a clear, up-front engineering could have resulted in more effective project performance, and undue
delays in implementation may have been avoided. The problem of implementation delays was also clearly
exacerbated as a result of holdups related to the recruitment of consultants for undertaking the studies to
generate the action plans. For example, the re-structuring plans for the three export crops were held up
for months waiting for the resolution of a tax issue, related to the remuneration of expatriate consultants.
On the other hand, despite these design flaws, as noted above, TANAA was successful in meeting a
number of its policy reform and institutional strengthening objectives. This success can certainly be
attributed, among other factors, to the proper sequencing of reforms. Under TANAA, those policy
reforms which produced swift, striking results, with broad coverage and benefits were launched first,
which strengthened Government's hand and helped weaken any counter-reform motions.
5. Implementation
5.1 From May 1988 upto the effective date of the Credit in April 1990, four missions went to Tanzania
to identify, investigate and finalize the policy reform package to be covered under the Credit (Tables 2
and 7b). Since the very outset, a good understanding existed between GOT and IDA on the actions
needed at every step of TANAA's implementation, in order for the reforms to progress. Detailed
timetables for the reform measures to be undertaken for each commodity, were drawn up and agreed
upon. Based on the rapid pace of reform within the country, both prior to, and during the implementation
of the project, the number and scope of IDA missions, the detailed timetables relating to the reform
measures, and GOT's success in meeting a number of the project's objectives, one may conclude that:
(i) there was ample cooperation between IDA and GOT; (ii) both sides fully understood their respective
mandates and roles; and (iii) all parties involved were cognizant of the basic direction the reform process
would need to adopt, in order to meet the overall sectoral objectives.
5.2 Soon after credit effectiveness, the implementation of TANAA was initiated. The first tranche (50%
of funds available for balance of payments support) was made available, and disbursement was carried
out through the OGL. Over the course of the next few months, project implementation was well
underway in some areas, and uninitiated in others. Implementation of the studies and analysis required
for policy reform was uneven. Progress was not expeditious, partially due to delays in recruitment of
consultants, and partly on account of the uncertainties which prevailed on how to proceed, due to the
somewhat limited guidance provided by the project documents with regard to the specific nature of the
actions and processes required. Thus, the three studies concerning the re-structuring of the marketing
boards were delayed because of a tax question concerning the monies earned by expatriate consultants.
Other studies were also delayed, for various other reasons; for example, there were delays in the early
5



stages of the project, while the implementing units under MALDC sought to determine the appropriate
design of the studies (and related action plans) that were to serve as the foundation of future reform
programs. While these studies were being carried out, the reorganization of the three marketing boards,
including changes in internal structure as well as reduction of superfluous personnel was initiated.
Although, a two day project implementation workshop was organized in September 1990, and discussions
were held on the following topics: (i) export crop marketing and pricing policy; (ii) grain marketing and
pricing policy; and (iii) input supply policy and special studies, TANAA's implementation continued in
an uneven manner. As the project progressed, it became obvious that the extent of preparatory work
required to undertake the requisite policy and institutional reforms prior to the release of the second
tranche, (i.e., about one year after Credit effectiveness), could not be accomplished within the envisioned
time-frame. As a result, the release of the second tranche was repeatedly delayed. Finally, in February
1992, GOT informed IDA that the requirements for the release of the second tranche had been
substantially completed (with the main exception relating to transfer of 50 percent of cotton ginning
capacity to ICs); IDA, subsequently approved the release of the second tranche in April 1992. An analysis
of the implementation performance relating to the various endeavors under the project are given below.
5.3 Grain Marketing and Pricing Policy. By the time of project inception, Government had largely
liberalized grain marketing (under the ERP), by removing price controls and the quasi-monopolistic
procurement of maize by NMC. Producers were therefore getting used to selling their produce anywhere
to whoever they wanted and at the price they negotiated. However, Government was still announcing the
floor price and NMC was obliged to buy at that price both for milling and for the strategic grain reserve
(SGR). GOT has since endorsed a more complete liberalization of food grain marketing; however, the
NMC Act of 1984 has not been repealed to date. Notwithstanding, the failure to repeal this act, there was
progress in this area, and the goal of TANAA was to continue this process to ensure that grain trading
was liberalized, prices were determined by market forces, and that the role of GOT was reduced to
regulation and provision of marketing services. A summary of the pre-TANAA reforms (adopted by
GOT), is provided in Appendix 1 Table LA. Under the Credit, the restructuring of NMC was a condition
for the second tranche release, as the Corporation's operations were a major drain on GOT's already
constrained financial resources.
5.4         The completion of a study regarding the restructuring of NMC  as well as the
implementation of the resulting action plans, were among the conditions for the disbursement of the
second tranche. However, progress was slowed, inter alia as a result of management changes at NMC,
the complexity of the re-structuring problem and the lack of Government funds to administer NMC's
debt. The study was completed in mid-1991, and recommended the disposal of/or restructuring of NMC.
Accordingly, restructuring is underway and the Corporation's activities are now confined only to grain
milling. The restructuring process is however hampered due to lack of fresh funds, since NMC is
practically bankrupt. During the implementation of TANAA, the SGR rules were redefined for the new
policy conditions, and responsibility for SGR was transferred by an act of the Parliament to the FSD.
The FSD now procures surplus maize from remote areas and stores about 150,000 tons of maize. Any
surplus purchase is sold in major markets as required.
5.5         At project completion it can be said that grain marketing was basically liberalized and the
NMC has definitely left the marketing business to producers, traders, cooperatives and to the FSD for
the SGR. However, the expected private sector investment in grain marketing business, including
construction of warehouses, did not take place. In addition, the lack of adequate grading systems and
established unit measures, may have contributed to non-transparent operating methods being adopted by
unscrupulous traders, vis-a-vis, some producers, particularly those living in remote rural areas (with
limited competition).
6



5.6 Export Crop Marketing and Pricing. In contrast to the grains sub-sector, where reforms were well
underway, the reforms related to the export crops sub-sector had only recently commenced. Referring
to Appendix 1 Table IA, only one major reform measure had been sanctioned by GOT by the time of
Credit effectiveness. Many of the conditionalities of TANAA centered around the reform of the export
sector, which are discussed below by commodity:
(i) Coffee. This product is a major foreign exchange earner, and reforms related to coffee
marketing and pricing were vital to the overall success of the sector-wide reforms being instituted.
Improvements within this sub-sector were to help alleviate the problems within the current account. As
part of the second tranche conditionality, GOT was to contract a study to develop an action plan on the
re-structuring of the TCMB, into a regulatory and market intelligence body. The marketing function of
the Coffee Board was to be eliminated. In addition, the Coffee Export Division was to be separated from
the TCMB and the benefits and costs of the Coffee Pre-Export Financing Facility were to be analyzed.
Both studies were delayed. The re-structuring study was delayed due to a tax issue related to expatriate
consultants. The second study was delayed by GOT inaction on the consultants' proposals. Over one
year after the Board approval of TANAA, the studies were still on-going. The studies were finally
completed in February 1992.
(ii) Cotton. Similar to coffee in terms of its importance in earning foreign exchange, cotton
too was a major focus of the adjustment operation. As part of the second tranche conditionality, the
TCMB-Cotton was to be re-structured and over 50% of the effective cotton ginning capacity in the
country was to be managed by industrial companies. Once again, the re-structuring study was heldup
due to delays in recruitment of consultants. The study was finalized by May 1991. On the other hand,
the effecting of the conditionality relating to cotton ginneries became an issue, as discussed below. At
time of Board approval of the project (March 1990), GOT had strong influence on ginning operations
through the Cooperative Societies Act of 19824/ and TCMB - Cotton, even though the gins were
largely owned by the cooperative unions. However, after the credit became effective, GOT began work
on reforming the cooperative unions. This ultimately led to the Cooperative Societies Act of 1991. This
Act transferred the effective operational control over the ginneries to the cooperative unions, and reduced
GOT's role (through the Registrar's office) to an advisory and regulatory one. As a result, the ability (and
control) of GOT to fulfill the conditionality on transferring the management of about half the ginning
capacity in Tanzania, to industrial companies could not be fulfilled. Since this reform represented an
improvement beyond the originally intended scope of the adjustment program, and the Government
announced its intention to de-confine cotton marketing at all levels and industrialize a new ginnery
(Manawa) that was being build with donor funds, these new terms were accepted by the Bank in place
of the original conditionality. The re-structuring of the TCMB-Cotton progressed more slowly than that
of the other Boards.
(iii) Cashewnuts. Although a less important export than coffee or cotton, this cash crop
has represented excellent growth potential for Tanzania. The Credit included two conditionalities directly
related to the liberalization of the cashew market. First, a study was to be conducted on the re-structuring
of the TCMB-Cashewnut, and an action plan implemented based on the findings. Second, a study and
action plan concerning disposal of the cashewnut processing plants were to be completed. The contract
for the re-structuring study met the same fate as the coffee and cotton ones, and were delayed. The study
4/This act was passed to re-establish the cooperatives abolished in 1976. However, GOT
remained in control as evidenced by the following (Part V, section 14, sub-section a): "The
functions of the Registrar (a public official appointed by the President) shall be to register and
exercise control over the cooperative societies according to the provisions of this Act"
7



on the processing plants stayed under negotiation from February 1991 until June 1991. However, once
the report was finalized in November 1992, progress moved quickly and by April 1992 the action plan
was being implemented.
5.7         Thus, to recapitulate, while the above-referenced studies were being carried out, the
restructuring of the three marketing boards was started and changes in internal structure as well as
reduction of superfluous personnel was also initiated. Based on the studies, MALDC proposed a
modification of the existing legislation concerning the marketing boards. The main aim of this revision
of the existing legislation, was to take away the quasi-monopolistic status of the boards in handling the
export crops, limiting their role to primarily a regulatory one. Thus the Special Bill No. 2 of July 1993,
while accepting the idea of liberalizing the export crops, ruled that the boards could also carry out the
marketing function, in competition with traders. This has left open the possibility of a conflict of interest,
in that the boards will regulate, and at the same time participate in the marketing of the commodities that
they regulate.
5.8 Input Marketing, Distribution and Pricing. With respect to the liberalization of agricultural inputs,
the project concentrated on two areas: increased competition within the seed industry and reduction of
the (politically sensitive) fertilizer subsidy. The closure of the Tanga fertilizer factory, owned by the
Tanzania Fertilizer Corporation (TFC) was also planned. Progress in both of these areas moved much
more rapidly than in the others. The Tanzanian Seed Corporation, TANSEED was reorganized, and seed
companies (of which, some with wide ownership), were established by early 1991. With respect to
fertilizer, GOT agreed to reduce the subsidies over a five year period. However, reforms were initiated
slowly as GOT failed to raise fertilizer prices to the agreed level by September 1990. But, by June 1991
the prices had been raised to the agreed targets. In addition, the subsidy was made explicit. As a result
of this action, private firms could import fertilizer directly, and were eligible to apply for the subsidy
(until its phasing out in 1994). Competition among firms has definitely increased because of this action.
Although a formal decision on the Tanga factory was delayed by many months, the collapse of the
factory's chimney has indefinitely closed down the facility.
5.9 Agricultural Development Projects & Production Parastatals. The evaluation of the agricultural
investment portfolio was completed, and the action plan was implemented by April 1992. This study was
undertaken by consultants under the auspices of the Project Preparation and Monitoring Bureau (PPMB)
of MALDC. The study indicated how to consolidate the development projects by proposing closure of
some of them and further investigation of others. The guiding principle has been to confine Government
undertakings to service projects, and to terminate commercial type ventures, leaving these activities to
the private sector. The immediate effect of the study has been the reduction of the total projects from 160
to 90. Of the 90 projects, 22 were transferred to the recurrent budget, while the remainder are being
subjected to a fresh technical, financial and economic evaluation by the PPMB.
5.10        At the same time a study was also conducted on the agricultural production parastatals. The
study proposed a number of interventions, including restructuring and/ or re-organizing major parastatal
organizations such as the National Poultry Company (NAPOCO), the National Agriculture and Food
Corporation (NAFCO), the National Ranching Company (NARCO) and the Tanzania Dairy Farming
Company (DAFCO). The study recommended the restructuring of viable enterprises through sale, lease
or transfer to local communities, and liquidation of non-viable ones, along with divestment of their assets.
The PPMB is now preparing detailed plans for implementing the restructuring exercise for submission
to the Parastatal Sector Reform Commission (PSRC). The latter was established by GOT at the end of
1992 to implement the privatization and restructuring of parastatals. It is noteworthy that none of the
parastatals have been sold, to date.
8



5.11        Institutional Strengthening. One of the objectives of the credit was to strengthen the
sectoral planning, marketing and project preparation and monitoring services of the MALDC.
Accordingly, the sectoral planning Department, the PPMB and the MDB were supported through
provision of solid technical assistance (TA) under the credit. The TA was provided by the Food and
Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO).
5.12        The strengthening efforts comprised assistance to MALDC (see paras. 12.2 & 12.3), in
preparing and executing its work program, with emphasis on staff training. In-service training was carried
out, in areas such as preparing and monitoring projects; marketing policy analysis and sector planning
exercises were taken on, together with Ministry staff. Seminars and workshops were an integral part of
the training. In addition, staff were sent on study tours and about twenty staff of MALDC were sent
overseas for degree course training, mostly in economics and related fields. The credit also provided the
three units with vehicles, computers and other equipment and material necessary for data processing.
6. Results and Impact
6.1 Tanzania has been pursuing a program of reform since the early 1980s. Although the program's
debut was sluggish, its momentum has been increasing in recent years as benefits are being realized from
those early efforts. Since agriculture remains the backbone of the economy, TANAA was initiated as an
effort to expand upon the reforms launched previously in certain sub-sectors (e.g., grains), as well as to
introduce reforms in other sub-sectors (e.g., export crops). The project thus started out, facing varying
stages of reform with respect to different commodities and sub-sectors within agriculture. Additionally,
not surprisingly, as with any reform process entailing changes to the old order, the project was launched
in an environment wherein various interest groups sought to undermine the reform program. Inspite of
this, a number of changes have been introduced to agricultural processing and marketing practices, inter
alia, through legislative reform, re-organization of institutions, and capacity building measures. Thus,
when viewed in this context, the progress achieved under TANAA should be considered quite
noteworthy, and overall project performance may be deemed satisfactory. However, like any adjustment
program, the true impact of the recent policy reforms and institutional changes may not be evident for
several years. Additionally, the impact of the project on Tanzania's agriculture sector should be
considered in conjunction with the positive effect of other macroeconomic and structural reforms, such
as exchange rate liberalization and export marketing and pricing reform.  Nonetheless, undeniable
progress has been made in Tanzania's agricultural sector since the inception of TANAA. The following
section will attempt to examine whether the project accomplished its key underlying objectives.
6.2 Improved producer incentives through increased reliance on market forces for price determination
While it is too premature to determine the longer term impact of the credit, based on the data available
through 1993, evidence exists that the reforms implemented under TANAA are bearing results. The
marketing of food crops has in particular undergone a major change, because the deconfinement of
domestic trade which had started before TANAA, has now been completed. Some figures are presented
in Annex I to indicate the overall direction of agricultural performance during the adjustment period. All
food crops are now freely marketable and this has brought about competition and development of markets
and has led to the increase of producer prices (Annex 1 Table 3). The level of improvement in prices
does, however, differ from area to area depending on the accessibility and availability of markets. While
GOT no longer determines producer prices, it does establish the SGR floor price for the purchase of grain
for food security reserves.
6.3         Crop production which accounts for some three quarters of sectoral GDP, has maintained
a steady growth rate. Maize and paddy crop production increased from 1,530 and 296 thousand tons
average annual production, during the period 1973-83, to 2,335 and 568 thousand tons on average,
9



respectively, during the period 1984-93 (Annex 1, Table 2). Rents previously available from export crops
have, however, been disappearing (Annex 1, Tables 4 and 5). Efficiency will have to be promoted, to
sustain an increase in coffee and cotton export volumes and value, particularly in view of the declining
world price trends for both commodities over the last few years. The credit has supported the introduction
of a major change in the export of traditional crops, particularly in coffee, cotton and cashewnut. These
crops are now out of single channel marketing (through their respective boards). For cashewnuts, the
TCMB-cashewnut was re-structured and staff level reduced by 33% (216 to 144). The reduction in staff
came from the closure of seven of the nine buying posts. Public tender/bid system has been approved
and cashewnut producer prices will be least 65% of export price. The new system was introduced in
1992/93 season for cashewnut and over 100 licensed traders have been successfully marketing the crop
since. The impact of this change has been a tremendous increase in cashewnut producer prices (Annex
1 Table 5). In some instances, best grade nuts were sold at about double of what has been offered by the
marketing board - TSh 350 versus TSh 190 per kg. This being the experience of only one marketing
season, however, it is not possible to come to any meaningful conclusions at this time. However, the
basis for a more healthy and quality oriented cashewnut industry is there. Coffee and cotton marketing
under the new and liberalized system is just being introduced for the 1993/94 season and results are yet
to be seen. But a generally successful marketing season is foreseen for coffee. The TCMB-coffee has
been re-structured and its main function now is to act as an agent for coffee growers. Staff levels were
reduced by nearly 90 percent, (949 to 119) mainly through closure of regional buying posts. GOT will
also no longer set advance payments for purchase of coffee, and these advance payments are to be
determined by the individual cooperative union. The market has been de-confined so that producers are
allowed to sell their product to anyone at a negotiated price. TCMB-cotton was also re-structured and
staff was reduced by 30% (504 to 355). Cotton marketing however, remains unpredictable, and may
even be deemed unresponsive, because of the possible dichotomy between owners of seed cotton - the
private traders5/, and owners of ginneries - the Cooperative Unions (CU). The distribution of cotton
seeds, may be expected to result in a temporary dilemma (until roles and functions are sorted out and
defined clearly), because the Cotton Marketing Board used to decide on seed distribution based on
provenance; seeds were then distributed6/ by the CUs. At present, the former has no mandate for seed
distribution and the latter have no funds to purchase cotton seed for ginning. It is also not clear yet, as
to how the cotton seed will be distributed, and who will ensure the provenance control to avoid diseases.
The experience of one season of cashewnut marketing has also shown the difficulty in revenue collection
by the local authorities from the numerous private sectors, as opposed to the earlier centralized revenue
collection by one purchaser, i.e, the board.
6.4         Referring to Appendix 1 Figures la-d, the ratio of domestic to world price7/ of the major
agricultural commodities such as coffee. cotton, maize and rice, provides an indication of the increasing
efficiency and transparency of the Tanzanian agro-products' markets. In an efficient market (with no
substantial transportation costs and quality problems) a value close to 1, should be expected. In each
case, the ratios, at both the official exchange rate and the open market rate, increased towards one, during
the period 1990 (1988 for coffee) through 1992, i.e., while the project was being implemented. This
5/  The CU, who were the main purchasers of seed cotton will not be able to purchase much of the crop
for lack of funds to finance the purchase of crops, most of them being insolvent organizations.
6/  Farmers were not paying directly for the cotton seed. The cost of the seed must have been deducted
during the selling time by CUs. However, farmers believed it was given to them free of charge.
7/Two sets of ratios are presented. Because of distortions within the exchange rate, one set of
ratios used the open market rate and the other used the official exchange rate.
10



increase signals that distortions are being removed and that the domestic prices are moving closer to the
efficiency benchmark, i.e., the international price levels for these commodities.
6.5 Improved efficiency & reduced costs of agricultural marketing and processing. The coffee Export
Division, run by a separate management is now independent, with more transparency in its buying
operations. The Pre-Export Financing Facility has been closed. All coffee sold now moves through the
public auction system, with the market determining coffee prices. The pooling system has been
abolished, and coffee producers now receive the proceeds from sale of their product within three weeks
and are responsible for settling debts incurred for inputs. One GOT owned curing plant has been turned
over to a cooperative union. For cotton, savings realized from re-structuring have allowed the Board to
reduce its fee from 4.5% to 2.5% of sales proceeds. In addition, the action plan calls for the divesture
of the Mwamsisi and Moproco vegetable oil processing plants. Efforts to form joint ventures for both
plants are well advanced. Although 50% control of the country's effective ginning capacity, by industrial
companies, was deemed not feasible because of the reforms related to the cooperative unions, the
Government adopted a policy of de-confining cotton, and will require majority participation by private
investors in the new Manawa plant. In addition, private ownership is being encouraged in two other
future ginneries (to be build with Dutch Aid). For cashewnuts, licensing procedures and standards have
been developed to allow for free trade. With respect to the processing facilities, 4 cashew factories will
continue operations, 4 are reserved for future expansion and 5 are being closed permanently. Moreover,
in accordance with the recommendations of the study under TANAA, GOT has entered into negotiations
with private firms interested in establishing joint-venture operations with respect to these processing
facilities. While it is still too premature to judge the longer term impact of the reforms implemented under
TANAA, available data indicates that the difference between the international prices valued at the open
market and official exchange rate has narrowed, for various Tanzanian commodities, viz. coffee, cotton.
Thus, the implicit tax charged by GOT (through the marketing Boards) is declining. These taxes were
in effect marketing costs, and so the lower implicit tax means lower marketing costs.
6.6         A general sort of obstacle to the privatization of Tanzanian agricultural (production and
processing) parastatals, which has now materialized, appears to stem from the assumption at appraisal,
that the planned restructuring and privatization of parastatals would proceed smoothly, in fact almost
automatically, once GOT committed itself to privatizing a public entity. However, while Government
commitment to the process is crucial, it is not the overriding factor. Other considerations, e.g., the
willingness of foreign investors and the purchasing power and absorptive capacity of the domestic private
sector, also play a determining role in the process. In addition, the importance of the overall financial
sector capacity to buttress structural changes in the real sectors of the economy, must not be overlooked;
in the context of Tanzania, there is no well developed financial sector per se, and where borrowing from
the banks at over 30% interest rate per annum is considered too risky. According to the PSRC, the
investments required are substantial because the entities to be privatized are sizable, and are not easily
divisible into smaller units. Hence, the smaller domestic investors are de facto excluded. Demand from
abroad is also limited, probably due to the global economic recession and due to the privatization efforts
underway elsewhere, particularly in other parts of Africa and Eastern Europe.
6.7         Yet another complication in the privatization process relates to the issue of state held farms.
Some owners of these farms (which were nationalized in 1967), still hold land title deeds, and the sale
of these farms by GOT can not be concluded, unless the land tenure / ownership status issues are sorted
out. Other farms have been partially occupied by squatters, and this issue would have to be resolved
before the farms can be privatized. According to the PSRC, the absence of an established method of land
valuation has also contributed to the slowing down of the privatization process.
6.8         While the above issues, for which no easy solutions can be offered, will continue to thwart
11



rapid and smooth privatization of various production / processing parastatals, the marketing of agricultural
inputs has been completely liberalized. GOT had delineated a plan to eliminate the fertilizer subsidy over
a five year period. Also, the subsidy was made explicit so that private firms dealing in fertilizer could
apply to GOT for subsidy. Some private groups are directly importing fertilizer. In the case of seeds,
private suppliers such as Cargill and Pioneer, have established operations in Tanzania and TANSEED
has been re-organized. The fertilizer plant in Tanga is non-operational and was closed indefinitely.
6.9 Easing the burden on the GOT budget. TANAA has also contributed positively towards relieving
some of the pressures on the national budget, by reducing the burden imposed by Government subsidies
related to food crops and agricultural inputs. Although there have been no readily available figures, the
savings are estimated to be in the order of tens of billions of TSh. Downsizing the Boards (and
reductions in staff) have lowered the demands on GOT's budget. NMC is to be divested of all its
subsidiaries (TANGOLD, DOWICO, and TAFICO). Proposals from private buyers are being sought.
In terms of the agricultural investment portfolio, the implementation of the action plan (conditionality)
resulted in the closure of some 70 non-viable projects (see para. 5.9), transfer of 22 to recurrent budget,
and the re-evaluation of the remaining projects. This will translate into considerable savings to GOT.
Also, GOT intends to restructure the agricultural production parastatals (NAFCO, DAFCO, NARCO,
and NAPOCO). Reform measures envisaged include closure of non-viable units, rehabilitation of
economically viable units and reduction in staff. Joint ventures will be encouraged.  In terms of
measured results, many of the reforms implemented through TANAA have not been active long enough
to have any meaningful impact. Some evidence does exist, however, that progress is being made. One
of the severe strains on GOT budget was the operation of the state run Marketing Boards. With the re-
structuring of the Boards and dismantling of NMC, the related burden on the Treasury should decline.
Again, progress is being made, as evidenced by the fact that commercial lending has been reduced from
TSh 4,631 million (1987) to TSh 3,731 (1991) million (constant 1976). In addition, GOT spending
related to agricultural parastatals is also showing signs of declining. Spending has decreased from TSh
206 million in 1989 to Tsh 110 million in 1991 (constant 1976).
6. 10 Reducing the cost of food grains to consumers. With respect to the marketing of food grains, the
major constraint was the existence of a single channel marketing system with the NMC at its nucleus.
Under the re-structuring plan pertaining to NMC (conditionality of TANAA), all retail stores, 17 buying
posts and all branches which do not have a mill are closed. Personnel has been reduced by 61% (2,047
to 1,254). NMC is now reorganized into 5 semi-autonomous commercial milling sections. Disposal of
surplus assets is on-going and surplus (building) space is being leased out. Because NMC's role has been
reduced and the markets are operating more efficiently, the savings will ultimately be passed on to the
consumer.
6. 11 Institutional Strengthening. An important contribution of TANAA was the strengthening of the
MALDC units, viz., PPMB, MDB and the sectoral planning department. The strengthening of these
units, in operation since the early eighties under separate programs, received a major boost under
TANAA. The capacity of these units is now such that they can undertake all the necessary tasks in
project preparation and monitoring, market and policy analysis as well as in sectoral analysis and
programming without much external help. Infact these units participated actively in the reform process
by inter alia, preparing the legislative package pertaining to the liberalization of agricultural markets.
An excess capacity could soon result within PPMB after the unit accomplishes the evaluation of existing
agricultural development projects. The excess expertise, can however, be utilized by the economy at large
which has a deficit in the availability of local expertise in these areas.
12



7. Sustainability
7.1          The sustainability of the policy and institutional reforms introduced by TANAA will
depend mainly on a continuation of the macro-economic reform measures instituted so far, which is
directly dependant on the level of GOT's resolve to tackle any pre-existing or emerging hazards to the
reform program.
7.2          Government's commitment to continue with the macro-economic reforms appears well
established. However, the pace of implementation of these policies will depend on the performance of
the domestic economy and on its capacity to earn foreign exchange. A particular worry is the frequent
drought affecting the country over the past few years. A natural setback might create pressure to relax
some of the reform policies (especially the more exacting measures) currently being introduced and
implemented. This risk would be more menacing if coupled with reduced donor assistance, as fiscal
pressures and foreign exchange shortages mount; there is thus the possibility that the devastation resulting
from such natural setbacks, particularly in the face of a strong reaction from powerful interest groups,
may lead to the relaxation or reversal of certain exacting reforms or policies. The inadequacies related
to agricultural services should be addressed soon, to avoid (or minimize) the potential dangers to the
reforms adopted, from a natural setback, such as drought. Long-term sustainablity will also depend on
the rapid resolution of the outstanding policy and institutional obstacles; as such, the NMC Act and the
continuing presence of the Boards in agro-products marketing, should be abolished in order to create an
environment conducive to the active participation of the private sector.
7.3         Having noted the hazards, one should also recognize the progress in various policy and
institutional areas, which have surpassed expectations. A number of the actions taken have resulted in far
reaching changes and are likely to endure. For instance, the deconfinement of food crop marketing and
the sale of export crops to traders on cash basis are highly appreciated by both farmers and
traders/merchants. This change appears to have had a lasting impact on the way people conduct business.
Likewise, the strengthened MALDC units will be able to operate on a sustainable basis, although some
risk of losing staff to the Tanzanian private sector cannot be disregarded. Perhaps most importantly, there
is strong Government commitment to continue with the macro-economic and sectoral reform program;
additionally, the key policy and institutional reforms implemented todate have taken root and appear to
be established quite firmly; these factors combined with the positive impact of TANAA over the four
short years since its start, which has translated into undeniable progress in the agriculture sector, should
be enough to guarantee the sustainability of the major initiatives under the project.
8. Bank Performance
8.1         In order to prepare the Agricultural Adjustment Program and develop the necessary
consensus for the Program among the Government, IDA and the interested donors, several missions were
carried out during 1988 and 1989. These missions (comprising of consultants and donor personnel),
worked closely with then Ministries of Agriculture and Livestock Development, and of Local
Governments, Cooperatives and Marketing. With respect to supervision of the project, IDA mounted
five missions to Tanzania, between August 1990 and November 1991, for exclusive supervision of the
project. Subsequently, two desk reviews of project progress were undertaken in August 1992 and June
1993, respectively. About fifteen months after effectiveness, the delays in implementation prompted
intensive supervision of the project's progress by the Resident Mission staff - on an almost weekly basis.
The supervision missions through year-end 1991, however, appear to have devoted much attention to
expediting the fulfillment of conditions in order to release the second tranche of the credit. After June
1993, in view of the limited project activities underway (primarily TA support), TANAA was supervised
within the context of the follow-on Agriculture Sector Management Project, ASMP (Cr. 2537-TA).
13



Substantive analyses regarding the impact of the policy reforms and the institution strengthening
component, as well as the future TA requirements, were carried out under the aegis of preparatory
activities for ASMP, the Agriculture Sector Memorandum and a Bank supported Structural Adjustment
Credit.
9. Borrower's Performance
9.1         The Borrower attempted to meet all the conditionalities laid by the Credit from the outset,
but succeeded in doing so only after a 10 month delay. This delay was, however, genuine in that it took
time to put in place the required reforms. The credit had underestimated the time needed to prepare and
carry out the studies and implement the resulting action plans. There has been, however, some neglect
by the Borrower in the area implementing sweeping legislative reform. For instance, the Parliamentary
Act of July 1993 that empowered the Marketing Boards to both regulate and participate in the marketing
of coffee, cotton and cashewnuts should have been strongly resisted. Furthermore, failure to repeal the
NMC Act may curb the complete liberalization of the agricultural markets and may also have a
discouraging effect on the private sector.
10. Lessons Learned
The following lessons may be drawn from the implementation of TANAA:
-       Agricultural policy reforms can be effectively established by linking these
reforms to macro-economic reforms and institutional strengthening measures on
the one hand, and donor support to precarious balance of payments situation on
the other.
-       With the benefit of hindsight, it appears that the substantial delays in the
completion of various reforms (linked to the release of the second tranche of the
Credit), could have been avoided and the substantive content of the reforms
undertaken enhanced, had the Credit design called for the early completion (i.e.,
at the time of the release of the first tranche itself) of the action plans. Thus, a
clear, up-front engineering could have resulted in more effective project
performance, and undue delays in implementation may have been avoided.
-       The appropriate sequencing of reforms is particularly crucial to the success of a
broad sector adjustment intervention such as TANAA. The project was successful
in meeting a number of its policy and institutional reform objectives. This
success can certainly be attributed, among other factors, to the proper sequencing
of reforms. Under TANAA, those policy reforms which produced swift, striking
results, with broad coverage and benefits were launched first, thereby
strengthening Government's hand.
-       It is simplistic to assume that parastatals can be privatized expeditiously, and that
Government commitment to the privatization process is the overriding factor.
Other considerations, e.g., the willingness of foreign investors and the purchasing
power and managerial/ operational capability of the domestic private sector, also
play a crucial role in the process. In addition, overall financial sector capacity to
buttress structural changes in the real sectors of the economy, would need to be
assessed.
14



Greater private sector involvement will take place only when a reforming
Government provides a clear indication of change without equivocation. The
reform of the marketing boards by assigning them both the regulatory, and the
commercial functions, may unwittingly lead to conflict of interest, as the boards
attempt to juggle both roles.
11. Project Relationship
11.1        Consistency of dialogue and Donor/Borrower cooperation translated into a good working
relationship between GOT and IDA throughout the implementation period (also refer para. 5.1).
12. Consulting Services and Studies
12.1        Several consulting firms were engaged for the preparation of the studies. The findings and
recommendations from these studies were reviewed by relevant steering committees and formed the basis
for introducing policy reforms and institutional changes under TANAA. In general, the quality of the
studies has been found to be satisfactory.
12.2        The TA provided under FAO was a continuation of earlier programs and three FAO
contracts were extended on a sole source procurement basis. A fourth contract relating to the provision
of TA for capacity building in the Ministry of Local Governments, Cooperatives and Marketing, was
cancelled in February 1991, following the reorganization of the said Ministry. In October 1990, the
Ministry's marketing functions were transferred to MALDC; TA to strengthen the capability for
marketing analysis in the Ministry of Agriculture was already being provided under another FAO
contract.
12.3        As such, FAO carried on the training and institution building program as agreed with GOT
and IDA; more specifically, FAO provided the following services under the three contracts: (i) project
preparation and monitoring services; (ii) provision of institutional support to MDB; and (iii) technical
assistance to sector planning. Senior MALDC staff expressed satisfaction on the performance of TA
provided by FAO. This is also evidenced by the series of FAO contract renewals by Government and
the fact that the TA teams for the above three contracts had been in place for many years (under FAO
management); these TA teams undertook the analytical work essential to underpin the shift in policies
towards a market oriented development in the agriculture sector since 1984. The efforts of these TA
teams, comprised of both expatriate and local consultants, was felt to have contributed directly to the
formulation and successful execution of the agriculture sector adjustment program as supported by
TANAA.
13. Project Documentation and Data
13.1        As mentioned earlier, two volumes of comprehensive Working Papers were prepared by
the appraisal team on themes being addressed under TANAA. These findings along with a detailed
President's Report provided implementation guidance, particularly with respect to the subsequent policy
work. The Working Papers in Volume I focused on issues related to land resources for rain-fed
production, economics of agricultural production, and grain marketing in rural and urban areas, while
Volume II included papers on the marketing of major export crops (coffee, cotton, cashewnuts) and on
the supply and distribution of agricultural inputs. The President's Report included a rather exhaustive
Policy Matrix and an independent annex which set forth the Technical Assistance (TA) requirements
under the project, the Terms of Reference and related Budgets. An Action Plan, identifying tasks and
those responsible for their implementation, and related time-frames, was also drawn up some five months
15



after credit effectiveness, within the context of a Project Implementation Review Workshop.  At
completion, TANAA was extremely rich in documents because it produced many studies and documents
that are useful for development planning purposes.
16



PART II: PROJECT REVEEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
COMMENTS ON PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
(PCR) ON TANZANIA AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
ADJUSTMNT CREDIT TANAA (CR 2116 TA).
On the overall the report reflects the statement of affair during programme
Implementation. However some corections on the facts and interpretation of resuts is
necessary.
Paee (iv) nara I
A gradual phase out of fertilizer subsidy Is not planned but in fact it was
implemented and is phased out in 1994/95.
Page (lv) para 4.
Page (v) ara 3 and oa e 12 para 6.11
STRENGTHENING OF PPMB. MDB & SP:
It not true that these sections were strengthened by TANAA. In fact quite the
contrary because, TANAA gained a lot from these sections which were already
(unsustainable) strengthened (hence the francial support given to maintain their
level of operations). By the time TANAA became effective, these secdons were
already a subject of longterm TA international support of more than 15 years
(MDB since 1972, PPMB since 1978 and SP since 1988) costing over US $ 20 Ml.
The formulation of ASMP now under implementation confirms the
unsustainability of these previous institutional support programmes.
IJage 7 O&M ii
The sentence, GOT exercised operating control over the ginneries even though the
gins were owned by the cooperative Unions doesnot explain how the GOT did it.
P.ige8. (5.7)
special Bill No.2 of uly 1993/Crop Boards MisceUancous Amendment Act.1993
It is not true that the bill was changed by Parliament to allow boards to carry out both
regulation and marketing functions. The bill was presented to Parliament in exactly
that form.
Pag 9 Rara 6
Impact of TANAA.
It is very unrealistic to attribute the performance of the agricultural sector to the
effect of TANAA, because of the overriding impact of macro policies outside the
TANAA particularly that of exchange rate and trade liberalization, improvement of
infrastructure
17



etc. Again in the absence of a proper impact assessment of performance statements cannot
be substantiated. In addition it is rather difficult to isolate the impact of policy decisions
made before TANAA became effective, eg. food crop, marketing, streamlining of crop
maraketing market, etc. In view of this it is ve  dfficult to clearly assess the TANAA as
it has been done knowing very well the credit was used to provide overall balance of
payment support through the QGL.
18



PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1. Related Bank Credits
Project Title        Purpose                   Year of       Status       Remarks
Agreement
Export              Reverse the decline in     1981         Completed
Rehabilitation      volume of exports and                   in 1988
Credit              accelerate the rate of
(Cr. 1133-TA)       growth of non-traditional
exports
Multi-Sector        Support to ERP             1986         Completed    Disbursed USS
Rehabilitation Credit                                       in 1989       80.6 million
(Cr. 1741 -TA)'
Special Fund for    Support to ERP             1986         Completed    Disbursed USS
Africa Credit                                               in 1989      72.2 million
(Cr. A-24)
Agricultural Export   Lending to exporters and  1988        On-going      Problem project
Rehabilitation      supporting the Cooperative                           because of its
Project             Rural Development Bank                               difficulties in
(Cr. 1891-TA)                                                            assisting the
Cooperative Bank
Industrial          Expedite reform progress    1989        Completed    Disbursed USS
Rehabilitation and                                          in 1993       152.7 million
Trade Adjustment
Program
(Cr. 1969-TA)
Cashew and Coconut  Increase production by     1990         On-going
Treecrops Project    improving technology of
(Cr. 2050-TA)       production and extension
Agricultural Scctor    Support institutional   1994         On-going
Management Project  development in the
(Cr. 2357)          Ministry of Agriculture
19



Table 2. Project Timetable
Item             Planned Date        Revised Date        Actual Date
Appraisal       June-July 1989                           June/July 1989
Negotiations     February 1990                           February 1990
Board Approval  March 29, 1990                           March 29, 1990
Credit Signature  April 6, 1990                          April 6, 1990
Credit           April 10, 1990                          April 10, 1990
Effectiveness
Credit Closing    June 30, 1992      June 30, 1993       June 30, 1994
December 31, 1993
June 30, 1994
20



Table 3. Credit Disbursement
FISCAL YEARS
Item                                 1990       |    1991             1992       |    1993       |    1994
.(............... (US$ million) .
Appraisal estimate
cumulative 1/                        51.7            100.0           200.0              -               -
Actual Cumulative                    50.0             96.0           139.7           199.8          229.92/
Actual as %  of                        97              96              70               -                -
Estimates
1/ The disbursement estirnaLes at appraisal, do not refloct the estirnatcs relating to the two supplemental credits of
USS 16.1 million and USS 11.3 million, approved after Credit effectiveness in 1990 and 1992, respectively.
2/ As of June 10, 1994. In terms of SDRs, a total of some SDR 166.5 million or 98 percent of the Credit total of
SDR 170.5 milLion was disbured.
21



Table 4. Credit Financing
Source                   Amount in Original      Equivalent to USS
Credit/Grant Denomination       million
(MIillion)
1. IDA
i) Credit 2116-TA                  SDR         150.40             200.00
ii) Credit 2116-ITA (supplementary)  SDR         11.50             16.10
iii) Credit 2116-2TA (supplementary)  SDR         8.60              11.30
Sub-total:                      SDR         170.50             227.40
2. Co-financiers
i) Netherlands                     NLG         60.00              32.61
ii) Norway                         NOK          512.08             81.06
iii) United Kingdom                 GB£          11.60             23.00
Sub-total:                                                     136.67
3. Parallel Financiers
i) Germany                         DM             10               6.00
ii) Sweden                          SEK          298               50.00
Sub-total:                                                      56.00
Grand Total:                                                   420.07
22



Table 5. Studies
A. Special Studies
Type of Study        |Purpose                     |Stattus    |lrpact/Remark
Restructuring of NMC   To support policy and        Completed   Restructuring has started. Action
institutional changes for                plan which calls for privatization
food grains                              of NMC is being implemented
Restructuring of        To restructure processing   Completed   Restructuring completed with
Coffee Marketing        facilities, and transfer                  changes in internal structure and
Board: Coffee auction   coffee processing to                     personal lay off. Government has
producers                                stopped coffee sales to pre-
determined buyers under pre-
export financing facility.
Restrucruring of        To establish industrial     Completed   Cotton board restructures the
Cotton Marketing        companies which would                    industrial company set up
Board                   own and operate ginneries
Restructuring of        To utilize, rent or sell idle    Completed   Market based pricing system
Cashewnut Marketing    cashewnut processing                      operating. Reduced involvement
Board                   centres and to register                  of Government in cashew
licensed traders to operate              marketing. Currently no domestic
processing is taking place.
Agricultural Project    Review of projects in       Completed   It called for the closing or further
Portfolio               Development Budget in                    study of several projects.
order to dismantle those                 Permitted a reduction in the
which do not comply with                 number of projects financed in
accepted profitability                   development budget. Most of
criteria                                 recommendations have been
implemented.
Parastatal state farm   To prepare an Action Plan    Completed   It recommended either fine
sector                  for closing down of non-                  tunning reorganizing,
profitable activities and                restructuring of disposal of
diverting of assets.                     parastatals. An Action Plan is
being implemented through
Parastatal Reform Commission.
23



B. Other Studies
Type of Study          Purpose                    Status       Impact/Remark
Project Preparation    Identify, prepare and      On-going    Major projects and programmes
submit for external                     were prepared for the Livestock,
financing                              Crop Processing and Marketing
and institutional capaciry
building. Many of these projects
are already under
implementation.
Manpower/Sokoine       To identify the supply and    Completed   Recommendations have to be
Agricultural University  manpower requirements up              presented to GOT and Sokoine
Studies                to year 2000                            Agriculture University.
Project Monitoring     Physical and financial     On-going    These have helped to improve
monitoring of development              implementation status of projects.
project                                However, more has yet to be
done to improve project
management. A general project
monitoring system has been put
in place.
Detailed Review        To improve sub-sectorial   On-going    In-depth reviews have been
development                             undertaken for the Livestock and
Agriculture projects
Parastatal Monitoring    Analysis of financial and  On-going    Recommendations for re-
technical performance of               structuring, privatisaEion and
parastatals                            closing down of some parastatals
made.
Agricultural and       To present to Government   In-draft-    Much of that work has been
Livestock Policy       technical and policy       forn        incorporated in the Agricultural
Papers                 documents which would                  Sector Policy Paper for the
form basis of Agricultural             Rolling Plan and Forward
Sector Policy Paper                    Budget.
Review of Fertilizer   To assess the current      Completed   Major issues which impact on
Policy                 fertilizer use, identify               short-medium term were
major constraints and                  identified.
propose future strategy
Industry Review of     To summarize performance   Annually    The Government is committed to
Coffee, Cotton         of these sub-sectors                    improving free market trade in
Cashewnut and          especially with regards to             these sectors.
Tobacco                new market policy.
24



Table 6. Status of Legal Covenawnts
Section                            Article                                                                    tus
3.01         The Borrower and the Associaton shall from om  to time, at Lhe request of either party,       Complied
exchange vicws on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program an  the accoru.        I
3.03         The Borrower shall: (a) strengthen the capabiliries of the Sectoral Planning Unit the         Complied
Markeirng Developmenc Bureau and the Project Preparation and Monitoring Bureau. all in       The Ministry
the PlanrLing and Markeng Division of Lhe Ministry of Agriculcure and Livestock              of Local
Development. and of the Economuc. Planning and MarketLng Division of the Ministry of         Government
Local Government. Communiry Development. Cooperatves and Marketing, to bemer                 was no
monitor the policy changes under the program: and (b) carry out studies on the coffee       longer
auction, the Industrial Companies. TC.UB (Cashewnut)'s cashewnut processing plants and       involved and
agnculturaJ producrion parastatals. To that end the Borrower shall employ consuints and      Marketing
experts whose qualifications. expenence and Eermu and conditions of employment shall be      funcions
satisfactory to the Association.                                                            were
transferred to
Agriculture.
Secnon        (a) The Borrower shall maintaLn or cause to be maintained records and accounts adequate
3.04          to reflect in accordance with consisently maintined sound accounting practices the
expendicures fuinced out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have th  records and accounts referred to in pan. (a) of this Section,  Complied.
including those for the Special Account for each fwscal year audited, in  Ftnal
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistendy appiied, by   accouts
independent audiors acceptable to the Associacion:                        being
completed.
(ii) foumish to the Association as soon as available. but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year. a ccrtified copy of
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope aed in suic
detail as the Association shall hav reasonably requested: and
(iii) fournish to the Association such other information concerning said
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from
time to ume reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit Account were
made on the basis of sttements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintin or cause to be maintained, in accordance with pangraph (a)
of this Section. rords and accounu rflecting such expenditures:
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Association has received the
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account was made, al records (contrcts. orders invoices, bills.
rceipn and other documents) evidencing such expenditumes:
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine such records;
and
(iv) ensure thai such records nd accounts are included in the annial       Complied
audits rferred to in paragraph (b) of this Section acd that the rmport of
such audit contins a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
statcments of expeaditure submitted during such fiscal year. together
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their prparation.
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Source: Development Credit Agrement. Article m, Particular Covenants.
25



Table 7. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle    Input (staff weeks)                           | Remarks
Through appraisal                     137.0                               Includes preparation
exercise which started in
FY 88
Negotiations                          11.40
Supervision                          81.10
Total.
B. Missions
Stage of         MonW"    | No. of   INs" in    Special.   I
Project Cycle     year       persou     fleld      repruented
Overall    Develop.      ProJ. Mt.       Avail.
status    objecdea    Performanea   of fundt
Preparation
Pre-apprisal
Apprisal
Supervision
1              08/90         I        n.a.y          E            2           2              2             1
2               10/90        7         n.a.     A.E,E.E.E,F.      2           2              2             1
MA
3               12/90        2          20           E            2           2              2             1
4               06/91        2          32          E.E           2           2              2             1
5             11-12/91       3          24        E.E.MA          2            2             2             1
6              08192 m                                            2            2             2             1
7              06193                                              2            2             2             1
± E - Economist; F - Firancial Specialist; A - Agriculturalist; M - Marketing Specialis MA   Marketing Speciaiw.
' I - Problem free: 2 - Moderat problem: 3 - Major problem.
'Initial summnary was prpared by the Rcsident Mission, and no demils arm given on day spent in tie field.
' Updatng suminanes only.
26



TANZANIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
ANNEX 1
27



TANiZANIA: Agriculturat Sector Adjustment Credit
Annex 1: Agricultural Sector Trends after Adjustmnent
Table 1.  Key Macro-eonomic Indicalors
........................................       ...................... Year
1981       1982     1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991          1992    1993
Gross Domnesuic Product (GDP)        23.31       23.44    22.88   23.65    24.28    25.0   26.34   27.46   28.37   29.37   30.79    32.2
at Factor Cost Y
Agriculture GDPW                       9.5        9.6       9.9    I0.3      10.9    11.5    12.0    12.6    13.1    14.0    14.6    15.2
GDP Growth Rate (%)                    -0.5      0.59      -2.38   -3.38    2.63     3.26    5.09    4.23    3.34    3.49    4.86        4.57
Agricullure GDP Growth Rate (%)       0.99        1.35     2.85    4.01     6.00     5.73    4.40    4.48    4.58    6.61       4.01     4.41
Official Exchangc Ratc (TSh/US$)       8.3         -       11.1              17.5    32.7    64.3   102.2   121    174.4    203          230    450Q'
Domnesic Inflation Raze (%)           25.2         -       27.3      -      33.3    32.4      30      25.4    25.8    19.7    22.3    22.1         23
Commercial Interest Rate(%)         7.5-12.5   8.0-12.5    9.5      9.5     11-16    11-16   18-29   18-29   20-31   20-31   20-31      18-31
I Million TSh. Constant 1976 prices.
F March 1994. TSh 500= US$ 1.



APPENDIX 1
Table 1 (A)
REFORMS INIPLEMENTED PRIOR TO TANAA
Food Grains (A)
Date                              Reform
1984  Limits on intra-regional transport of grain relaxed.
1986  Explicit consumer subsidies on maize removed.
1987  Special permits to move grains abolished.
1988  Decontrolled cassava, sorghum, milk at cooperative union level.
1988  SGR replenished and managed by Board of Trustees.
1988  NMC no longer required to buy grains.
1988  Maize prices determined by market forces (with some support in remote regions).
1988  Maize and rice marketing decontrolled at primary level.
1989  Decontrolled marketing of all grains at primary level. Export of all grains allowed,
excluding wheat and rice.
Exports (B)
1988  Transferred Mosli Coffee Plant to producers.
1988  Government took over Cotton Board's overdrafts of TSh. 6.2 billion.
1989  Raised producers' price of cashewnuts.
1990  Removal of Marketing Boards from marketing chain. RCUs, PCUs, estates and farmers
allowed to retain ownership and market at will. Boards to organize sales, supervise
quality control, and supply market intelligence.
1990  Coffee Export Division of 1TCMB operating autonomously.
29



TANZANIA: Agncuiural Secwtr Adjustincnt Credit
AMCnX i: AgncuIturil Sector Trtnds after Adjusrent
Table 2: Total Production of Main Food Crops
Production    Maue   Paddy   Wheat   Cassava |Milletl           ixed
Year                                               Sorghurn   Pulses
............................. (tons'000) .
1972/73        887      301      88       n.a.       n.a.       n.a.
1973/74        761      223      85       n.a.       n.a.       n.a.
1974/75        1,367    265      82       986        435        217
1975/76        1,449    346      69      1,182       525        249
1976/77        1,664    314      64      1,348       604        185
1977/78        1,465    387      55      1,252       826        197
1978/79        1,720    262      70      1,411      1,157       218
1979/80        1,726    291      87      1,207       849        310
1980/81        1,839    200      90      1,456       705        272
1981/82        1,654    320      95      1,658       970        297
1982/83        1,651    350      58      1,967       793        282
1983/84        1,939    356      74      1,849       760        540
1984/85        2,093    427      83      2,052      1,024       441
1985/86       2,210    549       72      2,031       943        321
1986/87       2,359    644       72      1,709       954        425
1987/88        2,339    629      76      1,744       700        386
1988/89        3,125    718      97      1,948       804        503
1989/90       2,445    740      105      1,724       568        387
1990/91       2,332    624       84      1,556       750        424
1991/92        2,226    392      64      1,777       850        312
1992/93       2,282    600       78      1,708       719        405
Source: Various (including Marketing Development Bureau).
30



TANZANIA: Agncultuiw Sector Adjustrnen Cnedig
Annex i: Agncuitural Sector Trends after Adjusunent
Table 3a: Producer and Consumer Prices of LMlaize (TSh/kg)
Producer Prices                Consumer Prces
Current      Constanty      Current         Constants
1981/82             1.50           18.7           -
1982/83             1.75           15.9          150             1,364
1983184             2.20           15.7           -                -
1984/85             4.00          26.7            -
1985/86             5.25          21.9           228              950
1986/87             6.30           19.7          243              759
1987/88             8.20           19.5          278              662
1988/89             9.00           16.6          345              639
1989/90             11.00          16.4          376              561
1990/91             13.00          18.0          759              1054
1991/92            30.00          36.6          1014              1237
1992/93            38.00          38.0          1155              1155
Table 3b: Producer Prices of Paddy and Wheat
Paddy                     Wheat
Current    Constant"      Current      ConstantW
1981/82            2.30         28.8          2.20         27.5
1982/83            3.00         27.3          2.50         22.7
1983/84            4.00         28.6          3.00         21.4
1984/85            6.00         31.6          4.50         23.7
1985/86            8.00         33.3          6.00         25.0
1986/87            9.60         30.0          7.20         22.5
1987/88           14.40         34.3          9.00         21.4
1988/89           17.30         32.0         10.35          19.2
1989/90           19.00         28.4         13.00          19.4
1990/91           26.00         36.1         32.00         44.4
1991/92           31.40         38.3         38.40         46.8
1992/93          40.00          40.0         48.00         48.0
Source: Marketing Development Bureau.
' Constant 1993 prices. National Consumer Price index used as defletor.
31



TANZANIA: Agnculcunl Sector Adjusrnent Credit
Annex 1: Agncultiral Secwor Trends after Adjusmient
Table 4: Production and Value of iMajor Cash Crops
CROP|
Year            Coffee                Cotton               Cashewnut
Production    Export   Production   Export  Production   Export
I  Value                 Value                  Value
(t'000)    (US$ M)     (t'000)   (US$ M)    (t'000)    (US$ M)
1985        55        121.04       153       31.99       19        13.43
1986        41        184.70       231       29.46       18        15.77
1987        46        109.40       222       44.12       22        13.96
1988        49        96.39       208        77.69       19        19.48
1989        53        108.03       179       66.73       17        13.70
1990       46         85.00       255        74.00       30        12.27
1991        56        77.30        247       63.30       40         16.70
L1992                  68.80                  86.60                 24.90
Source: Bank of Tanzania.
32



TANZANIA: Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit
Annex 1: Agricultural Sector Trends after Adjustment
Table 5. Producer Prices (TSb/kg) of Major Export Crops
Coffee                                  Cotton                                   Cuashewnut
Year           Arabica Parch          Dry Cberry             Current           ConstantO            Current                 ConstantV
Current  Constant"   Current  Constant#        AR        BR       AR      BR    Standard   Undergrade   Standard   Undergrade
1981/82     13.90       173        5.57        70         3.70      1.70     46      21        5.00        3.50         63           44
1982/83     15.17       138        10.55       96         4.70      2.50     43      23        5.00        3.50         45'          32
1983/84     22.87       163       16.35       117         6.00      3.20     43      23        7.00        4.60         50           33
1984/85     29.68       156        15.08       79         8.40      4.50     44      24        9.80        6.90         52           36
1985/86     45.80       191        18.30       76        13.00      7.00      54     29       11.75        8.30         49           35
1986/87     62.42       195       35.67       111        16.90      9.10     53      28       18.20       12.85         57           40
1987/88     66.00       157       37.70        80        19.45      9.10     46      22       30.00       20.00         71           48
1988/89     90.00       166       51.00        94        22.35      10.00    41       19      40.00       27.00         74           50
1989/90     126.00      188       55.00        82        28.00      10.00    42       is      84.00       56.00        125           84
1990/91     155.00      215       60.50        84        41.00      14.00    57      19      110.00       73.00        153          101
1991/92     230.00      280       70.00        85        70.00     22.00     85      27      137.00       89.00        167          108
1992193     267.00      267       80.00        80        60.00      27.00    60      27      125.00      100.00        125          100
Source: Marketing Dcvelopmcnt Burcau.
' Constani 1993 priccs. National Consumer Pricc Index used as deflator.



Figure 1I. Coffee: Ratio of                                                                    Figure 1 b. Cotlon: Ratio of
Domestic to World Prico                                                                       Domestic to World Prke
0.9                                                                                            0.2
0.8     .      U9ing Opn Eichrwae )Rod                                                       0. I 8
0.7                                                                                          0.16             Iing Open Excfwn  Raf*
g 0.6          Eflectivh                       -            S                                    0. 4
.2
=U0.2                   lJA2                                                                                                   EffectivecwIg R
0.410. 
0.1 -  ,                                                                                      0.04- ,         .       .           
1 87  1988   1989  1990   1 g I92  I993  I994                                                  1987 1 988   1989   1           1 S    1992    1993
Figure Ia. Rbe: Ratio of                                                                       Figure Id. Mato: Ratio of
Domestic lo World Prke                                                                          Domestic to World Pric
0.65-                                                                                           1.3
0.6          sUrq Open Exchag A                                                                1.2     \
&  0.55         \.                                                                                               Using Open Efchmo  Rd.
0.5            \
B          N                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Crod#                                      3 09            \t
0  0.45                                EItecI)v                                                 0  0.9
~0.4                                                                                               0.9-Crd
0.40
0.35                                                                     0.7 -                        Effect"~~~~~~=  0
0.25                                                                                            0.4 -
1987   : 1988     1989      1990     1991     1992                                      0.3  1987             199
02 1987   .19198      1 989    I99      199I1g    19920.   1987   1908   1989    1990    199g1    19~92   19'93



