Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                  NORWEGIAN GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2116 TA
                                for
                the Administration of Certain Funds
                    to be made available by the
                GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF NORWAY
      in Conjunction with the Agricultural Adjustment Credit
                              in the
                    UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
                      Dated November 5, 1990
                 NORWEGIAN GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2116 TA
                             AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated November 5, 1990, between the NORWEGIAN
AGENCY FOR DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION representing the Government of
the Kingdom of Norway (Norway) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association) to provide for the administration by
the Association of certain funds to be made available by Norway to
the United Republic of Tanzania (Tanzania).
      WHEREAS (A) an agreement dated October 2, 1986, between Norway
and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and
the International Development Association provides the framework for
co-financing of development projects by the parties thereto;
      (B)   Norway is expected to enter into an agreement with
Tanzania (the Grant Agreement) regarding a grant of up to a total
amount of two hundred and twenty-eight million three hundred
thousand Norwegian Kroner (NOK 228,300,000), which will be made
available by Norway to assist Tanzania in the financing of its
Agricultural Adjustment Program (the Program);
      (C)   Norway wishes the aforementioned grant (hereinafter
referred to as the Norwegian Grant) to be administered by the
Page  2
Association as incremental to the Credit extended by the Association
to Tanzania pursuant to the Development Credit Agreement concerning
the Agricultural Adjustment Program (Credit Number 2116-TA) dated
April 6, 1990, (hereinafter referred to as the Development Credit
Agreement); and
      WHEREAS, the Association, at the request of Norway, has agreed
to administer the Norwegian Grant upon the terms and conditions
hereinafter set forth;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                         Use of the Grant
      Section 1.01. The Grant shall be utilized during 1990 to meet
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods for the
execution of the Agricultural Adjustment Program described in the
Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement.
                           ARTICLE II
                 The Authority of the Association
      Section 2.01. The Association, as Administrator on behalf of
Norway, shall enter into a development grant agreement and such
other agreements with Tanzania, as it may deem appropriate but con-
sistent with the terms and conditions of the Development Credit
Agreement (excluding the debt service provisions thereof) for the
purpose of assisting in financing the Program. Such agreements with
Tanzania shall, inter alia, provide that the proceeds of the
Norwegian Grant may be withdrawn by Tanzania to finance the reason-
able cost of goods required for the execution of the Program and
otherwise eligible for financing under the Development Credit
Agreement, and that the amounts to be withdrawn need not be repaid
and shall bear no interest or other charges. A copy of each such
agreement shall be furnished to Norway.
      Section 2.02. The Association, as Administrator on behalf of
Norway, shall have the sole responsibility for supervision of the
Program.
      Section 2.03. The administration and enforcement of any pro-
visions of any agreement entered into between Tanzania and the Asso-
ciation for the purposes of this Agreement shall be handled solely
by the Association, and the Association specifically reserves the
right, at its discretion and without notice to Norway, to exercise,
refrain from exercising or waive any rights under such agreement or
to modify any provision thereof, provided, however, that before
suspending the right of Tanzania to make withdrawals of funds under
such agreement, the Association shall inform Norway and afford
Norway a reasonable opportunity for consultation with the
Association.
      Section 2.04. The Association shall exercise the same care in
the discharge of its functions under this Agreement as it exercises
with respect to the administration and management of its own affairs
and shall have no further responsibility to Norway in respect
thereof.
                           ARTICLE III
                              Payment
      Section 3.01. For the purpose of this Agreement, Norway shall
deposit, subject to Parliamentary appropriations, an amount of two
hundred and twenty-eight million three hundred thousand Norwegian
Kroner (NOK 228,300,000) in Account-T with the Bank of Norway in the
name of the Association (the Trust Account). The funds in the Trust
Account shall be freely exchangeable by the Association with other
currencies as may facilitate their administration.
Page  3
      Section 3.02. The Association shall disburse from the Trust
Account such amounts as from time to time shall be needed to meet
the reasonable cost of goods financed or to be financed pursuant to
Section 2.01 of this Agreement. Such disbursements shall be effected
on the basis of applications for withdrawal for eligible expendi-
tures submitted by Tanzania to the Association in accordance with
the Association's normal disbursement procedures for withdrawal and
disbursement of proceeds of credits made by the Association.
      Section 3.03. In order to assist in defraying the cost of
administration and other expenses incurred by the Association under
this Agreement, the Association may invest and reinvest the
Norwegian Grant funds in the Trust Account, pending their
disbursement to Tanzania, and may retain for its own account the
income from any such investment or reinvestment.
                            ARTICLE IV
                     Financial Accountability
      Section 4.01. (a) The Association shall: (i) maintain separate
records and accounts in respect of the funds in the Trust Account
and disbursed by the Association pursuant to the provisions of this
Agreement; and (ii) the Association shall furnish on a semi-annual
basis to Norway a statement of account on such records and accounts;
and
      (b)   the Association shall cause said records and accounts to
be audited and certified by the Association's external auditors when
all funds in the Trust Account have been disbursed and shall furnish
the report of such audit by said auditors to Norway.
                            ARTICLE V
                   Cooperation and Consultations
      Section 5.01. Norway and the Association shall consult, from
time to time, at their mutual request, on all matters arising out of
this Agreement. In addition, annual consultations between
representatives of the Government of Tanzania and the parties to
this Agreement shall be held to discuss the implementation of the
individual program on the basis of progress reports submitted to
Norway and Tanzania by the Association.
      Section 5.02. The Association shall keep Norway informed of
the progress of the Program. To that end, the Association shall
furnish to Norway all relevant progress, performance and assessment
reports relating to the Program.
      Section 5.03. The Association shall inform Norway of any
forthcoming major missions and meetings in connection with the
Program and shall afford representatives of Norway the opportunity
to participate in such missions and meetings.
      Section 5.04. The Association shall inform Norway of any
proposed significant modification to the Development Credit Agree-
ment and shall afford Norway a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Association before effecting any such modification.
      Section 5.05. If circumstances arise during the implementation
of the Program which could lead to substantial changes in the
project document and/or the way of execution of the Program, the
Association shall inform Norway and Tanzania in writing about such
circumstances and the proposal for alterations of the Program.
Within a month after having received such information Norway shall
consult the Association. If after consultation no agreement can be
reached between Norway and the Association about the proposal for
alterations of the Program, Norway is entitled to terminate the
payments from the Grant.
                            ARTICLE VI
Page  4
                   Effectiveness and Termination
      Section 6.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its
signature and, subject to the provisions of this Article, shall
continue in effect until all disbursements have been made from the
Trust Account to Tanzania, unless terminated in accordance with the
provisions of Section 6.02 below.
      Section 6.02. If, at any time it appears to either party that
the purposes of this Agreement can no longer effectively or appro-
priately be carried out, this Agreement may be terminated at the
initiative of such party after sixty (60) days' written notice to
that effect. Before termination of this Agreement, there shall be
mutual consultations between the parties with a view to securing
successful realization of the purpose of the Norwegian Grant.
      Section 6.03. Upon termination of this Agreement, unless the
parties agree on another course of action, any agreement or portion
thereof entered into by the Association, as Administrator on behalf
of Norway, shall be transferred to Norway and any funds or other
property of Norway held hereunder by the Association shall be
returned to Norway, and the Association's administration shall be
considered terminated.
      Section 6.04. Promptly after termination of this Agreement,
the Association shall furnish to Norway a final report and a
financial statement on the Trust Account, together with an opinion
of the Association's external auditors on such statement.
                            ARTICLE VII
                         Final Provisions
      Section 7.01. This Agreement may be amended only by written
agreement of the parties hereto.
      Section 7.02. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement, and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement, shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand, mail, telegram, cable or telex
to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given, or
made at such party's address hereinafter specified, or at such other
addresses as such party shall have designated by notice to the party
giving such notice or making such request. The addresses so
specified are:
     For Norway:
            The Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation
            P.O. Box 8034 Dep.
            N-0030 Oslo 1
            Norway
            Telefax:                      Telex:
              47-2-314401                   76548 NORAD-N
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
              INDEVAS                       197688 (TRT)
              Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                             82987 (FTCC)
Page  5
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned duly authorized thereto,
have signed this Agreement.
                  NORWEGIAN AGENCY FOR DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION
                  By /s/ Kjeld Vibe
                                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
