FILE COPY
Report No. 1299b-GH
Ghana: Volta River Authority (VRA); Appraisal
of the Kpong Hydroelectric Project
March 1, 1977
Regional Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1                          =     Cedi (¢) 1.15
Cedi ( I) 1                   =      US$ 0.869
Cedi ( I) 1                   =      Pesewas (P) 100
Cedi ( I) 1 million                  US$ 869,565
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Kilometer (km)                     0.621 mile (mi)
1 meter (m)                          3.281 feet (ft)
1 square kilometer (km )      =      0.3286 square mile (mi2)
1 kilogram (kg)                      2.205 pounds (lb)
1 ton (1,000 kg)                     1.102 short ton (sh ton)
0.984 long ton (lg ton)
1 barrel (bbl; 0.159 m3)      =      42 US gallons (gal)
1 kilowatt (kW)                      1,000 Watts (W)
1 Megawatt (MW)                      1,000 kW
1 Gigawatt (GW)                      1,000,000 kW = 1,000 MW (=106 kW)
I kilowatthour (kWh)                 1,000 Watthours (Wh)
1 Gigawatthour (GWh)                 1,000,000 kWh = 1,000 MWh (=106kWh)
1 kilovolt (kV)                      1,000 Volts (V)
1 kilovolt ampere                    1,000 volt amperes (lkVA)
1 Megavolt ampere (MVA)       -      1,000 kVA
1 Megavar (MVAR)                     1,000 kVAR
I Mill                               One Monetary Unit Equal to 1/1,000
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
GNP                                  Gross National Product
GDP                           =      Gross Domestic Product
VALCO                                Volta Aluminum Company
VRA                                  Volta River Authority
ECG                                  Electricity Corporation of Ghana
CEB                           =      Communaute Electrique du Benin
UNDP                          =      United Nations Development Program
FED                                  Fond European du Ddveloppement
EIB                                  European Investment Bank
BADEA                         =      Banque Arabe du Developpement
Economique en Afrique
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
VRA FINANCIAL YEAR
Calendar Year



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GHANA
APPRAISAL OF THE KPONG HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS . . . .                                       i-iv
1.  INTRODUCTION .  X e . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . v                      1
2.  THE SECTOR ........... ............2
Sector History and Institutions   . . . . . . . . .    2
The Power Market . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    4
Electricity Service Coverage . . . . . . . . . . .    6
Tariffs - VALCO   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    6
- Other Customers   . . . . . . . . . . . .    7
Planning Sector Development   . . . . . . . . . . .    8
Sector Objectives   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    8
3. THE BORROWER ..                                                             9
General. .                                                       9
Organization and Management   . . . . . . . . . . .    9
TrainIng .                        .10
Operations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
Accounting and Audit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
4.     THE PROJECT   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
Project Description   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   ii
Project Cost . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   13
Project Financing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   15
Engineering and Construction . . . . . . . . . . .   17
Procurement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   18
Disbursement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   18
Resettlement and Environmental Aspects . . . . . .   19
5.     ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION . . . . .               .21
Intodutio  .     .     .     .. . . . . . . . . . . .   2
Introduction..21
Forecast of Need for Electric Power   . . . . . . .   21
Basis for the Economic Analysis   . . . . . . . . .   23
Least Cost Solution   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   24
Return on Investment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   25
Future Tariff Policy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   25
6.     FINAN4CIAL ASPECTS   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   26
General .26
Past Finances.                                                  26
Financing Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   27
Future Finances   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   30
7.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS . . . . . . . . .   32
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the Performe
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherise be diosed without World Bank authorization.



LIST OF ANNEXES
1.           Existing Power Facilities
2.           VRA Organization Chart
3.           Detailed Description of the Project
4.           Escalation Percentage Change Forecast
5.           Apportioning of External Financing for Kpong
6.           Construction Program
7.           Schedule of Disbursements
8.           Resettlement Program
9.           Financial Forecasts and Assumptions
10.          Tariff Schedules
11.          Economic Justification;Draft Terms of Reference for
Power Sector Study
12.          VALCO Smelter Operations
13.          Project Drawings - Kpong Hydroelectric Project - Ghana:
Drawing 1
Project General Arrangement
Drawing 2
Sections through Dam and Dykes
MAP
Ghana - IBRD-12418R



GHANA
APPRAISAL OF THE KPONG HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.      This report appraises the Kpong Hydroelectric Project on the
Volta River in Ghana, a related transmission line and substations to
supply communities in the southwestern part of the country, and works
in Ghana's transmission grid to accommodate the load increase foreseen.
The project is to be built by the Volta River Authority (VRA) and its
estimated total cost is about US$236.5 million equivalent, excluding
interest during construction and net of tax and duties. The Government
of Ghana and the VRA have asked the Bank and other external lenders to
help finance the foreign exchange costs of the project, estimated at
US$172 million. A Bank loan of US$39 million, for a term of 20 years
including 4-1/2 years of grace, is proposed for Kpong and the transmission
line and substations. The other lending agencies (Canadian CIDA, the
European Communities - FED & EIB, BADEA and the Saudi and Kuwait Funds)
have agreed in principle to provide the remaining foreign exchange
costs of US$133 million. VRA will provide local costs of US$64.5 million.
ii.     The Bank Group has made four previous loans and credits for
power development in Ghana. The first two loans (US$47 million in
1962 and US$6 million in 1969) assisted VRA with the expansion of its
power generation and transmission facilities, including construction of
the Akosombo hydroelectric plant on the Volta. Two credits (US$10 million
in 1968 and US$7.1 million in 1971) assisted the Government in financing
the Electricity Corporation of Ghana's (ECG) distribution systems. All
projects were completed satisfactorily. OED's Audit observations on
rate of return, revaluation of assets and the merger of the generating
and distributing authorities are being addressed in paras. 6.06,
6.08, and 2.06. A further Loan/Credit for ECG's Third Phase is also
being presented to the Board.
iii.    VRA and ECG are both statutory corporations owned by the Govern-
ment. VRA supplies bulk power to ECG, to the smelter of the Volta
Aluminum Company (VALCO) at Tema, to several gold, diamond, manganese
and bauxite mining industries, to the Akosombo township and to the
Communaute Electrique du Benin (CEB) which supplies Togo and Benin. ECG
is responsible for the distribution of power to all other consumers in
Ghana. Besides power, VRA is also engaged in resettlement, lake
research and lake transport. Overall VRA is a well managed institution.
iv.     The power market in Ghana has grown appreciably over the
last ten years, reaching 540 MW of peak demand; generation increased
to 4,110 GWh, of which over 90% is hydroelectric. It is estimated
that over the next decade peak demand will reach 900 MW and generation
6,200 GWh.



- ii -
v.      The project consists of four components: (a) the Kpong Dam
and hydropower plant, to be constructed about 24 km downstream from
the existing Akosombo facility, and associated transmission system;
(b) reactive power compensation in VRA's transmission grid necessary
to keep power and energy losses at satisfactory levels; (c) a transmission
line and substations to supply the Sefwi-Wiawso-Bibiani area in south-
western Ghana; and (d) additional transmission facilities between Tema
and Accra. Installed capacity at Kpong will be 160 MW in four units.
A 161-kV transmission line to Tema would tie in Kpong power with VRA's
transmission grid. The Kpong hydropower scheme has been designed by
a reputable engineering firm with ample experience in this type of
project and does not involve unusual structures, nor difficult foundation
or construction problems. The reactive power compensation required by
VRA's transmission grid will be provided by one 25 MVAR synchronous
condenser at Prestea and one static condenser of same rating at Kumasi.
An 80-km 161-kV transmission line, connected at Dur.ka to VRA's trans-
mission grid, will supply the power requirements of the Sefwi-Wiawso-
Bibiani area. This area, comprising industries and about 30,000
people will receive electricity service under ECG's Phase III (see
para. ii). Additional transmission capacity required between Tema and
Accra will be provided by a new 25-km 161-kV transmission line.
vi.     The project is necessary to meet the growth in demand for
power in Ghana and is the least cost method of doing so. The annual
energy capacity of existing hydro facilities will be reached by the
load demand in 1978. The Kpong project will add 140 MW firm and
970 GWh per year to the VRA system, thus providing for normal growth
plus a total of 174 GWh of interruptible supply for industrial heating
until 1985 when additional generation facilities will be needed. Prin-
cipal beneficiaries of Kpong power will be ECG customers who will consume
78 percent of the output by 1985.
vii.    The Kpong headpond will cover an area of about 3,700 ha and
will necessitate the resettlement of about 5,700 people and the compensation
of flooded farm lands. The cost of resettlement and compensation has
been estimated at US$8.2 million. The resettlement programming is in
an advanced stage. The Kpong headpond is anticipated to give little
disturbance to the ecology. There is a risk of an increased incidence
of bilharzia with however a reduction in riverblindness given the flooding
of vector breeding rapids. In order to reduce the hazard of schistosomiasis,
piped treated water will be supplied to communities surrounding the
headpond and suitable wharfing facilities for fishermen will also
be provided to permit embarkation without wading.
viii.   With the existing level of tariffs the economic return on
investment for the Kpong project is 7.5%. Justification of the Kpong
project on the basis of an economic return on investment which reflects
consumers revealed willingness to pay is not feasible in this case
because of the current pricing policy which originated with the very



- iii -
low cost of Akosombo energy. If benefits were assumed to be valued
at marginal cost, which is equivalent to ECG tariffs increased on the
average 70% over present levels and roughly comparable to 75% of
tariffs paid in Liberia,I/ the return would be about 11%.
ix.     The tariff increases likely to result from the proposed rate
covenant would imply a price level, on average which is less than the
long run marginal cost. To achieve average prices for electricity
that would reflect long run marginal cost of electric power in Ghana,
the present ECG tariffs would have to be raised by an average of 70% in
real terms on top of a recent 29% increase and maintained in real terms.
It would not be feasible therefore to implement marginal cost pricing
in Ghana's electric power sector immediately. Furthermore, the average
total cost of electric energy is much lower than the incremental cost
of electricity to be supplied by Kpong because Kpong will furnish only
15% of total generation in 1984 but at a cost per kWh much greater than
Akosombo. Thus, the Government has agreed to undertake a power sector
study to be completed by June 1978. Results of the study will be
discussed with the Bank with a view to implementing gradually within
an agreed period a tariff which reflects the marginal cost of power,
taking into account social and wider economic considerations.
x.      Ghana has just concluded its longstanding discussions with the
Volta Aluminum Company about an increase in the Power Rate. The agreed
rates are 4.5 US Mills/kWh for 1976 leading to 5.0 Mills/kWh by 1981. The
agreement also includes an escalation formula covering operating costs
and any foreign exchange losses related to the two previous IBRD loans
to VRA. Tariffs to ECG and the Mines have also been increased by 60%
effective September 1, 1976. Tariffs to CEB had already been increased
by 24% effective July 1, 1976.
xi.     VRA has been generating sufficient resources to cover operating
and capital requirements plus debt service. However, its return on
eatimated revalued equity has been only 2-3% during 1974 and 1975. With
the recently negotiated VALCO tariffs and tariff increases to ECG, Mines
and CEB and with further tariff increases of 10-20% per annum as from
1978 to its non-VALCO customers, VRA is expected to cover operating
expenses, debt service and the local cost component of the proposed
project and in accordance with its rate of return obligations under the
loan agreement earn 7-9%, on revalued equity. During negotiations,
VRA agreed to fully revalue its assets by indices acceptable to the Bank.
VRA's foreign exchange revenues from VALCO and CEB alone are expected to
fully cover its debt servicing obligations.
1/ Liberia has the lowest tariff levels among Ghana's neighboring countries.



- iv-
xii.    The financing plan includes expiected revenues from the tariff
increases for VALCO, VRA's largest cust:omer, for ECG and other users of
VRA power. All foreign costs excluding interest during construction
will be borne by external lenders. The proposed Bank loan would cover
about 20 percent of the off-shore costs of the project. Of the total Bank
contribution of US$39 million, about US$33.6 million would be used to
finance jointly with two other external agencies (EIB/FED) the foreign
costs of generating and transmission ectuipment for Kpong. The remaining
US$5.4 million would help finance the 'Sefwi-Wiawso-Bibiani transmission
line, and construction equipment and vehicles for preliminary works of
Kpong and resettlement. Retroactive financing of US$1.0 million is
recommended for advanced procurement for construction equipment and
vehicles urgently needed by VRA for the preliminary works of Kpong and
for the initial phase of resettlement.
xiii.   All items financed by the external agencies, other than CIDA,
would be on the basis of international competitive bidding substantially
in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement. The only
deviation from these guidelines will be that the rate of exchange at
the time of bids opening will be operative in evaluating bids for items
financed jointly by the Bank, EIB and FED, instead of the rate of
exchange prevailing on the day the dec:Ision to award the contract is
made. Items, which would be covered by CIDA contribution to the project
and which would be awarded after compel:itive bidding in Canada, are not
expected to cost significantly more than if procured as a result of
international competitive bidding; furlhermore, CIDA aid is being
provided on very generous financing ternms.
xiv.    With the assurances proposed in Chapter VII, the project would
be suitable for a Bank loan of US$39 m:illion at 8-1/2% annual interest
rate and for a term of 20 years including 4-1/2 years of grace. The
Borrower will be the VRA; the Governmenit of Ghana will be the Guarantor.



-1-
GHANA
APPRAISAL OF THE KPONG HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01    The Government of Ghana and the Volta River Authority (VRA)
have requested external assistance in financing the Kpong hydroelectric
project, the second step in the planned development of the Volta River's
hydro-power potential. In addition to the Bank, six multilateral and
bilateral agencies have been approached for financial assistance to the
Kpong project: Fond European du Developpement (FED), European Investment
Bank (EIB), Banque Arabe du Developpement Economique en Afrique (BADEA),
Kuwait Fund, Saudi Fund for Development, and Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA). These agencies have agreed in principle with
the Bank to cover the foreign exchange costs, estimated at US$162 million
out of a total cost for the Kpong scheme proper of about US$225 million
equivalent, excluding interest during construction.
1.02    Financial assistance has also been secured for construction by
VRA of a transmission line and substations to supply the Sefwi-Wiawso-
Bibiani area in southwestern Ghana, for reactive power compensation in
VRA's transmission grid and for additional transmission facilities between
Tema and Accra. Inclusion of these items raises the total project cost
to US$236.5 million, including US$172 million in foreign exchange. A
separate Bank loan/IDA credit is under consideration to help finance a
project of the Electricity Corporation of Ghana (ECG) to extend its
distribution systems to the above mentioned area and other new service
areas in the southern part of the country.
1.03    A Bank loan to VRA of US$39.0 million, for a term of 20 years
including 4-1/2 years of grace, is proposed for the Kpong project, for
the supply of electric power to the Sefwi-Wiawso-Bibiani area, for
reactive power compensation, and for the additional Tema-to-Accra
transmission facilities. This would be the third Bank loan to VRA,
with the Government the Guarantor in all cases, and the fifth Bank
Group operation in the power sector of Ghana. The first two loans
(310-GH for US$47.0 million in 1962 and 618-GH for US$6.0 million in
1969) assisted VRA in building and expanding its power generating and
transmission facilities, the major component being the Akosombo power
plant. This six-unit hydroelectric facility, with a total installed
capacity of 912 MW presently provides over 90% of the country's electric
power requirements. Credit 118-GH for US$10.0 million in 1968 and
Credit 256-GH for US$7.1 million in 1971 assisted the Government in
financing ECG's program to improve and expand its distribution systems
to meet Ghana's growing demand for power, particularly for industrial



-2-
use.  All power projects were implemented successfully.  OED's Audit
comments related to (i) merging the two power authorities; (ii) revaluation
of assets; (iii) rate of return performance, and (iv) staffing are being
addressed in paras. 2.06, 6.08, 6.06 and 3.07.
1.04    VRA prepared the proposed Kpong project with assistance from
Acres International Ltd. (Canada). The Acres' feasibility study,
financed by a CIDA credit, was completed in June 1975; it provides the
essential technical, economic and financial justification for the project.
Several Bank pre-appraisal missions visited Ghana in 1974 and 1975.
Field appraisal was completed in March 1976. The present appraisal
report has been prepared by Messrs. A. Posada, S. Alber-Glanstaetten,
J. Gilling and R. Bates.
II. THE POWER SECTOR
2.01    The power sector, with hydroelectric power the major energy
resource, has a highly important role in Ghana's economic development.
This is especially the case in the Government's effort to diversify
the economy, which is largely dependent on agriculture, as the provision
of assured sources of electric power for industry and commerce is a
basic requirement in the diversification effort. Besides its importance
in overall development, hydroelectric power as an alternative to imported
oil for power generation has been a key factor in alleviating the
impact of higher oil prices in Ghana. Although, drilling (mainly off-
shore) has been conducted, no oil resources have been discovered and
Ghana has no known coal deposits. Ghana's total hydroelectric potential
is estimated at about 9,000 GWh of which 5,400 GWh have been developed
at the existing Akosombo hydropower plant. In this respect Ghana has
had an important advantage over most of the other West Africa countries
since it has been possible through the utilization of the very low
cost hydropower source of the Volta River at Akosombo to supply power
not only to a large aluminum smelter but also to a substantial part
of the country. However, this particularly advantageous position will
deteriorate by the end of the present decade when Akosombo's generating
capability will be reached and much more costly sources, i.e. the proposed
Kpong hydro-plant, will have to be tapped.
Sector History and Institutions
2.02    Public electricity supply is the responsibility of' VRA and
ECG, both of which are statutory corporations owned by the Government.
Created in 1961 to build and operate the first hydro project on the
Volta River at Akosombo, VRA supplies bulk power to ECG, to the smelter
of the Volta Aluminum Company (VALCO) at Tema, to several gold, diamond,



-3-
manganese and bauxite mining industries, to the Akosombo township, and
to Communaute Electrique du Benin (CEB), which supplies Togo and Benin.
As the Borrower in the proposed Kpong project, VRA is fully discussed
in Chapter III.
2.03    The feasibility of developing the hydropower potential of the
Volta River had been established by a preparatory commission which in
1956 raecommended its implementation, basically to supply power to a
proposed nearby aluminum smelter that would use Ghana's bauxite deposits.
Following a review of the proposals in the late 1950's, Kaiser Aluminum
and Chemical Corporation of the;USA sponsored the smelter, and in 1962
the Bank and other donors agreed to assist in financing the hydro-
electric plant. The exploitation of local bauxite deposits was deferred,
and the smelter has been processing alumina imported from the Carribean.
However, in order to induce Kaiser to use local bauxite the contractual
arrangements (the Master Agreement) provide that, unless local bauxite
is entirely used by April 1977, the smelter's income will, in effect,
be subjected to higher taxes (for the precise mechanism see also Annex 12,
para. 2). The Bank is currently helping to review the feasibility of
establishing a bauxite/alumina plant at Kibi.
2.04    The construction of Akosombo and the establishment of VRA are
thus inextricably connected with the establishment of the smelter
operated by the Volta Aluminum Company (VALCO). Ghana, with its large
potential power from the Volta River system, offered a propitious
setting with an easily accessible and vital resource and the VALCO
smelter provided the necessary large electricity demand needed to
justify and enable the hydroelectric plant to be financed. VRA's
relationship with VALCO is governed by the Power Contract of 1962
(see also para. 2.12 to 2.13).
2.05    ECG, established in 1967 as a public utility to succeed the
Electricity Division of the Ministry of Works and Housing, is responsible
for the distribution of power to all other consumers in Ghana and for
the generation of public electricity supply in areas that cannot be
economically connected to the VRA system. ECG serves the four principal
cities of Accra, Tema, Kumasi and Sekondi-Takoradi, as well as 26
smaller urban centers.
2.06    The feasibility of merging VRA and ECG has been under con-
sideration off and on since the mid-1960's. As by now ECG and VRA
have developed into relatively mature organizations with distinctly
different functions, a merger is not expected to bring about major
net benefits.
2.07    VRA's facilities comprise the hydroelectric plant at Akosombo,
located about 100 km northeast of Accra, and a 920-km 161-kV trans-
mission system which forms the national grid and covers most of southern
Ghana (see Map). The Akosombo hydro power development consists of a



-4-
six-unit powerhouse and a rock-fill dam cn the Volta River, creating
one of the world's largest man-made reservoirs. Lake Volta covers
8,400 km2, about one-tenth of Ghana's total area; its useful storage
is 61 billion m3, capable of accommodating almost two years of average
yearly inflow from the upper Volta River basin. As the long-term
dependable generation from Akosombo is estimated at 5,400 GWh per
year, the lake's electric energy storage capability is about 10,000 GWh.
Akosombo's power capability at average reservoir level is 882 MW and
its long-term dependable output 762 MW. A detailed description of VRA's
generation and transmission systems is given in Annex 1.
2.08    ECG's facilities comprise 33 and 11 kV distribution systems
fed from VRA's transmission system or from ECG's own diesel-electric
stations. As of November 1975, ECG had 28 such stations with a total
installed capacity of 81 MW. The main sl:ations are those at Tema
(33.3 MW installed) and Accra (14.7 MW installed).
The Power Market
2.09    The power market has grown over the past decade, reaching
540 MW of peak demand in 1974; generation irncreased to 4,110 GWh, of
which over 90% is hydroelectric. Of this hydrogeneration, about two-
thirds is being consumed by VALCO's 132.000 ton aluminum smelter,
which is characterized by its power-intensive nature. Further
details about VALCO's smelter are given in Annex 12. It is estimated
that by 1984 the peak demand will be 900 MW and generation 6,200 GWh.
Most of the hydroelectric power is consuned in the southern part
of Ghana, where about two-thirds of its 9.8 million people live and
where most of the commercial, agricultural, manufacturing and mining
activity is located.  Total electric energy production and consumption
in 1974 were as follows:



-5-
Production and Consumption of Electricity
by Consumer Category - 1974
% of Total
GWh        Consumption
ECG
Residential                                       206             5.3
Commercial                                         128            3.3
Industrial                                        413            10.5
Other                                               23            0.7
Total ECG                                            770           19.8
VALCO                                              2,734           69.6
Mines                                                256            6.5
Akosombo Township and Textiles                        30            0.8
Communaute Electrique du Benin                       128            3.3
Total Consumption                                 3,918           100.0
Losses and own consumption
VRA                                                 90
ECG                                                102
192            4.01/
Total generation                                  4,110
of which:
VRA                                             4,078            99.21/
ECG (own generation)                                25            0.61/
ECG (rural electrification)                          7            0.21/
2.10    During the period 1968-1974, total electricity consumption
in Ghana increased at an average annual rate of 8.1%; ECG's sales
increased at 12.2% per annum2/. The forecasts of demand do not include
any supply to new power intensive industries such as aluminum smelting.
Such industries are unlikely to be attracted to Ghana as electricity
costs will be about 20-25 US Mills/kWh in the future, about 5 times
more expensive than Akosombo, and Ghana will not have any large blocks
of surplus power. The actual and forecast electricity consumption in
Ghana is shown in Tables 1 and 2 of Annex 11.
I/ Refers to total generation
2 Average annual growth rate for the 1970-1974 period were respectively
9.1% for total consumption and 10.2% for ECG's sales (see para. 5.03).



-6-
Electricity Service Coverage
2.11    Public electricity supply presently serves about 100 towns,
totaling some 2.25 million people (about 25% of the total population),
nearly half of whom live in a household with a connection. In the
rural areas, electricity supply serves areas with an estimated
260,000 people, representing 4% of Ghana's rural population. Only
about 10% of these people, or less than half of 1% of the total number
who live in the rural areas, have a connection. Service to rural
areas is being extended under ECG's proposed Phase III Project.
Tariffs
VALCO - Power Contract
2.12    VRA's sales to VALCO are priced in the Power Contract of 1962.
The Original Contract contains (i) VRA's obligation to deliver
ultimately up to 370 MW of firm power and (ii) VALCO's obligation to
pay a Power Rate of 2.625 Mills/kWh for the energy effectively taken
or to pay ultimately at least a "Minimum Charge" equal to the Power
Rate times 3.079 GWh, i.e. 370 MW at 95% load factor. VALCO's payments
are in US dollars. The Power Rate's validity was fixed for 30 years
(1967-1997) with no provisions for adjustment.
2.13    Since the late sixties, VRA and the Government sought VALCO's
agreement to increase the Rate and to change its fixed nature because
of the increased incidence of inflation and currency realignments.
In late 1972, VALCO agreed to increase the Power Rate to 2.75 Mills/kWh
and in early 1973 VALCO agreed to a further interim, and refundable,
increase to 3.125 Mills/kWh ("Interim Power Rate') i.e. until both
parties had agreed on a "Permanent Rate". In order to determine such a
Permanent Rate, both VRA and VALCO commissioned in 1974 a consultant's
study (Shawmont-Canada).  In December 1974, Shawmont concluded on the
basis of an 11% return on equity standard - derived from North American
Public Utility practice - that VALCO should pay 5.0 Mills/kWh until its
power take reaches 370 MW and thereafter 4.0 Mills/kWh. In addition,
Shawmont proposed an escalation formula which was to compensate VRA
for increase in operating expenses and loss of purchasing power of the
original return on equity standard due to inflation and exchange rate
changes. The negotiations started in early 1975 and have just been
concluded. VALCO and Ghana agreed (i) to increase the rate to 3.25 US
Mills/kWh for the period of 1973-1975, (ii) to increase the rate to
4.5 US Mills/kWh for 1976 with further gradual increases leading ultimatel-Jy
to 5.0 US Mills/kWh in 1981. In addition, an escalation mechanism was
agreed which would protect VRA against operating cost increases and
exchange rate risks related to the two outstanding IBRD loa-ns. It is
interesting to note that while the negotiating parties eventually
focussed on VRA's expected financial requirements during 1976-1981 and
did not follow Shawmont's rationale, the agreed Permanent Rates are
comparable on a discounted basis.



-7-
2.14    In addition to the 370 MW, VRA agreed in mid-1975, in the
Fourth Amendment to the Power Contract, to provide VALCO with an
additional 30 MW firm and 15 MW interruptible power for the fifth
potline now expected to be completed by the end of 1976. In the Fourth
Amendment VALCO agreed to pay 5.0 and 6.0 Mills/kWh for the 30 and 15 MW
respectively. These rates were however replaced within the framework
of the Permanent Rate discussions by a rate of 6.75 US Mills/kWh -
a rate that had no meaning in isolation, but was negotiated as part
of an agreement covering both the 370 MW and the 30 MW. The rate for
power in excess of the basic 370 MW is however temporary and applicable
only until the actual costs of Kpong are known. One year prior to
Kpong's commissioning, the likely actual final costs of Kpong would be
fed into the agreed adjustment formula; in the event the resulting rate
is higher than 9.75 Mills/kWh, VALCO has the option either to reduce
or to forego entirely its take on the 30 MW. On the basis of available
cost estimates for Kpong, the power rates for the 30 MW may have to be
adjusted to about 20 Mills/kWh - about in line with the marginal cost
of power in Ghana - thus making the VALCO option a possibility.
Other Customers
2.15    VRA has a two-part tariff for its bulk supply sales to ECG,
the Mines, and CEB and Akosombo Township/Textiles which consists of
a capacity charge related to the highest recorded monthly maximum
demand and an energy charge which reflects the very low running cost
of hydro-electric power. Average revenues per kWh in 1974 were
US ¢ 0.69 for ECG, US ¢ 0.71 for the Mines and US ¢ 0.82 for CEBI/
(see Annex 10 for the tariff schedule). Tariffs were increased by
24% to CEB effective July 1 and by 60% to ECG and the Mines effective
September 1, 1976. Tariffs schedules are shown in Annex 10.
2.16    ECG's scheduled tariffs are of two types (for details, see
Annex 10). The small residential, commercial and industrial consumers
pay a simple kWh charge in a declining block tariff. Large consumers
pay a monthly maximum demand charge and an energy charge per kWh
which decreases with kWh consumption per kNTA of maximum demand.
2.17    While the actual rates charged by VRA and ECG are low, the
general principles underlying their tariff schedules are reasonably
appropriate in relation to the load and cost conditions of the inter-
connected system, which accounts for over 99% of public power in Ghana.
Maximum demand on VRA's system tends to grow from month to month. The
large base-load from the aluminum smelter makes time-of-day fluctuations
in demand relatively small. Thus the minimum and maximum daily load
varies by only about 12%; the evening peak is about 6% higher than
the daily "shoulder"; system load factor exceeds 86%. Consequently
1/ VRA's contract with CEB also provides for payments in US dollars.



-8-
there is little scope for shifting load from peak to off-peak times.
The bulk supply tariff and ECG's tariff for large loads (including
an off-peak tariff) provide the main incentives to keep down the growth
rate of monthly maximum demand and to maintain a high load factor. ECG's
simple block tariff structure for small customers is similar to that
found in most cotntries; the cost involved in the measurements required
for a more sophisticated tariff structure would be too high.
Planning Sector Development
2.18    Planning for generation and high-voltage transmission is carried
out by VRA, whereas ECG does the planning for subtransmission and dis-
tribution. Coordination of their actions is ensured through frequent
contacts at the level of their Boards, Managing Directors and senior
staff.
2.19    VRA's planning is done mostly by consultants.  Since 1970/1971
VRA has commissioned a number of studies to determine the requirements
for additional generating capacity. In 1974 the Canadian consultants,
Acres International Ltd., concluded that hydro plant at Kpong down-
stream from Akosombo on the Volta River would be the least cost
solution for the next stage of system expansion. Consultants are also
studying: (a) the feasibility of the Bui hydro project as a source of
power after Kpong is completed; (b) the feasibility of an inter-tie
with the Ivory Coast (this study is being carried out in collaboration
with the Ivorian power utility); and (c) the long-term development
of Ghana's high-voltage grid. The short and medium-term development
of this grid would consist of: (a) an 80-km extension of the 161-kV
grid westward to the Sefwi-Wiawso-Bibiani area, where one of the
schemes included in the proposed third Bank Group/ECG project (paras.
4.04 and 4.05) is located; (b) a 40-km 69-kV extension of the VRA
grid from Asiekpe to Ho; (c) a small 20-kV extension from Lome,
Togo, to electrify the Ghanaian township of Aflao; and (d) reinforcement
of VRA's substations to take care of local load increases (see Map).
2.20    ECG has planned its current expansion program with its own
staff, supplemented by an expatriate engineer. This program, which
is being considered for the third Bank Group/ECG lending operation,
comprises the extension of lines to the west and north of Kumasi
plus general system reinforcement.
Sector Objectives
2.21    The principal sector objectives for the period 1976-81 are to:
(a)   increase the firm generating capacity in order to
be able to supply the demand growth beyond 1978;
(b)   carry out the feasibility studies for the required
generating and transmission line facilities for the
years 1983/84 onwards;



-.9-
(c)   extend hydropower supply to (i) areas where costly
diesel generating plants are now in operation, and
(ii) new rural areas;
(d)   extend and reinforce subtransmission and distribution
systems in order to improve the quality of service, and
to take care of load growth; and
(e)   rationalize sector tariffs.
2.22    In addition to these objectives for the sector, ECG intends
to improve its organization, management and accounting. These points
are discussed in detail in the appraisal report on the ECG project
(No. 1196-GH).
III. THE BORROWER
General
3.01    As with the two previous Loans (310 and 618-GH), the VRA will
be the Borrower and the Government the Guarantor of the proposed Bank
loan.
3.02    VRA's charter, the 1961 Volta River Development Act (the Act),
charges VRA not only to operate the Volta River Project according to
sound public utility practices, but also to develop the Volta Lake.
These latter non-power activities include resettlement, lake research
and lake transport. VRA is exempt from all duties and taxes.
3.03    VRA's past and current resettlement functions are shown in
Annex 8. Lake research is carried out with the assistance of UNDP and
covers fisheries, hydrobiology, public health with emphasis on
schistosomiasis (bilharzia) and onchocerciasis (riverblindness).
Lake transport is operated by VRA's Volta Lake Transport Company
(see para. 6.01) which currently plans a significant expansion of
its cargo and passenger carrying capacity with the financial assistance
of the Federal Republic of Germany.
Organization and Management
3.04    The Act provides for the Authority to be governed by a Board
which is appointed and supervised by the Head of State. The Board
is composed of a Chairman and seven other members, including VRA's
Chief Executive and representatives of the major consumers (VALCO
and ECG) and the general public.



-10-
3.05    VRA's organizational structure is shown in Annex 2.  The
Engineering Branch is divided into two sections, one for power
operations and the other for engineering. The Administrative/Financial
Branch (Executive Secretary's Office) has four sections covering
finance, personnel, legal services, and non-power services (Lake
Research, Lake Transport, Resettlement).
3.06    VRA has been managed since 1966 by a competent, forceful and
highly respected Engineer/Manager. During negotiations Government
agreed to continue to seek Bank approval for the appointment of VRA's
Chief Executive. The Heads of the Engineering and the Administrative/
Financial Branches, together with their main assistants, are likewise
well-qualified professionals. Recently the Head of the Administrative/
Financial Branch was given the additional responsibility of serving
as Deputy Chief Executive. VRA's staff are entirely Ghanaian.
3.07    As of December 1974, VRA's staff totaled about 2,400, with
55% engaged in power generation and transmission tasks and 33% in
the administration of the Akosombo township. Most of the remaining
staff comprise casual labor. Of the senior staff of about 240, 125 are
trained in engineering and 29 in accounting. While well staffed at
the top, VRA lacks breadth in middle management. There are about 35
vacant positions in the various engineering categories and up to 9
in the Administrative/Financial Branch. In that branch, the most
important vacancy is the position of Director of Finance; the Head of
the Administrative/Financial Branch, in addition to the responsibilities
imposed by this recent appointment as Deputy Chief Executive, is carrying
out the functions of this position.  In view of the heavy supervisory
workload being undertaken by this one official, and also considering
the additional financial controls that will be required during Kpong's
construction period, it is important for the position of Director of
Finance to be filled. During negotiations assurances were obtained
from VRA that this position will be filled by July 1, 1977.
3.08    VRA's salary administration, as in other government-owned
entities, closely follows the regulations of Ghana's Prices and Incomes
Board (PIB). VRA's junior staff members, who are organized in a Public
Services Workers' Union, negotiate with VRA's management within the
limits imposed by PIB.
Training
3.09    VRA's policy is to emphasize on-the-job training and to make
full use of local educational institutions such as the Ghana Institute
of Management and Public Administration, the Management Development
and Productivity Institute, and the National Vocational Training
Institute. When the local institutions cannot meet VRA's training
needs, the staff requiring training are sent abroad. During 1974



-11-
and 1975 about 100 staff members attended courses at local institutions
and 16 either began or completed overseas training. VRA budgets about
US$100,000 annually for training purposes, of which about 90% is spent
for training abroad. The training program and policies are formulated
by a group of senior staff. They appear to be achieving satisfactory
results.
Operations
3.10    VRA's electric facilities are operated in a workman-like and
professional manner. Indicative of the efficient performance of the
managerial and technical staff is the very good reliability of service
since commissioning of the Akosombo hydro plant and the low level of
losses (about 2%) experienced in the VRA system.
Accounting and Audit
3.11    VRA's accounting system is now well established and the accounting
standards are satisfactory. In addition to annual reports, VRA issues
timely and comprehensive quarterly reports on its operations which
include full financial details. Although improving, the quality of
financial forecasting has suffered from a shortage of qualified staff.
VRA employs both internal and external auditors. The local branch of
Coopers & Lybrand provide the external auditors. VRA's audit arrangements
are satisfactory and should be continued under the proposed Bank loan.
IV. THE PROJECT
Project Description
4.01    The project proposed for Bank financing comprises four com-
ponents: (a) the Kpong dam and hydroelectric plant with associated
transmission facilities; (b) reactive power compensation on VRA's
transmission grid; (c) a transmission line and related substations
to supply the Sefwi-Wiawso-Bibiani area in southwestern Ghana; and
(d) an additional transmission line between Tema and Accra. The
location of the components is shown on the attached Map. A detailed
project description is given in Annex 3.
A. Kpong
4.02    The Kpong component as designed by VRA's consultants, Acres
International Ltd., is a hydroelectric development of the Volta
River 24 km downstream from the Akosombo dam which regulates the river
flow (Kpong is 84 km by road from Tema, Ghana's deep-water seaport).
Specifically this component consists of:
(a)   a dam formed by (i) an integral concrete intake-powerhouse
structure, (ii) a gated concrete overflow spillway, and
(iii) an embankment river dam and forebay dykes; and



-12-
(b)   a 60-km double circuit 161-kV transmission line to
Tema, where it will tie in with VRA's transmission grid.
The concrete structures and the river dam, extending about 700 m,
will be flanked by earthen forebay dykes with a total length of 6 km.
The headpond will be raised by this impounding barrier to elevation
17.7 m above sea level; it will submerge the Senchi and Kpong rapids
upstream and reach to the toe of the Akosombo dam to develop a gross
head of 12 m. The surface area covered by the headpond will be
3,650 ha. The drawings in Annex 13 show general arrangement of the
Kpong project and sections through dam and dykes.
4.03    The installed capacity of the power plant will total 160 MW in
four vertical units. Overhead connections from the step-up trans-
formers will deliver the power output to the plant switchyard located
on the west river bank. Simulation studies of Kpong operating in
conjunction with Akosombo indicate that the long-term dependable power
output and annual generation of the VRA power system would increase
by 140 MW and 970 GWh, respectively, by the addition of the Kpong
power plant.
4.04    The Kpong project does not involve unusual structures (the
maximum height of the dam is only 20 m above bedrock), difficult
geological conditions, or severe construction problems. All the
structures and electrical and mechanical works are well within known
engineering practice. Moreover, the project has been designed by a
reputable engineering firm with ample experience in this type of project
and following current engineering design standards.
B. Reactive Power Compensation
4.05    Studies recently completed by the Italian consulting group
Italconsult-Cesi have concluded that VRA's 161-kV grid would require
additional reactive power compensation by 1980. This would be achieved
by installing a 25 MVAR synchronous condenser at Prestea, the most
westerly point of the grid, and a static condenser of the same capacity
at Kumasi, its northernmost point. The reactive power compensation
is necessary in order to maintain satisfactory voltage conditions in
the grid and to keep power and energy losses at reasonable levels. The
supply and installation of these condensers and their associated equipment
comprises the second component of the proposed Bank-financed project.
C. Transmission to the Sefwi-Wiawso-Bibiani Area
4.06    This component of the proposed Bank-financed project consists
of an 80-km 161-kV line that would be connected to VRA's 161-kV grid
at a substation near Dunkwa in southwestern Ghana. VRA would construct,
own and operate this transmission line and the substations at both ends.



-13-
The Bank Group is currently considering a combined Bank loan/IDA credit
for an ECG project designed to extend electricity supply to new service
areas in southern Ghana. The ECG project includes the construction
of a distribution system within the Sefwi-Wiawso-Bibiani area involving
86 km of 33-kV lines to supply existing industries - saw mills at Sefwi-
Wiawso, bauxite mines at Awaso, gold mines at Subin, and a metal and
wood industrial complex at Bibiani - plus related low-voltage distribution
lines. This system would also bring electricity to seven townships
and about 30,000 people. The bulk supply of electric energy for this
distribution system would be provided by the above-described trans-
mission line and substations comprising the third component of the
proposed Bank-financed project.
D. Additional Transmission Line Tema-to-Accra
4.07    The 25 km 161-kV Tema-to-Accra segment of VRA's transmission
grid is made up of two single-circuit transmission lines. The studies
carried out by Italconsult-Cesi on the behavior of VRA's grid (para. 4.05)
have also concluded that by 1980 the thermal rating of the existing
circuits will be exceeded whenever one circuit has failed. In order not
to endanger the physical integrity of the transmission lines it will be
necessary to install additional transmission capacity between Tema and
Accra. The supply and installation of a new transmission line and the
extension of the substations at both ends make up the fourth component
of the proposed Bank-financed project.
Project Cost
4.08    The project, comprising the four components described in
paras. 4.02 to 4.07, is estimated to cost a total of US$236.5 million,
including US$172.0 million in off-shore costs. The cost of the Kpong
hydroelectric scheme proper is estimated at US$225.0 million equivalent
(excluding interest during construction), with a foreign exchange
component of US$162.0 million. The cost estimates assumed that the
hydroelectric scheme will be implemented in accordance with the con-
struction schedule in Annex 6, so that all four units of the power
plant will be in service by June 1981. The cost estimates are presented
in US dollars and are also apportioned in Ghanaian Cedis and US dollars.
The expenditures in Ghanaian currency reflect costs incurred in Ghana
principally for construction manpower, materials available locally,
and resettlement costs. The off-shore expenditures comprise foreign
exchange requirements for items such as construction equipment, expatriate
personnel, electrical and mechanical equipment, engineering services,
and materials not available in Ghana. The cost estimates for the Kpong
component proper, including contingencies and resettlement costs, are
summarized in the following tabulation, preliminary cost estimates for
the other three components are also given in this tabulation.



-14-
Breakc'own Foreign/Chana Currs.
Percent   Off-Shore          On-Shore
Estimated Costs   of Total    Costs              Costs
US$      US$                  US$       US$      Equiv. Cedis
Million  Million  _           Million   Million   Million
I.    Kpong liydroelectric Scheme:
(i) Hydro-power Development:
Preliminary work by VRA                4.0                  1.2        2.8      3.2
*Civil engineering works              81.9                 55.5      26.4      30.4
Electrical and mechanical
works:                                47.5                 45.1        2.4      2.8
*Turbines, generators
and powerhouse crane      28.2
*Gates and hoists           17.5
*Transformers                1.3
*Ancillary elect. equip.   0.5
Resettlement                           8.2                  1.2        7.0      8.0
*Engineering and management           13.8                 11.5        2.3      2.7
Owner's costs                          2.9                   -         2.9      3.3
Review engineer board                  0.2                  0.2         -        -
Total Base Line Cost                 158.5       67       114.7      43.8      50.4
(ii) Transmission Facilities:
*Kpong switchyard                        0.9
*Extension of Tema substation
switchyard                              0.7
*Transm. line Kpong-to-Tema              4.1
*Engineering and management              0.2
Owner's costs                           0.1               ___                   __
Total Base Line Cost                    6.0       3          5.0        1.0       1.1
(iii) Contingencies:
Physical                               14.8                10.1        4.7      5.4
Price                                 15.7                 32.2       13.5     15.6
Total Contingencies                   60.5      25         42.3       18.2     21.0
Total Estimated Cost for Kpong
Project in Service 6/30/81
2255.0    95        162.G       63.0      72.5
II.   *Reactive Power Compensation                   4.0       2          3.8       0.2       0.2
III.  *Transmission to Sefwi-Wiaswo-Bibiani Area  4.0          2          3.0        1.0      1.1
IV.   *Additional Transmission Facilities
between Tema and Accra                        3.5       1         3.2        0.3       0.4
CRAŽ5D TOTAL PROJECT                         236.5    100        172.0       64.5      74.2
PERCENT                                       100                 73         27
Note:   * Indicates major contracts foreseen
The above estimated costs exclude all duties and taxes since VRA is exempted
from import duties and other tax levies.



-15-
4.09    The base line costs (in terms of mid-1976 price levels) estimated
for the Kpong civil engineering works and electrical and mechanical
works were recently revised and updated by VRA's consultants, Acres Inter-
national Ltd. The base line estimate for the civil engineering work has
been developed as contractor's type of estimate using the bill of quantities
of the tender documents and on the basis of the technical specifications
for each piece of work; it can be regarded as the Consultant's own tender
for the job. For the electrical and mechanical works a number of pro-
forma quotations were obtained from internationally known manufacturers
in Europe, America and Japan; the quotations were then confronted with
recent supplies of similar nature to arrive finally at realistic base
line costs. The base line costs estimated for the other items in the
Kpong scheme are based on the feasibility report (prepared by Acres in
mid-1975) escalated to mid-1976. Engineering and management of the hydro-
power development were estimated at 10% of base line costs of equipment
and civil engineering works, which seems reasonable. The estimated cost
for engineering and management covers design and specifications writing,
preparation of tender documents, bid evaluation, inspection and expediting,
and the overall management and supervision of construction of the Kpong
project including management of the required preliminary works. An amount
equivalent to 2% of the total base line cost was allowed to cover VRA's
additional administrative costs during construction. The estimates include
physical contingencies to reflect the degree of precision attached to the
cost estimation for each project item. Altogether, physical contingencies
amount to 9% of the total base line cost. Price contingencies were computed
on the estimated cash flow and added to the estimates to cover the anticipated
rise in prices during the construction period. The escalation indices
used in computing the price contingencies are shown in Annex 4; they represent
the consultants' forecast of price increases for each basic input in the
Kpong scheme. On the above-described basis, the price contingencies amount
to about 25% of the total base line costs plus physical contingencies.
4.10    The cost of the reactive power compensation, of the transmission
line to the Sefwi-Wiawso-Bibiani area and associated substations, and of
the additional transmission facilities between Tema and Accra are tentatively
estimated at US$11.5 million equivalent (including contingencies), of which
about US$10.0 million would be foreign exchange. A reasonable allowance
has been included in this estimation to cover engineering services.
Project Financing
4.11    The proposed financing of four components of the project involving
a total cost of US$236.5 million, of which US$172.0 million is the foreign
exchange requirement, is set out in the Table below. The proposed Bank
loan of US$39.0 million equivalent would be used to finance: (a) the
off-shore cost (US$3 million) of the Sefwi-Wiawso-Bibiani transmission
line; (b) construction equipment, vehicles and spare parts for the preliminary
works in Kpong, for the resettlement program, and for project supervision
(estimated off-shore cost US$2.4 million); and (c) the off-shore cost of
generating equipment, transformers, ancillary equipment, materials and



-16-
equipment for the transmission line Kpong to Tema, equipment for reactive
power compensation, additional transmission facilities between Tema and
Accra and of a review engineering board (para. 4.13). The latter group
of items would be financed jointly with FED and EIB, which have agreed
to provide together up to US$21.0 million. The FED contribution of about
US$10.0 million would carry interest rates of 1% while that of EIB of
about US$11.0 million is being lent at 6-3/4% interest. FED's funds
will be granted over 40 years with 10 years grace, while EIB's is for
15 years including 4-1/2 years grace. CIDA is providing the equivalent
of US$36.0 million (50 years repayment, including 10 years grace, at no
interest) for engineering services, and gates and hoists, it being under-
stood that the amount of the credit will be increased as necessary to
cover any additional cost of gates and hoists for which procurement is
restricted to Canadian firms. The three Arab agencies - BADEA, Kuwait
Fund and Saudi Fund for Development - have agreed to finance jointly up
to US$73.0 million equivalent at 2-4% interest, for the civil engineering
works. Local costs totaling US$64.5 million equivalent will be financed
by VRA out of its own internal cash generation. Annex 5 gives details
of the financing packages for the four components of the project. The
financing of the total estimated cost of the project is summarized as
follows:
Equiv. US$ Million
Sponsor                     Items                   Foreign    Local    Percent
Arab agencies       Civil engineering works            73.0       -         31%
CIDA_L              Engineering of Kpong, gates
and hoists                         39.0       -        17%
Joint Financing    Generating equipment, powerhouse
IBRD/FED/EIB        crane, transmission Kpong to
(US$33.6/10.0/      Tema and Tema to Accra, equip-
11.0 million)     ment for reactive power compen-
sation, and review engineering
boards                             54.6      -         23%
IBRD                Sefwi-Wiawso-Bibiani trans-
mission, construction equipment
and vehicles for preliminary
works and resettlement              5.4      -          2%
VRA                 VRA's own contribution for the
four components of the project    -         64.5       27%
17 The CIDA contribution, as shown here, is equated with the presently
estimated cost of the items that are to be procured in Canada.



-17-
Engineering and Construction
4.12    Design studies on the hydroelectric development have been completed
by Acres, VRA's consultants. Project drawings and technical specifications
are available for the civil engineering wvorks, the electrical and mechanical
equipment for the powerhouse, and the required hydraulic gates and hoisting
devices. The bidding documents for the first two items are in final form.
The prequalification process for civil engineering works contractors has
already taken place; VRA has notified the contractors approved for
tendering. The Bank has been kept informed of all proceedings, which
conform to Bank's guidelines for procurement. Works on the design of
transmission facilities for Kpong will commence in early 1977, as they
are not critical in the context of the overall construction schedule
(Annex 6). In order to complete Kpong by June 1981, the civil engineering
works contract and the supply of the main generating equipment and spill-
way gates will have to be awarded by April 1977 as these are the critical
items in the time schedule. This seems feasible since the bidding processes
for both items is currently underway and tenders will be submitted in
early February 19771/.
4.13    VRA is retaining the services of Acres to assist in the imple-
mentation of the Kpong scheme. The consultants will supervise and manage
construction. Installation of all major electrical and mechanical equipment
would be done by the suppliers, assisted by the civil engineering works
contractor. The transmission line between Kpong and Tema would be con-
structed under a contract covering all materials and construction. VRA
will also retain the services of three or four engineers of international
reputation to monitor the technical aspects of the Kpong project,
particularly those having to do with the construction of the dam; this
review engineering board will meet about every six months to review
the design of the structures and the construction progress.
4.14    For the proposed transmission line to the Sefwi-Wiawso-Bibiani
area, VRA has proceeded with a topographical survey of the transmission
route but has not yet started the design work. No definite construction
schedule has been established for this project component, but in order
to supply the ECG distribution scheme (para. 4.07) in time, all works
would have to be completed by mid-1979, which seems feasible. VRA will
employ consultants to design the line and substations. Supervision of
construction would be undertaken by VRA's own personnel, assisted by
consultants.
iT Bids for the civil engineering works contract were opened publicly on
February 2, 1977. Five construction firms submitted bids; all appear
to be responsive. Results of the bidding are in line with the cost
estimates in the present report.



-18-
4.15    VRA will employ Italconsult-Cesi for the implementation of the
proposed reactive power compensation and additional transmission facilities
between Tema and Accra. The consultants will design the facilities and
supervise their installation, which will be done by the suppliers.
Procurement
4.16    Except items to be financed by CIDA (para. 4.11), which will be
contracted in Canada, all other items for the project involving foreign
financing will be procured through international competitive bidding. The
contracts for hydraulic gates and hoists, which will be covered by CIDA
contribution to the project, will be awarded after competitive bidding in
Canada, and are not expected to cost significantly more than if procured
as a result of international competitive bidding; furthermore, CIDA aid
is being provided on very generous financing terms. All items to be financed
jointly by the Bank and the European development agencies will be contracted
through international competitive bidding open to manufacturers of all
Bank member countries and Switzerland. The only deviation to the "Guide-
lines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" in this
arrangement with FED and EIB will be, that the date of bid opening shall be
the operative date in establishing the rate of exchange for bid evaluation-Y.
The supply of materials and equipment for the transmission to the Sefwi-
Wiawso-Bibiani area as well as their installation and the supply of construction
equipment and vehicles for the preliminary works of Kpong and for
resettlement, will be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. Considering the great
importance of proper maintenance service and spare parts facilities for
the construction equipment and vehicles for the preliminary works of Kpong
and for resettlement, the bidders will be required to submit with their
tender proof of having available such facilities in Ghana at the time
of submission of bids.
Disbursement
4.17    The proposed Bank loan of US$39.0 million would be disbursed
as follows:
/ Current Bank guidelines provide that if there is a change in the value
of the currencies after bids' opening and before the award is made, then,
for the purpose of bids valuation, the exchange rates prevailing on the
day of the decision to notify the award to the successful bidder should
be used.



-19-
% of              US$
Item                                        Foreign Cost           Million
Turbines, generators and powerhouse crane
Transformers
Ancillary electrical equipment
Kpong switchyard
Extension to Tema substation switchyard
Transmission line Kpong to Tema
Reactive power compensation
Additional transmission line Tema-to-Accra
Review engineer board
Total in joint financing with FED and EIB             62                   33.6
Transmission to Sefwi-Wiawso-Bibiani area              100                     3.0
Construction equipment, vehicles and
spare parts for preliminary works and
resettlement                                           100                    2.4
Grand total Bank Loan                                                        39.0
4.18    As the project components proposed for Bank financing should be
completed by June 1981 at the time of full commissioning of Kpong, a
closing date of December 31, 1981, is proposed to allow for late disburse-
ment requests. Disbursement of the loan funds for the power supply to
the Sefwi-Wiawso-Bibiani area would be contingent on completion of the
design studies for the transmission lines and substations and on the Bank's
approval of such studies. The schedule of disbursements is given in Annex
7. Retroactive financing of about US$1.0 million is recommended to cover
advanced procurement of construction equipment needed by VRA for the
preliminary works of Kpong and for the initial phase of resettlement.
This is necessary to maintain the Kpong project construction time-schedule
(see Annex 6).
Resettlement and Environmental Aspects
4.19    The Kpong headpond will cover about 3,700 ha of land, islands
and existing river (para. 4.02), necessitating the resettlement of an
estimated 4,600 people (900 households) who are living in 55 villages and
compounds and who make their livelihood from fishing and farming. Lower
Kpong, the older part of the town of Kpong, will also be affected and
about 1,100 people will have to be resettled. The Kpong headpond will
also flood certain commercial farming lands; 170 ha of cotton land and
90 ha of irrigated rice land on the east bank of the Volta River and 400 ha
of sugar-cane land on west bank. A preliminary estimate, adjusted to mid-
1976 price levels, of a reasonable upper limit of resettlement costs and
compensation for commercial farming lands is 9.4 million cedis (equivalent
to US$8.2 million). The cost of resettling the population affected by
the headpond excluding that in lower Kpong, is estimated at 7.0 million



-20-
cedis (equivalent to US$6.1 million); this represents an average per
capita cost of 1,500 cedis (equivalent to US$1,300) compared with per
capita cost adjusted to 1976 price levels of 1,300 cedis for the Volta
lake resettlement. VRA is aware of the mistakes made in the resettlement
program when Akosombo was built (see Annex 8), and has formulated the
resettlement program for Kpong accordingly. For a detailed discussion
of VRA's resettlement program, see Annex 8. This program is broadly
satisfactory. As a condition of effectiveness a detailed resettlement
program with a time-table would be agreed with the Bank which the Govern-
ment and VRA would be committed to carry out.
4.20    The area to be inundated by the Kpong headpond (3,700 ha) is very
small when compared to the Volta Lake (800,000 ha). An on-site inspection
of the environment to be affected did not reveal any serious disturbance
to the impacted ecosystems. However, potentially serious health problems
can be expected, including, especially, urinary and intestinal schistosomiasis.
Experience gained in the Volta Lake scheme strongly suggests both an
increasing prevalence and incidence of schistosomiasis if Drecautions are
not taken. Onchocerciasis is presently endemic but inundation of the
Senchi and Kpong rapids (para. 4.02) should result in a habitat unfavorable
for the blackfly vector of that disease. It can be anticipated, however,
that during the construction of the dam, the work force and associated
populace will be at considerable risk; hence, application of Abate in the
breeding sites is required. Malaria is also endemic but it is not expected
that the Kpong impoundment will significantly affect its prevalence.
Workers from low-prevalence areas and expatriate staff will, however, be
at great risk; therefore, a prcphylaxis program is necessary, With the
work force expected to reach 1,700 it is anticipated the additional population
associated with the construction may total 7,000. Health facilities at
present consist of the 52-bed Akuse hospital, and it is thought to be
inadequate for handling the array of clinical problems that experience
with other hydropower projects in Africa has shown will occur, Plans for
handling the expected clinical referrals betweer. the contractor and the
Akuse, Somonya, and VRA hospitals are to be worked out, but the contractor
is fully responsible for these services and will be paid accordingly;
a separate specific item is listed in the Bill of Quantities for the
Civil Engineering Works Contract to cover these payments.  hi order to
reduce the hazard of schistosomiasis, piped treated water will be supplied
to the communities surrounding the headpond and suitable wharfing facilities
for fishermen will also be provided to permit embarkation without wading.
Detailed planning of the resettlement villages being conducted by the
University of Science and Technology at Kumasi will be reviewed by VRA
as regards the adequacy of housing conditions, water supply, excreta
disposal, refuse handling, vector control and associated matters, according
to standards prepared by the VRA Health and Safety Division. These and
additional measures for disease control and health care delivery are
being discussed with the VRA and the Ministry of Health.  For a more
detailed discussion of the health aspects, see Annex 8, paras, 13-15.



-21-
V. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
Introduction
5.01    The economic justification of Kpong has been analyzed taking
into account that:
(i)        there is a need for expansion of generating
capacity due to the increase of electric
demand and that;
(ii)       Kpong is the least-cost solution.
Forecast of Need for Electric Power
5.02    The Bank has revised and updated the study prepared by the con-
sultants (Acres International) on the load forecast for the period 1977
to 1986. The study for areas with electric service is based on the extra-
polation of the past trends for each type of consumer, modified for
expected specific new consumer developments not included in the overall
trend. For the new areas to be served during the study period, electric
consumption has been evaluated on the basis of specific consumption in
areas with service. The average annual growth rate of the ECG load
(VRA's public utility load) is forecast at 11% for the period 1975-80,
and 8% for the period 1981-85. The other main VRA loads, VALCO and CEB,
are fixed by contract and would remain constant at 3329 and 313 GWh per
year respectively during the period 1981-85. In view of the above, the
proportion delivered from VRA to ECG is expected to increase from around
20% for the period 1970-75 to 36% in 1985.
5.03    The evolution and composition of VRA's load is shown in the
table below where the actual and forecast load growth and incidence in
the total consumption of the main type of consumers are indicated:



-22-
Growth Rates and Composition of Consumption of Total VRA Output from Kpong
and Akosombo
Annual Growth Rates 71/         % Total Consumption2/
Actual    Forecast              Actual            Forecast
1970-   1975-    1981-
1974    1980       19854/       1970    1974    1980    1985_/
ECG - residential    4.6        6.8       8.0          33       27       20      20
- commercial    12.04/  12.2         7.9           20       19       18      17
- industrial    13.54/  13.7         8.2           46       54       61      62
- other           8.2    10.8        8.1            1        1        1       1
TOTAL ECG             10.2    11.3        8.1          20       21       28      36
Valco                  8.0      4.8       0            70       69       60      52
Mines                  5.5      3.3       4.7            7       6        6       6
Akosombo Township
& Textiles            8.1      5.9       5.6           1        1        1       1
CEB5/                   -      14.2       0             -        3        6       5
Total Consumption    9.2        6.8       2.9         100      100      100    100
Losses                 4.3    15.3        5.6           33/      2"3/     43/    43/
Tctal VRA Generation 9.1        7.1       3.0           -        -        -
1/ Average annual growth rate from year end to year end.
2/ Composition of ECG consumption is referred to total ECG consumption.
Total ECG consumption and all others are referred to Total VRA generation.
3/ Referred to Total VRA generation.
4/ IBRD estimate because data not available from ECG.
5/ Sales to CEB began in 1972.



-23-
The composition of ECG's load for the period 1980-85 is expected to
remain fairly constant at 20% residential and 80% industrial/cormm'ircial.
The resulting average expected load growth of public utility consumption
corresponds approximately to a GNP growth of the order of 5.0% and a
GNP/electricity consumption growth ratio of up to 2, based on limited
historical data. This forecast considers kWh loads originating in the usage
of electric power for steam production in electrode-boilers. The sub-
stitution of oil-fired boilers by electrode-boilers in certain industries
requiring process steam is now being implemented in Ghana. These electrode-
boiler loads (estimated to total 20 MW and 125 GWh/year by 1978) will be
interruptible and will only consume dumped hydroelectricity, that is,
electricity generated with water that otherwise would be spilled from
Lake Volta. The oil-fired boilers will be kept permanently in operable
conditions to take over steam production whenever the electrode-boilers
have to be switched-off; therefore, no firm kW load on VRA system results
(see para 5.09).
5.04    It can be appreciated from the tables of Annex 11 that the
VALCO load would be fully served from the Akosombo station, and that only
10 MW of the power covered by the CEB contract would be supplied from
energy attributable to Kpong. Thus 90% of Kpong capacity will be used
to satisfy increases in Ghanaian consumption, while the remaining 10%
will go to CEB and losses. Table 3 and Figure 1 of Annex 11 show the
forecast incremental energy consumption made possible by Kpong following
the run out of Akosombo in 1978 until Kpong capacity is reached in 1985
(see para. 5.09).
Basis for the Economic Analysis
Costs
5.05    The assumptions made in the economic analysis are shown in
Annex 11. A shadow exchange rate of 1.7 cedis per US dollar or 1.48
times the current official exchange rate has been used for both the least
cost solution and the rate of return calculation to reflect the economic
value of the foreign exchange. As there is full employment for skilled
labor in Ghana, no shadow price has been taken in this case. No shadow
price has been considered for unskilled labor, although discussions with
the Minister of Economic Planning led to the conclusion that the shadow
price of unskilled labor is about 70-80% of actual wage rates. Although
such values have not been considered in the economic analysis, it is evident
that such a cost saving would result in a modest improvement in the
rate of return.



-24-
5.06    The cost stream associated with the Kpong project includes:
1.          Kpong project capital costs
- dam and generating plant
- transmission facilities
- resettlement and loss in agricultural production;
2.          additional VRA transmission investment as part of
the program to utilize fully the capacity of Kpong;
3.          investment of $300/kW for medium and low voltage
distribution for the part of VAR load which will
ultimately be supplied at low voltage; and
4.          annual operation and maintenance expenses for
generation, transmission and distribution.
Least Cost Sclution
5.07    The Ghana power sector is limited by energy rather than by power
capability. As shown in Table 1 and 2 of Annex 11 the long-term firm
energy (GWh) capability of Akosombo will be reached in 1978 on the basis
of the present forecast of consumption. Peak generating capacity (MW),
on the other hand, will not be reached until 1979. Several alternative
programs for the expansion of the generating capacity to meet the forecast
demand until 1995 have been studied by VRA and consultants. They have
analyzed the most attractive hydro sites for power generation in Ghana and
arrived at the conclusion that the Kpong and Bui projects in the Volta
River Basin presented definite advantages over the other hydro project.
5.08    Although at present there are no detailed studies of the Bui
project, an "a priori" analysis shows that Kpong presents definite economic
advantages and could be put into service at least two to three years before
Bui, due to the relative simplicity and present stage of the engineering
studies of the former project. The economic and timing advantages of Kpong
over Bui are basically due to the fact that Kpong makes use of the existing
Lake Volta reservoir 24 km upstream and with a relatively small dam
(2.2 million m3 of material) an annual average generation of the order
of 1,000 GWh can be obtained. To produce similar energy from Bui would
require a major dam (about 10 million m3 of material) and a transmission
line of about 4 times longer than needed for Kpong.
5.09    The Akosombo plus Kpong plants can meet peak demand until 1985.
An expected hydro energy deficit of 777 GWh from 1978 to 1980 can be
met by drawing down the level through Akosombo of Lake Volta by about
2 feet (0.61 m). The usable storage of the Volta Lake reservoir is
100,000 GWh, or nearly two years of total production of Akosombo (para. 2.04).
This drawdown is not expected to affect future power capability of the
Kpong or Akosombo plants to any significant degree (see detailed analysis
in Annex 11). As indicated in para. 5.03, power for electrode-boilers will



-25-
only be supplied by VRA and ECG whenever there is surplus electricity,
and therefore no particular provision should be made to take care of these
interruptible loads. Substituting fossil fuels by electricity for
steam production in Ghana cannot be considered on a firm power basis
because the long-term marginal cost of electricity exceeds that of fuel
for the same heat content; therefore, only surplus hydroelectricity can
be used for this purpose since its marginal cost is practically nil.
5.10    An economic comparison of Kpong with the conventional oil-fired
generating program was made, and the results are shown in Figure 2 of
Annex 11. According to such a comparison the equalizing discount rates
for the costs of both alternatives are higher than the 11% opportunity
cost of capital in Ghana,for fuel oil prices corresponding to crude oil
prices as low as US$6/bbl. Table 4, Annex 11, gives the basic data
used in this analysis.
Return on Investment
5.11    The equalizing discount rate of returr. of economic cost and
revenues, corresponding to the existing levels of tariffs, for the
proposed investment in the Kpong project is 7.5%. The consumers'
revealed willingness to pay for electric power in Ghana cannot be used
as a proxy for benefits in this case, because of the pricing policy currently
being followed in Ghana which reflects the very low cost of Akosombo
energy compared to Kpong's, although as described in Annex 11, some rough
ideas of the value of electricity can be made from study of alternatives
and by inter-country comparison. If benefits were assumed to be valued
at marginal cost, roughly comparable to 75% of tariffs paid in Liberia,
the return would be about 11%.
Future Tariff Policy
5.12    The tariff increases likely to arise from the proposed rate of
return covenant in paragraph 6.06 would result in a price level which on
the average, is less than the long run marginal cost. In order to achieve
on the average prices that would reflect the long run marginal cost of
electricity supply in Ghana, the present ECG tariffs would need to be
increased over present levels by an average of 70% in real terms on top
of a 29% increase recently implemented (para. 6.06) and maintained in
real terms. In view of this extremely large tariff increase, it would
not be feasible to implement marginal cost pricing in Ghana's power
sector immediately1!. Furthermore, the average total cost of energy is
J/ Nevertheless, the proposed financial rate of return covenant (see
paras. 6.06 and 6.08) would provide the means to maintain tariffs
constant in real terms. Although, if the present rate of inflation
continues the difficulty of raising tariffs in real terms to reflect
the long run marginal cost of electricity in Ghana will be compounded.



-26-
much lower than the average incremental cost of Kpong because Kpong will
supply only 15% of total generation in 1984 but at a cost per kWh much
greater than Akosombo. As a result of the new situation caused by the
drastic increase of long run marginal cost, it is desirable to undertake
a tariff study in VRA and ECG to move towards economically efficient
pricing of electricity in Ghana.
5.13    During negotiations it was agreed that the Government would
undertake a power sector study to be financed from the Third Power Project
Credit, and to be completed by June 1978. This study would, among other
objectives determine the marginal costs of electricity supplied to VRA
and ECG customers at different voltage levels and locations. The results
of the study will be discussed with the Bank with a view of implementir.g
gradually, within an agreed period, a tariff structure designed to reflect
the marginal cost of power, taking into account social and wider economic
considerations. Draft terms of reference for the study are given in
Annex 11, Attachment 1.
VI. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
General
6.01    The presentation in this Chapter deals entirely with the finances
of VRA's power activity. The finances of VRA's non-power activities and
Volta Lake Transport operations (see also para. 3.03) have been excluded.
For the non-power activities VRA acts as an agent of the Government and
has received since the commencement of these services to the end of 1975
US$10.6 million in grants for related capital development and operations.
Volta Lake Transport is operated by a separate company (Volta Lake Trans-
port Company) now wholly owned by VRA. VRA keeps non-power activities
accounts separate. Income statements, balance sheets and funds flow
statements, together with a debt service schedule and assumptions under-
lying financial projections f or power operations, are given in Annex 9.
Past Finances
6.02    VRA started operations in 1965.  However, revenues only became
significant in 1967 when VALCO's aluminum smelter started production.
Since then VRA has been improving its financial performance. Given
the concessional terms of VRA's long-term debt and the entity's special
contractual relationship with VALCO, the Loan Agreements (Loan 310 and
618-GH) for Akosombo provided that the main test of VRA's financial
performance would be rate of return on equity!! rather than a specific
rate of return on net fixed assets; accordingly, VRA was required to
achieve a target rate of return of 8% on currently valued equity as from
1/ This return is defined as income after interest over average equity.



-27-
FY74. However, for this test to be effective VRA's equity musc be consistertly
maintained at its current value through the regular revaluation of assets.
VRA's assets were last revalued in FY71 and then only partially so, since
the revaluation was only applied to assets financed from foreign currency.
Accordingly, the rate of return test (as of now) has been incomplete. It
has been estimated that VRA's assets may presently be undervalued by as
much as 80%. Assuming that this estimate is correct, VRA will have
achieved only an estimated 2-3% real rate of return on equity in FYs 74
and 75. However, given the VALCO rate increase for FY76 and tariff
increases to ECG and the Mines, the rate of return in that year would be
6-9%i/.  Salient features of VRA's finances between FYs 72-75 are given
in the Table below. During this period, with the additional revenue from
some rate increases2/, financial performance has, in general, been adequate
to meet operational, debt service and investment requirements and to enable
a small annual dividend of ¢ 2 million to be paid to the Government. The
overall financial position of the entity is sound.
1972     1973      1974     1975
Sales (GWh)                                  3,237    3,771    3,989    3,833
Electricity Revenues (O millions)              15.4     17.7      19.0      19.3
Net Income After Interest (O millions)          3.1      4.4       5.4      4.9
Average Rate (mills/kWh)                        4.8      4.7       4.8       5.0
Operating Ratio                                  54       50        50        55
Debt Service Coverage (times)                   1.4      0.9       1.7       1.7
Current Ratio                                   1.2      2.2       2.3      2.0
Debt/Equity Ratio                             58/42    53/47    52/48    50/50
Net Plant in Service (O millions)               172      167       166       161
Financing Plan
6.03    VRA's capital investment and working capital requirements during this
period FYs 76-81, along with the sources from which they would be met are
summarized in the following financing plan:
I' The new Agreement with VALCO includes a rate increase from US Mills $2.75
to 3.25/kWh for the 1973-75 period. Depending on the inclusion/exclusion
of the resulting extraordinary ¢ 4.0 million in the 1976 income the return
is higher or lower.
2/ The increases to VALCO of 1972 and the increases to the Mines and Akosombo
Township/Textiles of 1974. The retroactive VALCO increases for 1973-75
are excluded.



-28-
¢____            US$         %
-------Millions --------
REQUIREMENTS
Investments
- Kpong hydroelectric scheme                 258.6              225.0        59
- Miscellaneous investmentsl/                 30.9               26.8         7
- Future development program2/               126.0              109.4        28
Sub-total                             415.5              361.2        94
Working capital                                4.4                3.8         1
Cash for future investments/dividends         22.9               19.9         5
Total Requirements                    442.8              384.9       100
SOURCES
Internal sources
Operating income after depreciation        187.6              163.1
Add:    depreciation                        70.8               61.5
Deduct: debt service                        90.1               78.3
Deduct: dividends                           12.0               10.4
Net internal sources                  156.4               135.9       35
Proposed Borrowing:
IBRD Loan                        44.9              39.0
Additional Int. Loans           153.0 197.9       133.0  172.0        45
Borrowing for future development
program                                  88.6                77.0       20
Total Sources                     442.8              384.9       100
- Includes the project components other than Kpong (see para 4.08).
2! Based on preliminary consultants' estimate of the cost of the first two
years of the Bui scheme escalated at 10% p.a.



-29-
The Kpong hydroelectric scheme represents about two-thirds of the proposed
capital investment during FYs 76-81. Other investments mainly comprise
transmission lines, substation modifications and the initial works of VRA's
next development program, which is expected to commence in 1980, and for
which additional external financing could be sought. The plan rests
primarily on (a) the borrowing of US$172.0 million for the foreign exchange
component of the project; (b) the ratification of the recently agreed
new VALCO rates; and (c) the implementation of further tariff increases
to VRA's non-VALCO customers.
(a) Loan Funds
6.04    Details of the proposed Bank and other international loans are set
out in para. 4.11. The Bank loan would not become effective until the loan
agreements of all participating lenders have been executed. The financing
plan also assumes borrowings during 1980/81 of US$77.0 million at interest
of 10% per annum for VRA's future development program.
(b) Ratification of the VALCO Rates
6.05    The revenue forecasts for the financial plan include the recently
agreed rates on the 370 and 30 MW (see para. 2.12). The resulting composite
rate ranges from about US$4.7 to 5.1 mills/kWh up to 1981 and thereafter
from US$6.4-6.7 Mills/kWh (see para. 6.06). It would be a condition of
loan effectiveness, that the agreements with VALCO on the Permanent Rates
should have been signed.
(c) Rates to Non-VALCO Customers
6.06    To achieve a level of earnings adequate to provide the funds
required from internal sources for the financial plan, VRA needs further
rate increases for supplies to its customers other than VALCO. The Govern-
ment has been aware for some time of the likely magnitude of the rate
increases which would be needed for the Kpong investment and has alreadLy
gone a considerable way in meeting the expected requirements by permitting
VRA to increase its rates to ECG and the Mines by 60% as from September 1,
1976. ECG has in turn been permitted to raise its rates to the final
consumers by about 29% effective October 1, 1976. During negotiations
the Government and VRA agreed that VRA will adjust its rates in such a
way as to enable VRA to earn a rate of return on equity!! of not less than
7% in 1977, 8% in FY78 to 80 and of not less than 9% in FY81 and thereafter.
As a result of these rate of return targets, tariffs are expected to
increase in current terms by about 10-25% during 1978-1981. Average
/ A change-over to a return-on-assets covenant was considered. However,
as the existing return-on-equity covenant is estimated to achieve very
similar financial objectives we propose to retain it.



-30-
tariffs to non-VALCO customers are expected to range during 1977-1981
between US$10.3-20.4 Mills/kWh. To ensure that tariff action is taken
in time to meet required rates of return, VRA agreed during negotiations
to submit each year by July 31 financial forecasts for review by the Bank.
In this context the Government also agreed that the required VRA tariff
increases will be passed on to ECG's own customers. Finally, during
negotiations a mechanism of altering tariffs regularly (monthly, quarterly),
in line with expected rate of return requirements and with a yearly
adjustment according to the results of the revaluation of assets (see
para. 6.08) was presented for further consideration. Regular adjust-
ments have the advantage of avoiding the political difficulties of sudden
and drastic tariff increases.
Future Finances
6.07    Although VALCO is expected to decrease its share of VRA's sales
from 66% in 1975 to 54% in 1984, clearly it will remain VRA's main
customer. VALCO's firm power take has been projected at 400 MW at a
load factor of 95% commencing in 1977 when VALCO's fifth potline will be
in commercial operations. Sales to ECG are projected as per para. 5.02
including somewhat higher growth rates (15%) during the initial years,
whereas sales to the Mines are projected at a lower average annual growth
rate of about 4%. Given the contractual limitation of 50 MW, sales to
CEB are projected to remain constant as from 1978. In view of the static
requirements for the Akosombo operations, VRA's operating expenses in
that respect are essentially not expected to increase in real terms;
accordingly forecasts of operating expenses have been projected to
reflect the incidence of inflation. Operating expenses relating to
Kpong have been estimated at 0 500,000 per annum in 1976 prices, i.e.
receivables, inventories, payables - are expected to develop according
to existing relationship. On the basis of these assumptions, VRA is
expected to achieve the following results:



-31-
1977     1979      1981      1983
Sales (GWh 000)                                5.1       5.5      5.7       6.0
Total Power Revenues (¢ millions)-!           39.3      55.9     81.9    123.6
Power Revenues in Foreign Exchange (%)        51        39        34       22
Operating Ratio                               45        42       40        36
Current Ratio                                  4.2       4.9      4.4       3.5
Debt/Equity Ratio                            28/72    35/65    38/62    38/62
Net Plant in Service (¢ millions)            327       388      735       860
Debt Service Coverage (times)                  3.2       3.1       2.6      2.1
Foreign Debt Service Coverage by
VALCO & CEB Foreign Exchange
Revenues (times)2/                           2.1       1.5      1.6       1.1
Rate of Return on Equity (%)                   7         8        9         9
6.08    Because of the difficulty of establishing satisfactory indices,
VRA's fixed assets have not been revalued since 1971 and on that occasion
the revaluation was partial and only applied to assets financed from foreign
currency. On the basis of statistics from the US Bureau of Reclamation
the financial forecasts assume a revaluation of assets in FY76 of 80%.
Thereafter, assets have been revalued 11% per year reflecting a weighted
average of expected international inflation rates (7% p.a.) and local
inflation rates (20% p.a.). During negotiations VRA agreed to revalue
its 1976 assets by June 1977 according to indices acceptable to the Bank.
Should the actual revaluation yield a net fixed asset value different than
the ¢ 300 million assumed in the financial forecasts the agreed rates of
return would be adjusted proportionately. For the years following 1976,
VRA agreed to revalue assets according to local and international inflation
indices.
1/ The foreign exchange revenues have been translated at the official rate
of exchange. Local revenues have been forecast on the basis of VRA's
expected financial requirements.
2/ Excludes debt service on future development.



-32-
6.09    With the additional revenue from the rate adjustments (see
paras. 6.05 and 6.06) the financial forecasts to 1984 indicate that VRA's
financial position should continue to be sound and earnings should be sufficient
to adequately meet operating expenses and contributions to the investment
program. Furthermore, VRA is expected to continue to pay at least its
customary 0 2.0 million yearly dividend. Higher dividend payments would
be possible if the forecast liquidity in fact materializes. Debt service
coverage is adequate; even taking only VRA's foreign exchange revenues
from VALCO and CEB, the debt service coverage is expected to be at least
1.0.
6.10    During negotiations it was agreed to continue to adopt the debt
limitation covenant of Loan 618-GH. Therefore, during negotiations,
VRA agreed that no debt will be incurred without consulting the Bank
unless the maximum future debt service is covered 1.5 times by VRA's
operating income before depreciation.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01    As a condition of loan effectiveness all loan agreements of
participating lenders (para. 6.04) and the agreements with VALCO on the
Permanent Rates should have been executed (para. 6.05) and a detailed
program satisfactory to the Bank for the resettlement of the people affected
by Kpong should have been submitted.
7.02    As a condition of disbursement on that portion of the Bank loan
pertaining to the Sefwi-Wiawso-Bibiani line (para. 4.18), the design
studies for the transmission line and substations should have been completed
and approved by the Bank.
7.03    The Government and VRA agreed during negotiations that:
(i)   Bank approval will continue to be sought before
appointments to the positions of VRA's Chief
Executive are made (para. 3.06);
(ii)   Power supplies for industrial steam production be
made interruptible (para. 5.09); and
(iii)   VRA will maintain a rate of return on revalued
equity of 7% in 1977, 8% during FY78-80, and 9%
thereafter. Net plant in service has been estimated
at about ¢ 300 million on December 1976. Should
the actual revaluation yield a different value, the
required rate of return standard would change
proportionately (para. 6.06). Lastly, the Govern-
ment agreed to allow ECG to pass on VRA's tariff
increases to its own customers.



-33-
7.04    VRA agreed during negotiations that:
(i)   it will fill the position of Director of Finance
by July 1, 1977 (para. 3.07);
(ii)   it will revalue its FY76 assets by June 1977,
according to a method acceptable to the Bank,
and keep its assets thereafter on a currently
valued basis (para. 6.08);
(iii)   it will maintain the existing debt limitations
and auditing covenants of Loan 618-GH (paras.
6.10 and 3.11); and
(iv)   it will submit each year by July 31 financial
forecasts to the Bank (para. 6.06).






ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 4 pages
GHANA
APPRAISAL OF THE KPONG HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
EXISTING POWER FACILITIES
General
1.        The main source of power in Ghana is the VRA hydroelectric
plant at Akosombo, about 100 km north to Accra. From Akosombo, power is
transmitted to the southern part of Ghana via a 920 km transmission sys-
tem, which forms the national grid. Other small diesel generating
stations are maintained by ECG and certain of the mines.
Akosombo Hydroelectric Development
2.        The Akosombo development consists principally of a six-unit
powerhouse and a rock-fill dam on the Volta River, creating a reservoir
covering an area of 8,400 km2, two spillways, with a total capacity of
19,500 m3/s at elevation 87.7 m (288 feet) above sea level, are incor-
porated in the impounding barrier. Four of the six units were commis-
sioned in 1966 and two in 1972. The characteristics of these generat-
ing units are shown in the table below. The turbines for Units 1 to 6
are identical. Maximum output of Units 1 to 4 is limited by the gener-
ator and transformer capacities, which were selected on the basis of the
turbine nominal rating. From experience with these first four units it
was found that with the reservoir above elevation 81.4 m (full pool
elevation is 84.10 m), the turbine output can exceed the nominal rating.
To take advantage of the full turbine output at higher heads, generat-
ors with a continuous over load capacity of 162 MW were selected for
Units 5 and 6.
AKOSOMBO GENERATING PLANT
CHARACTERISTICS
Turbine:                                      Units 1 to 4    Units 5 and 6
Rated output  (hp)                             203,000          203,000
Rated head    (m)                                 64.9             64.9
Maximum output(hp)                             213,000          222,000
Generators:
Continuous normal capacity   (MWT)                 128              140
Continuous overload capacity (MW)                  147              162
Transformers:
Rating (kVA)                                   165,000          180,000



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 4 pages
The capability of the Akosombo units over the normal range of
reservoir operating levels is shown in the following tabulation:
AKOSOMBO POWER CAPABILITY - MW
Reservoir Elevation (m)             75.6           81.10               84.10
Lower Rule        Average           Upper Rule
Curve Limit   Reservoir Level       Curve Limit
Unit 1                  128             147                   147
2                  128             147                  147
3                  128             147                  147
4                  128             147                  147
5                  128             147                  162
6                  128             147                  162
768             882                  912
3.        Forty years of hydrological data are available for deriving stream-
flow records. From the available records the estimated mean rate of run-off
from the Volta River basin, as measured at Senchi just downstream from
Akosombo, is established as 1,270 m3/s. Evaporation and irrigation consump-
tion account for losses comprising 6.7% and 0.3% of run-off, respectively.
The VRA power simulation established the average regulated outflow Lake Volta
as 1,150 m3/s with the Akosombo power plant operating at its full potential.
The simulation study also gives the long-term energy capability of Akosombo
as 5,400 GWh per year and the long-term dependable output as 762 MW.
4.        Lake Volta regulates well the Volta River flow, with average spil-
lage of only 1.8% of run-off. The longest continuous below average run-off
period Qccurred from 1936 to 1944 with a nine-year mean annual flow of
1,000 m Is. The two highest years on record occurred in 1963 and 1968, with
annual values of 3,060 m3/s and 2,420 m3/s respectively.



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 4 pagcs
5.        The considerable storage available in Lake Volta and the surface
area of the lake are readily apparent in the following tabulation:
Lake Volta Areas and Volumes
Water Elevation              Surface Area            Storage Volume
ft.        m                     km'                    109 m3
99.5      30.5                  245                        1
199.5      60.8                2,320                       31
249.5       76.0               5,750                       90
259.5       79.1               6,770                      109
269.5      82.1                8,510                      131
275.5      84.0                8,450                      148
279.5      85.2                8,840                      158
289.5      88.2                9,750                      198
6.        The lake's storage capacity in the operating range of the units
(between the limits of the upper and lower rule curves) is 619000
million m3.  Since the average annual inflow is 36,700 million m3 the
lake can store almost two years of inflow, and as the long-term dependable
generation from Akosombo is 5,400 GWh per year the electric energy storage
capability of Lake Volta is in the order of 10,000 GWh.
Existing Transmission Facilities
7.        The VRA transmission and generation facilities were placed in
service in late 1965 for the purpose of providing a reliable and economic
power supply to (a) the VALCO aluminum smelter at Tema, and (b) the major
towns and industries of southern Ghana.
8.        The VRA power transmission system is shown on the attached
Location Map and comprises:
(a) six 161-kV circuits extending 67 km from Akosombo
to the Volta switching station, supplying the heavy
loads at Tema and Accra;
(b)  a 650-km, 161-kV transmission loop supplying sub-
stations for ECG and mine loads in southern Ghana;
the transmission loop is connected to buses in
both the Akosombo and Volta substations;
(c) ECG's new Tema substation is supplied over two
161-kV circuits from Volta substation; and



ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 4 pages
(d) Togo/Benin is supplied from Akosombo substation
over two 161-kV circuits.
9.        The 161-kV Volta switching station is the principal VRA sub-
station and also serves as the load dispatching and system control center.
The VALCO aluminum smelter is located about two miles from this switching
station, and is supplied via five circuits each terminating on an 85 MVA,
161/13.8-kV transformer; there are no means of paralleling these circuits
at 161-kV at the smelter substation. Four of these circuits provide
13.8-kV supply for the four potlines, each rated approximately 75 MW. The
fifth circuit is identical to the other units but is arranged on the
13.8-kV side so that it is normally functioning as a spare, which can be
substituted for any of the other potline circuits in the event of a perma-
nent outage for any significant time period.
10.       Over the 650-km transmission loop the 25-km section from Volta
to Achimota substation serving Accra consists of two circuits in parallel,
but the remaining 625-km is a lightly loaded single circuit. At Prestea,
located in the westernmost portion of the loop, a 25-MVAR synchronous con-
denser is provided to maintain an adequate voltage profile at the various
substations on the loop. The 161-kV system has provided satisfactory
operating performance for some ten years since commissioning without any
basic modifications. New load has required extensions -- for example,
the spurline from Tafo to Akwatia and increased transformer capacity at
Achimota, Takoradi, Kumasi, etc. -- but the same basic loop arrangement
has remained unaltered, without any transmission line reinforcement.



ANNEX 2
VRA - ORGANIZATION CHART
BOARD OF THE AUTHORII'Y
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
OFFICE                                                           ECTIVE SEC'S
POWER OPEHATIONS
DEPT.
PERSONNEL             SPECIAL                                                     LEGAL
ENGINEERING DEPT.|    FINANCE DeFrPT.                                        L     i|HAT1    AE                         DEFAfr MeNr I
ENGINERING  EPT.  FNANCEDE 1.DEPT.                  DUTI ES         ADMIN. SERV.     HiEALTHi & SAFETY       D-AIMN
VOLTA LAKE           V-ALKEAKOSOMBO TOWN
HESEAFICH AND         TRANSPORT         RESTTLEMENT          MANAGEMENT
DEVELOPMENTS          TRANSPORT
Wojid Bank- 16401



ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 5 pages
GHANA
APPRAISAL OF THE KPONG HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECT
General
1.        The project proposed for Bank financing is made up of four parts:
(a) the hydroelectric development of the Volta River
at Kpong and its associated transmission facilities;
(b)  reactive power compensation in VRA's transmission
grid;
(c) the transmission line and substations required to
supply electric power to t'ie Sefwi-Wiawso-Bibiani
area in southwestern Ghana; and
(d) an additional transmission link between Tema and
Accra.
The Kpong Project
Description
2.        The Kpong project consists of a concrete and embankment dam for
electric power generation to be built on the Volta River 24 km downstream
from the Akosombo dam and hydro plant which regulate the river flow with its
huge reservoir.  See attached Location Ma?.
3.        The width of the river at this point is 550 m. The impounding
barrier, extending about 700 m in a straight line from bank to bank, will com-
prise an integral intake-powerhouse structure, 150 m long, adjacent to the
west bank; a gated concrete overflow spillway, 250 m in length; and an embank-
ment river dam of zoned section, 300 m long. Earthen forebay dikes with a
total length of 6 km will flank the impounding barrier. The headpond will be
raised by the dam and dikes to a maximum Df 17.70 m above sea level, submerg-
ing the Senchi and Kpong rapids upstream and reaching to the toe of the dam
at Akosombo to develop a gross head of some 12 m. The surface area of the
headpond is 3,650 hectares (see attached General Arrangement and Sections
through Dam and Dikes).
4.        The four-unit powerhouse will have a total installed capacity of
160 MW. A 270-ton powerhouse crane will handle the heaviest power plant
component. Overhead connection from the step-up transformers will deliver
power to the plant switchyard, located on the west bank of the river, which
will be equipped with a 4-breaker ring bus scheme. A double circuit 161-kV
transmission line (795 MCM all-aluminum conductors on steel framed towers)
will extend southwesterly for 60 km to the Volta substation at Tema.



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 5 pages
5.        The concrete gravity overflow spillway, designed for a flood flow
with return period of once in 10,000 years (18,600 m3/s) and capable of
accommodating the maximum possible release (20,800 m3/s) from the Akosombo
spillway and powerhouse when the Akosombo headwater is at the maximum level
for which the dam was designed, will contain fifteen 11.2 by 13.5 m radial
gates.
6.        The main plant equipment will be installed in the combined intake
and powerhouse structure. It includes:
- 12 wheeled intake gates (3 per unit), 6.40 by 13.50 m,
stop logs and trash racks;
- 6 draft tube gates (2 per draft tube), 6.60 by 6.30 m;
- one powerhouse crane - 270-ton plus 25-ton auxiliary;
- 4 generating units of 40 MW each; 55,000 HP, 11.75 m
head fixed-blade propeller turbines with concrete
spiral casings, 7.50 m runners driving 44.6 MVA (at
0.9 p.f.), 13.8 kV, 62.5 RPM, 50 Hz umbrella type
three-phase synchronous generators;
- ancillary electrical and mechanical systems; and
- two 13.8/161 kV, 100 MVA forced cooled three-phase
step-up transformers (two units per transformer).
Construction
7.        The construction schedule given in Annex 6, requiring a total of
4-1/2 years from submission of bids for civil engineering works contract to
commissioning of the fourth and last unit of the power plant, is governed by
the diversion sequence. It is proposed to perform the diversion in two
stages in accordance with the seasons sequence; in Stage I, which will be
executed in the 1978 dry season, a U-shaped cofferdam extending from the west
bank of the river will enclose the working area for constructing the intake-
powerhouse structure and the spillway. When the spillway gates are posi-
tioned before the start of the 1979 rainy season, the river is diverted
through the completed spillway during Stage II, which permits the construc-
tion of the river dam behind a cofferdam extending from the east bank of the
river.



ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 5 pages
8.        The method described of handling the river flow during construc-
tion is greatly assisted by the ability to smooth peak flood discharges
even during a heavy rainy season by the very large extent of Lake Volta.
Moreover, advanced warning of any large spillage from the lake can be given
to the contractor well ahead of time so as to permit implementing precau-
tionary measures.
9.        Of an estimated peak labor force of 1,700 men including supervi-
sory staff, housing will have to be provided for approximately 1,100 men.
In order to take full advantage of this expenditure it is proposed to
locate the new housing facilities in the immediate vicinity of the existing
towns of Amedika and Kpong, which are close to the construction site, and
to design the buildings in such a way as to make them convertible into
family dwellings at the end of the construction period. The planning of
this is being done by VRA, assisted by local authorities.
10.       In laying out the construction schedule it is necessary to con-
struct certain site facilities before award of the civil engineering works
contract in order to facilitate a quick start-up of the contractor's oper-
ation. The preliminary works to be carried out by VRA assisted by local
contractors consist of: (a) approximately 50% of the housing facilities
for the work force mentioned in the preceding paragraph including an office
building; (b) a power line to supply construction power at the site; (c)
clearing and resettlement of villages adjacent to the project site; and
(d) a 6-km haul road from the west bank rock quarry to the construction
site.
11.       As indicated above, the construction schedule requires that the
civil engineering works contract be awarded not later than March 1977 to
permit completion of the project by June 1981. Other key contracts to
be awarded concurrently with the civil engineering contract are: (a)
spillway gates (manufacturing period 19 months); (b) turbines and genera-
tors (manufacturing period 26 months); and (c) powerhouse crane (manufac-
turing period 18 months). Excepting the contracts for hydraulic gates
and hoists, which will be financed by CIDA and contracted in Canada, all
other items for the project involving foreign financing will be procured
through international competitive bidding.  Issuance of tender documents
for the various contracts of the project is foreseen as follows:
Civil engineering works                         August, 1976
Turbines, generators and powerhouse crane       September, 1976
Gates and hoists
- Spillway gates                             January, 1977
- Intake gates
- Draft tubes lining and piers nosing        March, 1977
- Transformers                               January, 1977
- Kpong and Volta switchyards                June, 1977
- Transmission line Kpong-to-Tema            June, 1977



ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 5 pages
12.       Tenders for civil engineering works will be due four months after
issuance; for electrical and mechanical works a period of three months for
preparation of bids is considered sufficient. Contracts are expected to be
awarded two to three months later. Prequalification of interested civil
works contractors has already been carried out and eleven well known interna-
tional contractors have been approved for tendering. The Bank has been
kept informed of all the prequalification proceedings, which conform to
Bank's guidelines for procurement.
13.       The concrete gravity spillway and the powerhouse structure will
need a total of 207,000 m3 of concrete. The river dam, with a maximum
height of 20 m above bedrock, and the dikes embankments will have a total
volume of 2,000,000 m3 of fill materials. It is estimated that the Kpong
project will require 52,000 tons of cement, 9. 800 tons of reinforcing steel,
700 tons of steel-sheet piling, and 130,000 ml of formwork.
Technical Soundness
14.       The Kpong hydroelectric project develops the Volta River drop at
the Senchi and Kpong rapids between Akosombo and the river mouth in the
Gulf of Guinea. The power generation at Kpong benefits from the considerable
storage immediately upstream afforded by Lake Volta (see Annex 1). Based on
40 years of hydrological data for deriving stream flow records, the average
long-term regulated outflow is estimated at 1,150 m3/s with the Akosombo
power plant at its full potential. The installed capacity of Kpong has been
determined for this long-term average discharge so that three units wi:ll be
able to pass it through when one unit is being overhauled. Simulation
studies of Kpong operating with Akosombo in the most efficient manner indi-
cate that the long-term dependable power output and annual generation of
the VRA power system will be increased by 140 MW and 970 GWh, respectively,
with the addition of the Kpong power plant to the power system.
15.       A major program of drilling, soil sampling and geophysical sur-
veys was conducted at the project site to provide sufficient geological and
geotechnical data for design studies. The dominant soil in the area is an
impervious alluvium of clay/silt gradation adequate for embankment con-
struction. Bedrock, which is exposed in the river bed, is a gneiss of good
quality for foundation purposes. An ample supply of materials suitable for
embankment construction and concrete aggregate is available at reasonable
hauling distances. The powerhouse, the spillway and the river dam will all
be founded on sound rock. The dikes will be founded on the impervious
alluvium with pressure relief wells at the downstream toe and cut-off in
the immediate vicinity of the river bed.



ANNEX 3
Page 5 of , pages
16.       West Africa is commonly thought to be a relatively stable and seis-
mically inactive area, nevertheless, the coastal areas of Ghana have experi-
enced earthquakes of substantial magnitude. Therefore, the stability of all
major structures has been analyzed by the consultants with due consideration
given to seismic forces.
Reactive Power Compensation in VRA's Transmission Grid
17.       The Italian group of consultants Italconsult-Cesi has conducted com-
prehensive studies of VRA's 161-kV transmission grid.  These studies comprised
load flow, system stability and short circuit analysis on four reference years,
namely 1980, 1985, 1990 and 1995.  The main conclusion regarding the behavior
of the system for reference year 1980 is that the present grid will operate
satisfactorily provided that sufficient reactive power compensation is added.
The consultants recommend that a 25 MVAR synchronous condenser be installed at
Prestea in addition to the existing unit of same capacity, to meet the react-
ive power requirements of the system and avoid excessive voltage drop and
power losses. Moreover, the consultants recommend the installation of a 25
MVAR static condenser at Kumasi in order to maintain satisfactory operating
voltages at every busbar of the grid in the event of an open circuit in the
transmission line between Accra and Cape Coast without having to resort to
extensive load shedding (up to 50% of the load) at each of -he substations
between Prestea and Accra. The installation of these two condensers entails
extending the 161-kV busbars at both substations, Prestea and Kumasi, and the
provision of 25 MVA stepdown transformers and associated sw--tching equipment.
The Supply of Electricity to the Sefwi-Wiawso-Bibiani Area
18.       This component of the project entails the construction of (a) an
80-km 161-kV transmission line connected to VRA's 161-kV loop at a substation
near Dunkwa in southwestern Ghana, and (b) the substations at both ends of
the line.  The line will supply electricity to an ECG project involving 86 km
of 33-kV lines to feed industrial loads in the Sefwi-Wiawso-3ibiani area (see
Map) and seven townships (population about 30,000),
19.       VRA has proceeded with some route surveying, but -o design work has
yet been done. No definite construction schedule has been established for
this project; but in order to supply electric power in time to the ECC distri-
bution scheme, all works would have to be ready for commissfining by mid-1979.
Additional Transmission Line Tema to Accra
20.       The studies conducted by Italconsult-Cesi on VRA7s 161-kV transmis-
sion grid indicate that -- for reference year 1980 -- under emergency condi-
tions involving an open circuit in the 25 km transmission .1-e between Volta
substation at Tema and Achimota substation at Accra, the Lhe-rmal rating of
the circuit still in service will be exceeded. In order to avoid such criti-
cal operating condition it will be necessary to increase the transmission
capacity between these two substations by adding another line. This addi-
tional line requires extension of both substations to accommodate the neces-
sary switching and control equipment.



GHANA
KPONG HYDRO-ELECTRIC PROJECT
Escalation Percentage Change Forecast i/
1976     1977     1978      1979     1980      1981
2/
Index of International Inflation                        100.0    108.4    117.1    125.8    134.7    202.1
Yearly % Change                                                     8.4      8.0       7.5      7.0       7.0
Items
Labor  - Expatriate                                      14        12       10         8        8         8
Construction Equipment (Including Spare Parts)           13        10        9         6        5         5
Construction Materials (Other than Specified Below)       8         7        7         7        7         7
Cement                                                   10         8        6         6        6         6
Reinforcing Steel, Sheet Piling, Structural Steel        13         7        7         7        7         7
Petroleum Products                                       25        15       15        10       10        10
Electrical Equipment                                     14.0     10.0       8.5      6.5       6.5      6.5
Mechanical Equipment                                      7.5       6.5      6.5       6.5      6.5       6.5
Turbines and Generators                                  14.0     10.0       8.5      6.5       6.5       6.5
z
1/ Forecast by Acres International Ltd.                                                                           X
2/ Source: International Economy Division, Economic Analysis and Projection Department                            -
Development Policy Staff, April 1976.



G H A N A
KPONG HYDRO-ELECTRIC PROJECT
VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
Apportioning of External Financing
Donor                             Item$                                              US$ millions
1/
Arab Agencies                     Civil engineering works                                     73.0
Joint Financing                   Generating equipment and powerhouse crane          37.6
IBRD/FED/EIB                      Transformers                                        1.5
Ancillary electrical equipment                      0.7
Kpong switchyard                                    1.4
Extension of Tema switchyard                        1.0
Transmission line Kpong-to-Tema                     5.2
Reactive power compensation                         3.8
Additional transmission link Tema/Accra             3.2
Review engineer board                               0.2
Total IBRD/FED/EIB joint financing 2/              54.6    54.6
IBRD                              Construction equipment, vehicles and spare
parts for preliminary works and resettlement        2.4
Transmission to Sefwi-Wiawso-Bibiani area           3.0
Total IBRD parallel financing                       5.4      5.4
CIDA                              Engineering services for the Kpong scheme          16.7
Gates and hoists                                   22.3
Total CIDA 3/                                      39.0    39.0
GRAND TOTAL FOREIGN FINANCING                              172.00
1/ Includes physical and price contingencies.
2/ IBRD: US$ 33.6 million/FED: US$ 10.0 million/EIB: US$ 11.0 million
3/ The CIDA contribution,as shown here, is equated with the presently estimated
cost of the items that will be procured in Canada.
U,



AU0 6
KPONG HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
GHANA
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
CONSTHLICTIS  MA JOF            I CONTRACTS        -                                                             1A  - -                                                                                 I -I -                                                                                   SIR I
STAGES  LA ENGIHELHING     R3JOALIFICA  DS     lL OOD JERJDD $  20                    |                                                        H      G l                   _     ¶itLLI    'I                              HL:TiL :T
P0005 lLTIO  IN AS TInTS TRW ,sT'SI 1o-.-----4- -,IVI',ON    $fSL LLI
CIVIL ENGINEERIN                            TENDER       SUBMi -S oN       CUN  IA            L CON NAC21
IRKS ^-                       I          Io                         -I              -  - - --                    STALL                                                                              REMOVE
PHSNAVLIFICATION   CALL                    R                                                                                                                              co F LEO  5EROAM         REMOVE COLILSCEA.
A.A.  ~    ~        ~       '---                                 -                                                     OLtWI                  I.. LAN .. TE SECTIONU
PAILIRINAR  WOHET RV V AN                         EXCAVATE ELST NOI Ch ANNEL                                                                                   I
I  51NC   TENSER,    ALL"iOTS OTS  CONTRACT                                       LONAICTN           OLES                 j0ST1E0T
SPILLWAY GATES                                               I          i          t          I
CALL    VMISN                PAAIC       I I A                                            S HIPIN                        I
I VERSION
| G(THROUGH LEFT                                                                 |                                                                                           A P       OUSE
CIOAONNE LI                     INTACE GATSI,                                                                                                                                       8 1     PR
TRASH RACES ESLT  ANA CI NTRACT                                                                                               FI LAICATION                                     VATS               INSTALL TRASH RACES             I
SHAFT TARE                                                               --_____
GATES & PIER                                                          CAY                                                                                                       D  IN
|~~~~~~~~~~oiG                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SVAAITCYR  bITCYHD|ll  EOE ,A*R  u^ucV*$slN&FXlalol
NOSINGS ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AIuiN   2I  EVC
TURBINES GENERATORS                                TONSIL   SUN_SMISO   |ARO   LONTRCA                  MANUFACTURR T  O ESINS FABICATION                                                          -t   - .IT NO 2
KPoPTEnASRUSE CRANE                       ~O                                                                                          1SIPN 
CALL                                                                                 i    iIINSTALL LIkIT NOOUI  o4 NSRX
TRANSFORMERS AND                                                 TENOEH  SUBMISSION   AWRDA  CONT.RACT    FOUATAL    EI A I& ATICAUION                                              THNURNA                                  NTALL UNIT NO. 
IN A ANCILLIARIESI                                                  O      …0-                                                   -      __ _             -                             N PIN --                                              T
EA L                                                                                                                                                        I_ _     _ _   _ U_   I_I_
COFFERDAM                         i
SAE III
DIVA RSION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   *AT  A                   IA
STAGE 1IECRTO  NLOEPE
IT ROUGH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IbFUDPEI
THEE CONSTRUCLIO                                                              I                      I
CASTS AEST 
LOALNAY DYKESAS RREA  GE  C                                                                                                                                                                                                       RUCTR ION                                     -         ___        ___
ITCHYSRO  N  E'TNITCHTAAO                                                        TRA~~~      ~     ~~~~~~~      ~~~~~~TENOE  AWARD   COTRC  I  RSVETAL G,LIPM                                EICAANO INSTALLATIO                         J
A C IL IT IE S ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~ ~~ ~~~                                                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ T   A A I. .I T L A A S H A T * A,AN*  SH IPPIN G   INTA LLA TIO N   T R A N SM ISSIO N   LA C ILIT IE S   d
LINE                                                CALL    SURIGGITM            l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;IAinUl TS~A -. A  VTAHIUAC.T-AA   SAAV



ANNEX 7
GHANA
KPONG HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
Estimated Schedule of Loan Disbursement
Assumptions
Loan Approval: March, 1977
Effective Date: May, 1977
Closing Date:   December 31, 1981
IBRD Fiscal Year                                     Cumulative Disbursement
and Semester                                       at end of Semester
1976/1977                                                (in US$ million)
June 30, 1977                                                 3.6
1977/1978
December 31, 1977                                             7.3
June 30, 1978                                                 9.9
1978/1979
December 31, 1978                                            12.6
June 30, 1979                                                18.0
1979/1980
December 31, 1979                                            23.4
June 30, 1980                                                28.4
1980/1981
December 31, 1980                                            33.5
June 30, 1981                                                36.2
1981/1982
December 31, 1981                                            39.0
January, 1977



ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 6 pages
KPONG HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
RESETTLEMENT PROGRAM
Introduction
1.        Compared to the Volta Lake, covering 2.0 million acres, the area
that will be covered by the Kpong head pond will be very small -- 9,000
acres of land, islands and existing river. The area is well populated and
cultivated. The number of people to be resettled is 4,597 (919 households)
who are living in 55 villages along the east and west banks of the river
and on the islands. Lower Kpong, the older part of the town of Kpong, will
also be affected and about 1,100 people will have to be resettled. Large-
scale farming activities are also taking place in the area: cotton and rice
farming on the east bank and sugar-cane plantations on the west bank.
Resettlement plans are now being finalized by VRA; plans for the relocation
of the first community are under way and the construction program is
expected to begin shortly.
2.        VRA has already experienced one resettlement exercise, when the
Akosombo Dam was built. The formation of the head pond meant that nearly
80,000 people had to be resettled. They were finally relocated in 52
resettlement townships. As the resettlement team was mobilized only after
construction of the dam began and the flooding started before schedule,
the relocation program was carried out more in an emergency situation
rather than as a well thought-out scheme. In addition, VRA had no previous
experience in resettlement programs and had to rely on considerable
inputs, which were not always forthcoming, from other governmental agencies.
Despite these problems VRA evacuated everyone with their full cooperation
and without loss of life. Once the people were resettled, however, pro-
blems emerged, especially with respect to the agricultural program, housing
and water supply. Some of the resettlement towns are now deserted or
gradually deteriorating. The Kpong resettlement team is aware of the mis-
takes made in the Volta Resettlement Program, and have formulated their
plans accordingly.
Administrative Framework
3.        The Kpong Project Manager bears overall responsibility for reset-
tlement activities. Under him are VRA's resettlement officer, his two
assistants, and about 40-50 field staff. Side by side with the resettlement
officer is the head of the construction team. Under the resettlement officer
is (i) a team from the Faculty of Architecture of the Kumasi University of
Science and Technology (UST) who have been contracted to prepare conceptual
designs of the resettlement villages and construction township; (ii) a team
from the University of Legon who have been contracted to prepare the agric-
ultural resettlement program; (iii) the Lands Department, which is responsi-
ble for the surveying and valuation of land and property and which will be



ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 6 pages
responsible for making compensation payments; and (iv) an architect/planner
who will be responsible for the planning and supervision of construction of
the resettlement villages. The resettleuent officer and one of his assist-
ants have carried out the social survey and analyzed all the data collected.
4.        The administrative set-up appears adequate for the size of the
program. The resettlement officer has already been appointed; he has been
working on resettlement activities ever since the Volta Resettlement Program,
during which he was a social welfare worker, and he is intimately acquainted
with the Kpong project area. VRA's Deputy Director of Engineering has been
appointed as head of the construction team as he is an experienced civil
engineer.
Location of Resettlement Villages
5.        There are basically five groups of people to be resettled.  The
first will be the Togome community, located in three villages on the east
bank of the Volta River (see Map), with a population of 854 comprised of
113 households.  A second groupare the Fcjokus, living in 17 villages on the
east bank, with a population of 1,938 comprised of 397 households. Both the
Fojoku and Togome groups are living on their own tribal land. The third
group, the Ewe community, is living on ti.e east and west banks of the river
and on the Kpong Islands either in Manya Krobo (1,187) or Akwamu (244) tribal
lands. The total population is 1,431, comprised of 333 households and living
in the village of Latriku on the west bark: Latriku is Manya-Krobo tribal
land although the Osudokus claim tenure to land they are now occupying. The
population is 374, comprised of 76 households. All four communities follow
traditional activities of fishing and subsistence farming. None of the
villages has a potable water supply, sewerage system or electricity. Nor do
they have medical facilities, the hospital at Akuse being used when neces-
sary. The last group is the community of lower Kpong, on the west bank,
numbering 1,100 people.
6.        Four basic principles were used in deciding where the new resettle-
ment villages are to be relocated: (i) t:o retain the present rural/riverine
life style of the resettled people, but provide the means for self-develop-
ment; (ii) to ensure that sufficiently good farmland and water existed close
to the resettlement areas; (iii) to ensure that the resettlement area would
not be unhealthy, especially with respect: to the spread of bilharzia; and
(iv) to respect traditional, tribal and clan groupings and land tenure rights.
These principles are based on the experience gained and problems encountered
during the Akosombo Resettlement Program,
7.        Extensive consultations have been conducted with most of the people
to be resettled, and now the new resettlement sites have been decided on,
with the agreement of all concerned. However, plans for resettlement of the
population of lower Kpong are still being finalized.



ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 6 pages
Compensation Policy
(a)  Cash Comtpensation
8.        VRA had considered making cash compensation to each householder
based on the assessed value of his property. However, consultations with
the people to be relocated revealed that for the most part they did not
want cash compensation but wished to be resettled; therefore, a resettle-
ment policy has been adopted by VRA. The few who have opted for cash
compensation will be reimbursed by VRA.
(b) Compensation for Land
9.        The Lands Department will have completed by the end of 1976 the
surveying and valuation of land, property, hunting and fishing rights for
all the areas affected. Compensation for land and land tenure rights
were a serious problem in the earlier Volta Resettlement Program when
villagers were moved off their tribal land onto other tribal areas. For-
tunately, the selection of the Kpong resettlement sites does not involve
this issue, as the Togome and Fojoku groups will remain on their tribal
lands and the Ewe group, who are not living on their own land, will be
moved either to government-owned land or remain tenants of their current
landlords.
(c) Compensatiorn for Housing
10.       After extensive consultation with village representatives and
within VRA itself, the resettlement team has drawn up a housing policy
based on replacing permanent structures room for room, i.e. each house-
holder will be given the same number of living and sleeping rooms that
are in his present house. All will be provided with a bath area and
enclosed compound, and owners of houses valued at 0600 or more will be
provided with a kitchen. Owners of temporary structures or those who
wish to receive cash compensation will be paid the Lands Department valu-
ation of their properties times a factor of 10, as this is the standard
compensation factor for those who will receive new houses. A prototype
house is being erected at Togome so that changes can be made in conjunc-
tion with the community and the Regional Administration. The design of
the unit is based on the present design of houses in the villages.
(d) Agricultural Policy
11.       The policy adopted by the Kpong resettlement team is not to
attempt to change radically the means of production, but to provide suf-
ficient land for the resettled communities to continue their traditional
methods of cultivation and offer them the means for developing themselves.
Many resettlement programs have failed because they have been turned into
development projects; this not only requires a high level of planning and
administration, but also involves radically changing peoples' way of life
at a time whien they have to undergo the traumatic experience of being



ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 6 pages
resettled. After consultation with the IMinistry of Agriculture, an agric-
ultural team from the University of Legorn has been preparing an agricultural
program for the resettlement villages. As well as surveying the sites to
assess the agricultural potential and preparing a plan for how the land
should be allocated, they will also be looking at how to provide the means
for people to develop themselves. One approach under discussion is to set
up a small agricultural unit staffed by extension workers, which can pro-
vide seeds, fertilizers and simple farm implements for sale to the farmers.
Once the program has become established and VRA withdraws, the Ministry of
Agriculture should take over.
(e) Compensation for Commercial Farms
12.       The Kpong head pond will flood certain commercial farming lands:
420 acres of cotton and 230 acres of irrigated rice land farmed by ADC
(Agricultural Development Corporation) oni the east bank of the river, and
on the west bank 990 acres of sugar-cane land owned by GHASEL (Ghana
Sugar Estates Ltd.), part of a Bank-financed sugar project. Discussions
have been taking place between representatives of ADC, GHASEL and VRA on
the issue of compensation. Both companies indicated that they were not
interested in receiving cash payment for their land, valued at a total esti-
mated cost of 02.26 million. They would rather be provided with some irri-
gation facilities and have land cleared fEor crop growing (ADC on land they
are already leasing and GHASEL on land they already own). Off-take channels
from the dam could provide an irrigation outlet. These arrangements appear
to be the best solution for both GHASEL and ADC. Final agreement on the
details of such a compensation program a:re being worked out and a mutually
acceptable time schedule is being formulated.
Public Health
13.       With the formation of the Volta Lake, schistosomiasis (bilharzia)
became endemic in certain areas, whereas previously endemicity was low
along the Volta River. Onchocerciasis (river blindness) was previously
widespread alylg the Volta River; after the lake's formation in some areas
below the dam- and also near the tributaries, prevalence rates increased
while in other areas the disease was eralicated. Construction of the Kpong
Dam will mean that a breeding place of the simulium fly (the fly that trans-
mits onchocerciasis) -- the Kpong and Senchi rapids -- will be eradicated.
However, the Kpong head pond will be fairly shallow, providing suitable con-
ditions for growth of aquatic weeds which are important as the habitat of the
snail vector of schistosomiasis. There also may be migration into the area
of fishing communities already suffering from urinary schistosmiasis, so
that the disease could possibly become endemic around the head pond.
14.       VRA has been conducting a research program on the Volta Lake to
help eradicate schistosomiasis. The methods adopted, which are also recom-
mended by the UNDP/WHO Bilharzia Control Project, are those of prevention,
i.e. to control lake water contact by providing potable water supplies and
1/ Around the Kpong and Senchi rapids.



ANNEX 8
Page 5 of 6 pages
sanitary facilities for the lakeside villages. The Kpong resettlement vil-
lages will be provided with a potable water supply and sanitary facilities.
South Senchi and Old Akradi are located near faster-moving waters where the
snail vector should not be present. The one drawback to the new location
of the Fojoku group is that they will only be located one mile from the
head pond. Therefore, low dykes (five feet high) will be built at one
access point on the head pond near their new location to create deep water,
and jetties will be provided for boat landings so that people will not wade
into the water. The rest of the eastern bank of the head pond will be
private ADC land through which access to the lake will not be permitted.
The problem of fishing on the head pond is being discussed within VRA: by
prohibiting fishing, schistosomiasis can be controlled; but on the other
hand the lake probably will be fairly productive as far as fishing is con-
cerned. By licensing fishermen there could be some control over their
access points to the lake, i.e. only where there is deep water and where
jetties are provided. VRA has already decided to patrol the head pond so
that nobody settles by the lakeside; this should be feasible as the lake
will cover only 37 km'.
15.       A Bank consultant has visited Ghana to discuss the public health
aspects of the Kpong head pond. He has recommended measures to control
schistosomiasis, including: (i) the provision of water supply to resettle-
ment villages; (ii) development of non-public agricultural land to prevent
access to the lake; (iii) engineering works related to the improvement of
the shoreline, access to the lake, piers, wharves, embankments, dyking,
drainage and preparation of service areas (for fishing and transportation)
for access to the lake; (iv) legislative measures related to fishing, squat-
ing, access to the lake and use of land for construction and agriculture;
(v) fencing; and (vi) establishment of an Epidemiological Unit to carry out
surveillance and control activities for schistosomiasis and other diseases
in both the Lake Volta and Kpong areas. Recommendations were also made on
the establishment of a health center at Kpong and the strengthening of the
Akuse and Akosombo hospitals. These measures are being discussed with VRA
and the Ministry of Health.
Estimated Cost of the Kpong Resettlement Program
16.       The Acres feasibility study contains a preliminary estimate of
06.25 million for resettlement costs, excluding lower Kpong. This estimate
has been included in the estimated capital cost of the project. The follow-
ing table is a breakdown of the estimated costs:



ANNEX 8
Page 6 of 6 pages
Cedi
Purchase of Land                  172,000
Housing                         4,833,000
Schools                           150,000
Water and sewerage                 215,000
Moving expenses                     80,000
Administrative expenses            220,000
Contingencies (10%)               580,000
Total                         6,250,000   (1975 prices)
Adjusted to 1975 price levels, the average per capita cost for the Volta
Resettlement Program was approximately ¢1,000. For the Kpong program
per capita cost is nearly ¢1,200.
17.       The Acres feasibility study also made some estimates of the cost
of resettling the lower Kpong population. The total cost would be approxi-
irately 0 1,800,000, composed of:
Cedi
Housing                         1,309,000
Clearing land                      100,000
Construction of dykes             200,000
Moving, infrastructure
and administrative
expenses                         191,000
Total                         1,800,000      (1975 prices)
18.       As a condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan it is recommended
that final resettlement plans be submitted to the Bank for approval. Of the
total cost of resettlement (US$8.2 equivalent), the Bank will contribute
US$ 1.6 million; VRA will provide the remainder. The Bank's contribution
will cover the foreign costs of equipment and vehicles and spare parts
(US$ 1.2 million) associated with village resettlement and about US$ 0.4
million for preliminary works -- i.e. construction township, assistance in
relocating Togome, the first village to be resettled.
Conclusion and Recommendations
19.       The Kpong resettlement team is finalizing a program that will be
satisfactory to the Government, VRA and the people who will be relocated.
The efforts they have made to become fully aware of the inhabitants'
opinions have been thorough, both with respect to the detailed social survey
carried out and extensive consultations conducted with the representatives
of the villages throughout the planning process.



ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 4 pages
GHANA
VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
KPONG HYDRO-ELECTRIC PROJECT
ASSUMPTIONS UNDERLYING FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
I. ENERGY FORECAST
(a)  ECG:          ECG sales are based on projections prepared by the
Bank in the course of the appraisal of ECG's III
Phase. Estimates are substantially in line with
forecasts prepared by Acres in their Kpong Feasibi-
lity Report.
(b)  VALCO:        Sales to VALCO have been estimated at 2,700 GWh in
1976 reflecting the projected upturn in the world
aluminum market. Thereafter, with the fifth pot-
line in operation VALCO is projected to take
400 MW at a 95% loadfactor.
(c)  THE MINES:   Sales have been projected by Acres with growth
rates of 4 - 6% p.a.
(d)  CEB:          Contractually CEB is limited to 50 MW which is
expected to be attained by 1978.
(e) AKOSOMBO TOWN-
SHIP/TEXTILES: Forecasts have been prepared by Acres
II.  POWER RATES                    DEMAND CHARGE                ENERGY CHARGE
(a) ECG(US$)I/                  4.2/kW p.m.                 0.00278/klWh
(b) MINES(US$y)i                4.8/kW p.m.                 0.00360/klqh
(c) CEB (US$)                   2.48/kW p.m.                0.00248/kWh
(CEB is also subject to a construction charge of US$ 24,500/month)
(d) VALCO (US$):  the details of the recent agreement are as follows:
1/ As of September 1, 1976.



ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 4 pages
Rates:
(A) up to 370 MW:
- 1973-1975                   3.25 US Mills/kWh
- 1976-1978                   4.50 US Mills/kWh
- 1979                        4.6  US Mills/kWh
- 1980                        4.75 US Mills/kWh
- 1981 and beyond             5.0  US Mills/kWh
(B) above 370 MW:
- 1977-1930                   6.75 US Mills/kWh
- 1981 and beyond           19.64 US Mills/kWh.!/
Escalation: beginning in 1977 all rates will be escalated on
the basis of the operating expenses component of 0.83 US Mills/
kWh.
(e)   AKOSOMBO TOWNSHIP/TEXTILES (0): An average rate of 0.00897/kWh
has been assumed.
III. OTHER INCOME: Miscellaneous income (rents, interest, etc.) has
been estimated at ¢ 500,000 p.a.
IV.   VALCO INTERRUPTIBLE POWER: It is estimated that VALCO will take
15 MW over and above the 400 MW at 50% loadfactor
at the rate of 6.75 US Mills/kWh up to 1980 and
thereafter at the rate of 19.64 US Mills/kWh.
V.    VALCO DEPOSIT ACCOUNT:  This entry reflects VALCO's 1976 agree-
ment to increase the rate of US Mills 2.75 to
3.25/kWh for the period 1973-75. The amount
includes the ¢ 3.0 million already paid under the
interim increase agreement of 1973.
VI.   OPERATING EXPENSES:  Given the static nature of the Akosombo oper-
ation, operating expenses have not been increased in
real terms. Inflation allowances are based on pro-
jected judgements on likely results of VRA union
negotiations, inflation rates in Ghana and abroad.
Kpong's operating expenses have been estimated at
0 500,000 in 1976 prices.
1/ This rate is the result of applying the expected cost of Kpong to the
price adjustment formula contained in the fourth amendment to the Power
Contract (see also para. 2.14).



ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 4 pages
VII.   DEPRECIATION: An average depreciation rate of 2.40% on gross fixed
assets has been assumed which reflects approximately
historical values.
VIII. DEBT SERVICE
INTEREST:
-On existing loans, the contractual rates have been
adopted (see Annex 9, Table 4).
-The proposed Bank loan carries a 8.5% p.a.
interest rate and a 0.75% commitment charge.
-The proposed additional international loans are
assumed to carry a weighted interest rate of 3.5%
p.a.
-The future loan for VRA's next generating station
has been assumed to carry a 10% p.a. interest rate.
AMORTIZATION:
-On existing loan the contractual arrangement have
been adopted.
-The proposed Bank loan is repayable over 20 years
including a grace period of 4-1/2 years.
-The proposed additional international loans are
estimated to include a grace period up to the
middle 1981 with 4 semi-annual level amortization
payments becoming due thereafter.
-The future loan is assumed to carry a grace period
during the construction period of Bui.
IX.    DIVIDENDS:    VRA is projected to continue to pay ¢ 2.0 million per
year to the Government.
X.     CAPITAL INVESTMENT:
Kpong          -  The cost estimates have essentially
been derived from data furnished by Acres.
Reactive Power
Compensation and
Miscellaneous
Investments   -  Estimates are based on IBRD appraisal



ANNEX 9
Page 4 of 4 pages
BUI      -    Consultants estimate very preliminarily
VRA's likely next hydro-electric station
at US$ 235 million in 1976 prices. An
escalation factor of 10% p.a. has been
added.
XI.   ASSETS IN OPERATION: Work in progress has been transferred to assets
according to the projected construction schedule with
Kpong transferred to assets in service by 1981.
XII. WORKING CAPITAL: Cash requirements inventories, receivables and pay-
ables have been projected according to historical rela-
tionships.



Table 1
VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
Kj90MG fYD~R_OELECTRIU PEW cuT
INCOME STATEMENTS
--------ACITTAL            .     ------- --------          --       FO___ _FRECAST--- .        -      -_________
19/2     19737      19/'    I 9/5              J 22     1977      1 978    1 v.7'   1I8       1981 1976-1981   1.982      193       98
TOTAL-
3300 S(iLL1 ~ IN 0W81 000)
3320 FCC                         0.7      0,8       0.8      0,9                1.0       1.2      1.4      1,5       1.6      1.7       8. 3     1.8      2.0       2.1
3i330 VALLO                      2.3      2.6       2.7      2,5                2.7      3.3       3.3      3,3       3.3      3,3     19.3       3.3      3.3       3.3
3340 MINES                       0.2      0.2-1     0.3      0,3                0.3      0.3       0.3      0,3      0.3       0.3      1,8       0,3      044       0,4
3350 GEB                         0,0      0.1       0.1      0,1                0.2      0.2       0.3      0,3       0.3      0.3       1.7      0.3      0.3       0,3
3360 AROSOMBO                  -.0.O      0( .0      _0  a.0.                 _.0.O            ---0 .0.  __0 ~     ----      ..O O.O.3   _.:_I .01
3395     TOTAL                   3,.2     3.8       4.0      3,8                4.2      5.1       5,3      5.5       5.6      5.7     31.4       5.9      6.0       6.2
3400 MILLS/KWH SOLD
,3410…
3420 ECG                      5.070    8.070   8.000   8,290                  9.360  11,940  12.080  12,400  12.640  12.620    0,000  12.560  12.560  12.560
3430 YALGO                    3,390   3,190   3.160   3.220                   5.170    5.360    5.450   5.620   5.870   7.370   0,000   7.470 .;7.570   7.720
3440 MINES                    7.590    7.680   8.220   8.800                 10.340  13.960  13.950   L3,930  13.930  13.930   0,000  13.930  -43.930  13.930
3450 CEBS                      0.000   9.SA0    9.380   6.850                 9.340   9.280   8.850   8.850   8 ~850   8.850    0,000   8.850   a.850    8.850
3460 AKOSONBO                  8,t0  .8- 8fln  2-.620 --8,9O 922O _                   .8.92O   _.22O  --8.920, __8.1920 .-8.2220  _O~QOO  --8.97O  -8.-922O  -8-20
355AVE REV/KWH SOLO,        4.764   4.693   4.753   5.026_                 6.714   7.573    7.83/   8.1i58    8. 435   9.383   0,000   9.522   9.662   9.834
*ne OING REVENUES
4115…-- - - - -     - - -
4200 EC0                        9644     61,94     6714     7244               9386    13982    16501   1 8523   19946  -21012   99692   22872   24756   26866
4210 VALCO                      7683     83~83     8649     8090              13959   1704l   12143    18709   19541   24535  112730   248681 25201   25700
4220 MINES                      18414    1866      2112     2366               2802     3995      40/3     4240      4430     4597   24046       4262~  5043        5307
4242 CEB                          15      956      1200     1249               1616     2264      2770     2770      2/20     2770    14960  ~1,"~o    2770         2770
4244 AI(OSOMF0                   ""2Z     _30O  -- 229 ---0,O                  -_ A       3! --50                          ---3- 43~..44  1 _._2253   -_ 489 -..425  ---702
4252     TOTAL SALES REY    15444    12699,   189165    19Y2 02               280'79    38334,   4 1855      419,32    4709~1   53345  253641   55920   58245-   611145
4260 TARIFF INCREASES0   0                       0         0             0                  0    5700   10000   15900   26600   58200    51000,(    634100   /8200
4270 orHER                       446      393       933      708               15/0       500      500      500       500      500     4070       500O     500       500
4280 VALCO-INTER. FROWER           0         0        0         0                  0     5100      500     -5oo       500     1500     3500      150      1500      1500
4290 VALCO-DEPOSIT ACCO …----0 …----- …---   .0 ----                       - .3000  .…0 . 0                                      0   .3000 -------
T,OT uTL                --'""'<'C2   _222  --22CO                               -        …2_--_23Z   559Zt   _ .632911   81945 _322411  107021 12365 161305~
4601 OPERATING EXP'ENSES
4602 --- -…-- ---
9'640 GENERATION                1510c     958      1140     1436               1436      1436     1436     1 436     1436     1436      8616     1436      1436,    1436
4650 TRANSMISSION                830     1014      1235     1477               1477    1477       1477     14/7'    1477      1477     8862      141/,    1.477     1477
4660 ADiMINISTRATION            1181     1235      1695     1951               1 951     19511    19511    1951      19511    1951    11706      1951      1951     1951
4680 AKOSOMBO TOWNSHIP'          402      460       608      718                /18       718      718      7180      718      /18      4300      7118      718      718
4700 HEALTH % SAFETY             918      543       707      805                805       805      805,     805       8053     805      40330     205       s0s      Boll
4210 PaTCH CONTISNGENCIES  -.      0         0        0         0              1071    L912       3423     489/    6025       7766   25094    9V3TE   1063:3  12284
4/20 11P0NB                        0         0        0         0                  0        0        0         0        0      500       500      500       5oc     5soc
4950 DiEPRECIATION          -- 6.1L3  --42676            ---01 4649         -.-6877    -9532   10.,i609  _1 196/ _.13435  -18389  7_0889  -.23841  _26-547   29551l
4990     TOTAL               --U50A  -..872 -_2224 _11036                   _1433j   12831  _..20422   23251 --25842  --Z3042  _13.4805 _.39ZO5U   _PziC6?    48722
SOlO  OP'ERATING INCOME,    . -23e6  _. .9115. 292-4.8954                  -.18314   "21503  __2005A  _326L36 - -3U144  _48203  _102606-  64/961  .795/8  _512623
5030 NET INCOME PEP INI    7386          9115      9924     8954              18314   21503   28056   4268,6   381I44   48903  187606    67961   7 957¾ 97~         2623
5040 INT CHARGED, OP'       _._4222      4 .24A9-- ._~6569  4055           .. 4192  - 3252  _ 30    3430-313t  __828  _.2124O P )-11437. 10,66?  -9828
5060 NET INCOME                 30941    4366    5355,    4899                14122   17551   214354   29256   _351008   46075  166366    56524   6.~              0 2745
FUTURE TARIFF INCREASESCZ   -        ..       -        -                  -         -          24      11        14       22      -          36        1 2        9
RATE OF RETURN
ON EQUITY              8.3     5.5       6.3      5.6         .      8.9       6.9       7.9      7. 9      7.1     8.8                8,9       8.8       8.7
ON NET FIXED ASSETS    8.6     5.4       6.0      5.5                8.0       6.9       8.2      8.2       9.4      8.4     -         8.9       9.6      10.4
OPERATING RATIO 7.           54      10        50       55                 44        45        42    _42          40      40                 3 7       36        34
REV/GROSS PLANT           0,16     0.09      0.18     0.10               0.11      0. 10     0.111    0.11     0.11    0.11                0.11      0.11      0.11
DEPREC/CROSS PLANT        4.14     2.42      2.11     2 .33              2.40      2.40      2.40)    2.40      2. 40   2.40               240       2.40      2.40
JANUARY 31, 1977



GHANA                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Table 2
VOLTA RIVER_AUTHORiTY
KPONG HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
FORECASTS FUNDS FLOWS STATEMNTS
(L-00Q0)
TOTAL
1976    1.97-;7    . 21      1979    1.980    -Pytll 197641981   :1.9,92     1983      1984
601(0 T.N iL. HNr-i. S OUIRfC ES
602--.NE'T INCOME DEIN                             1.831..1   21.503    28056    32686    38144    48903  187606    67961    79578   92623
6030 -DEPRECIATION                               .....60W  ........ 9532  -..O8    11262 ..--34lJ5  -18;382  -20882  --24B41 .--24547 ..-2925~1
606      TOC)TA L.                                  5./               38745    4 4 653.  51579    67292  258495    91802   l 06125   122174
608(1 OPERATIONAL RE--
6 031  (0:1: oEMEN 1
65090 -WORKINIi CAPITAL                              5 1.       /'      1251       770      1.56    1.655      4427     2732       442      2002
6.1.00 --DIEBT SERVI1CE                             8876    (9/3 4 ~11603    1434(0  .19206    26294    90053    42227    51475    57155
6110 -DIVID[ENDS                                 -- 102000          -- 0002000 --     2000        --- .2000  --.1000  ---2000   -2000  ..20
61 40    TOTVAL                                  ...11394 ...118-11 ..,.1485-4 ..--1211.0 --..21362  --22942  -106480  --46259.   53912 --.61157
61.60 NET VAVAIIA I3L E
61.70  FROM (.PER4T'fIONSi                        :1.3797   1.9224    23891    27543    30217    37343  152015    44843    52208   6101.7
6190 C'ONSTRUJCT ION
61 91  RhI (.41. TRF.'M EN TS'
62~10 K1PONG BASE COSTS                             2377    3505.,.,9   56723    682.74    34197     0996  2061.26          0         00
620 KPONG PRICE CONTINGENCIES                        13    `.. 06 6   9630   :1.8431.   :76 4      5119 4    52503        0         0         0
6230 'SEFWI-WEWSO LINE                                  0     1265      22 42     1.092        0         0     4599         0         0         0
62.40 REACTIVE POWER CO)PENSATION                       0        0      1035     3220       345          0     4600         00                  0
6245 MISCELIAN~~QJUS                            7754      6000       00 2000      2000      2000         21754      2800      420        00
6250 BUI                                            -0...  . .. . .... .. 0 ....0  -.   ..-.39.000 --.87000 .-126000  -168000 .131000 --.,58000
6295     TOT'AL                                    1 06A429 ...A..    9)0 7....1 63 ZKD 3012  -.92706 .-10319.O  -415582 .-120800  -.135200. 00
63:10 FIAI..(N.ANCE 'TO 17TNANCf.                   3:[ .41    21. 66    47739    6 547 .1   24 a9    65847  263567   125957    82992    -1017
6330 FINANCED BY'
6 34 0           D:R:I:11E1lNK I 0 A1N:140                              6:1. 0(   J1.2420   :1.:1.620  6330    44870        0         0         0
6 . j0 (V U II: R INTTERNTIONAL LOANS                  0   2   40    4 420)0    57 60    23800      45,0 0  13 00 0        0         0         0
6"11 39i`j  1 301RRD41.TN13V.0 . 0 .0 ..  .... .. ..                           .. .... .. 0.260..61000.33600 .112500.92600    40.400
6 *460   TOTl..                                              3 1300"   50j300    70020    63020    71830  236 170  .1.17500    92600    40400
0 I hI:RR1RS & 0M 111 13,30N3                        0         0                  0         0         0         0        0         0            40
V: 033.1.48                                          61.34    25.j6:1.    454;-6   5 3 1    5933    22903   -- 34 57     9603    41.417
6.0   A  CJ   LJ'I1JLAE:D                           3:1.4     9232              J.. 35  6 3119   1.6920    22903    2290,3   144-46    24054    65471.
67:1.0 NIo.TAVr T   I: LDE.
6 2( loM  1:1 RI ATVIO ONF/
6730  1:: 1:10 S.RIJ c Ti: ON REO 3  :1.50    43       ~~~~      ~~~      ~~~       ~~~       ~~~~3:3  .30  33  36  37  2 6  39  102
6/q  *...l .A N' :I:N C02.)                          3.        4. 6      5 I [               5.1      4.0       4.6       4.3       4.5      4.7
6 5C 0       E:.:: si: o 0:1::Eo: Cw::j.R                      0 .        .        3 1.      2.7      2.6       2.9       2. 2      21       2 
JANuARY 31, 1977



ANNEX 9
Table 3
30ThT RINEX UTHORITY
TC1QNC HiYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
BALANCE SHEET
( KO0O)
-ACTUAL----. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~TOA
FINANCIA  YEAR; JAN, 1I  DEC. 31                                                                                                     TT1
7550     -    - - --'
75 6(O Fl. ANT  N  1'f4[IN   196461  196794  1.99575'  I$9.[1               373144  421190  469521  527767  591821  940624  55401:1. 1046093  [.1661.6:3 1296441.
7570 LI::.53S  DEHI"ECTI4 IllS  -24583.-22325  -_33823 ---8455             --26OY6  9.3222 -115028 -139648  .168444 -2053L2 -133026 .251223  3n60.32 -362252
751.3( NETF PLANT            171873  187469  1-65747  [.6 1456              297048  327-,'I91  354493  388119  423377  735262?  420915  794300   860126  927189
7600 W8118K IN l1111GJIESF'    4453      6744     5347      9657               7002   4 520G7  117716  209432  306:340  142579  138059  32,7552   4 3'3.C.  2`3 6384
76,2 5 CUIIdFEN'T ASSET iS
7627  -CAlSH AN0 DANKS
7630   0 FPE84 AT1.:N AIF REQL)    2661  5196     9344      5916               2000    2000       2000     2000     2000      2000     2000      2000       'mc)0    2000
7631   TEMP0WJ841Y SURF1           0         0        0        0               3148    9282    11643    16389   16920   22903    13414   14446             cK.    ..471.
7632 - ACCOUNT' 1  EELC        3409      3878     3984      4849               65530    7367      9711    11187    [2798    163839   10747   21564    'Y29 i/ y   23269
7635 --INVENTIR'IES             1183     1337      1376     1332               1547     1873      1976     2038     2066      2103      1934     2169      2.230    20 1
7640 -1976 ECG RECEIVABLES   ---- 0  -  - -0 -----0 - 0- (                     -.J2    .      .0 ........…0.0----     ..0           .---i32.    - C0               .
7670     T OT ALI.              7273    1 04 11J   14704   1.2097             14015   21.022   25530   31614   33784   43395   28227   4 01 79    5301 3   93041
7690     T 0TIA .            163599  184624  135798  1 8332 1(              318065  393500  497739  629165  763501  921236  587201 1.162-031  1396731 :1.5;119 I14
/71l0   .1 31) .1 . I1)I5 
772).
77Y30 FQU IT Y
7770 --CAP FI TA L.           59129   59129   59129   59129                   59129   59 1.2 959129  59129  59129  59129    5 9 12              59129    5912.9   59 129
7820 -RETAINF::0 EARNINGS      7296      9657   12885    15784                27906   43457   65811   93067  126075  170150   8774.4  224674   291.535  372330
7985 -REVALUATIL1N RESF.R __8252  -1.5821 -13568  -1 3568                  -.1.42233 -i175408 -.2113292 §25039.3 --293086 -339652 .235446  -420536   5(.90290  --60252.3
7 995     f1 IIA141.          74684   34657   85582   88481                  229768  277994  336339  402589  4711290  568936  38231.9  704339   053623 1033982
8010 LOCNG TElls DfE3T       103024   95161   93808   83723                   84039    IO  10.5 2  155650  220058  2772 10  342326,  198289  445209   522391  548056
8030 CU R ' NT L I 4511131I1 F   3 ~S
80-40 -AL:COUNITS PAYA40A1      3797     3237      4799     44710              :00       6(1      3800     3900      4000     4-100     3733     4200      43 00     43001
8050  IE T FNT 1 ONcS            394      15i        94      2.46                 0         0        0         0        0         0)       0         0         00
3055 F::INANCIAI.. :l41,        100     ..1418 -lt.515   i~.. 290          ..1253  . 145~4..950 ---618 _-.00i- 32 A.2 859  --.2323   ... 10 962 ~125
8:09(O    10141                 589      4806      6408     6006               4253     50154     5750     6518      3001     9974      6592.   12483    [5.:7   16876
9100     TOT M.              133599  184624  185798  183210                  318065  393500  497739  629165  7.30 1  921236  53721:01 116(2031  I 3 9 6 7(13  15,93891L4
92.20 [11.UT/Ff01 & EQS 1 TY      58       53        5 2      50                 217      ;.3       32        35       37        30 1               39       33a       75
9221".  D:ED /F OU LTY           1.4      1.1       1.1      1.0                0.4       0,4      0.5       0.5      0.6      0.6       0,        0. 6      16       0,5
9230 CURRENT Ri k  Til           1.2      2.2       2.3      C,0                3.3       4.2.     4.4      4.9       1. 2.    .44       4.3       3, .2              5.5
9240 REF141[[R                    2.1       21       20)       24                2(0       2        20        20      :20                                      02.0
9245 (WE CE 1  . YOIj .1    I A4~ Y  X7     77       72       1:17               72        72       72        72       72        72        77272.
9 2 50 N ET/ GROC.)S  F'l 451l 3  87       85        83      38 I                B0       I'8       76        74       72        78      'Y6        76        *47
9270 PLANT JNUPH41I %              0         0        1         '                  7        2        (I                  L       4Ll                                    0
92380 (1NN1.14  [141 114(11N    [1..0   0.0    0               .0[0. 0                   J.1 .1..   11.0    J.1I. 0  [[.0 ~    1.] .0   131 0      .I J 10   10      1
JANUARY 31. 1477



ANNEX 9
Table 4
VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
KPONG HlYROELECTRIC PROJECT
DEBT SERVICE SCHEDULE
(0 '000o)                        TOTAL
1976    1977    1978    1979        1990    1981 i     9tl1    1982    1983       .984
900 DEST STATEMENT
9 5() -     .--..  ----  ',-_ ... 
1000 PROPOSED BANK WUA
1030 PROPRROWANKOS                                 0    8400    6100   12420   11620    6330   44870              0        0        0
1030 -BORROWINGS  ~~0                          00       0                 0        0        0    2893,    2893    21893
0.40  AMORTIZATION                                 0    8400   14500   26920   38540   44870             0   41977   39084   36191
10   INTEREST D8 50A)                              0      357      973    1760    2782    3545    9418    7691    3445    3199
t,     C -INOMMITMENT CHGE                         0      137      251      181       91       24      683        0        0        0
1 380  1D -2:                                      0      100-    100       100      100      100                 0        0 °
.l190---lfeC i0                                   0      494     1224    1942    2873    3569   10101            0        0        0
''1,30 -Bol:130OW1N35                            0   22900        44200    57600   2380000    4500  1500300             0        0
5040  BORROINTAGN                                  0        0        0                 0      575      575    5300(   7J300    5300
'i,J10  P:LN'll: E:ST(31505)0°  22900   6.7100  124700  148500  152425                                   0  l47' 5    L825  136525
0    N C R1,T.O%                            0      401    1575    3356    4781    5266   15 479          27A     50527     87
13   i   /3T(35Z                               0     100      100      100      100      100        U0                 00
'. I ,0 P:If!C                     W              0      401    1575    3356    4781    5266            9                 0        0
mi0 1-I  j DC AN 310--OH
340  A,'4OI 1 ATION                           2SJj    30.73    3201     3388    3584    379        YIl    4015    4249    4497
l  0 -O   1 1                                  .1:N!.'  pj996   39 4. 54770   31382   27293E   2¾            19989   15740   11243
1   N -TERE'I' (5O15%)           I          2439       1, 0     2091   1902    1701                         2 261'    1027    776
QiRD LOAN 618--lH3
'040  A0MORTIZATION                                0        0        0     2U'      X' 1              913      345      367      391
00-N) -I:PAL ANCE                              7304    7304    7304    '.19 3  04           630 I      0    6046    5679    5288
1 10 -INTEREST (6,5%)                            475      475      475      465      4 16     426    2762       404      381      356
2'.40 -4M15I IATIOUN                            8397      '29      962      995    1031    1067    5881        1105    1144    11S4
25EJO  BALANCE                                 2046i   19j32   18570   1 757   16544   15477             0   14372   1 13228   12044
.610 -INTEREST (3.5S2                            732      700      /        633      597      560    3988       522      483      442
1000 t1S ECX IM BANK
35040  AMORTIZATION                              468      468      468      468      468      468    2808       468      468      468
308O  -BALANCE                                  4451    3983    3515    3047    2579    2111             0    1643    1175        707
3110) --INTEREST (5.752)                         269      242      216      189      162      135    1213       108       81       54
3500) GHANA GOVERNMENT
31:40 --AMORTIZATION                             103      103      103      103      103      103      618      103      103      103
15530O -BALANCE                                 1178    1075       972      869      766      663        0      560      457      354
X61.0 --INTEREST (1,5%)                           31       28       26       23       20       1S      1.46      1.5      13       10
4000 CIDA
-1040 --AMORTIZATION                I            357      362      368      373      378      383    2221       388      394      399
4030 -BALANCE             1          ' |        9649    9287    B9i9    85461   8168    7785             0    7397    7003    6604
4110 -INTEREST (2,5tM                    J .     246      237      228     .k9I.            .  i QY   1337  )7p          180      170
4500 I'tJTURE LOAN
753( -BORROWINGS                                   o        0        0        0   27600   61000   88600  117500   92600   40400
4530 --BALANCE                                     0        0        0        0   27600   88600          0  206100  298700  339100
46:l0 -INTEREST (.l00)                             0        0        0        0    1380    5810    7190   14735   25240   31890
4660 -COMMITMENT CHGE                              0        0        0        0    1168    2107    3276        1438      650      151
4680 --IDC-                                        0        0        0        0      100      100        0      100      100      100
4690 -IDC                                          0        0        0        0    2548    7917   10466   16173   25890-  32040'
9500 DEBET SUMMARY                                          .                                    .-..      -
95:l0  BORROWINGS                 -                0   31300   50300   70020   63020  '71830  286470  117500   92600   40400
9:J520 -REfAYMENTS               ,              4684    4887    5102    5612    5968    6714   32867   14617   14918   15235
95>30 -BALANCE                                 84039  110452  155650  220058  277210  342326  342326  445209  522891  548056
95s0 -COMMITMENT FEES                              0      137      251      181    1259    2131       3959    1438       650      lSl
911160 -INTEREST                                4192    4710    6250    8547   12079   17449   5322 7   26172   35907   41769
9'570 --INTEREST & CF                           4192    4847    6501    8728   13338   19580   57186   27610   36557   41920
9580 -DEBT SERVICE                              8876    9734   11603   14340   19206   26294   90053   42227   51475   57155
9590 -1DC                                          0     895    2799    5298   10202   16752   35946   16173   25890   3204.1
9660 AVE INT %                                  4.85    4.98    4.89    4.65    5.36    6.32    5.18    7.01    7.55    7 33
JANUARY 31, 1977



GHANA                         ANNEX 10
VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY                  Page 1 of 2 pages
KPONG IYDRO ELECTRIC PROJECT
Tariffs
1.  VRA Bulk Supply - See Annex 9.
2.  Electricity Corporation of Ghana Retail Tariff as of October, 1976.
All tariffs on monthly basis
1.  Domestic                                           _       US$ (official rate)
up to 30 kWfh (per kWh)                          0.060    0.052
30 - 60 kWh (per kWh)                            0.040    0.035
over 60 kWh (per kWh)                            0.030    0.026
minimum monthly charge                           3.00      2.61
2.  Commercial
a.  Maximum demand less than 100 kVA
up to 50 kWh                                 6.65      5.78
51 - 150 kWh (per kWh)                       0.080    0.070
over 100 kWh (per kWh)                       0.067    0.058
b.  Maximum demand not less than 100 kVA
demand charge per kVA maximum demand         3.33      2.90
minimum demand charge                      333.00   290.00
Energy charge - per kVA maximum demand
up to 170 kWh (per kWh)                      0.024    0.021
171 to 340 kWh (per kWh)                     0.022    0.019
over 340 kWh (per kWh)                       0.016    0.014
3.  Combined Premises
up to 50 kWh                                     4.00      3.48
51 to 100 kWh (per kWh)                          0.065    0.057
over 100 kWh (per kWh)                           0.055    0.048
4. Industrial
a. Maximum demand less than 100 kVA
Energy charge
up to 50 kWh                                 6.65      5.78
50 to 150 kWh (per kWh)                      0.080    0.070
over 100 kWh (per kWh)                       0.067    0.058
b.  Maximum demand not less than 100 kVA
i.  high voltage metering
demand charge per IVA maximum demand  3.20        2.78
minimum demand charge per month        320.00   278.00
Energy charge per kVA maximum demand
up to 170 kWh                            0.024    0.021
170 to 340 kWh                           0.019    0.017
over 340 kWh                             0.014    0.012



ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 2 pages
__         _US$
ii. Medium voltage metering
demand charge per kVTA maximum demand        3.33         2.90
minimum demand charge                     333.00        290.00
Energy Charge per kVA maximum demand
up to 170 kWh (per kWh)                      0.024        0t021
170 to 340 kWh (per kWh)                    0.022         0.019
over 340 kWh (per kWh)                       0.016        0.014
5.  Streeting lighting (per kWh)                         0.080         0.070
6. Flat rate lighting - maximum three lamps
each lamp less than 40 watts                    0.72          0.63
each lamp 41 to 60 watts                        0.90          0.78
7. Special Tariff to Certain Industries,
- Fixed monthly charge 1/12 total annual
cost of depreciation, O&M and allocated
overheads associated with service.
- Cost to ECG + 20% based on average price
per kWh at VRA substation supplyirng service.



ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 9 pages
GHANA
VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
KPONG HYDRO ELECTRIC PROJECT
Economic Justification
Introduction
1.       The economic justification of the Kpong project is examined in
detail in this annex and focusses on three main aspects:
1. the forecast of demand for power (MW) and energy (GWh)
and the growth in demand made possible by the project;
2. a demonstration that Kpong is the least cost solution
to meet incremental demand following the runout of
Akosombo capacity;
3. the valuation of the benefits of incremental consump-
tion of electricity and the determination of the dis-
count rate which equalizes the present value of bene-
fits with the present value of costs including addi-
tional investment required to distribute Kpong power.
2.       The economic analyses are based on the following assumptions:
(i)   1976 prices for all civil and electro-mechanical work
for generation and transmission and resettlement as
reviewed July, 1976.
(ii) Local exchange components converted to US$ at shadow
exchange rate of 1.70 Cedis per US dollar.
(iii) Drawing down the level of Lake Akosombo reservoir to
cover hydro energy deficits from 1978 to 1980. The
reservoir will be refilled from 1980 to 1985.
(iv) Load forecast as given in Table 2.
(v)   Benefits attributable to Kpong beginning at the runout
of Akosombo long term energy capability in 1978. Any
load which increases above its level at the time of
Akosombo runout is attributable to the availability of
Kpong since Kpong ensures that these loads can be met
in the long run. (See Table 3 and Figure 1).



ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 9 pages
(vi) Interrupting supply of 15 GWh of energy for steam
generation at Tema in 1979 to avoid operation of
Hiesel generators to meet peak load. Consumer will
switch to oil which is least cost alternative.
(vii) Surplus hydro energy in the system until 1984 will
be used to meet heating loads at Tema. The corres-
ponding benefits are valued at the price of oil.
Heating loads will be permanently dropped in 1984
or met from surplus at Bui.
(viii)Distribution costs associated but separate from the
Kpong Project of $300 per kW FCC cperating and main-
tenance costs equal to $0.001 per kWh.
(ix) VRA operating and maintenance costs of $1.76 per kW
year based 160 kW installed capacity as estimated by
Acres Engineering.
(x)   $6.3 million additional transmission investment from
1979 to 1984 required to fully utilize Kpong capabi-
lity.
(xi) Revenues resulting from the application of 1976 tariffs
taken as the minimum proxy for economic benefits.
Total economic benefits include a consumer surplus
which can be estimated by comparing with alternative
sources of supply and comparison of Ghanaian tariffs
with tariffs in other countries.
Demand Forecast
3.       The load (MW) and energy (GWh) demand forecasts are shown in Tables
1 and 2. Details of the forecasting methodology are given in Chapter V,
paras. 5.02 to 5.04 of the text. Electricity supply in Ghana is limited by
energy rather than power capability as can be seen from Tables 1 and 2 reserve
(demand vs. capability). This situation persists at least until the commission-
ing of the project following Kpong. For this reason, the additional growth in
demand following the runout of Akosombo is based on the energy (GWh) forecast
in Table 2 and the incremental growth in energy attributable to the availability
of Kpong is shown in Table 3 and graphically in Figure 1. Interruptible loads
for industrial steam generation at Tema, which are discussed in detail in
para. 6, are included in the ECG forecast.
System Capability to Meet Load Forecast
4.       The long term caoability of the Akosombo and Kpong hydro plants and
the diesel facilities are shown in Tables 1 and 2. The Akosombo plus Kpong
plants can meet peak demand until 1985 except for 1979 when the 30 MW diesel
plant could be used for peak generation of 6 MW if all loads (firm plus inter-
ruptible) were met. VRA plans to shed load if necessary to avoid the operation
of the diesels at an estimated cost of 0.052 $/kWh produced. Based on the fore-



ANNEX 11
Page 3 of 9 pages
cast, 15 GWh of diesel generation will be avoided in 1979 during t.e peak
load condition.
5.        The Kpong plant will not be commissioned until year end 1980.
As a result of this schedule there will be a hydro energy deficit total-
ling 777 GWh from 1978 to 1980. This deficit can be met from Akosombo
by drawing down the level of the Lake Volta reservoir by no more than
2 ft (0.61 m) since the usable storage of the reservoir is 10,000 GWh or
nearly 2 years of total gross consumption. The total hydro energy deficit
for the years 1978 to 1980 is 7.8% of the usable stored energy or alterna-
tively 14% of the annual long term firm capability of Akosombo.
6.        Long term firm load growth can be accepted in advance of the com-
missioning of Kpong by the combined operation of Kpong plus Akosombo to
restore the reservoir level after commissioning. The combined Akosombo/
Kpong system will be operated so that no water is spilled at either dam
thereby restoring the reservoir to its original level. This operation is
shown graphically in Figure 1. Because of the need to refill the Lake
Volta reservoir, there will be a considerably reduced net surplus of
energy in the combined Akosombo/Kpong system amounting to 40 GWh/year until
1985. The 2 ft (0.61 m) maximum drawdown of the reservoir level is not
expected to affect the power capability of either the Kpong or Akosombo
plants to any significant degree.
Interruptible Loads for Steam Generation at Tema
7.        Two textile manufacturers at Tema are installing electrode boilers
for steam generation as a result of the lower cost to themselves of using
electrode boilers rather than oil fired boilers based on 1975 prices of
electricity and oil. This was a rational decision from the point of view of
the industrialists but not so from the point of view of the overall Ghanaian
economy. The long run marginal cost of electricity is greater than the
economic cost of oil for equivalent steam generation. VRA has agreed in
principle that the supply of electricity for the operation of electrode
boilers will be made interruptible and will continue only as long as surplus
hydro energy is available. The oil fired boilers will be maintained in
working order so that the switch from electricity to oil heating can be made
without loss of production.
8.        The Tema heating load in 1979 is 16 MW and 83 GWh.  Since this
load is interruptible, use of dieiel generation to meet the 6 MW deficit in
hydro capacity can be avoided by ;witching to oil heating at lower resource
cost to Ghana. Fifteen GWh of electric energy consumption will thus be
refused.
9.        Gas oil is the type of fuel used to power the boilers at Tema.
Burning gas oil directly in a boiler is approximately 90 percent efficient.
Using gas oil to generate electricity which is then used to power electrode
boilers is extremely inefficient because of the high thermal losses in the
diesel engine plus losses in transmission. Electrode boilers are themselves
100 percent efficient. Overall efficiency for the fuel to electricity to



ANNEX 11
Page 4 of 9 pages
heat conversion is only 32 percent.
10.       The consumer price at Tema for gas oil c.i.f. in early 1976 was
about $115/ton with the local exchange component (assumed to be 15 percent)
shadow priced at ¢ 1.70 =$1.00. This is the price which an industrialist
faces in comparing the cost of oil heating with the cost of electric heat-
ing. The resource savings to Ghana, on the other hand, realized by substi-
tuting electricity for oil heating are less than the consumer price since
taxes, duties, and sellers' margins must be deducted. The resource savings
are virtually 100 percent foreign exchange being comprised of crude oil,
refining, and transportation. The resource cost of oil is approximately
$84/ton. This amount will be saved if surplus hydro electricity substi-
tutes for existing oil heating. The equivalent costs per kWh are given in
para. 29.
Project Costs
11.       Cashflows for the Kpong project and additional costs associated
with the project are shown in Table 6. These costs are based on Acres/
Shawinigan Engineering estimates in mid 1976 dollars with local exchange
components converted at a shadow exchange rate of 1.70 cedis/dollar to
reflect more closely the estimated economic value of foreign exchange to
Ghana. Cashflows shown under Generation include civil works, powerhouse
electro-mechanical facilities, resettlement costs, and compensation for
lost production in agriculture.
12.       Additional costs associated with the project include the Sefwi-
Wiawso-Bibiani transmission line, the static and synchronous condensers for
reactive power compensation, and other transmission facilities necessary to
distribute Kpong power. The distribution cashflows assume a $300/kW cost
for annual growth in ECG peak demand, at medium and low voltage. Distribu-
tion costs must be included in the economic cost of distributing Kpong power
to final consumers. Annual operating and maintenance costs for VRA are
estimated at $1.76/kW based on 160 kW installed capacity. ECG O&M is
estimated at $0.001/kWh annually.
Kpong as the Least Cost Solution
13.       Kpong can be shown to be the least cost solution to provide for
future growth in electricity demand by determining the break-even discount
rate between the Kpong project and feasible alternatives. If the break-even
discount rate exceeds the economic cost of capital in Ghana then Kpong is the
least cost solution provided that the present value of Kpong is less than the
present value of the alternatives at discount rates less than the economic
cost of capital.
14.       Kpong is the least cost hydro project which can be implemented at
this time. More risk and cost are involved in the next most attractive hydro
project at Bui. The civil works are estimated to involve 5 times the mater-
ial and the transmission facilities would be 4 times as long for comparable
output. The alternative to Kpong at this time would, therefore, be a thermal
plant with which Ghana has no previous experience.



ANNEX 11
Page 5 of 9 pages
15.       The benefits obtained from a thermal plant of comparable capabi-
lity with Kpong would be the same as with Kpong; therefore, they can be
ignored in the analysis. Similarly, distribution costs and additional
transmission can be excluded.
16.       The basic assumptions regarding costs of the thermal alternative
are shown in Table 4. Only generation capital and O&M costs need be consi-
dered for Kpong as shown in Table 5, since distribution and other transmis-
sion costs would be the same in both cases. Cashflows for both thermal and
Kpong are shown in Table 5.
17.       The cost of thermal alternative is most sensitive to the cost of
oil. For this reason a graph of the break-even discount rate between Kpong
and thermal is shown in Figure 2. It can be seen from this graph that Kpong
is more attractive, that is, the break-even discount rate exceeds the
economic cost of capital of 11% for all prices of crude above $6 per
barrel. Kpong is, therefore, the least cost solution to supplying Ghana's
immediate needs for growth in electricity supply.
Valuation of Benefits
18.       Project costs are quantifiable with a high degree of reliability
in comparison with project benefits which depend primarily on the utility
consumers attach to electricity consumption. Theoretically, this utility
can be approximated by the area under the aggregate demand curve for elec-
tricity. There will be additional secondary benefits such as the expansion
of employment opportunities and general multiplier effects of the availabi-
lity of electricity to industry.
19.       In reality it is extremely difficult to estimate a demand curve
for aggregate consumption. Only one real point is known for each customer
class and that is the quantity actually consumed at the price paid. Other
points can be roughly estimated by comparing the price of alternatives such
as oil for steam generation and domestic cooking, candles or lamps for
lighting and diesel generation for own consumption for industrial use. The
price charged for electricity in Ghana is presently based on the low cost
of generation at Akosombo. This price has no direct relationship with the
utility of consumption or the consumers' willingness to pay for electricity
except for those unknown number of consumers at the margin who are wil:Ling
to pay no more than the current price. Revenues obtained from tariffs are
thus a minimum proxy for economic benefits which understates the total bene-
fits of electricity consumption and the total value to final consumers.
20.       In recognition of the difficulty of providing a reliable estimate
of economic benefits of the Kpong project, two approaches have been taken.
First, benefits have been valued at existing tariffs and costs of alterna-
tives currently in use and known to be applicable, such as oil heating for
steam generation and diesel generation for own use. This estimate can be
regarded as a minimum valuation of total economic benefits. Secondly, a
valuation has been made using prices paid for electricity in a neiboring



ANNEX 11
Page 6 of 9 pages
country, Liberia, which is at a similar stage of economic and social deve-
lopment. These prices are, on an average, about 2.0 times the current
price of electricity in Ghana. This comparison requires the assumption
that Ghanaian and Liberian consumers have a similar utility of consump-
tion of electricity. Reasons for the choice of Liberian tariffs as a
proxy for benefits in Ghana will be explained below.
Electricity Prices in Neighboring Countries
21.       The average price of electricity in Liberia is the lowest of
4 neighboring countries for which data was available as shown below:
$/kWh 1974
Liberia             0.055
Cameroon            0.075
Ivory Coast         0.077
Niger               0.130
Liberia was chosen as the standard of comparison to provide a conservative
basis of valuation.
Electricity Tariff in Liberia
22.       The 1976 tariff and distribution of consumption in Liberia is
shown below using a shadow exchange rate of 1.2 L$/US$.
%     $US/kWh
Residential                                  37      0.064
Commercial                                  31       0.052
Industrial                                  22       0.043
Government and street lighting              10       0.058
100      0.055 average
Mines                                                0.031
Overall average                                      0.046
Application of Liberian Tariff to Ghanaian Consumption
23.       A weighted average price based on the Liberian 1976 tariff for
consumption by ECG and Akosombo Township consumers was determined using the
1980 percentage distribution of ECG consumption as weights. This particular
year was chosen as it is the mid point of the growth of load attributable to
Kpong. Consumption in Akosombo Township is in reality similar to ECG but
customers currently enjoy a reduced tariff from VRA because of their unique
association with the Akosombo hydro plant. There is little reason to believe
that their valuation of electricity consumption is any less than that of ECG
customers.



ANIIEX 11
Page 7 of 9 pages
ECG 1980 %       1976 Liberiar Tariff $/kwh
Residential-/                         20                 0.064 + 10% tax
Commercial                            18                 0.052
Industrial                            61                 0.043
Street lighting                        1                 0.058
100                0.050 average
Uncertainty of Applicability of Liberian Tariff
and Demand Elasticity
24.       It is not certain that Ghanaians do value electricity to the
same extent as Liberians or in other words that the aggregate demand curve
is the same in both countries. Allowance must also be made for demand
elasticity in addition to an allowance for uncertainty. A sharp rise in
prices would reduce aggregate consumption to an amount less than the fore-
cast shown in Table 3 because of demand elasticity. Demand elasticity for
electricity is usually quite low because electricity consumption is a small
part of total expenditures for most residential consumers and the cost of
substitutes is high for both residential and industrial customers. Oil for
industrial heating and domestic cooking is the exception. The uncertainty
regarding the applicability of the Liberian tariff could result in an over
or under estimation of benefits of consumption in Ghana with a range, say,
of + 25% of Liberian prices. To allow for the combination of uncertainty
and demand elasticity 75% of the Liberian tariff has been used to value
consumption by ECG, the Mines, and Akosombo Township using the forecast of
Table 3 as the basis.
Valuation of Sales to Communaute Electrigue du Benin(CEB)
25.       The only benefit to Ghana from Sales of electricity to CEB is
the revenue received which is in US dollars. The price is fixed by con-
tract which was renegotiated July 1976.
Summary of Tariffs Used to Value Benefits
26. October 1976 Tariffs:
Official Exchange         Shadow Exchange
per kWh                     Cedis        $            Cedis       $
ECG retail average2-       0.03584  0.03117         0.03584  0.02108
Mines                     0.00862  0.00750          0.00862  0.00507
Akosombo Township          0.00922  0.00681          0.00922  0.00542
CEB                       0.00783  0.00681          0.01157  0.00681
27.  75% of Liberian Tariff Applied to Ghana
per kWh                                Shadow Exchange Rate
ECG retail average2/                  Cedis          US$
ECG retail average                    0.065         0.038
Mines                                  0.039         0.023
Akosombo Township                      0.065         0.038
CEB                                   0.116          0.068
1/ Ghanaian consumers pay a 10% retail tax on residential consumption which
is not paid by Liberians.
2/ Includes 10%s Fax oii residential consumption.



ANNEX 11
Page 8 of 9 pages
Interruptible Supply for Steam Generation
28.       Consumption of electricity which substitutes for existing oil
heating must be valued at the resource cost savings to Ghana of not con-
suming oil. There is no cost for hydro generation for electric heating
on an interruptible basis, since only surplus hydro energy will be used.
However, only resource costs, which are less than consumer costs, can be
avoided if oil is not used for existing heating.
29.       The consumer is willing to pay the consumer price for oil heat-
ing as a maximum value of using electricity as a substitute, considering
the lower maintenance costs and convenience of using electricity. Addi-
tional consumption of energy (oil or electricity) for steam generation
greater than at present is thus valued at the consumer price for oil
which is estimated to be $0.0083/kWh.
30.       The interruptible Tema heating loads amount to 19 percent of
the Kpong long term energy capability from 1980 on. These loads are not
attributable to Kpong once the capacity of Kpong is reached in 1984. If
they are not interrupted, these loads will be attributable to the next
hydro project.
Value of Interruptible Heating Loads at Tema per kWh Equivalent of Oil
31.                                   Official Rate          Shadow Rate
Cedis     $           Cedis        $
Existing oil heating        0.00895  0.00778      0.01322  0.00778
Additional heating          0.01278  0.01111      0.01421  0.00836
Benefit Cashflows
32.       The cashflow streams for benefits valued at the 1976 Ghanaian
tariff are shown in Table 7 and those valued at 75% of the Liberian tariff,
in Table 8.
Effects of Inflation
33.       Cashflows of costs are expressed in constant 1976 dollars; hence,
inflation effects are disregarded. In order to maintain comparability
between costs and benefits, the benefits must also be evaluated in constant
terms. If tariff increases in current terms are not sufficient to maintain
the tariff at the 1976 level in real terms, then there will be an increase
in consumer surplus as the price of electricity decreases in real terms.
Inflation, however, does not effect the economic value of electricity con-
sumption. This value is affected only by a change in the utility of con-
sumption as demonstrated by willingness to pay resulting from changes in
real income and consumption preferences.



ANNEX 11
Page 9 of 9 pages
Equalizing Discount Rate
34.       The present value of the benefit and cost streams taken at the
beginning of 1976 are shown graphically in Figure 3 at varying discount
rates. The discount rate which equalizes costs and benefits is an esti-
mate of the economic rate of return under different assumptions as
explained above. A sensitivity analysis to error in the demand forecast
and cost estimates is also provided. It is apparent that the estimate of
the economic rate of return is far less sensitive to error in the demand
forecast or error in cost estimates than to valuation of the benefits of
electricity consumption. The equalizing rates of return under different
assumptions are summarized in the table below:
Equalizing discount rate %
Assumptions                                     Base Line Cost   +10% Cost
1. benefits valued at 1976 Ghanaian
tariff and demand as forecast in Table 3             7.0             6.4
2. benefits valued at 1976 Ghanaian tariff
with demand 10% less than forecast                   6.8             6.2
3. benefits valued at 75% of Liberian prices
for forecast demand                                 11.6            10.8
4. benefits valued at 75% of Liberian prices
with 10% less demand                                11.3            10.5
Future Tariff Policy
35.       Based on the assumptions presented regarding the valuation of bene-
fits of electricity consumption to Ghanaian consumers it would appear that
sufficient consumer surplus exists to warrant raising tariffs 70% in real
terms as shown in Figure 4 to provide a rate of return based on revenues
alone equal to the cost of capital of 11%. Such action would result in mar-
ginal cost pricing of electricity. Marginal cost pricing is desirable in
the long run to provide economically efficient pricing signals to consumers.
It is, however, acknowledged that such a move is not realistic at present in
Ghana given the present inflationary conditions in Ghana, the historical low
price of electricity, and the price distortions for oil and other goods as a
result of import restrictions. Tariff studies for both VRA and ECG will be
undertaken to ensure that future prices reflect the changing cost of electri-
city in Ghana so that the most efficient use is made of the available supply
of electricity.



ANNEX 11
GHANA                                                     Table 1
VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY - KPONG
Hydro Electric Project
Maximum Demand
(Mega watts)                  1970   1971   1972   1973   1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
Valco                         250    244    295    315    315    315    315    400    400    400    400    400    400    400    400    400    400
ECG                           106    117    126    135    146    163    172    189    224    258    275    290    315    341    370    402    434
Mines                          34      37     38      38      40      42      42      44     46      48      50      52      55     57      60      63     66
Akosombo (Township &
Textiles)            5       5       7      6       6       8       8      8       8       8       8       8       8      9       9       9       9
CEB                            -       -        1     20      25      25      30     40      50      50      50      50      50     50      50      50      50
Sub-Total         395    403    467    514    532    553    567    681    728    764    783    800    828    857    889    924    959
+ Losses            11      11     13      14      15      18      19     23      25      28      29      30      32     34      36      39     41
- Diversity         28     34       9      15       7      15      16     20      23      24      26      27     29      31      33      35     37
TOTAL Feak Generation         378    380    471    513    540    556    570    684    730    768    786    803    831    860    892    928    963
Long Term Firm Capability
Akosombo (hydrO)              588    588    762    762    762    762    762    762    762    762    762    762    762    762    762    762    762
Diesels                        -       -      30      30      30      30      30     30      30      30      30      30      30     30      30      30      30
Kpong    (hydro)               -       -       -      -       -       -       -       -      -       -       40    140    140    140    140    140    140
TOTAL              588    588    792    792    792    792    792    792    792    792    832    932    932    932    932    932    932
Reserve + surplus             +210   +208   +321   +279    252   +236   +222   +108    +62    +24    +46   +129   +101    +72    +40                 +4    -31
- deficit
HydrO only                    +210   +208   +291   +249   +222   +206   +192   + 78    +32            -6    +16    +99    +71    +42    +10    -26    -61
/1 Expected to occur at year end.



ANNEX 11
GHANA                                                                     Table 2
VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY - KPONG
Hydro Electric Project
Gross EnerghyConsumption          1970      1971      1972      1973       1974      1975      1976   1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
(Giga watt hours)
Valco                        2,012    1,919    2,264    2,626    2,734    2,518    2,700  3,329   3,329   3,329   3,329   3,329   3,329   3,329   3,329   3,329   3,329
ECG                            565       659       699       768       840       874    1,003  1,171   1,366   1,518   1,578   1,665   1,821   1,971   2,139   2,324   2,510
Mines                          207       227       243       243       256       271        271    279      292      305      318      330      349      362      381      400      420
Akosombo Township &
Textiles) /2                        22        30         30        35        30        34        35      39       41       43       45       48       50      53       56       59       63
CEB                             -         -          I       100       128       141       173    244       313      313      313      313      313      313      313      313      313
Sub-Total            2,806    2,835    3,237    3,772    3,988    3,838    4,182  5,062   5,341   5,508   5,583   5,685   5,862   6,028   6,218   6,425   6,635
+ Losses                76        74        84       100        90         92       142    170      189      198      206      216      229      241      255      270      285
Total Gross Consumption
(Generation)         2,882    2,909    3,321    3,872    4,078    3,930    4,324  5,232   5,530   5,706   5,789   5,901   6,091   6,269   6,473   6,695   6,940
Total Long Term Firm Enery
Akosombo (hydro)             4,083    4,083   5,416        5,416    5,416    5,416    5,416  5,416   5,416   5,416   5,416   5,416   5,416   5,416   5,416   5,416   5,416
Diesels                        -         -        184        184       184       184       184    184       184      184      184      184      184      184      184      184      184
Kpong    (hydro)               -         -        -          -         -         -         -       -        -        -        -        970      970      970      970      970      970
TOTAL                4,083    4,083   5,600                  5,600    5,600    5,600  5,600   5,600   5,600   5              6,570   6,570   6,570   6,570   6,570   6,570
Balance + surplus                +1,181   +1,154  +2,279    +1,728   +1,522   +1,670   +1,276   +368              +70    -1061  -189/1  +669    +479    +301           +97    -125    -370
- deficit
Balance Hydro only               +1,181   +1,154  +2,095    +1,544   +1,338   +1,486   +1,092   +184    -114    -290    -373    +485    +295    +117                   -87    -309    -554
/1  Energy deficit to be made up by drawing down reservoir level of Volta Lake.
/2  Growth occurs in Akosombo Township load only after 1978.



ANNEX 11
GHANA                                       Table 3
VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY - KPONG
HYDRO ELECTRIC PROJECT
Incremental Energy Consumption (GWh) Attributable to Kpong
1985-
Year                                    1978      1979      1980     1981    1982    1983    1984    2025
ECG
Firm demand-VRA purchase               75        93      108       195      351     501      669      752
-retail sales/4            68        84        97      176      316      451     602      677
Interruptible -existing oiiL5          -         6011    104       104      104     104       20        0
-additional oiL/5       -         62        75       75       75      75       75        0
TOTAL ECG                  75       215       287      374      530      680     764      752
Mines                                     5        17        31       43       62       75      94      102
Akosombo township                         1         3         5        8       10       13      16       17
CEB                                      26        26        26       26       26      26       26       26
Sub-Total                               107       261      349       451      628     794      900     900
+ Losses                                  7        14        24       34       47       59      70       70
TOTAL                     114L3-   275/3    373/3    485        675      853     970      97011
/1  Figure allows for 15 GWh reduction in interruptible consumption for heating at Tema to avoid
diesel generation. Consumer will switch to oil heating.
/2  Long Term firm capability of Kpong.
/3  Results in drawing down of reservoir level of Lake Volta.  Deficit recovered in years 1981 to 1983
when surplus available.
/4  Retail  sales allow for 10% loss in distribution.
/5  Existing oil refers to substitution of electric heating for oil presently used for water heating at
Tema. Additional oil refers to the substitution of electricity for oil which would otherwise be
consumed given the current production plans at Tema.



ANNEX 11
Table 4
GHANA
VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY - KPONG
HYDRO ELECTRIC PROJECT
Comparison of Kpong Project with Thermal Plant Alternative -
Least Cost Solution Cost Parameters for Thermal Plant
1.  Installed capacity                  160 MW, 970 GWh
2.  Capital cost per net kW output    $400/kW
3.  Construction period                 3 years
4.  Commissioning date                  January 1981
5.  Service life                        25 years, no salvage
6.  Fuel rate                           300 gms/kWh net
7.  Fuel characteristics                - residual fuel oil
- 6.6 bbl/tonne
- $12/bbl crude
- $1/bbl transportation
- fuel oil cost 85%
crude cost cif
8.  Operation and maintenance           - 3% of fuel cost variable
- 2% of investment fixed
9.  Transmission - investment           $1.6 million split evenly 1979 and 1980
- O&M                 $100,000/yr
10. Restore Akosombo energy deficit   762 GWh over years 1981 - 1983 leaving
equal surplus capacity each year
11. Sensitivity tests on crude price  $10 and $14 per bbl



ANNEX 11
Table 5
GHANA
VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY - KPONG
HYDRO ELECTRIC PROJECT
Cashflows (Costs) Thermal Plant and Kpong
Thermal Plant - based on crude oil price of $12/bbl2'
1984-             2006-
1978     1979     1980     1981      1982     1983     2004     2005      2030
…_________                         $US     000…___________________
General - capital1!    21,333   21,333   21,333       -                                  64,000     -
Transmission - capital     -         800      800     -        -         -        -         -       -
Fuel + Variable O&M        -         -        -     20,644   20,644   20,644   21,649   21,649   21,649
Fixed generation O&M       -         -        -      1,920    1,920    1,920    1,920    1,920    1,920
Transmission O&M           -         -        -        100      100       100      100      100       100
Total             3   22,133   22,133   22,664             22,664   22,664   86,664   22,664
KPONG HYDRO PLANT
1984-
1976     1977     1978     1979      1980     1981     1982     1983    2030
Generation capital-/    2,181   27,549   44,367   52,750   21,844    7,262        -        -        -
Transmission capital       -         -        115    1,500    4,885
Generation O&M                                -        -        -         300      300      300       300
Transmission O&M           -         -        -        -        -         100      100      100       100
2,181   27,549   44,482   5         26,729    7,662      400      400       400
1/ Fuel and variable O&M costs allow for the restoration of a total of 762 GWh of energy in Lake Volta
from 1981 to 1983.
2/ Generation capital includes resettlement and physical contingencies.



ANNEX 11
GHANA                                                         Table 6
VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY - KPONG
HYDRO ELECTRIC PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS/'
1985-     Foreign Exch.
1976      1977       1978       1979      1980       1981       1982       1983      1984      2025         Component
-------------------------------------------------- (US$1000O)-----------------------------------------------------
Investment
Generation                2,181      27,549    44,367    52,750    21,844        7,262                              -         _            70%
Transmission                 -         -           115      1,500     4,885       -                                                        92%
Sub-Total                 2,181      27,549    44,482    54,250    26,729        7,262        -         -          -          -
VRA O&M                        -         -          -          -         -           161        161        161        161       161          25%
Additional Costs
Associated with Project
Investment
Transmission                 -         -          -           917        917     2,910        776        776        _         -            92%
Distribution                -          -         3,892        934        778     4,514      8,095      7,783     5,137        -            90%
ECG O&M                        -         -          -            28         34        40         72        130        185       222          25%
Sub-Total                   -          -         3,892      1,879     1,729      7,464      8,943      8,689     5,322        222
TOTAL INVESTMENT              2,181    27,549      48,374   56,101    28,424    14,686        8,871      8,559      5,137        -
TOTAL O&M                      -         -           -           28         34       201        233        291        346       383
TOTAL CASH FLOW               2,181    27,549      48,374   56,129    28,458    14,887        9,104      8,850      5,483       383
/1  Local exchange components converted at shadow exchange rate 1.70 cedis = 1.00 US$



GHANA                                    ANNEX 11
VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY - KPONG                         Table 7
HYDRO ELECTRIC PROJECT
Benefits Valued at 1976 Ghanaian Tariff
1985-
1978      1979       1980       1981       1982       1983       1984      2025
ECG retail             1,553      1,919      2,215      4,020      7,217    10,300    13,750    15,463
Mines                      40        136        248        344        496       600         752        816
Akosombo township           9         26         43         69         87       113        139        147
Existing oil               -        463        803        803        803        803        154         -
Additional oil             -         516        624        624        624        624        624         -
CEB                       177        177       177        177        177        177        177        177
TOTAL            1,779      3,237      4,110      6,037      9,404    12,617    15,596    16,603
$US Thousands - local currency converted
at shadow exchange rate ¢1.70 = $1.00.



ANNEX 11
GHANA                               Table 8
VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY - KPONG
HYDRO ELECTRIC PROJECT
Benefits Valued at 1976 Ghanaian Tariff
1985-
1978      1979       1980       1981       1982       1983       1984       2025
ECG retail             2,584      3,192      3,686      6,688    12,008    17,138    22,876    25,726
Mines                     115        391        713        989      1,426     1,725       2,162      2,346
Akosombo township          38        114        190        304        380        494        608        646
Existing oil              -          463       803        803         803       803        154
Additional oil            -          516        624        624        624        624        624
CEB                       177        177       177        177        177        177         177        177
TOTAL        2,206      3_781     4,758      7,193    11,449    15,518    19,458    20,939
$US Thousands - local currency converted
at shadow exchange rate 01.70 = $1.00.



GHANIA                                            ANNEX 11
Figure 1
VOLTA RIVER AUTHIORITY - IKPONG
HYDRO ELECTRIC PROJECT
VRA ENERGY CONSUMPTION FORECAST AND
LONG TERM CAPABILITY
Bui
5,400                                                   Kppng
3.300
Recovery
b,200                         of energy ---- '
. 1 D0    _           rJ~~~~~eficitX
3,100    C
,000 -U
a:           ~~~~Net surplus ------
0,900- >            ~~~~for sale.              x
1,800
Energy attributable
. ,700                               _                                  ... . .  @ to Kpong
3,700~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
z,600
^,500 _
Akosombo         114    275   373    485    675    853    970   970  Gwh     
^,400
53300                                      Energy attributable to Akosombo
-.200_
9.100_
.,30oo      I      I       1 
1975  '76    '77  ''78    '79   '80         '81   '82    '83   '84        '85    '86    '87    Year
Benefit prior              Benefit after
to commissioning           commissioning
in 1981
World Bank-16338



GHANA
ANNEX 11
VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY - KPONC                              Figure 2
TYDRO ELECTRIC PROJECT
KPONG VS. THERMAL PLANT
EQUALIZING DISCOUNT RATE
AT VARIOUS CRUDE OIL PRICES
14
13
12 -- crude $10-\-
0-
69
11       12         13         14         15          16         17         18         19         20
110 -Bn  1f,33')
C3
LU
8-
DQAIZIG6SCOUNT RATE %
11       12         13         1          15          16         17         18192
120 -  Costs,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WrdBak- ~T



200                                    EQUALIZING  RATES  OF  RETURN
C O S T S   V S.   B E N E F I T S          K P 0 N G
190-
1705                                                                                                                      D  *S 
130             E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ENEFITS                                                                          0
160- . 
u                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Base Line Costs
100-    1,Kpong + Associated
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Investment
BENEFITS EVALUATED AT
80            lo~~1  1976 Tariff,
20 1976 Tariff wlth 10% load forecast reduction
30-                3   75% of Liberian Tariff.
60 1            ~4.  75% of Liberian Tariff with 10% load reduction.
4-        5B6a7s8e910                                                     l1         12         13         14         15       16
DISCOUNT RATE X



INCREASE IN VALUATION OF BENEFITS
TO GHANATAN CONSUMERS OVER AVERAGE
1976 TARIFFS TO YIELD A GIVEN RATE
OF RETURN
100
90
801                                                      <                                                   0
70
cn60
50
40
'30                              /s
20/
10/
30
6         7         8         9         10        11        12         13        14
R  A T E    O F   R      E T U R N    Z



ANNEX 11
Attachment 1
Page 1 of 3 pages
GHANA
KPONG HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Outline of Draft Terms of Reference for a Tariff Study for
Ghana's Electric Power Sector
Objective
The purpose of the study is to derive a tariff structure for the
sale of electricity to customers of both VRA and ECG which reflects as
closely as possible the costs to the national economy of meeting the demand
for electricity and to determine the appropriate levels of tariffs which
should be charged to the various categories of customers of both VRA and
ECG having regard to:
(i)   financial requirements of VRA and ECG;
(ii) Government social policy and development objectives, and
(iii) the economic costs of other forms of energy such as petro-
leum products, their prices, the substitutability of dif-
ferent energy sources, and the resultant cross elasticity
of demand.
Guidelines for Study Execution
Analysis of Cost Structure
(a) The relevant costs are not the financial costs to ECG and
VRA of expanding and operating its system to meet the demand but the incre-
mental costs to the economy. Strictly speaking, therefore, shadow prices
(for capital, labor and foreign exchange) rather than actual prices to VRA/
ECG should be used as appropriate for measuring costs and any taxes on VRA/
ECG's inputs should be deducted and subsidies added back. Eowever, the con-
sultant cannot be expected to calculate the appropriate shadow prices to
use but must rely on guidelines from the authorities. Failing this, he
will have no alternative but to use the actual prices of inputs (duly cor-
rected for taxes and subsidies), although it is suggested that, in any case,
the opportunity cost of capital for discounting future costs should be
taken as 12%.
(b) It is expected that the first step would be to analyse the
long run and short run marginal costs of generating, transmitting and distri-
buting electricity at different places, times and voltage levels to different
consumers over the next few years. This would require due attention to the
daily and seasonal variations in forecast system demand and, to the extent
possible, in forecast demands of various consumer classes. Much of the
required information for this purpose may have to be specially collected,



ANNEX 11
Attachment 1
Page 2 of 3 pages
e.g. by taking substation readings, by enquiring about shift working, sea-
sonal work patterns, etc., and by statistical analysis of available load
curves. The basis for the estimates of marginal costs would be the devel-
opment program for the period 1977-85, the proposed operating regime and
proposals for subsequent expansion.
(c) For the time periods when demand does not come up against
the system capacity constraint (allowing for the reserve margins set to
maintain security of supply) marginal costs would be simply marginal run-
ning costs (short run costs) grossed up to allow for losses at the differ-
ent voltage levels and, where relevant, in different regions. The rele--
vant losses are incremental losses, even if they can be estimated only
approximately, not average losses.
(d) At periods when an increase in generation would bring the
system up against the security constraint, the marginal cost of meeting
demand would be the addition to all system costs resulting from adding to
generation capacity and/or storage, transmission and distribution in order
to provide the increased supply with an unchanged probability of failure.
These are long run costs.
(e) It would also be necessary to study the incremental costs
attributable to poor power factors for these types of consumer (the larger
ones) who can be expected to improve their power factor in response to
suitable tariff incentives. The most i mportant cost to concentrate on is
the extra MVA capacity required to cater for these poor power factors.
Existing Tariffs
(f) It is envisaged that the next step would be to examine the
existing tariff structure and rates and compare them with the structure of
marginal costs of supply derived from the foregoing analysis. Large differ-
ences between the two may be an indication that the existing system is
giving the wrong price signals to consumers. Examination of the existing
system should pay particular attention to the types of metering in use and
the quality of meter maintenance, since this would provide some guidance
to what types of tariff are feasible. Other features to look for in
examining the existing system are whether it is difficult to administer,
conducive to disputes or conducive to fraud, since these will provide use-
ful pointers to improvement in devising the new tariff structure.
New Tariff Proposals
(g) With the information thus collected, it should be possible
to make a first set of proposals for changing the existing tariff system
so that the incentives (and disincentives) it provides to consumers corres-
pond more closely to the schedule of marginal costs derived. These propo-



ANNEX 11
Attachment 1
Page 3 of 3 pages
sals would consist of a classification of consumers and a tariff (or set
of tariffs) for each class, together with any connection charges and
changes for reactive power which can be justified. They would have to be
modified as necessary to take account of the following:
(i)   Any strong arguments for slanting electricity tariffs
because of price distortions (e.g. of substitutes for
public electricity supply) elsewhere in the economy
which are likely to affect electricity sales in the
absence of such slanting.
(ii) The availability of surplus hydro energy when short
run marginal costs are applicable and lower cost int-
erruptible power can be sold to industries.
(iii) The need for VRA and ECG to meet rate of return coven-
ants.
(iv) Any income redistribution objectives of the government,
e.g. the provision of a low price social block for low
income consumers.
Cv)   Practicality and cost.  There is a trade-off between
the cost of administering any tariff structure (which
depends largely on the cost of metering and billing)
and the extent to which it can reflect the structur-
ing of marginal costs. Complex metering, for example,
is likely to be worthwhile only for larger consumers,
since the response of small consumers to the extra
incentives (or disincentives) it offers would not just-
ify the expense.



ANNEX 12
GHANA
VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
KPONG HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
The Aluminum Smelter
1.        The Volta Aluminum Company (VALCO), owned by Kaiser Aluminum
and Chemical Corporation (90%) and by Reynolds Metals (10%) operates four
potlines at Tema for the production of aluminum ingot. The alumina used
as raw material in the potlines is imported principally from the
Caribbean and smelted with Akosombo power. The smelting of alumina is a
highly energy intensive process which in the case of VALCO requires about
20,000 kWh per ton of aluminum ingot. VALCO produces presently some
132,000 metric tons of ingot annually. The power demand at the smelter
is fairly steady at 315 MW with an .98 annual load factor.  VALCO is com-
pleting the installation of a fifth potline (for which an additional
85 M7 firm and 15 MW interruptible will be required) raising the total
production capability of the smelter to 200,000 metric tons per year.
2.        Alumina, imported into Ghana free of custom duties, is provi-
ded to VALCO by Kaiser and Reynolds on board vessels at VALCO's dock in
Tema Harbor, and the aluminum ingot produced from such alumina is
delivered to both VALCO shareholders on board vessels at same point; no
export duties are levied on these ingots. Slightly less than 2 tons of
alumina are used per ton of aluminum ingot produced. VALCO charges
Kaiser and Reynolds a toll for processing their alumina into aluminum
ingot. The tolling contract establishes that toll charge at 56% of the
London or New York quoted price for aluminum ingot after deducting
import duties into the UK or the USA. The quoted price stands presently
at the equivalent of US$ 1,056/ton (USj 48 pound); after deducting one
cent for custom duties the tolling charge is thereby of US$ 579 per ton.
The tolling charge will be raised to 60% of the London or New York
quoted price if after April 1977 all the aluminum produced by VALCO is
not processed entirely from bauxite mined in Ghana, and will remain at
that level until all aluminum is produced from local bauxite.
3.        The smelting of aluminum was recognized as a pioneer industry
by the Government of Ghana and accorded a tax holiday which expires in
1978; afterward VALCO will pay income tax at the rate of 40% of its
chargeable income and will contribute an additional 30% of its charge-
able income to a trust fund for social development in Ghana.



AmiEx 13
Drawing 1
I~ ~     ~ '                                                                 ____ -- ,1"",''', >                              ~                    ' 't
7 ATR SUPPLY                                                                                                          <4
-~~ ~      INTAKE                                                                                      '
KPONG1-
t <g ~KPONG PROTECTION                               J  >eAS OEA   \0 
DIKE                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EAST FOREBAY 
( __ ,l 2 '. <s " NORMAL  \         DIKE r
r >OEROUEHEADPOND             *-                    \
veoo_~~~~~~~~~ __                                                                                                                   _ _.@ht>\AtA  
.                           X        9                 >76WITCHYARD\V.UC M    \                     t  Lf reE.r14.75 
4<\                         t~~~~~RIE DAiA
161 KV DOUBLELCINREc    7j<INTAKE dANDN
_  I                                       I g / )   \X\~{  AKUSEgOEROS
World B.ni'-16398



ANEX 13
KPONG HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT                                                            Drawin  2
GHANA
SECTIONS THROUGH DAM AND DYKES
_ - _ ~   -o* O" __      _OVERHEAD GROUND WIRE
UNITS               HIGH VOLTAGE LINES
TO SWITCHYARD
HOUSING-IST   GENERATOR    
EL 13.25
NORMAL QPER4_          CAAIGHHEADPOND E L 7                                    DRAFT TUBE   MAXIMUM TAILWATER EL. 14.75
_____                                                                GATE GALLERLLER
TRASH RACKS-> ,              >>    , tJ            t .USTRIBUTOR 4.75 NORMAL TAILWATER 3.0_)
EXISTING BEDROCK-?                                               --______--_________
I LPRESSURE RELIEF
DRAINS
SECTION THROUGH INTAKE AND POWERHOUSE
70-0     GATE HOIST
HIGH HEALPOND  EL.  17.70                                RADIAL GATES
NORMAL OPERAT1NG HEADPOND EL *4.75  --          _AXIMUM TAIL WA TER EL. 14.75
STOPLOGS     O -                   \
CREST EL.                                    NORMAL TAILWATER EL 3000
B EDROCK
GFROUT CURTAIN -_
-   -  PRESSURE RELIEF
DRAINS
NOTE ELEVATIONS IN METERS
SPILLWAY SECTION
HIGH HEAOPONO EL 77.70                          f2_
NORMAL OPERArING HEADPOND EL 14.75 
NATURAL                _
NATURIAL
SLOPES                                                                                             SL _  P S
UPSTREAM COFFERDAM                         = -DOWNSTREAM COFFERDAM
UPSTREAM CDFFERDAM           CNOIAINGOTN
CNODAiDN GROUTING
AS AEDUIRED
RIVER DAM
HIGH HEAPONO EL.77.70                     '                     HIGHI HEADPOND EL. 17.70   $
HIGH HEADPOND EL. 17.70  23           'A     NORMALOPERATING       POR
N O ~~~~L_~~~~;t;,~    NOMA                                              _________
NORMAL 0PERATING   HEADPOND E'L    14.75 'o                                                         L
I SCREENED FILTERED
PRESSURE RELIEF WELLS                              - SLURRY TRENCH
AT 100' SPACING
PARTIAL CUTOFF DIKE                                                  TOTAL CUTOFF DIKE
Word B9nk-16400






________________________                                                                   IBRD   12418R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B D     248
0   g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0 0                                                                         i
o   2
~~~       Z ~~~~~
2         -       0~~~~~~~~~~~~L     -
LI/       S0
/*  4  iZ                                      a~~~~C 1
/   0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                   0~~~~~~~~~~
~~~~~~~0 ~ ~ ~ ~ O 
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 



