DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. PE-50 A
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
IN
THE PHILIPPINES
November 30, 1972
Education Projects Division
Asia
Tis report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be pubUshed, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibilty for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Present     :  Pesos 6.73 = US$ 1.00
At appraisal: Pesos 6.40 = US$ 1.00
MEASURES
1 m       = 1.09 yd
1 m2      = 10.76 sq ft
1 km2     = 0.38 sq mi
1 hectare = 2.47 acres
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



THE PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
ABBREVIATIONS
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .......................    i-
I.   INTRODUCTION         ..................1
The Request  1. .
LI. THE EDUCATION SYSTEM   .               .
III. NEED FOR THE PROJECT.                                     4
Educational Planning, Management and Curricula
Reform.                                               4
Teacher Training - Science and Social Studies           4
The Training of Farmers.                                5
The Need for Professional Agricultural and
Forestry Manpower.                                    6
Agricultural Extension - The Need for
New Programs.                                         7
The Need for Manpower in Industry.                      8
IV. THE PROJECT .                     .                       9
General.                                                9
Office of Planning and Research and Curriculum
Coordinating Unit .10
Education Development Center .11
Regional Science Teaching Centers .11
Agricultural High Schools .12
Pilot (Barrio) Village Development Schools             12
Agricultural Universities .13
Social (Extension) Laboratories .13
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
The Philippines during November/December 1971. The mission consisted of
Messrs. D. Brewin (agricultural educator), S. Holm (economist), K. Seiler
(technical educator), J. Theodores (architect) of the Bank, and L. Peterson
(general educator, consultant).



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)                                            Page No.
Agricultural Radio Stations.                                  14
Technical Institutes             . . .14
Regional Manpower Training Centers          . . .15
Technical Assistance   ...15
Cost of the Project             ...16
Cost Estimates              ...17
Foreign Exchange Component    ...18
V.   IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENT .........                      18
Execution of the Project   .               .18
Professional Services   .                .19
Site Acquisition   .                   .19
Procurement ....              ......                 ..   19
Disbursement....   19
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .              .         20
ANNEXES
1.   Education in the Philippines
Table 1.  Population Projections 1970-85
Table 2.  Enrollment and Teachers by Level of Education,
All Schools, 1970-1980
Table 3.  College Enrollment by Course - Public and Private,
1970
2.   Comparative Education Indicators
3.   Financing and Cost of Education
4.   Educational Studies and Surveys 1927-1971
5.   The Presidential Commission to Survey Philippine Education, 1970
6.   Technical Assistance
7.   Agencies Involved in Research and/or Development of Educational
Materials
8.   Functions of the Office of Planning Service and the Curriculum
Coordinating Unit
9.   The Education Development Council and the Science and Social
Studies Education Centers
10.   Pilot Barrio (Village) Development Schools
11.   Agricultural Radio Stations - Technical Data
12.   Data on Technical Institutes
13.   Data on Regional Manpower Training Centers
14.   Areas of Construction and Estimated Costs
15.   Comparative Indicators of Project Institutions
16.   Contingencies Allowances
17.   Project Implementation Schedule
18.   Time Schedule for Technical Assistance
19.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
CHARTS
1.   Structure of the Formal System of Education
2.   Educational Pyramid 1970 - Enrollment in Public and Private Schools
MAP OF THE PHILIPPINES






ABBREVIATIONS
BVE      Bureau of Vocational Education, Department of Education
CCU      Curriculum Coordinating Unit, Office of Planning and Research,
Department of Education
CLSU     Central Luzon State University
CMU      Central Mindanao University
N1MYC    National Manpower and Youth Council
OPR      Office of Planning and Research, Department of Education
RCO      Radio Control Office
RMTC     Regional Manpower Training Center
RSTC     Regional Science Teaching Center
SAT      School of Arts and Trades
SSEC     Social Studies Education Center of the Bureau of Public Schools
UP       University of the Philippines
UPCA     University of the Philippines, College of Agriculture, Los Balnos
UPSEC    University of the Philippines Science Education Center






APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
THE PHILIPPINES
BASIC DATA (1972)
Population
Estimated total                                       39.3 million
Annual rate of growth                                  3.1 percent
Average density                                      132   per km
Literacy of Adult Population                               72%
Pre-Grade 1 enrollment as a
percentage of population aged 5-6                      2%
Elementary school enrollment as a
percentage of population aged 7-12                  119%*
Secondary school enrollment as a
percentage of population aged 13-17                   71%
Higher education enrollment as a
percentage of population aged 18-22                  25%
Education Resources
US$ million          %
National government                                       207              55
Local government                                           40              10
Student fees                                              134              35
381             100
Total national government expenditure for education
as percentage of total government expenditure                        26%
Total education expenditure as a percentage of GNP                          4.6%
* The enrollment ratio at all levels includes overaged students.






PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        A Bank loan of US$6.0 million was made to the Philippines in 1964
for improvements at the University of the Philippines College of Agriculture
at Los Banos. The project will be satisfactorily completed in December, 1972,
two years after the original closing date. This report appraises a second
education project, for which an IDA Credit of US$12.7 million is proposed.
ii.       The Philippines has a literacy rate amongst the highest in South
Asia; elementary education caters for virtually all children in the age
group and the secondary system for well over half of the age group; higher
education institutions have enrollment ratios second only to those in Canada
and the United States but Philippine education is shorter in duration and
enrollment ratios at this level are not strictly comparable. These quanti-
tative achievements have not, however, been matched by qualitative accom-
plishments. The system has become very large and faces increasing pressures
resulting from population growth. It has not been sufficiently planned or
controlled to be fully effective; over half of the secondary and almost all
higher education is provided by private institutions with minimal Government
control.
iii.      The education system faces a number of problems, educational,
institutional and financial. It has been surveyed by numerous expert groups
during the last 50 years which have made recommendations for reform. Many
of the reforms have not been implemented, however, because of disagreements
as to their feasibility, the inability of the authorities to take the
necessary action or financial constraints. It is unlikely that major improve-
ments can be effected without fundamental changes in the administration and
structure of the system. Some such changes now appear to be in motion.
iv.       At this juncture it is not possible to devise a comprehensive
IDA project which would assist the eovernment in revising the entire system.
It is, however, possible to bring about improvement uy supporting a number
of high priority areas. The proposed IDA project would help the government
to meet manpower requirements through the introduction of a more modern
approach to skill training in industry, setting up a new level of technical
training for personnel between the level of skilled craftsman and professional
engineer, reinforcing professional agricultural training in two regions of
the country in such fields as agricultural business management, agricultural
engineering, irrigation and forestry, and the strengthening of science
teaching. In addition, as a contribution towards educational reform, the
proposed project would provide for a strengthening of educational planning
and management and for the coordination of various agencies engaged in
curricula development and suipport new approaches to deal with the problem of
secondary education for rural youth.
v.        Specifically, the project would help finance the construction of
new facilities for, extensions to and/or equipment for the following institu-
tions:



- ii -
(a) a curriculum coordinating unit, an education development
center and four regional science teaching centers;
(b) thirteen agricultural high schools, two agricultural colleges
with social (extension) laboratories, six pilot village devel-
opment schools and two radio stations attached to agricultural
colleges; and
(c) three technical institutes and ten regional manpower training
centers.
In addition, the project would provide 62 man-years of specialist services
for strengthening educational planning and management, curricula reform,
staff for the agricultural universities and technical institutes and for project
implementation, plus 56 man-years of overseas fellowships. These would sup-
plement technical assistance for a number of project items for which the
government has requested UNDP assistance.
vi.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$17.7 million.  The
proposed Credit would be for US$12.7 million equivalent or 72% of the total
project cost. This would cover the foreign exchange component of US$12.4
million and US$0.3 million of local costs, representing the ex-factory costs
of equipment, furniture and educational materials for which contracts are
likely to be awarded to local firms after international bidding.
vii.      A project unit would be established within the Department of Edu-
cation and Culture to supervise project implementation, to coordinate
activities between the government departments, universities and other
agencies involved, and to provide liaison with IDA. Procurement would be
in conformity with Bank/IDA guidelines regarding international competitive
bidding.
viii.     The project is suitable as a basis for an IDA credit of US$12.7
million to the Government of the Philippines.



I. INTRODUCTION
The Request
1.01      In January/February 1971 a UNESCO mission visited the Philippines
to identify education projects suitable for Bank/IDA financing. The UNESCO
report was discussed with the Government by an IDA mission in May 1971. In
July 1971, the government requested financial assistance for a project it
had prepared with the help of UNESCO. The purpose of the project was to
improve secondary education and improve and expand training for agriculture
and industry. In November 1971, a mission comprising Messrs. D. Brewin
(mission leader, agricultural educator), S. Holm (economist), K. Seiler
(technical educator) and J. Theodores (architect) of the Bank, and L. Peterson
(general educator, consultant) visited the Philippines to appraise the proj-
ect. During appraisal, and in agreement with the government, the proposed
project was modified by: (i) deleting general secondary and certain items
in agricultural, vocational and technical teacher training; (ii) relating
curricula in agricultural colleges more closely to estimated manpower needs;
and (iii) including additional items in the planning and management of edu-
cation and curricula reform, textbook development and agricultural extension
and education.
1.02      This would be the second education project in the Philippines
assisted by the World Bank Group.  The first, (Loan 393-PH of October 28,
1964), which has resulted in substantial improvements at the University of
the Philippines College of Agriculture, will be satisfactorily completed in
December, 1972. The main problems, which caused extension of its closing
date from June 30, 1970 to December 31, 1972, arose from lack of local fund
provision, particularly after the floating of the peso in February 1970.
II. THE EDUCATION SYSTEM
2.01      The Philippine education system is described in Annex 1.  Spanish
rule established schools and seminaries and, as early as 1863, decreed that
elementary education should be free and compulsory though this aim was
not achieved until much later. The Americans, during the first half of the
20th century, changed the medium of instruction to English, established, a
strong centralized elementary school system and introduced teacher training
and vocational programs. Most secondary and higher education was left to
private interests. Today, the literacy rate is amongst the highest in South
Asia (72% of the adult population). The elementary education system comprises
virtually all children in the age group and enrollment ratios are 71% at
secondary level and 25% in higher education, a figure second only to that in
Canada and the U. S. A. (Annex 2). As the Philippine education system is
shorter in duration, however, college enrollment ratios are not strictly
comparable with those of other countries. Although the quantitative accom-
plishments are impressive, the qualitative aspects of Philippine education
are less satisfactory.



- 2 -
2.02      The main weakness of Philippine education has been insufficient
government control of the system. More than half of the secondary schools
and most of higher education institutions are privately controlled, often
run by commercial enterprises and of variable quality. Entrance requirements
for higher education are lacking, thus contributing to the proliferation of
schools and colleges. Teachers, particularly at the elementary level,
have strong political influence. Student activism has, in some cases, in-
hibited the authorities from taking decision if these were likely to be
unpopular. Important steps, such as the imposition of heavier taxation,
firmer control of the private sector, resistance to pressure groups, limita-
tion of the power of teachers and students and prevention of the establish-
ment of redundant institutions have proved extremely difficult.
2.03      The National Board of Education, which includes representatives of
the legislature, private schools, the church and the University of the
Philippines, is by law the highest policy-making body for education but it
has never become fully operative. In the vacuum so created, the Congress
became active in the formulation of policy. Legislation was often passed
against the wishes of the erecuti-e branch of the government, represented
by the Secretarv of the Department of Education and Cultur-. One res"lt
has been the conversion of a number of gener-l high -ch^ols into vocational
colleges and universities and the establishment of numerous others, regardless
of need, with the prime purpose of obtaining cen-ral government financial
support and often with no provision for additional staff, funds -r super-
vision.
2.04      Total domestic expenditure o- education, estimated at US$381 mil-
lion in 1972, represents 4.6% of GNP, a substantial part of the nation's
resources. The central government provides only 55% of all education
expenditure but this already represents 26% of its budget. It supports 90%
of primary education butt only 11% of secondary and 21% of higher education.
Allocations within the central education budget are very lopsided: 85% is
spent on primary education, 3% on secondary education, 0.05% on secondary
vocational education and 12% on higher education.
2.05      About 10% of the education bill in financed by local governments.
The balanc- of 35% has to come from studenta' fe"n. Despite the considerable
amount of private financing, the average recurrent expenditure per pupil in
secondary schools (US$26) is little higher -han in elementary education
(US$24), while the average recurrent -os's per student in secondary voca-
tional (US$43) and in higher educa ion (US$116) are much less than in other
countries. A contributory factor to the relatively higher costs of elementary
education is that elementary teachers recei-e larger salaries than secondary
teachers. (Details of education financing are given in Annex 3.)
2.06      If present trends and policies continue, the central government's
education budget would nearly double between 1972 and 1980 (in constant
prices).  Despite this increase the government would still spend a major
part on primary education, leaving little room for urgent qualitative improve-
ments at secondary and post-secondary levels.



2.07      The education system has been the subject of much study during the
last 50 years (Annex 4), culminating in 1970 in a Presidential Commission
to Survey Philippine Education which identified major weaknesses (Annex 5)
and proposed certain reforms. It recommended inter alia a shift of financial
responsibility for elementary education to local governments, in order to
release funds at the national level for secondary and higher education (but
it may be difficult to secure sufficient revenue at the local level). In
any case, measures to halt the rapid increase in the cost of elementary
education, without impairing the already low quality, are highly desirable.
Enrollment might be reduced by the introduction of automatic promotion. The
pupil:teacher ratio might be increased. Such steps would enable the govern-
ment to effect savings in the cost of elementary education and so augment
the resources available for secondary and higher education.
2.08      This reallocation would only enable the government to effect
improvements if control of enrollments at secondary and post-secondary levels
was established. The government might limit further expansion in public
schools and give selective support to private schools only where they were
willing to conform to the government's policy directives. Funds might then
be available to bring about better curricula, increased pre-vocational
training, improved secondary teachers' salaries, an extension of the secondary
level school year from 180 to 220 days and readjustment of post-secondary
education in accordance with manpower needs.
2.09      Some recent developments indicate the possibility of improvement.
In the reorganization of the Executive Branch of government, followin^ the
imposition of martial law, the Department of Education becomes the Department
of Education and Culture, responsible for developing and implementing education
programs based on the general education objectives and policies set by the
National Board of Education. The divisions or units in the former Department
of Education which dealt, almost independently of each other, with public,
private and vocational schools, are abolished and the new Department will have
bureaux for elementary, secondary and higher education. In addition, units
for Planning, Finance and Management, Administration and Information and
Publication will be set up in the Department, the Planning Service will
undertake planning, research and project development. The National Board
of Education will be responsible for formulating the general education
objectives and policies and long-range education plans. A Board of
Higher Education will be created to assist and advise the National Board
of Education in formulating objectives, policies and programs on post-secondary
education.
2.10      This reorganization should permit the Department of Education to
implement a policy aimed at making the educational system more responsive to
the needs of the country. Higher priority will be given to technical
education and vocational training. Higher education will be strengthened
through a coherent system of public universities and incentive schemes for
important programs in private education. New colleges can be established only
on the recommendation of the National Board of Education. Accreditation of
higher education institutions is in its infancy (28 institutions are members
at present) and the new structure may enable the system to expand more rapidly.



- 4 -
III. NEED FOR THE PROJECT
3.01      The proposed project would assist education and training in the
Philippines on a limited scale by supporting a number of high priority areas
where assistance could bring about significant improvement. These would be:
(a) educational management, planning and curricula reform;
(b) science teacher training;
(c) training of technicians for industry and agriculture; and
(d) training of skilled craftsmen and farmers.
Educational Planning, Management and Curricula Reform
3.02      The National Board of Education needs to be strengthened to make
it the principal agency for the formulation of educational policy. The
Department of Education requires restructuring through establishing responsi-
bilities by educational level rather than by type of institution. Proposals
incorporating these changes, drawn up by the government's Reorganization
Commission, now appear to be in process of implementation. The Department
of Education and Culture is to strengthen its educational research, planning
and management by setting up a Planning Service Office in the Department,
with broad responsibilities and powers. Technical assistance is required
for its establishment (Annex 6).
3.03      Curricula Coordination.  There is at present no organization co-
ordinating the work of various agencies involved in curricula research and
material development. A unit is needed to identify such research and to
maintain liaison among the various groups involved (Annexes 7 and 8).
Teacher Training - Science and Social Studies
3.04      Only 25 of approximately 400 teacher-training institutions in the
Philippines offer majors in science and very few of them in physics and
chemistry. In the public schools some 180,000 elementary and over 2,000
secondary teachers need additional training in science; in private schools
these numbers are tentatively estimated at 10,000 elementary and 2,750 sec-
ondary teachers. To this end, the University of the Philippines established
in 1964 a Science Education Center (UPSEC) to develop curriculum materials
and initiate science teaching programs. The center occupies a few rooms in
an old building of the College of Education.
3.05      There is also need for a more integrated approach to the teaching
of social studies with emphasis on Philippine community life, history, pop-
ulation and economic development. In 1970, the Bureau of Public Schools set
up a Social Studies Education Center (SSEC) in a small part of its main office,
to revise curricula, disseminate new teaching materials, and provide training
for teachers.



3.06      Both UPSEC's and the SSEC's efforts have been limited because of
inadequate space and facilities. There is need for an integration of the pro-
grams in one well-equipped and staffed center so as to establish a pattern
for cooperation between various disciplines including those in language and
practical arts, cultural arts and health and physical education for which
new centers are now being planned (Annex 9).
3.07      Science Teaching in the Regions.  New curricula and teaching mate-
rials will be ineffective unless teachers are trained to apply them in the
regions where they are to teach. As part of the UPSEC program, five Regional
Science Teaching Centers (RSTCs) have been established at private teacher
training institutions. New RSTCs are needed, to specialize particularly in
elementary school science and mathematics teaching while existing centers
concentrate on secondary science teaching courses.
3.08      Provision of Textbooks.  Curricula reform and better teacher
training cannot be successful unless pupils have access to textbooks. It
has been estimated that there is a current shortage of over 60 million
textbooks for public schools and a similar demand in the private sector.
A pre-investment study which might lead to further Bank Group lending for
local production of textbooks is required to be carried out to identify the
need and the best way in which it can be met.
The Training of Farmers
3.09      The majority of the 3.7 million out-of-school youth live in rural
areas. Most of them have not been prepared for self-employment which remains
the major source of income in the countryside. Progress will be dependent
on the training of farmers having higher skills and new attitudes. The
training needs to be integrated with actual work situations and to emphasize
simple management principles. This can be provided through the supervised
farming approach in which the agricultural teacher guides the pupil in the
operation of farming enterprises run on businesslike lines.
3.10      The secondary school system is doing little to meet these needs.
Ninety-five percent of the schools have been unable to introduce a curriculum
offering vocational courses and remain largely academic. The existing agri-
cultural high schools and the privately operated rural barrio (village) high
schools originally embodied the objective of providing practical farming
courses for rural youth but recently greater emphasis has been placed on
college preparation and some 29 agricultural high schools have introduced
post-secondary courses, most leading to somewhat spurious degree qualifications.
As a first step towards reform, a moratorium should be placed on the establish-
ment of such degree programs and several of them should be closed.
3.11      The Bureau of Vocational Education recently introduced a new
experimental agricultural high school curriculum in which the practical
element has been increased to a half of the time available compared with
one-third in the earlier curriculum and the time devoted to instruction in
agricultural economics and farm management has been increased three-fold.
The program is being operated with some success in two pilot schools and



- 6 -
will later be introduced in others, in each case in association with super-
vised farming programs. Funds are needed to equip a number of these schools
so that they can apply the new curriculum.
3.12      A slightly different approach with the same aims is being tried
by the University of the Philippines College of Agriculture (UPCA) in a
"Pilot Barrio (Village) Development School" at Masaya, designed for pupils
who have no intention of proceeding to college on completion of school (Annex
10). Pupils spend 50% of their time working on their own or their parents'
land on projects supervised by school staff; they learn farm management
by practicing it, borrow money from the rural bank and arrange for its
investment and, by the time they leave school, they have been able to
establish and manage viable farming activities. They do not become alienated
from the community. There is a need to develop additional pilot schools of
this kind in other areas of the Philippines.
The Need for Professional Agricultural and Forestry Manpower
3.13      There is a surplus of agricultural degree holders in the Philip-
pines. The common denominator in the qualifications demanded by employers
of such graduates, however, is managerial ability and technical competence
which very few agricultural colleges in the Philippines are able to provide.
Most have limited facilities and offer general agricultural courses with
outdated curricula. Agricultural engineering courses are provided in only
six of the 54 degree-granting institutions and, in 1970, only 21 students
graduated from them. Irrigation, which represents a rapidly expanding and
vitally important area of development, and which is being supported by the
Bank (Loan 637-PH for US$34 million), is not covered as a major subject in
any of the existing institutions except UPCA. Agricultural business manage-
ment courses are offered in only two institutions. In spite of the impor-
tance of the forest industry in the economy, forestry training is offered
at degree level in only four institutions, of which only one, Central
Mindanao University, is in Mindanao, the center of the industry. The Bank
has financed the development of UPCA, which now provides the highest level
of agricultural training and research in the country but UPCA cannot deal
adequately with regional needs and its instruction lacks practical orientation,
particularly in the fields mentioned above. There is a need to upgrade or
establish new colleges specializing in these fields in each region.
3.14      As the first step to meet the urgent need for better training of
professional agricultural manpower, the government should reorient and
strengthen such training in well-located and established agricultural col-
leges in two regions of the country (Central Mindanao and Central Luzon),
while the appropriate location of a college in the third region (Visayas)
should be further studied. To be effective, however, the steps should
form part of and be undertaken simultaneously with the preparation of a
comprehensive development plan. To that effect, the government has agreed,
that it will:-



- 7 -
(i)  complete, within two years after the signing of the Credit
Agreement, a study on national and regional manpower require-
ments in the agricultural sector and on the capacity of
existing agricultural training institutions, including the
appropriate location for a regional agricultural college
for the Visayas; the study will make recommendations on the
most efficient means of meeting the manpower needs identified;
and
(ii)  pending the results of the study under (i), and as a first
step towards rationalization, ensure that, within three years
after the signing of the Credit Agreement, eleven of the
thirteen agricultural high schools included in the project,
will offer courses only at the secondary level, and thus
direct their efforts to programs closely related to
agricultural development.
3.15      The government has also agreed that it will use the results of the
study under para 3.17 (i) as a basis for adjusting the long-term development
of agricultural education to manpower needs. The National Board of Education
has recently adopted a resolution declaring that the establishment of additional
degree granting institutions will be considered only if it accords with manpower
and development requirements. Measures have also been taken to control the
establishment of new agricultural degree courses in existing institutions.
3.16      As a further step towards rationalization, the Association of
Colleges of Agriculture in the Philippines, in association with the Philippine
Association of Accredited Schools, Colleges and Universities, is establishing
a system of accreditation and entry qualifications for student admission to
existing degree granting agricultural institutions. The government is encourag-
ing these developments.
Agricultural Extension - The Need for New Programs
3.17      Agricultural extension work, carried out by a variety of govern-
ment and other agencies, often loosely organized and inadequately supervised,
is further handicapped by the lack of technical competence of staff as a re-
sult of the low standard and limited curricula offerings of most degree-
granting institutions. Technician training is lacking. In only one college
(UPCA) are communication skills taught as a major subject. Field extension
workers, even if adequately trained, frequently lack direct linkage with re-
search laboratories and the expertise which they can provide. A new approach
to the training of extension workers and their subsequent work in the field
is needed. UPCA has initiated two programs which show promise and merit sup-
port in other parts of the country. It has established a "social" laboratory
in a group of adjacent villages as a teaching laboratory for students of ex-
tension which involves university faculty in rural problem solving and as a
by-product, provides intensive and well-organized extension leading to po-
sitive rural development. The College has also set up a small radio station,
producing a variety of vernacular language programs directed specifically at
farmers, fishermen, foresters and other production workers. There are about
300 radio stations in the country but almost all are commercially operated



-8-
and often unwilling to provide adequate time for educational programs directed
at the rural population. The UPCA station requires strengthening so that it
can provide greater coverage. There is need for another similar station in
the southern (Mindanao) region.
The Need for Manpower in Industry
3.18      Industry (comprising mining and quarrying, manufacturing, utili-
ties, construction, transport and communications) employs some 2.1 million
people, or 19% of the labor force of 11 million. It is estimated that there
are 30,000 engineers, 160,000 highly skilled craftsmen and foremen, 380,000
skilled mechanics and craftsmen, 800,000 semi-skilled workers and operatives
and 750,000 unskilled workers in the Philippines.
3.19      The annual demand for fully qualified engineers is estimated at
1,500. The annual supply is difficult to estimate because over 140 engineer-
ing colleges are offering engineering and associate degrees after courses
lasting from two to five years' and producing graduates who may vary from
semi-skilled to professional level. Their annual output of some 4,000
professional engineers exceeds the demand and many fill job categories below
that of professional engineer for which they are ill-suited.
3.20      The actual number of technicians in industry is unknown.  There
are limited facilities for their training. There is undoubtedly a demand,
however, for the training of middle-level manpower which could be as high as
7,500 annually. The actual demand for technicians will initially be much
lower since an ILO/NMYC study shows that industry, which is unfamiliar with
the technician category, could continue its practice of hiring degree holders
rather than technicians for these positions. Technician training should,
therefore, be initiated on a limited scale not exceeding an output of 1,000
technicians per year.
3.21      The annual demand is estimated at 24,000 for skilled craftsmen
and 13,000 for semi-skilled workers and operatives. The annual output
of the Schools of Arts and Trades (SATs) totals some 10,000 semi-skilled
workers and operatives and 2,000 skilled craftsmen. Private institutions
are training an estimated 35,000 semi-skilled workers and operatives, many
of whom are already employed in industry, but these institutions do not
contribute significantly to the training of skilled craftsmen. As a result
there is a deficit of skilled craftsmen and an oversupply of semi-skilled
workers and operatives. In addition, the training offered by the SATs and
private institutions is of poor quality and the skills taught are often
unrelated to industry's needs. These factors led the Philippine government,
with ILO assistance, to develop regional manpower training centers. These
show much promise and introduce training through skill modules in concert
with industry's requirements. Funds are needed to establish such centers
at suitable locations throughout the Philippines.



- 9 -
IV. THE PROJECT
General
4.01      The purpose of the proposed project would be to lay the groundwork
leading to possible future educational reform and also to meet the manpower
needs outlined in Chapter III. Specifically, the project would:
(i) provide the Department of Education and Culture, through
the new Office of Planning Service and the Education
Development Center, with the physical and human resources
to improve educational planning and management and to reform
the education system;
(ii) expand the training of science teachers in accordance with
national needs;
(iii) expand the training of young farmers in rural areas and
help them to start commercial farming enterprises;
(iv) improve and reorient the training of professional agri-
cultural personnel at two colleges in accordance with
urgent manpower needs, with particular emphasis on the
improvement of the agricultural extension services;
(v) initiate the training of industrial technicians to fill the
middle level positions; and
(vi) expand and improve the training of skilled craftsmen in
accordance with industrial manpower needs.



- 10 -
4.02      The project would help to finance:
(i)  the construction of new facilities for, extensions to
and/or equipment for the institutions listed in the
following table and for two social (extension) labora-
tories and radio stations attached to agricultural
colleges:
Accommodation
(additional)
No. of         Enrollment      Student  Staff
Institutions   Additional Total  Boarding Housing
Curriculum Coordinating
Unit                          1              -
Education Development
Center                        1             -        100*     -
Regional Science Teaching
Centers                       4             -      7,000      -
Agricultural High Schools      13             -      5,500      -
Agricultural Colleges           2             650    3,000      -        8
Pilot Barrio (Village)
Development Schools           6            600       600      -       12
Technical Institutes            3          2,800    2,800       -        -
Regional Manpower Training
Centers                      10          2,400    2,400       - 
Total          40           6,450   21 400              20
*18-month post-graduate courses only.  Large numbers of other students
would use the facilities at night, weekends and during vacations.
(ii)  62 man-years of specialist services for strengthening
educational planning and management, curricula reform,
staff for the agricultural colleges and technical
institutes and for project implementation, and 56
man-years of overseas fellowships.
Office of Planning and Research and Curriculum Coordinating Unit
4.03      The government has now set up a Planning Service Office (OPS) in
the Department of Education to reorganize and strengthen educational planning
and management and has agreed to establish a program of educational research
within six months of the signing of the Credit Agreement. As part of the
Office, a Curriculum Coordinating Unit (CCU) would be formed to coordinate



- 11 -
curricula research being carried out by various interested agencies (para
3.06). The proposed project would provide equipment, books and materials foor
the CCU, and technical assistance to supplement that being provided by
UNDP for the OPS and to prepare a program to remedy textbook shortages (para
3.11) as outlined in Annex 6.
4.04      The government has also agreed to draw up a plan for the organiza-
tion, operation, staffing and financing of the OPS and the CCU in accordance
with these objectives, details of which are given in Annex 8, and to submit
it to the Association within six months of the signing of the Credit Agreement.
Education Development Center
4.05      As an important step towards integration of the Science Education
Center of the University of the Philippines (UPSEC) and the Social Studies
Education Center (SSEC) of the Bureau of Public Schools of the Department of
Education, in accordance with needs outlined in paras. 3.07-3.11, an Education
Development Council would be established to coordinate the operations of the
two Centers. The project would provide integrated physical facilities,
including offices, laboratories, a lecture room and audio-visual unit, a
printing and graphics unit and library for up to a total of 100 full-time
students, which would enable the staff to operate joint projects. At a later
stage, other agencies responsible for curricula studies and material preparation
in other disciplines (languages, health and physical education, practical arts,
cultural arts) would also be brought under the Council. The activities of the
Council and its Centers are described in Annex 9.
4.06      The government has already requested technical assistance from the
UNDP for UPSEC. The project would include technical assistance for curricula
development and evaluation in the field of social studies. Details of the
two programs are outlined in Annex 6. The government has indicated that
its Department of Education and Culture and the University of the Philippines
have signed a Memorandum of Understanding concerning the establishment of
the Council.
Regional Science Teaching Centers (RSTCs)
4.07      The project would augment the work of the existing RSTCs (para.
3.10) by providing two additional centers at the Northern and Central Luzon
Teachers' Colleges and equipment and books at the Zamboanga and West Visayas
State Colleges. The centers would be integral parts of these colleges and
would in total provide teacher training for some 1,000 post-graduate and
6,000 undergraduate students; they would assist a total of some 2,250 students
studying for Bachelor of Science degrees and provide in-service training for
640 teachers during summer vacations and a similar number through evening and
weekend in-service courses. The centers would experiment with instructional
materials developed by UPSEC and other institutions and conduct research in
the teaching of science in elementary and secondary schools. Staff for the
centers would include existing staff at the colleges and would be augmented
as required.



- 12 -
Agricultural High Schools
4.08      To expand and broaden the new experimental high school project
described in para. 3.14 to all regions of the country, the project would
assist the introduction of a practically oriented curriculum into thirteen
additional high schools with a total of 5,500 students. Assistance would
be in the form of laboratory and workshop equipment, construction materials
and initial supplies (fertilizers, seeds, insecticides). The first year of
the program would be devoted to the teaching of the principles and practice
of agriculture; the remaining three years to supervised farming projects in
rice cultivation and pig and poultry husbandry. Part of the profits from
these projects would be invested in a school fund to ensure the financing of
subsequent student projects. The remaining part would be placed in the
students' bank accounts to provide them with capital to start on their own
when they leave the school. The government has agreed that, within one
year of the signing of the Credit Agreement, it will draw up a plan, mutually
satisfactory to the government and the Association, for supervised farming
projects at each school included in the project and would subsequently implement
the plan.
4.09      To be successful, the project schools should concentrate their
efforts and resources on their high school programs. The government has
agreed that this will happen within three years of the signing of the Credit
Agreement except at Central Mindanao University and Central Luzon State
University, where degree level programs would continue (para 3.17).
Pilot (Barrio) Village Development Schools
4.10      To assist the government in developing the Pilot Barrio (Village)
Development School concept described in para. 3.15, the project would provide
three such schools at each of the two agricultural colleges to be included
in the project (ClMU and CLSU). The schools, which would be of very simple
design, would be located in villages in the vicinity of the colleges and
would provide four-year courses to 100 students each, of which 50% would be
classroom instruction with a strong agricultural bias and 50% practical work
on supervised farming projects at the pupils' home farms. Pupils would
receive working capital by way of loans from rural banks. More details of
the program are given in Annex 10.
4.11      Each school would require a staff of three teachers.  Technical
assistance would be provided by the staff of UPCA who have been managing
an original pilot school at Masaya. During the negotiations, the government
agreed that, within one year of the signing of the Credit Agreement, it will
prepare and subsequently implement a plan, to be mutually acceptable to it
and the Association, for supervised farming programs at each school and make
arrangements, also mutually satisfactory, for the provision of (a) credit
facilities to the students and (b) technical assistance from UPCA.



- 13 -
Agricultural Universities
4.12      To meet the needs outlined in paras. 3.16 and 3.17, the project
would provide laboratories, workshops and equipment at two agricultural
universities, which are well located and could become, with this assistance,
strong regional centers for agricultural training and research. The project
would also provide technical assistance (Annex 6) to supplement the universi-
ties' staff development program.
4.13      The Central Mindanao University (C4U) offers five-year degree pro-
grams; the project would enable the development of agricultural business man-
agement as a major field in agriculture with supporting programs in general
agriculture, agricultural engineering and agricultural education; in forestry,
the major fields to be developed would be forest utilization engineering and
forest resources management. Present enrollment at the University is 1,300,
of whom 1,050 are in agriculture and forestry; after completion of the proj-
ect this latter number would rise to 1,500. The University's Development
Plan envisages a 1976 total enrollment of 2,000 and a diversity of curricula
offerings exceeding the financial and staff resources likely to be available.
The University has already agreed to limit student enrollment to areas of
study for which manpower needs exist and for which adequate recurrent funds
can be provided and to phase out engineering courses other than those directly
related to agricultural development to which all the resources of its
engineering college should be devoted. The University will also integrate
the training of students in agricultural business management with the
operation of its commercial farms and include within the five-year agricultural
and forestry programs an additional semester of practical work.
4.14      At the Central Luzon State Universitr (CLSU) the project would
assist inter alia the introduction of courses in agricultural business manage-
ment and agricultural engineering with a major in hydrology. Total enroll-
ment at the University is 1,700 of whom 1,300 are in agriculture; the latter
figure would rise to 1,500 after completion of the project. Total enrollments
would be limited through a policy of selective admission.
4.15      The government has indicated that CMU and CLSU have acquired legal
title to the land they occupy.
Social (Extension) Laboratories
4.16      The project would assist the two universities in giving new emphasis
to on-the-job training of extension workers and in associating them more close-
ly with rural development, by providing social (extension) laboratories similar
to that established by UPCA (para. 3.20), to be located at the center of a
group of adjacent villages. They would each consist of a meeting hall, work-
shop and housing for up to 12 staff and/or students; transport for resident
extension staff and students and a mobile film unit would be provided at each
center. Their main function would be to provide field training for students
majoring in agricultural extension and in-service training for extension
workers employed by government and other agencies. The universities would
provide one field extension worker per village to identify needs, plan pro-
grams, organize group action and, where necessary, provide services. To



- 14 -
ensure liaison with existing extension agencies, the government has agreed
that it will make arrangements mutually satisfactory to it and the Association,
within one year of the signing of the Credit Agreement, for CMU, CLSU, the
Agricultural Productivity Commission and other relevant agencies to coordinate
provision of extension services in the areas covered by the project. The
government will also prepare studies on national and regional manpower needs
in the agricultural sector and on ways and means to meet such needs, formulate
plans for supervised farming projects at the agricultural high schools and
pilot village development schools included in the project and make arrange-
ments with existing universities to improve agricultural education, training
and extension.
Agricultural Radio Stations
4.17      The project would further strengthen agricultural extension work
by providing 5 kw transmitters, equipment, studio facilities and mobile units
to an existing radio station at UPCA and for a new radio station at cMU (para.
3.20). Further details are given in Annex 11. The stations would cooperate
with government and private agencies in their extension programs, conduct
"'schools of the air," assist in the training of students studying agricultural
communications, broadcast the results of the universities' agricultural
research programs and evaluate the effectiveness of their own programs
and the work of the universities' extension services.
4.18      The government has agreed to make arrangements with UPCA, mutually
satisfactory to the government and the Association, within one year of the
signing of the Credit Agreement, for a training program for personnel of
the CMU radio station and to subsequently implement the program. The Radio
Control Office has arranged for a franchise to be granted to CMU and has
authorized extended transmission power for the station at UPCA.
Technical Institutes
4.19      To meet the need for technicians outlined in paragraph 3.23 the
project would include three technical institutes. New institutes would be
established in Manila and Bacolod and the third would be developed from the
Iligan Institute of Technology by provision of additional equipment. The
sites are well selected. The institutes would offer terminal three-year
post-secondary courses for 2,800 students in two shifts to provide about
800 technicians annually. The enrollments, course offerings and curricula
are given in Annex 12.
4.20      The government proposes to set up a national polytechnic scheme
with which the institutes would be affiliated and has agreed, that pending
this development, all three institutes would be administered by a Technical
Education Governing Council with appropriate representation from industry and
will apply the same curricula and observe the same examination standards.
4.21      To meet the immediate staff needs of the institutes, the government
has agreed to provide three one-year teacher training courses to be scheduled
so that 60 teachers would be ready for the first year of operation of the
Institutes and 60 in each of the following two years. About half of the



- 15 -
180 teachers would be required for technical subjects and would be professional
engineers prior to training; the others would be qualified teachers or
professionals in their respective fields. To meet the long-term needs for
technical teachers some 5% of the places in the Manila institute should be
reserved, as long as needed, for a one-year course for trainees who have
completed technician training and at least two years of industrial experience.
The UNDP has already undertaken to provide an initial allocation of
technical assistance for this project and an extension of this program might
be considered. Pending assurances that such UNDP assistance will be
forthcoming, the proposed project has provisionally included 13 man-years of
specialist services and 8 man-years of fellowships (Annex 6).
Regional Manpower Training Centers (RMTCs)
4.22      To meet part of industry's need for skilled craftsmen the project
would help disseminate new methods of vocational training initiated by the
National Manpower and Youth Council (NMYC) and supported by UNDP and ILO
(para. 3.24) by providing ten new Regional Manpower Training Centers (RMTCs).
These would offer short "modular" full-time and evening courses of varying
duration, ranging from introductory to advanced level for youth or adults
when required at intervals during their working lives. The combined output
of the Centers would be approximately 7,200 craftsmen per year. More in-
formation about location, enrollments, course offerings and curricula is
given in Annex 13.
4.23      An agreement between the Council of Employers' Organizations and
the NMYC providing for close cooperation between industry and the RMTCs to
ensure the proper type of training was signed in 1971. The government has
agreed that all ten centers will be administered by the NMYC on completion
in order to facilitate the introduction of uniform government recognized
trade testing schemes. Pending completion and during the construction phase,
the government will ensure coordination of activities between its Project
Unit in the Department of Education and Culture and the NMYC.
4.24      Staff for the centers would be trained at the National Manpower
Skills Training Center in Taguig which is receiving UNDP/ILO assistance.
Assurances were given during the negotiations that, within three years
of the signing of the Credit Agreement, some 150 instructors and ten
supervisors for the centers will be trained. Finally, an assurance was given
that, not later than one year after the commencement of the operation of the
centers and annually thereafter, the government would make available for IDA
review, annual evaluation reports on the centers.
Technical Assistance
4.25      To provide for a strengthening of educational planning and manage-
ment, curricula reform and a pre-investment study on textbook production,
to augment the staff at the agricultural colleges and technical institutes
and to assist in equipment procurement for the Project Unit, the project
would make provision for 62 man-years of specialist services and 56 man-years
of overseas fellowships (Annex 6). The implementation program was agreed
upon during negotiations. The government intends to obtain from UNDP
additional technical assistance in the form of 31 man-years of specialist



- 16 -
services needed to strengthen educational planning, curriculum development
and manpower training as well as six man-years of overseas fellowships for
curricula development and teaching in the ten Regional Manpower Training
Centers. It is possible that UNDP might also provide part of the 62 man-
years of technical assistance included in the project. If this assistance
materializes, the amount of the Credit could be reduced accordingly or made
available for use in other categories.
Cost of the Project
4.26      The total cost of the project is estimated at Pesos 113 million
or US$17.68 million equivalent. A breakdown of the project costs, given
in Annex 14, is summarized below:
Pesos (millions)         US$ (millions)      % of
Project Items           Local  Foreign   Total Local  Foreign   Total Total
1. Curriculum Co-
ordinating Unit        -      0.22      0.22   -       0.04      0.04   -
2. Education Devel-
opment Center         1.50    1.99      3.49  0.24    0.30       0.54   3%
3. Regional Science
Teaching Centers      1.14    2.00      3.14  0.18    0.31       0.49   3%
4. Agricultural
Universities          6.64   10.88    17.52  1.04    1.70        2.74  15%
5. Social (Extension)
Laboratories          0.27    0.46      0.73  0.04    0.07      0.11   1%
6. Pilot Village Devel-
opment Schools        1.09    1.07      2.16  0.17    0.17       0.34   2%
7. Agricultural Radio
Stations              0.14    0.83      0.97  0.02    0.13       0.15   1%
8. Agricultural High
Schools               0.43    8.12      8.55  0.07    1. 27      1.34   7%
9.  Technical Institutes  4.58   12.06    16.64  0.72    1.88         2.60  15%
10. Regional Manpower
Training Centers      7.62   15.94    23.56  1.19    2.49        3.68  21%
11. Technical Assistance
Experts and
Fellowships           3.01   13.44    16.45  0.47    2.10        2.57  14%
Sub-Total (1-11)      26.42   67.01    93.43  4.14   10.46    14.60  82%o
12. Contingencies
a.  Physical           1.92    1.22      3.14  0.30    0.19       0.49   3%
b.  Price              5.44   11.13    16.57  0.84    1.75        2.59  15%
Sub-Total (12 a-b)    7.36   12.35    19.71  1.14    1.94         3.08  18%
Total Project Cost
including
Contingencies         33.78   79.36   113.14  5.28   12.40    17.68 100%



- 17 -
4.27      The estimated cost of the project by type of expenditure is as
follows:
% of
Pesos (millions)         US$ (millions)   % of Foreign
Local   Foreign  Total  Local Foreign Total Total Exchange
1.   Construction
a. Site Develop-
ment          2.18     1.46    3.64   0.34   0.23   0.57   3%         40%
b. Academic and
Communal    13.75      9.17   22.92   2.15   1.43   3.58  20%        40%
c.  Staff Housing 0.53       0.36    0.89   0.08   0.06   0.14   1%        40%
d. Farm Build-
ings       0.83      0.55    1.38   0.13   0.08   0.21   1%        40%
Sub-Total (a-d)  17.29    11.54   28.83   2.70   1.80   4.50  25%          40%
2.   Furniture          2.14      1.43    3.57   0.35   0.22   0.57   3%        40%
3.   Equipment          2.11    40.13   42.24   0.33   6.27   6.60  38%         95%
4.   Professional
Services          1.87     0.47    2.34   0.29   0.07   0.36   2%         20%
Sub-Total (2-4)   6.12    42.03   48.15   0.97   6.56   7.53  43%
5.   Technical Assistance
Experts            2.75    11.14   13.89   0.43   1.74   2.17  12%         80%
6.   Fellowships        0.26      2.30    2.56   0.04   0.36   0.40   2%        90%
Sub-Total (5-6)   3.01    13.44   16.45   0.47   2.10   2.57  14%
7.   Contingencies
a.  Physical       1.92      1.22    3.14   0.30   0.19   0.49   3%
b.  Price          5.44    11.13   16.57   0.84   1.75   2.59  15%
Sub-Total (7a-b)  7.36    12.35   19.71   1.14   1.94   3.08  18%
8.   Total Project Cost
including Contin-
gencies           33.78    79.36  113.14   5.28  12.40  17.68 100%
Cost Estimates
4.28      The construction cost estimates have been derived from recent school
building costs in the Philippines adjusted to accommodate improvements in
design and construction, particularly to withstand seasonal typhoons. The -



- 18 -
construction costs per square meter of gross floor area range from US$70 for
secondary and post-secondary level institutions to US$100 for the agricultural
universities. The unit costs per student place and the average utilization
factors of facilities of the few new project institutions that are comparable
to previous projects compare favorably with similar Bank/IDA financed projects
in other countries (Annex 15). A local cost adjustment of between 5% and 20%
has been included for schools outside the Manila area. Site development costs
vary between 10 and 20% of the building costs. Furniture and equipment cost
estimates are based on 1971 prices and on approximate quantities related
to local program requirements. Detailed lists would be compiled during
project implementation.
4.29      Contingency allowances are shown in detail in Annex 16.  For un-
foreseen factors, 10% is added to the cost estimate of site development, con-
struction and professional services. Price increases are estimated at 6%
per annum for all local expenditures except for furniture (3%). Foreign
price increases are estimated for civil works at 6%, furniture at 3%, equip-
ment at 3.5% and technical assistance and fellowships at 5%. Overall, con-
tingencies are equivalent to about 21% of the total estimated cost of the
project.
Foreign Exchange Component
4.30      The foreign exchange cost estimate, determined on the basis of
prevailing prices and dollar equivalents at the time of appraisal, amounts
to US$12.4 million equivalent or 70% of the total estimated cost calculated
as follows: 40% for site development and building; 40% for furniture; 95%
for equipment; 80% for experts; 90% for fellowships and 20% for professional
services.
V. IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENT
Execution of the Project
5.01      To avoid delays in project execution, similar to those in the first
project (para 1.02), the government has agreed to establish a Special Fund and
to replenish the Fund at monthly intervals in an amount equal to the estimated
total expenditure for the project less the amounts to be paid directly by the
Association during the next three months' period.
5.02      Responsibility for school planning and design and for procurement
of furniture and equipment is fragmented among several government agencies.
To minimize any possible problems in project implementation, the government
has established a Project Unit in the Department of Education, to be respon-
sible to the Secretary of Education for (a) supervision of project implemen-
tation; (b) coordination with other government services and related agencies;
and (c) liaison with the Association. The Unit will consist of an executive
director, an architect, an educator, a procurement officer and a financial
officer, who will have adequate supporting staff, office space, furniture



- 19 -
and equipment and transpor-tation. The executive director, educator and
architect have been appointed. The principal officers of the Unit have
already been selected by the government and agreed by the Association. The
salary of the procurement specialist will be a part of the proposed project.
Professional Services
5.03      The design and supervision of construction would be carried out by
private local architects and the Department of Public Works; master planning,
design and supervision of construction schedules for the Education Develop-
ment Center, the agricultural universities and technical institutes would be
assigned to the private architects, assisted in the case of CLSU by the
institutional planner being provided under technical assistance (Annex 6).
The architects and planner would be approved by the Association.
Site Acquisition
5.04      Sites for construction of new institutions and extensions included
in the project are acceptable except for two regional manpower training
centers, the sites for which are in the process of selection and acquisition.
The government has agreed to take such action as is necessary, to complete
such acquisition.
Procurement
5.05      Contracts for the supply of furniture and equipment and for construc-
tion work would be awarded under IDA Guidelines for international competitive
bidding, except that, contracts for furniture and equipment under $40,000
equivalent, up to a total of $250,000, may be awarded after local competitive
bidding. Items would be grouped to the extent practicable to encourage com-
petition. The construction and furniture industries in the Philippines are
capable of meeting the needs of the project and it is unlikely that many
foreign bidders would be attracted except for equipment, most of which would
be imported. A preference of 15% will be given in the evaluation of bids
for equipment, materials and supplies substantially of Philippines origin
and offered by Filipino manufacturers. The Bank has accepted this preference
before (Loan 637-PH).
5.06      The services of an equipment and furniture procurement specialist
are required to set up a bid system, assist in preparing and evaluating
furniture, supplies, materials and equipment lists, specifications and bids
and training counterparts. The government has agreed that this specialist
would be appointed not later than six months after the signing of the Credit
Agreement.
Disbursement
5.07      The proposed Credit would amount to US$12.7 million equivalent,
or 72% of the total project cost. It would finance the foreign exchange
component of US$12.4 million equivalent up to US$0.3 million equivalent of
local currency financing to cover the ex-factory cost of locally procured
equipment, furniture and educational materials. The Credit would be disbursed



- 20 -
to meet: (a) the c.i.f. cost of imported or ex-factory cost of equipment,
furniture and educational materials produced by local firms of Philippine
nationality; (b) total costs of technical assistance (specialists and fellow-
ships) as regards international travel, remuneration and allowances; and
(c) 38% of the cost of construction and professional services. Undisbursed
amounts would be available for cancellation.
5.08      Construction and equipping of schools would be completed in about
3-1/2 years from the date of the Credit Agreement (Annex 17) but the techni-
cal assistance component would extend over a period of six years (Annex 18);
the estimated schedule of disbursements is shown in Annex 19.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During the negotiations agreement was reached on the following
matters:
(a)  the further development and rationalization of higher
agricultural education in general (paras 3.17-3.19) and
of OfU and CLSU in particular (paras 4.13, 4.15 and 4.16);
(b)  the organization, operation, staffing and financing of the
OPS and CCU, the Education Development Council, the agricul-
tural high schools, pilot barrio (village) development
schools, the technical institutes and the regional manpower
training centers (paras 4.03, 4.04, 4.08, 4.09, 4.11, 4.20,
4.21, 4.23 and 4.24);
(c)  a training program for personnel of the CMU radio station
(para 4.18);
(d)  the implementation of a technical assistance program
(para 4.25);
(e)  the establishment of a special local currency fund with
adequate funds for the project (para 5.01); and
(f)  the acquisition of sites for project institutions (para 5.04).
6.02      The proposed project is suitable as a basis for an IDA credit of
US$12.7 million equivalent to the Republic of the Philippines, repayable over
a 50-year period, including a 10-year grace period.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
EDUCATION IN THE PHILIPPINES
Introduction
Serious educational problems in the Philippines are inherent in
its population pattern. The Philippines has a total population of 40 mil-
lion (1972), which is estimated to increase to 59 million by 1985. Almost
half the population is less than 15 years old (Table 1). There are over
twice as many persons in the 0-4 age group as in the 20-24 year age group.
These figures presage a very large increase in enrollment in schools in the
years immediately ahead.
Historical Background
The antecedents of and influence on the Philippines educational
system are both Spanish and American and stretch back 400 years. The Spanish
influence may also be seen in the large number of private institutions with
religious affiliations particularly at the secondary and higher levels. The
influence of the United States is apparent in the operation of a substantial
Government-supported elementary school program, strong teacher training
programs and the large number of teachers who take their advanced degrees
in the United States.
Educational Studies and Surveys
The Philippine system of education has been one of the most inten-
sively studied systems in the world. The first comprehen3ive survey dates
back to 1925 and has been followed by some 12 other major studies (Annex 4).
Administrative Structure and Organization
In the Philippines, education is a government responsibility, even
though over half of secondary education and over 90% of higher education is
conducted in private institutions. Education is administered by the Department
of Education and Culture headed by the Secretary who is a member of the
President's Cabinet. Four service units carry out departmental responsibili-
ties:
(1) Planning Service;
(2) Financial and Management Service;
(3) Administration Service; and
(4) Information and Publication Service.
The schools are administered through three bureaux:
(1) Bureau of Elementary Education:
(2) Bureau of Secondary Education; and
(3) Bureau of Higher Education.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
In practice, the Secretary of Education and Culture delegates
responsibility for the operation of the schools to the bureaux. He retains
responsibility for final action on the educational budget, appointment of
certain school personnel and basic policy decisions.
The National Board of Education is legally the principal policy-
making body for education; it is composed of the following!
(1) The Secretary of Education and Culture;
(2) The Chairman of the Committee on Education in
the House of Representatives;
(3) The Chairman of the Committee on Education
in the Senate;
(4) The President of the University of the Philippines;
(5) Chairman of National Science Development Board;
(6) Undersecretary of Education and Culture;
(7) Three prominent citizens; and
(8) The Directors of Elementary, Secondary and Higher
Education Bureaux as nonvoting members.
Coordination is intended to be achieved by the Secretary of Education serving
as Chairman of the Board. To perform its policy-making ftmction, the Board
constitutes study committees on various aspects of education; it also conducts
hearings to obtain comments and suggestions on educational policy. The Board
refers committee reports and recommendations on new policies to the Department
of Education and Culture for implementation.
The Board and/or Department also attempt to secure enactment of
legislation to implement new policies. Congress, through its Education Com-
mittees in the House of Representatives and Senate, also enacted educational
statutes on its own initiative. Such laws became policy, to be implemented
whether or not the Board or the Department concurred.
The Department of Education and Culture oversees the operation of
private educational institutions. The control is minimal, however, and is
limited largely to the establishment of academic standards.
An analysis of the administrative structure of education indicates
a number of weaknesses. The Department has developed without adequate plan-
ning and lacks appropriate planning machinery; there is an over-centralization
of authority in the Secretary of Education, who is burdened with a large
variety of functions; the Department's field administrators have few oppor-
tunities to exercise individual initiative and creativity.
The National Board of Education has too many statutory functions
which do not allow it to give adequate time to study long range plans and
policies; it has never become fully operative as the principal policy-making
body as it does not have the power to implement the policies it recommends.
The Chairman and members of the Education Committees of the Congress
were influential in determining policy; the power of implemention of policy



ANNEX 1
Page 3
lay in the House and Senate. There was therefore substantial political in-
fluence in educational policy and planning. Individual legislators often set
up educational institutions in the areas they represented even though these
might have an adverse effect on the total education system and often contrib-
ute to production of trained manpower in excess of requirements.
Fiscal constraints (Annex 3) seriously handicap all aspects of educa-
tion; whether from lack of sufficient funds or from unwise expenditure for
items of low priority the result is the same - inadequate services, supplies,
books and equipment.
Structure of the System (Chart 1)
The school system of the Philippines in 1970 enrolled an estimated
9.7 million pupils (Table 2); 78% were enrolled in public schools. Nearly
all pre-school children were in private schools; at other levels the division
between public and private schools is given in Annex 3, Table 1.
Elementary education comprises 6 years; secondary and higher educa-
tion are usually each of 4 years duration. The length of schooling is less
than that in most other countries.
Schools not administered by the Department of Education and Culture
include the National Defense College, the Philippine Military Academy, the
Academy of Financial and Social Welfare and miscellaneous training schools.
The people of the Philippines have a high regard for education and,
measured in terms of financial inputs, are making a prodigious effort to
support it. The achievement of the Philippine education system is impressive
too, in terms of the percentage of the relevant age groups being educated.
Virtually all children of elementary school age are in school, about 71% of
the secondary age group, which is very high for a developing nation, and
25% of the college age group; the latter figure places the Philippines second
only to Canada and the United States in this respect.
Quality, however, leaves much to be desired. There is a serious
lack of textbooks, library books and equipment for science, industrial arts,
home economics and business education. School buildings are very poor and
badly maintained.  There is a high dropout rate throughout the system.  Of
each 100 pupils who commenced grade 1 in elementary schools in 1962-63, only
56 were in attendance in the 6th grade, six years later. Of these 56, only
42 started secondary school and only 30 were expected to continue until the
fourth year. Of this remaining group, some 24 were expected to enter university
and only 15 reach the final year. Only some 13 out of the original 100 would
graduate. These figures assume no repetition although repetition is widespread.
Pre-school Education
Pre-school education includes nursery schools (3-4 year age group)
and kindergartens (5-6 year age group). Although it is not required for
entrants into the first grade of elementary education, many parents are
anxious that their children should have this experience and the enrollment



ANNEX 1
Page 4
has increased from an estimated 33,000 in 1966 to 58,000 in 1972. Basic
data for nursery schools and kindergartens in 1972 is estimated to be as
follows:
Pupil/   Percent of
Teacher   Age Group    Percent
Grades     Enrollment    Teachers          Ratio    in School   Boys/Girls
Nursery         28,000        1,000          28:1          2         53    47
Kindergarten   30,000         1,000          30:1          2         53    47
Total Pre-
elementary     58,000        2,000           29:1          2         53    47
Elementary Education
Elementary education comprises 6 years of instruction in most
schools but a few schools in rural areas have only the first 4 grades. Al-
though the Elementary Education Act of 1953 authorized 7th grade instruction
in all elementary schools, financial constraints have prevented its imple-
mentation. There is a limited enrollment in a 7th grade in a very few
elementary schools. Ninety-five percent of elementary school enrollment in
1970 was in public schools supported by the central Government and was both
free and compulsory, although compulsory attendance is not always enforced.
Educational achievement in the elementary schools is not as high as it
should be, due, in part, to lack of textbooks and in part to difficulties
related to the time involved in studying languages. Instruction in the
first 2 years is in the local vernacular with Filipino and English as
formal subjects. English becomes the medium of instruction thereafter.
In the public sector some 95% of elementary teachers are officially
classified as fully qualified; almost 72% are 4-year college graduates and
24% have graduated from 2-year normal colleges, agricultural colleges or
schools of arts and trades. The majority of the remainder are graduates
from earlier 3-year college teacher training programs. Data for the private
sector is not available but it is assumed that most of the teachers in these
schools are qualified. The teacher/pupil ratio is estimated to be approximate-
ly 30:1 and teacher turnover negligible.
Basic data for elementary education in 1970 were estimated to be as
follows: (more details are given in Annex 2, Table 2).
Pupil/    Percent of
Teacher     Age Group       Percent
Grades    Enrollment    Teachers        Ratio       in School    Boys  Girls
1-6       7.0 million   0.24 million   29.1          119*        51      49
*    Due to overaged pupils.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
General Secondary Education
Secondary education is of 4 years duration. The enrollment of 1.9
million in 1970 (grades 7-10 including 0.15 million in vocational secondary
schools) represented 71% of the age group. Projections of future enrollment
vary according to estimates of population growth and future government policy
(Annex 3). Of the total enrollment in secondary schools, some 67% were in
private schools in 1968-69; of these, 62% were in non-sectarian schools, 35%
in Catholic and 3% in Protestant schools. In the public sector, financial
support for secondary schools comes from a variety of agencies: in the case
of 158 schools from the central Government; for 96 schools, from provincial
governments; for 104, from city governments; and for 25, from municipalities.
Most of the public and all private secondary schools charge fees. In city
and municipal schools, the fee is nominal (in a few cases no fees are charged),
but in provincial and national high schools, fees of approximately $15 per
year are charged. In private secondary schools, tuition fees vary from $15
to $150 per annum.
The increasing demand for secondary school places and the inability
of the agencies mentioned above to provide for them resulted in 1964 in the
establishment of the first barrio (village) high schools as a result of the
initiative of the population in rural areas. From an original enrollment of
350 pupils in one school, the number grew rapidly and now includes 1,500
schools with 160,000 pupils. The schools are managed by village councils
and were originally intended to be financed exclusively from student fees.
The students would earn the required income through work projects, particu-
larly agriculture, for which time was allocated in the curriculum. In re-
cent years, however, greater emphasis has been placed on preparation for
higher education and the work-oriented element has been reduced.
The quality of secondary education gives cause for concern; it is
considered to be the weakest link in the educational ladder. There is a
25% dropout rate and although 80% of those completing secondary school enter
higher education, they are poorly prepared and are particularly deficient in
English, science and mathematics. In 1960 Congress adopted a 2-2 curriculum
plan, under which 2 years of general education would be provided for all
students, followed by 2 years of either an academic or vocational stream.
As funds for provision of additional workshops and equipment could not be
obtained, however, the 2-2 plan has never been implemented in more than
about 5% of the schools. The other secondary schools continue with an
academic curriculum, with one vocational course (usually including arts
and crafts for all students, woodwork and sometimes metalwork for boys and
home economics for girls) in each of the 4 years. Again, fiscal constraints
and shortage or absence of equipment make the teaching of these courses
rudimentary. Buildings are generally of very poor quality and inappropriate
design and the almost universal lack of equipment and books results in largely
verbal teaching with little or no demonstration or practical application.
There is an excess of secondary teachers in most areas with the
exception of the fields of science, industrial arts and music, where short-
ages exist. About 94% of general public school teachers are qualified
college graduates and the figures in vocational and private schools are



ANNEX 1
Page 6
believed to be of the same order of magnitude. Most vocational subject
teachers, however, have very little industrial experience and those with
such experience are often attracted away by opportunities in private enter-
prise. Few science classes in schools involve student participation and
even teacher demonstration methods are limited by shortages of equipment.
The teaching of social studies is based on earlier patterns with separate
instruction in history and geography often not related to Philippine condi-
tions; little attention is paid to more relevant instruction in population
and economic development. Teachers in secondary schools suffer from over-
crowded classrooms but appear to be devoted to their work and endeavor to
provide the best instruction possible. The rate of turnover amongst secondary
teachers is less than 1%; women constitute 67% of the teaching force. Basic
data for general secondary education in 1970 was estimated to be as follows.
(More details are given in Annex 2, Table 2.)
Pupil/     Percent of
Teacher     Age Group         Percent
Grades    Enrollment      Teachers      Ratio       in School       Boys   Girls
7-10      1.9 million    0.05 million   36:1            71           50     50
Higher Education
Of the 650 institutions offering higher education in 1969, 560, or
86%, were privately operated. In the public sector there were 22 chartered
state colleges and universities, 65 colleges operated by the Bureau of
Vocational Education (BVE) and 6 under the Bureau of Public Schools, all
supported by the central government.
Higher education has never been viewed in the context of manpower
needs. Some 34% of the students take education courses, 24% social sciences,
and only 0.6% agriculture and 0.05% forestry (Table 3).
Higher education is largely concentrated in the Manila area where
16 out of the 42 major universities (providing for more than 40% of the en-
rollment) are located. The number of graduates produced in nearly every
field is second only to that in the United States and Canada and represented
25% of the age group in 1970. It is estimated that 30% of the students
drop out and some 25% are repeaters.
In 1969 there were 400 institutions offering teacher training
courses - 360 private institutions, 15 under the Bureau of Vocational
Education, 14 city colleges and 5 state universities. The result is a
substantial overproduction of qualified teachers; in 1969 there were 57,000
applications for 8,000 teaching posts.
Higher education, while quantitatively more than adequate for
Philippine needs suffers from serious qualitative deficiencies. Financing
is uncertain, frequently limited to the proceeds from low tuition fees; com-
mercialism is pronounced. The qualifications of most faculty members are no
higher than those for which their students are studying (it is estimated that
some 63% have Bachelors degrees, 24% Masters degrees and 3% Ph.D.s); faculty



A,NNEX 1
Page 7
tenure is almost non-existent. An open system of admission allows any
secondary school leaver to enter college and his continuation is usually
regulated only by his ability to pay the fees. The normal duration of
courses is 4 years, which, in view of the low standard of entrants, is
inadequate for training to first degree level; a number of universities are
now extending Bachelors courses to 5 years duration and others are considering
the possibility of a pre-college year. Government influence and regulation
of private institutions is minimal; the regulatory body, the Bureau of Private
Schools, was merely a licensing authority, since its limited staff could not
visit, let alone enforce, regulations and standards in so many institutions.
Accreditation is in its infancy (only 28 institutions belong to the Philippine
Accrediting Association of Schools, Colleges and Universities) although the
Fund for the Advancement of Private Education (FAPE) is taking steps to
develop better accreditation systems.
Technical Training
Public vocational and technical education was administered by the
Bureau of Vocational Education. The Bureau of Private Schools exercised
limited control over private vocational/technical institutions. Special
skill training programs are under the supervision of the National Manpower
and Youth Council (NMYC), in cooperation with vocational institutions.
There were, in 1969/70 under the BVE, 113 schools of arts & trades
(SATs) and there were also some 650 private vocational schools, most offer-
ing only short courses in a variety of trades.
MIany of the public vocational schools were established by converting
general secondary schools in order to obtain central government financial
support through the BVE. Many of the changes were in name only and little
attempt was made to recruit staff with appropriate qualifications and to pro-
perly equip the institutions. Eighty-six percent of the students are en-
rolled in 4-year secondary programs, and 30 of the 113 SAT's also offer
2-year post-secondary courses for craftsmen. The four-year program includes
43% practical work and provides training mainly in automotive mechanics,
general mechanics, building construction, electricity, woodwork, textiles,
food trades, cosmetology, etc. The 2-year post-secondary courses offer 50%
practical work and concentrate mainly in the same fields. There is a wide
difference in quality of training provided in SATs, related to adequacy of
staff, accommodation and equipment, and the lack of uniformity makes the
introduction of uniform trade testing almost impossible.  Most of the pupils
attending secondary courses are too young to obtain full benefit from the
practical element of the training provided; there is a 41% dropout rate.
Many of the schools are situated remote from industry with which there is
little or no liaison. In the school year 1968-69 only 58% of school leavers
were able to obtain appropriate employment; industry is critical of the train-
ing provided. Some 34% of school leavers from vocational schools move into
higher education of a non-vocational nature, which represents a drain on the
limited financial resources available for education.



ANNEX 1
Page 8
It is difficult to obtain information on private vocational second-
ary schools but it is apparent that only 3% of their enrollment is receiving
true secondary level instruction and the majority of the remainder take ad
hoc courses of short duration in a variety of vocational subjects.
There is a very limited apprenticeship program operated by the
Department of Labor and industrial sponsors. At least 2,000 hours of on-the-
job training and 100 hours of related instruction are needed for the award
of a Certificate of Proficiency in a trade. Only 1,800 apprentices have com-
pleted this training in the last decade.
In 1968 a national manpower training program was inaugurated to
accelerate skill training to meet the manpower requirements of expanding in-
dustries. A National Manpower and Youth Council (NMYC) was set up in 1969
and has drawn up programs for skill training, utilizing facilities in exist-
ing vocational/technical schools. The scheme is designed for out-of-school
youth and for the up-grading of industrial employees, who are trained in
short unit courses of from 3 to 6 months' duration in such occupational areas
as metalwork, mechanical and electrical trades, electronics, air conditioning,
construction, agriculture and farm mechanics. The program has proved popular
and some 100,000 participants have undertaken training since it began. The
NMYC, with ILO assistance, is now introducing new programs based on uniform
modules of skill and the instructor training program to start shortly at the
National Manpower Skills Center in Manila will unify and strengthen the whole
pattern and thereby make the introduction of trade-testing on a national
basis possible.
In the field of higher education, undergraduate courses in engineer-
ing are offered at seven public institutions and post-graduate courses at the
University of the Philippines. In the private sector there are 41 universities
offering undergraduate courses while eight offer post-graduate training.
Total enrollments in engineering five-year degree courses are ap-
proximately 40,000, with an annual output of some 4,000, but the size of the
output of trainees with post-graduate qualifications is very limited.
Although, on average, the ratio engineers:technicians:skilled workers
should be 1:5:25, the industrial manpower pyramid in the Philippines is dis-
torted due to a substantial over-production of engineers and limited tech-
nician training. Some regional vocational schools have been elevated to the
level of state chartered institutions and authorized to offer higher voca-
tional and technical education, but the courses they provide, which range
from 1 to 3 years in duration, cannot be described as true technician courses.
About 135 private engineering colleges offer two-year associate degree courses
in engineering but these also cannot be considered as technician courses as
the curriculum in most of them is identical with that of the first two years
of engineering degree courses.
Agricultural Education
Agriculture is included at the elementary school level in the form
of gardening, which is usually taught by trained agricultural teachers but



ANNEX 1
Page 9
suffers from the problems inherent in elementary education as a whole:
limited financial provision, lack of equipment and teaching materials, and,
in particular, an unattractive salary scale for agricultural teachers.
At the secondary level, there are 85 agricultural high schools,
formerly operated under the BVE; 25 of these also offer degree programs; 5
public institutions, primarily offering degree courses, also have high school
programs. There are 16 private institutions offering high school agricultu-
ral courses. 13 state colleges and universities offer degree level instruc-
tion and 9 of these also offer secondary level programs,
All agricultural schools fall under the umbrella of the Department
of Education and Culture which exercises varying degrees of control, ranging
from practically nil in the case of chartered state institutions to limited
control over private schools and close centralized supervision of vocational
schools. State colleges and universities exist as autonomous institutions
and are governed by Boards of Regents.
High school programs take 2 main forms; in many general secondary
schools in rural areas there is an elective 2-year vocational course in
agriculture; there are also agricultural high schools with much stronger
agriculture-related courses.
It is difficult to assess the effectiveness of the general high
school programs because these schools lack the financing that vocational
schools receive from the Government. Funds are often barely sufficient to
pay for the services of the teachers at the minimum wage levels of unskilled
workers and only rarely are agricultural teachers in such schools properly
qualified.
The aim of the agricultural high school program is to train present
and prospective farmers for proficiency in farming. The program has expanded
rapidly until the vocational schools and others operated by chartered colleges
and universities have an enrollment of about 35,000 and an output of some
6,000 each year.
The country has some 3,000,000 farmers, however, and this limited
output hardly approaches the true need. The shifting of emphasis in secondary
education away from the vocational towards college preparation has also
affected agricultural high schools; there are now signs of a readjustment
to the original purpose through introduction of a new curriculum giving a
greater amount of time for practical work and the establishment of super-
vised farming programs at school farms; two pilot projects are under way.
The University of the Philippines College of Agriculture (TJPCA) has introduced
a new concept of agricultural education at the high school level through
a Pilot Barrio (Village) Development School, in which 50% of the time is
spent by pupils carrying out supervised farming programs on their own or
their parents' farms; the courses are terminal and do not prepare for college
entrance.



ANNEX 1
Page 10
At the post-secondary level, eight schools offer one-year or shorter
training programs known as "opportunity courses", dealing with poultry
husbandry, pig raising, farm mechanics, etc., which are designed in theory
to provide for middle level technicians but are inadequate for this purpose
in almost all respects. The courses are not popular as they do not offer
degrees on completion; they are usually used as a means of gaining entry to
degree programs.
Degree-granting agricultural colleges are far more numerous than is
required. Their programs and curricula are strongly oriented to the content
of the academic stream of university education rather than to contemporary
problems of the economy and of the communities within their service area. The
BSA (Bachelor of Science in Agriculture) normally takes four years (two-year
associate degree programs are offered in only four institutions) but, in 1967,
UPCA, the principal agricultural education institution in the Philippines,
decided to offer a five-year program because of the low level of the intake
of students from secondary schools and the continuing advances in agricultural
science and technology. The action of the UPCA precipitated similar moves at
the Central Mindanao University and one other college but more institutions
are expected to follow suit.
Of the 54 degree-granting institutions, all offer BSA degrees in one
or more of eleven major fields: agronomy, animal husbandry, botany, chemistry,
economics, entomology, engineering, extension, general subjects, plant pathology,
and soils; the UPCA offers also poultry and communications. The most popular
courses are the general curricula, agronomy and animal husbandry programs.
Fifteen colleges offer teacher training programs (B.S.Ag.Ed.), and five offer
agricultural home technology (B.S.Ag.H.E.). Little attention is paid in ex-
isting curricula to courses relevant to the modern sector of Philippine agri-
culture. Agricultural business management is offered in only two out of the
54 colleges and agricultural engineering is provided in badly-equipped facili-
ties in only six institutions. Irrigation is not taught as yet as a major sub-
ject in any institution. Forestry, one of the major industries in the
Philippines, is offered in only four institutions and only one of these has
adequate practical training facilities.
Farmer education receives little attention in the Philippines. Ad
hoc courses are provided by a number of bureaux of the Departments of Agri-
culture and Natural Resources; sales promotion units of private agricultural
suppliers, manufacturers and distributors provide training, mainly in the
proper use of their products.



ANNEX I
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
POPULATION PROJECTIONS - 1970-1985
FIGURES IN THOUSANDS. AS OF JULY 11/)
Age          1970         1975        1980         1985
All Ages      37,179       43,312      50,457       58,780
0 - 4         6,996        8,426       9,888       11,605
5 -  9        5,734        6,704       7,915        9,294
10 - 14        4,608        5,487       6,422        7,553
15 - 19   |   ?,966         4,406       5,252        6,124
20 - 24        3,243        3,772       4,196        4,988
25 - 29        2,627        3,074       3,583        3,976
30 - 34        2,149        2,487       2 916        3,392
35 - 39        1,769        2,031       2,356        2,756
40 - 44        1,458       11,665       1,917        2,218
45 --49        1,221        1,361       1,559        1,792
50 - 54        1,024        1,125       1,260        1,441
55 - 59          828    i   925         1,021        1,143
60 - 64          612    I   725           815          901
65 - 69          418          509         608          685
70 --            526          615         749          912
1 /
' These projected totals were computed on a 3.1% rate of growth
using the May 6, 1970 preliminary figure. Age distributions
as projected by the "Component Method" using the 1960 Census
figures were adjusted to arrive at the projected totals.
Source: Bureau of Census and Statistics



PHILIPPINES - II
ENROLLMENT AND TEACHERS BY LEVEL OF EDUCATION - ALL SCHOOLS. 1970 - 1980*
GRADE AND LEVEL                 1970           1971            1972           1973            1974           1975           1976            1977           1978            1979            1980
Pre-Elementary
Nursery                          23,000         25,000          28,000         30,000          33,000        37,000          40,000          44,000         48,000          53,000          58,000
Kindergarten                     26,000         28.000          30.000         34,000          37,000        40,000          4.000           48.000         53.000          58.000          63.000
Total                       49,000         53,000          58,000         64,000          70,000        77,000          84,000          92,000        101,000         111,000         121,000
Elementary
1               1,616,000       1,517,000      1,555,000       1,608,000      1,664,000      1,705,000       1,764,000      1,782,000       1,809,000      1,814,000       1,823,000
2               1,342,000       1,434,000      1,359,000       1,385,000      1,446,000      1,498,000       1,553,000      1,598,000       1,605,000       1,617,000      1,627,000
3               1,205,000       1,264,000      1,349,000       1,289,000      1,308,000      1,363,000       1,413,000      1,438,000       1,471,000       1,482,000      1,497,000
4               1,107,000       1,115,000      1,167,000       1,245,000       1,196,000     1,210,000       1,259,000      1,278,000       1,291,000       1,309,000      1,315,000
5                 937,000       1,042,000      1,055,000       1,102,000       1,175,000     1,134,000       1,145,000      1,164,000       1,172,000       1,182,000      1,189,000
6                 869.000         850,000        941.000         956,000         997,000     1,063,000       1,028,000      1.010,000       1,016,000       1,021.000      1,030,000
Total                    7,076,000      7,222,000       7,426,000      7,585,000       7,786,000     7,973,000       8,162,000      8,270,000       8,364,000       8,425,000      8,481,000
Secondary
1                 655,000         74;,000        730,000         803,000        819,300        853,000         909,000        882,000         889,000         922,000        956,000
2                 512,000         588,000        649,000         644,000         703,000       721,000         751,000        799,000         780,000         784,000        812,000
3                 401,000         492,000        539,000         595,000         595,000       647,000         665,000        693,000         735,000         723,000        726,000
4                 325.000         388 000        425.000         466,000         515,000       517.000         561.000        577.00          602,000         639,000         630.000
Total                    1,893,000      2,209,000       2,343,000      2,508,000       2,632,000     2,738,000       2,886,000       2,951,000      3,006,000       3,068,000       3,124,000
Higher
1                 240,000         286,000        305,000         336,000        370,000        408,000        412,000         446,000         459,000         478,000        508,000
2                 192,000         214,000        258,000         278,000        305,000        337,000         371,000        378,000         407,000         420,000        438,000
3                 158,000         159,000        177,000         213,000         231,000       253,000         279,000        308,000         315,000         338,000        350,000
4                 143.000         173,000        165,000         182,000         218.00        238,000         261,000        287,000         317,000         327,000        350,000
Total                      733,000        832,000         905,000      1,009,000       1,124,000     1,236,000       1,323,000       1,419,000      1,498,000       1,563,000       1,646,000
TEACHERS NEEDED
Pre-Elementary                    2,000          2,000           2,000          2,000           3,000          3,G00          3,000           3,000           4,000          4,000           4,000
Elementary                  236,000        241,000         248,000        253,000         260,000        266,000        272,000        276 ,ooe        279 ,000        281 ,000        283 ,000
Secondary                    53,000         61,000          65,000         70,000          73,000         76,000         80,000          82,000         84,000          85,000          87,000
Higher                       32,36,0000                     39000          44.000          49,000        54,000          58,000          62,000          65.000         68,000          72.000
Total                      323,000        340,000         354,000        369,000         385,000        399,000        413,000         423,000        432,000         438,000        446, 000
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO                                 is not possible to make accurate enrollment projections as (a) school children have not been counted on a national basis
since 1967 and (b) the last population census for which complete results are available was in 1960. The above projections.                              >
Pre-Elementary         27:1                     are based on estimates prepared by the Presidential Commission to Survey Philippine Education, modified in the light of in-                          t
Elementary         30:1                     formation obtained in the field at the time of appraisal.  An analysis of alternative estimates of enrollment
Secondary          36:1                     based on various different assumptions is given in Annex 3.
Higher             23:1



Ai1X 1
Table 3
PHILIPPINES
COLLG1GE ENROLLME&IT BY COURSE - PUBLIC AND PRIVATE
21970
Discipline              Number Enrolled           Percent of Total
Humanities                       113,593                     15.5
Education                        251,371                     34.3
Fine Arts                          8,062                      1.1
Law                               16,123                      2.2
Social Sciences                  175,154                     23.9
Natural Sciences                   2,931                      0.4
Engineering*                      68,156                      9.3
Medical Sciences                  27,116                       3.7
Agriculture                        4,397                      o.6
Forestry                             bO4                      0.05
Graduate Education                 9,527                      1.3
Unspecified                       56,430                      7.7
Total                       733,261                    100
* Includes those enrolled in courses of less than degree standard.






ALKa I
(MSWIT. soo-os
I           I St T..I
.1 11S              S                         .11.          1 11S             :11
I- -          1.4.    D.                                   L.6F                2,      p        09                                                9.1             96              U                                                                               2.
J.-                                                                                                                                              10                              U                            t".              11                                 'M
";X            ::Il                                                                                                                                         It                                                                                                             .4
':S"
2:.
.4                                                                       2,270            97                                                                98              m                             5                                16               1.
ID              0                '."D              19            21,                5 S                             11              25                                             'D
.:h, d,
......             . ... ... .... I                                                                                       t:,                                  S.              1.                               It                                             51 1         21                                 11
ID           53.1                 I'm                  0                            2.4             12.39                           35             29            22C               ND               19                31
3.                            31                  5            to
W  D.            11             la                           11
IS;
1.            I.,                     So            7               3o              . . .                            S3              11             2                              W
3.0                                            5 a             .3. t            soX             51            I
So            I                                               2...             11             5I                             I               tll
DI         11               3.tC                             11              10a            1.            I
DI1                                                                4:;            '2t 1
4               20.4                                            6
W-           .1,                                                                              I             1.9
li:,31                                                                                                                                                                           I9
so
4                                                                              1               It                3
z'7%.                                                                                                                            S                                           11             I             Is               11
2. 1                                                                                             I                 S
19.5             12
IS           ' II                                                                    :iS
31             44              1                               9               It
21               I                                                                               Ito            11              I
11                                    D. 1                                          4:,lS           13:.lS                              S
711                                                                                                                                                                                                              4I                                                                                 I
11                             It               IS
$4S            m
2::1                                            11             17              1,              11               I
41                                                                                                                                                                   IA
I                I'D I                                                          21 1Do           .31
XIt                S            ..S             11.6             13              1.
:ID I         a,              24                                                                              43              92              I
7.           7.                                                                   S
13             il               2.4            15.8             so                                                             Ill             '2 11
S        Do              O                SA              1. 9             is              31            41             II
19                                  W
ISI                   ID S,                                           I
31               N'                                                                                             31
I           2                                                                                                                      1.             2.             2
1.A              S1              3.21                                                           IS                                                S
21               I)I              1.                 It
'e't            2.            11             I'              I's
10            2,4
11          I..4                    m              el             45                4.9             23               so             33             3!I            't               22
4
SIL81-11 11              ID I          11                                               ID
'O ,                         11                                                               ' '                           "'               "
':6,                                            411            2. 'X             .1            t
1: 2                                            30
761                S          15X
ISI
13                                            36
I.                                             23
X                                                                                                   T'                              2.1           11              3               11                                  SlI
1:3'                  t                             112
...                                 70                                    50            11S                                S             I4.4            lo,.             51            42X            19                                11               '14t
11            t                     Soo I                          I'               1.31            IS,.             19              IIo                          26               IS                 4                2.
m           1.                      m                  7.          11               4.1             10.5 S,          89S             II            29              3
IM.21                                                                                                        S                                                          11.1
"   ,                                                                                           11            11                                                                  '4
34.1I                  I                                                               2                                                                                                                411
2.1                                                                                                                                                                 It 11
71                                    Do                                                                                             3t
36.t1                  t    I                                                                                                                                                                             31
35.4P                                                                                                   9,S
30D 1         49A              9               3.3             l;.l                                                                           13                21                4
IIA-Sl  SS-Po.
46              52              1
45 - 91)  (I - 54)   (1.4 . 6,3) (6.3 . 29                            - I-1)  M  - I ff                .   (t - 32)  (13  30)   I! - U)
17              4.4             to                8,                                           21
I.,            I.                                   6             14
25               I               ':.'      I    I4, ,                            '1'2            S
M5   I..                                                                                                                                     I.D- M.)
9"
D  'D-1,                                                                                I
q-                                                                                                                                                                                           ((3)                         Mo
f-Id                                                                                                              C--L S-S-                    .1,                                 -1    L,)-(12)   W)
"U. .1
369                                                                                                                                                      W.MF
10                                       P"-,.
19n                      S
1012






ANNEX 3
Page 1
FINANCING AND COST OF EDUCATION
Introduction
1.        The national government is required by the constitution to "estab-
lish and maintain a complete and adequate system of public education, and
shall provide at least free public primary instruction."*   It has been be-
yond the financial capability of Philippine society to fulfill both require-
ments. The national government has been able to establish and maintain free**
and complete primary education, but only at the cost of neglecting secondary
and higher education, which is mainly left to the private sector (tables 1
and 2).
Table 1: PERCENTAGE DISTRIBUTION OF ENROLLMENT BETWEEN PUBLIC
AND PRIVATE SCHOOLS, 1968-69
Public                       Private
Elementary Education                         95                             5
Secondary Education                          33                            67
Higher Education                              7                            93
Table 2: ENROLLMENT IN ELEMENTARY, SECONDARY AND HIGHER EDUCATION
AS A PERCENTAGE OF THE RELEVANT AGE GROUPS
Elementary Enroll-        Secondary Enroll-        Higher Enroll-
ment as % of 7-12        ment as % of 13-16         ment as % of
Years Old                 Years Old           17-20 Years Old
1960-61 ...           92                        27                     13
1961-62 ...           94                        28                     14
1962-63 ...           99                        31                     16
1963-64...           104                        34                     16
1964-65 ...          109                        35                     18
1970-71 ...          119                        71                     25
*    Article XIV, Section 5 of the Philippine Constitution.
**   No fees are charged in public elementary schools.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
Expenditure on Education
2.        Total national expenditure on all types of formal education for
1972 is estimated at US$381 million, or 4.6 percent of expected GNP. The
national Government contributes only 55% of this amount or US$207 million;
this represents 26% of the national budget and is allocated as follows:
Table 3: ALLOCATION OF THE NATIONAL GOVERNMENT'S EDUCATION
BUDGET AND OF TOTAL NATIONAL EXPENDITURE 1972
National Government Budget Total National Expenditure
US$                          US$
Millions         Percentage  Millions         Percentage
Elementary Education    175                 85         194                51
Secondary Education        7                 3          65                17
Vocational Education       1                 _           9                 2
Higher Education          24                 12        113                30
Total          207               100        381                100
Thus the national government allocates nearly all its education resources to
elementary education and very little is available for the other levels of
education. Too high a proportion of non-Government expenditure is spent on
higher education. Secondary education is severely under-financed.
3.        US$134 million (35 percent of the total expenditure on education)
is expected to come from student's fees. Fees are charged at all levels,
whether private or public, except in public elementary schools. They vary
from US$16 per annum in the rural barrio high schools, (some of which the
school repays, depending on the student's own work) to US$320 in some of
the private universities. The average student fee for each level is given
in the following table:



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Table 4: AVERAGE ESTIMATED STUDENT'S FEES FOR EACH LEVEL
OF EDUCATION 1972
US$                        Pesos
Elementary Education...                         16                          100
Secondary Education ....                        18                          110
Vocational Education ...                         14                          85
Higher Education .......                         96                         600
4.        Local governments (municipal, city and provincial authorities) are
expected to contribute US$40 million (11 percent) to the total expenditure
on education, which includes transfers from the national government. At pre-
sent, the maintenance of public secondary education, except in the so-called
nationalized high schools, is the responsibility of local governments. Due
to lack of taxation powers, other than property taxes, these governments are
to a great extent dependent on transfers from the national government. Since
these transfers are inadequate, the local governments have difficulties in
providing the necessary accommodation for the growing school population.
Many provincial governments prefer to channel the increase in secondary en-
rollment into rural barrio high schools, which are private and, therefore do
not have to be funded by public means.  The Presidential Commission to Survey
Philippine Education has recommended that the local governments should take
over the responsibility of financing elementary education. Such a shift in
financing would allow the national government to greatly increase its financ-
ing, and thereby control, of secondary and higher education and at the same
time give control over elementary education to the local communities. This
recommendation would involve the following measures for successful implement-
ation: first, a new tax base should be given to the local governments, which
will ensure adequate funds; second, a general fund should be established,
which would transfer resources from the richer to poorer local governments;
third, a nationwide uniform pay scale for elementary teachers should be
maintained; fourth, the national government should enforce minimum standards
for elementary education. These measures would not be easy to bring into
effect since they would alter long established practices. Particular care
should be taken to avoid the danger of financial responsibility being shifted
to local governments without implementation of the above measures, which are
necessary to prevent a decrease in quality and a heterogeneous elementary
education system.
Recurrent and Capital Expenditures on Education
5.        Recurrent expenditures command by far the greatest share of the to-
tal expenditures on education. For 1972 it is estimated that US$347 million,
or 91 percent of these expenditures, will be spent on recurrent outlays.
The share of the recurrent and capital budgets of the various levels are
as follows:



ANNEX 3
Page 4
Table 5: THE DISTRIBUTION OF RECURRENT AND CAPITAL EXPENDITURES
BETWEEN LEVELS OF EDUCATION FOR 1972
Expenditures
(in US$ million)
Total
Recurrent        Capital       Amount          %
Elementary Education             178              16          194            51
Secondary Education               58               7           65            17
Vocational Education               7               2            9             2
Higher Education                 104               9           113           30
Total                      347              34           381           100
Percentage                  91%              9%          100%
Recurrent Unit Costs.  Enrollments at the different levels of education are
not exactly known but, using different assumptions, can be estimated as fol-
lows:
Table 6: ALTERNATIVE ESTIMATES OF ENROLLMENT AT EACH
EDUCATIONAL LEVEL IN 1972
Alternative                               1               2                 3*
(000)
Elementary Education                    7,630           7,430             7,310
Secondary Education                     2,210           2,200             2,200
Vocational Education                      180             150               150
Higher Education                          890             900               900
Total                       10,910          10,680            10,560
*    The three alternatives refer to the Presidential Commission estimate
(1) and estimates based on a birthrate of 4.7% (2) and 4.5% (3), re-
spectively.



AINEX 3
Page 5
7.        The average recurrent cost per pupil can now be determined for the
three alternatives:
Table 7: ESTIMATED AVERAGE RECURRENT COST PER PUPIL IN 1972
Alternatives                              1               2                3*
Us$
Elementary Education                      23             24                24
Secondary Education                       26              26               26
Vocational Education                      36             43                43
Higher Education                         117             116              116
*    Same as in Table 6.
The average recurrent cost per pupil is extremely low by any standards. In
elementary education the teacher pupil ratio is 1:30 and no less than 93% of
recurrent cost is spent on salaries and other personnel expenses; hardly any
provision is made for books and other educational material. The same is al-
most true for secondary education wihere 87% is allocated to personnel ex-
penses. At this level the teacher ptupil ratio is 1:36 and salaries are about
10% lower than for elementary teachers.  The difference in salary must be at-
tributed to the fact that elementary teachers are all paid by the national
government and are politically strong, while secondary teachers are mostly
paid by private institutions and local governments and are not organized.
The cost of vocational training is also extremely low ard reflects the poor
quality and lack of materials and supplies. The average per pupil cost in
higher education reflects the students' demand for education but at a cost
which he can afford.  The private sector has quantitatively been very suc-
cessful in supplying cheap academic courses, but the quality is very low,
and bears little relation to the requirements of the economy.
Future Education Expenditure (Table 8)
8.        Under the present system of financing, it is unlikely that the na-
tional government will have the financial resources to undertake any signifi-
cant improvements of secondary, technical - vocational and higher education
without a reduction in the cost of primary education. Without such a reduc-
tion, total expenditure on primary education (under present conditions) is
likely to double from $194 million in 1972 to $381 million in 1980 and the
government's primary education expenditure would increase to $343 million or
84% of its total education budget which itself could have risen to 28% of
the total national budget. Only very insignificant amounts would be avail-
able for secondary, technical and higher education (table 8, "high" projec-
tions).



ANNEX 3
Page 6
9.        Since the government itself is attaching high priority to the im-
provement of education at these levels and plans to expand its aid to
students and to private education institutions, which are increasingly in-
clined to look for Government support, the Government should reduce primary
education expenditure as a proportion of its education budget.
10.       Pending a transfer of the responsibility for primary education to
the local authorities the national government should consider the following
steps to reduce further increases in the primary education bill:
(i) introduction of automatic promotion, which would reduce
the rate of increase in enrollments and would bring the
enrollment ratio from the present level of about 119% of
the age group to below 100%;
(ii)  increase in the pupil/teacher ratio from 30:1 in 1972 to
33:1 in 1976 and 36:1 in 1980;
(iii) stabilization of primary teachers' salaries (which are
already higher than those for secondary school teachers)
at present real values.
11.       Theoretically the combined effect of these measures would be a re-
duction in the national government's 1980 primary education bill by nearly
$170 million (table 8, "low" projections). Even if, in practice, these mea-
sures can only be partially carried out, the effect would be significant
enough to free a substantial amount of government resources for the much
needed reform and improvement of secondary, technical and higher education.
12.       Such steps, however, are unlikely to result in the real improve-
ments unless the Government strengthens its control over the education sys-
tem, enforces qualitative standards, limits enrollments at secondary and
higher levels and consolidates colleges and universities into more viable
and economical units. It should use the powers which will result from the
increased reliance by private institutions on Government financing, to
bring about such a rationalization and consolidation of the school system.
The government is presently working on a financing plan that would include
these elements.
13.       Mlore details about future levels of education expenditure (for 1976
and 1980) are given in Table 8.



ANNEX 3
Page 7
Table 8: EDUCATION COST PROJECTIONS 1972 - 1980
(in US$ millions) (Constant 1972 prices)
1972       1976        1980
1.  GNP                                            8,328       10,645      13,593
2.  National Government Budget (low)                 801        1,070       1,429
3.  National Government Budget (high)                801        1,110       1,538
School Enrollments ('000)
4.  Primary education (low)                        7,426        7,690       7,526
5.  Primary education (high)                       7,426        8,395       9,274
6.  Secondary education (low)                      2,197        2,712       2,822
7.  Secondary education (high)                     2,197        2,826       3,151
8.  Vocational secondary education (low)             146          174         180
9.  Vocational secondary education (high)            146          182         201
10.  Higher education (low)                           905        1,306       1,470
11.  Higher education (high)                          905        1,323       1,711
Total Education Expenditure
(all sources; US$ million)
A.   Primary Education
12.  Recurrent expenditure (low)                      178          185         166
13.  Recurrent expenditure (high)                     178          252         316
14.  Capital expenditure (low)                         16           24          30
15.  Capital expenditure (high)                        16           40          65
16.  Total expenditure (low)                          194          209         196
17.  Total expenditure (high)                         194          292         381
B.   Secondary Education
18.  Recurrent expenditure (low)                       58           80          94
19.  Recurrent expenditure (high)                      58           83         104
20.  Capital expenditure (low)                          7            5          14
21.  Capital expenditure (high)                         7           15           8
22.  Total expenditure (low)                           65           85         108
23.  Total expenditure (high)                          65           99         112
C.   Vocational Secondary Education
24.  Recurrent expenditure (low)                        7            8           9
25.  Recurrent expenditure (high)                       7            8          10
26.  Capital expenditure (low)                          2            0           3
27.  Capital expenditure (high)                         2            3           2
28.  Total expenditure (low)                            9            8          12
29.  Total expenditure (high)                           9           11          12



ANNEX 3
Page 8
1972       1976        1980
D.   Higher Education
30.  Recurrent expenditure (low)                     105         151         171
31.  Recurrent expenditure (high)                    105         153         198
32.  Capital expenditure (low)                         9          23          14
33.  Capital expenditure (high)                        9          38          39
34.  Total expenditure (low                          114         174         185
35.  Total expenditure (high)                        114         191         237
E.   Total Education Expenditure (all levels)
36.  Recurrent expenditure (low)                     348         424         440
37.  Recurrent expenditure (high)                    348         496         628
38.  Capital expenditure (low)                        34          52          61
39.  Capital expenditure (high)                       34          96         114
40.  Total expenditure (low)                         382         476         501
41.  Total expenditure (high)                        382         593         742
Total Education Expenditure
as a % of GNP (low)                             4.6%        4.4%        4.1%
- do -      (high)                           4.6%        5.2%       5.4%
National Government Education Budget
(under present financing system /1)
Primary education (low)                               175        188         175
Primary education (high)                              175        263         343
Secondary education (low)                               7          9          12
Secondary education (high)                              7         11          13
Vocational secondary education (low)                    1          1           1
Vocational secondary education (high)                   1          1           1
Higher education (low)                                 24         36          39
Higher education (high)                                24         40          50
Total Government expenditure (low)                   207         234         227
Total Government expenditure (high)                  207         315         407
National Government Education Expenditure
as a % of total National Government Budget
(low /2)                                         26%         21%         15%
(high3)                                          26%         29%         28%
/1   Assuming that Government would continue to finance only 90% of primary
education expenditure, 11% of general secondary and vocational second-
ary education expenditure and 21% of the cost of higher education.
/2   "Low" expenditure projections as a percentage of "high" budget projec-
tions (line 3).
/3   "High" expenditure projections as a percentage of "low" budget projec-
tions (line 4).



ANNEX 3
Page 9
Assumptions
1.   Growth rate per annum:    6.3%
2.   Growth rate per annum:    7.5%
3.   Growth rate per annum:    8.5%
4.   Population growth rate of 3.05% in 1971 declining to 2.32% in 1980;
automatic promotion and decline in participation rate from 119% in 1972
to 109% in 1976 and 99% in 1980;
5.   Population growth rate of 3.30% in 1971 declining to 2.71% in 1980;
constant transition ratios (percentages of repeaters and drop-outs remaining
equal) and constant participation ratio of 119%.
6 and 8. Constant transition ratios (or: if automatic promotion is intro-
duced at primary level, controlled expansion of secondary education).*
7 and 9. Automatic promotion at primary level without control over the
expansion of secondary education.*
10. Entrance Requirements for Higher Education
11. Automatic promotion at primary level, constant transition ratios
and no entrance requirements at higher level.
12 - 14 - 16   Low enrollment projections (line 4), increase in pupil/teacher
ratios from 30:1 in 1972 to 33:1 in 1976 and to 36:1 in 1980; teachers'
salaries to be kept at present level (in constant prices); increase in
non-personnel expenditure to 15% of total recurrent cost, compared with the
present figure of 7%.
13 - 15 - 17 High enrollment projections (line 4), no increase in pupil/
teacher ratios, continued increase in salaries (at rate of GNP per capita
growth: 3.3% p.a.); increase in non-personnel expenditure to 15% of total
recurrent cost, compared with present figure of 7%.
18-20-22-24-26-28   Low enrollment projections (lines 6 and 8); 2.7% real
annual increase in teachers' salaries, some improvement in non-personnel ex-
penditure (books and materials).
19-21-23-25-27-29   High enrollment projections (lines 7 and 8); 2.9% real
annual increase in teachers' salaries, improvement in non-personnel ex-
penditure (books and materials).
*    The actual rate of population growth is not known.  These projections,
as distinct from those in Annexes 1 and 2, are based on more recent
population statistics and different assumptions about progression rates.






ANNEX 4
THE PHILIPPINES
EDUCATIONAL STUDIES AND SURVEYS 1927-1971
1.   The Economic Survey Report of 1927:  focused on vocational education
and its relevance to the economic and social status of the people.
2.   The Prosser Study of 1930:  a follow-up of the 1927 survey; proposed
measures to improve vocational education.
3.   The Quezon Educational Survey of 1936:  aimed at reorienting the edu-
cational system to Commonwealth status and to eventual independence.
4.   The Educational Survey of 1939:  became the basis of the Education Act
of 1940 which abolished the seventh grade in the elementary school
which had been part of the education system up to that time.
5.  The Joint Congressional Committee Study of 1948:  produced in connec-
tion with Philippine independence in 1946 and the demands of national
rehabilitation after World War II.
6.   The UNESCO Mission Survey of 1949:  in accordance with an agreement be-
tween the Philippine Government and UNESCO, the survey involved ele-
mentary, secondary, adult and teacher education.
7.   The Survey of Private Education in 1951:  conducted by the Senate
Special Committee on Educational Standards of Private Schools to de-
termine whether the schools' certificates of recognition were issued
in accordance with pertinent regulations and to look into instruc-
tional standards.
8.   The Magsaysay Committee Survey of 1957:  to determine how Philippine
education "may be reinforced and improved."
9.   The 1960 Survey of Public Schools:  a comprehensive survey of the pub-
lic school system with a view to possible revision.
10.  The Presidential Commission to Survey PhiliPpine Education; 1970:  this
was a major document produced by a large staff of Philippine educators
and foreign consultants which indicated clearly the major defects of
the system (which are detailed in Annex 5)and made numerous recommenda-
tions for reform.
11.  The UNESCO Project Identification Mission, 1971:  prepared the way for
Bank Group financing.
12. The Department of Education's 4-year Development Plan for Education,
1971: included several of the recommendations of the Presidential
Commission.






ANNEX 5
THE PRESIDENTIAL COMMISSION TO SURVEY PHILIPPINE EDUCATION 1970
The Commission identified the following weaknesses inter alia
in the Philippine education system:
(i)  the wide diversity of sources of authority for educational
policy; a high degree of centralization in decision making;
a segmentation of educational responsibility by sectors
(public, private, vocational) rather than by function (ele-
mentary, secondary, higher); a lack of Government control
and excessive freedom for private school proprietors;
(ii) a need to expand educational expenditures by some 10% an-
nually to cope with the enrollment increase as a result of
population growth and the need to improve existing facili-
ties; this increase is greater than that projected for
GNP; the high proportion of Government resources devoted
to elementary education with neglect of other levels; the
financial starvation of most educational institutions; the
serious shortages of equipment, materials and books;
(iii) the emphasis in secondary education on college preparation
although the agreed curriculum, a 2-2 plan, was originally
conceived to cater for manpower needs; the short duration
of the secondary course (4 years after a 6 year primary
course) which is inadequate for college preparation and
pre-vocational courses;
(iv) the tremendous social demand for university education leading
to a graduate output far exceeding and unrelated to manpower
needs; the open system of admission to universities; the
limitation of the function of the Bureau of Private Schools
to licensing due to inadequate staff; the limited membership
(only 28 institutions) of the Philippine Accrediting Asso-
ciation of Schools, Colleges and Universities; the establish-
ment of new institutions of higher education at high schools
without changing faculty size or quality or increasing fi-
nancial provision, and without provision of machinery for im-
posing quality standards in curricula or faculty; the concen-
tration of the best higher educational institutions in the
Manila area; the concentration of private institutions on low
cost programs such as teacher education (34% of graduates in
1969/70), commerce and liberal arts; and
(v) the proliferation of vocational, technical and agricultural
institutions at high school and post-secondary levels, in-
adequately equipped and unable to provide relevant educa-
tion.






ANNEX 6
Page 1
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1.        The Philippines has experienced and well qualified personnel in a
variety of different fields but the emphasis placed by the educational system
on academic training is reflected in deficiencies in certain types of
specialist manpower. The government receives technical assistance from a
number of donor agencies; for several of the items in the project for which
technical assistance is needed, at least an initial sum has been included
in the UNDP Country Program Paper. However, in four areas additional technical
assistance amounting to 62 man-years of specialist services and 56.5 man-years
of fellowships would be provided under the project.
2.        The total cost of assistance to be provided under the project
amounts to US$2.17 million for specialist services and US$0.40 million for
fellowship training overseas plus contingencies; the implementation period
would be about six years (Annex 20).
3.        Technical assistance to be provided under the project would consist
of the following specialists and fellows (numbers in parenthesis show man-
years):
A.   Specialist Services (62)
'i) Educational Planning, Management, Curricula Reform and
Textbook Production (7): specialists in data processing
(1); vocational education (1); school and facility
design (1.5); textbook production (1.5); and curricula
development and evaluation in the field of social studies (2);
(ii) Agricultural Colleges (40):
For CLSU: one specialist in agricultural education
(Chief of Party) (4); specialists in institutional
planning and management (2); agricultural business
management (4); agricultural engineering and
irrigation (2); food processing (2); farm machinery
(2); vocational agriculture (2); seed technology
(2); extension and use of audio-visual aids (2);
and animal nutrition (2);
For CMU: specialists in farm mechanization (3);
agricultural research planning (2); agricultural
extension planning (2); forestry college adminis-
tration (2); forestry resource management (2);
forest conservation and reforestation (2); and
electronics (3);



ANNEX 6
Page 2
(iii)   Technical Institutes (13):  One technical teacher
training specialist, (Chief of Party) (4); specialists
in mechanical and electrical engineering (3); civil
engineering (3); mathematics and science (3);
(iv)   Project Implementation (2):  A procurement specialist
(2).
B.   Fellowships for Overseas Studies (56.5)
(i)   Educational Management and Research (8):  Fellowships
for PhD studies in educational research (3) and the
economics of education (3); one fellowship in school
planning and design (2);
(ii)   Agricultural Colleges (40.5):
For CLSU (26): Fellowships for PhD studies in agricultural
business and farm management (3); agricultural engineering
and irrigation (3); plant pathology (3); and crop production
(3); and fellowships in food processing (2); plant pathology
(2); entomology (2); agricultural business and farm management
(2); crop production (2); agricultural engineering (2); and
soils (2);
For CMU (14.5): Two fellowships for PhD studies in agricultural
business management (6); and one fellowship in each of the
following: wood science (2); wood technology (2); agricultural
engineering (3); college administration (0.5); feed mill
operations (0.5); and food processing (0.5);
(iii)   Technical Institutes (8):  Two fellowships each for six
months, in the following subjects: teacher training (1);
mechanical engineering (1); electrical engineering (1);
electronics (1); automotive technology (1); industrial
chemistry (1); airconditioning (1); and civil construction
technology (1).
Technical Assistance to be provided under the Project:
4.        The Office of Planning Service (OPS) in the Department of Education
and Culture would be provided with technical assistance from UNDP (see
para. 10 below). In addition, the project would provide specialists in the
fields of data processing, vocational education and school design and also for
the carrying out of a pre-investment study to draw up a textbook development
program which might lead to further Bank Group investment at a later date.
The specialists would work with specialists to be provided under the UNDP
program and would contribute to a strengthening of educational planning,
management and research. The project would also include overseas fellowships
to prepare staff members of the OPS to take over certain of the functions of
the experts. The textbook production specialist would assist Philippine
staff in analyzing textbooks and instructional materials now being used in



ANNEX 6
Page 3
the Philippines, identifying areas in which new books and materials are
required, conferring with subject matter specialists in the Department of
Education and Culture, the universities and schools, to determine needs and
to hold seminars for potential authors of textbooks. He would prepare, with
the assistance of Philippine colleagues, a textbook development plan and
make recommendations on appropriate means of production, distribution and
financing.
5.        The Education Department Center included in the project would be
provided with technical assistance from UNDP for its science and mathematics
curricula studies (para. 11 below) and, under the project, for its social
studies curricula development and evaluation. The functions of the Center
are described in Annex 10.
6.        The specialists for CLSU and CMU would be needed to fill gaps
in the existing faculty structure of the universities or provide staff to
take the place of Philippine staff members selected for fellowship training
locally or overseas. The institutional planner at CLSU, who would be
appointed as soon after the signing of the Credit Agreement as possible,
would be responsible for assisting the faculty and consulting architects
in drawing up a campus master plan and also long term development plans.
The other specialists at the two universities would undertake advisory,
teaching and research functions. The fellowship awards would be provided
for members of staff to strengthen their academic background and prepare
them for teaching and research posts on their return.
7.        The four specialists for the technical institutes would each serve
all three institutions under the project. They would (a) assist the staff
to develop appropriate curricula for technician training geared to the
needs of Philippine industry, and (b) give advice on the use of modern
equipment and audio-visual aids in technician training. The Chief of Party
would be responsible for the teacher training in general, covering both
technical and academic subjects and give advice on questions of methodology
and pedagogy. The fellowship awards would be provided for outstanding
members of staff to strengthen their technical background in specific fields.
8.        The procurement specialist would be a member of the project unit.
He would be responsible for setting up a bid system and controls, would
train counterparts and assist with the preparation and evaluation of
lists of furniture, material, supplies and equipment, specifications and
bids.
9.        Details of the implementation program were discussed and agreed
upon during negotiations. The proposed time schedule is shown in Annex 20.
Technical Assistance to be Provided Through the UNDP Country Program:
Office of Planning Service and Curriculum Coordinating Unit
10.       The UNDP Country Program includes provision for 5 man-years of
technical assistance as follows: educational planning (2.5); general
education (1) and educational research (1.5). These specialists would
assist in the operation of the Office of Planning Service in the Department



ANNEX 6
Page 4
of Education and would work in close liaison with Philippine staff members
and the technical assistance specialists being provided under the project
(para. 4). The educational planner would have specific responsibility for
bringing about closer coordination of curriculum development utilizing the
facilities to be provided under the project in the Curriculum Coordinating
Unit.
Education Development Center
11.       The UNDP Country Program contains approximately 3 man-years
of specialist services and 0.25 man-years of fellowships for the Science
Education Center of the University of the Philippines which w'ld become
an integral part of the Education Development Center included in the project.
This technical assistance would be combined with that provided fir social
studies under the project (para. 5).
Regional Manpower Training Centers
12.       The UNDP Country Program includes provision for approximately
23 man-years of specialist services as follows: A project manager (Chief
of Party) (3.5); specialists in apprenticeship and vocational training
standards (3); in-plant training (2.5); instructor training and teaching
techniques (2.5); machine shop work (2.5); industrial electricity/electronics
(2.5); automotive engineering (2.5); metal fabrication (2); agricultural
and construction equipment (2). The Country Program also includes 6 man-years
of fellowships in the following fields: machine shop work (1/3); metal
fabrication (1/3); agricultural and construction equipment (1/3); administra-
tion (1/3); training aids (1/3); standards and testing (1/3); plus four
fellowships in government, employer and labor relations (4). The specialists
would serve all 10 centers included in the project. They would continue the
advice and assistance provided under phase 1 of the UNDP project. The
project manager would supervise and coordinate the work of the specialists.
The specialists would assist in the organization of the centers and the
setting up of training programs and would take part in the training of staff.
The fellowship awards would be provided for outstanding instructor trainees
of the National Manpower Skills Center in Taguig in order to expand their
experience in specific fields. These instructors would then take over when
the technical assistance specialists terminated their services.
Technical Institutes
13.       The UNDP Country Program includes an initial allocation of six
man-months of specialist services and the Government may request an extension
of this program. Pending assurances that additional UNDP assistance will be
forthcoming, the proposed project includes 13 man-years of expert services
and 8 man-years of fellowships as outlined in paras. 3 and 7 above.



ANNEX 7
AGENCIES INVOLVED IN RESEARCH AND/OR DEVELOPMENT
OF EDUCATIONAL MATERIALS
1. Science Education Center, University of the Philippines;
2. Social Science Center in the Bureau of Public Schools;
3. Regional Science Teaching Centers;
4.  Laboratories or model secondary schools in colleges and universities;
5. Ford Foundation supported Language Study Center at Philippines
Normal College;
6.  National Historical Commission (Regional Seminars on History);
7. National Language Institute;
8. Research by professors in colleges and universities (such as the
studies published in the Education Quarterly, College of Education,
University of the Philippines);
9. Evaluations and studies of Department of Education personnel;
10. Research in agricultural education.






ANNEX 8
Page 1
FUNCTIONS OF THE OFFICE OF PLANNING SERVICE
AND THE CURRICULUM COORDINATING UNIT
A.   The Office of Planning Service
1.   Prepare for the Board of National Education long and short range plans
and programs for education and determine priorities between them;
2.   Design strategies for implementation of approved plans;
3.   Coordinate the work of Government and other agencies engaged in
physical planning of school buildings and facilities;
4.   Formulate indicators of educational objectives for each level and
for the whole system, and conduct periodic assessments of performance
based on such indicators;
5.   Propose a general framework for and priorities in educational research;
coordinate with existing research agencies; serve as a clearing house
for educational data; establish permanent data recording procedures
and methods of dissemination of information to interested bodies;
undertake research in areas not covered by existing agencies; provide
technical assistance to institutions conducting educational research;
6.   Prepare development projects in education and coordinate with other
agencies engaged in such projects;
7.   Undertake the management of education projects where appropriate;
8.   Provide professional and technical services to the Board of National
Education.
B.   The Curriculum Coordinating Unit
1.   Identify existing activities in curricula research;
2.   Effect coordination between all the agencies engaged in curricula
research;
3.   Organize inter-agency conferences;
4.   Identify areas of deficiency;
5.   Conduct curricula research in areas where no other
agency is engaged;



ANNEX 8
Page 2
6.   Carry out a pre-investment study to draw up a textbook development
program to include reco-mendations on production, distribution
and financing; analyze existing textbooks and instructional
materials; determine, in consultation with subject matter
specialists in the proposed Education Development Center, the
Department of Education and Culture, the universities and schools,
the need for new textbooks and their required content.



ANNEX 9
Page 1
THE EDWUCATION DEVELOPMENT COUNCIL
AND THE SCIENCE AND SOCIAL STUDIES EDUCATION CENTERS
It is proposed to establish an Education Development Council to
coordinate the operation of the University of the Philippines Science Educa-
tion Center (UPSEC) and the Social Studies Education Center (SSEC). The
project would provide an Education Development Center including joint physical
facilities for the use of the t',o existing centers.
The center would: (i) prepare materials, including books and
teaching manuals and develop prototype equipment for science and social
studies teaching; (ii) organize testing of the effectiveness of the materials
in schools; (iii) train instructors for Regional Science Teaching Centers
and teacher training colleges at the rate of approximately 100 every 18
months; (iv) conduct a minimum of 20 in-service programs a year in science
and similar programs in social studies for elementary and secondary teachers;
these teachers would subsequently conduct conferences and seminars for other
teachers in the areas from which they come, thus providing a multiplier ef-
fect for up to 7,000 teachers per annum; (v) assist the School of Education
of the University of the Philippines with its pre-service teacher courses
and other courses in science and social studies; and (vi) maintain liaison
through the Curriculum Coordinating Unit with other agencies engaged in
curricula research.
Courses would be of varying length and organized on an ad hoc
basis so as to make maximum use of facilities; during normal working hours
the facilities would be used for pre-service courses and in the evenings,
weekends and summer vacations for in-service training of at least 500
teachers per year.
A Memorandum of Understanding has been drawn up between the Bureau
of Public Schools, and the University of the Philippines to cover the estab-
lishment of the Education Development Council, the sharing of the new physi-
cal facilities to be provided under the project and to provide for the con-
tinuation of an earlier Memorandum covering training for supervisors,
curriculum writers and teachers of social studies.
The Education Development Council would consist of single repre-
sentatives from UPSEC, the SSEC, the Language Study Center and other agencies
engaged in curricula studies and material preparation which might operate
under the auspices of the Council at a later date. The UPSEC and SSEC repre-
sentatives would act as chairmen of the Council for one year on a rotating
basis, with the UPSEC representative assuming the chairmanship in the first
year.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
The objectives of the Council would be to coordinate the policies
of the various agencies, arrange for joint use of physical facilities and
sharing of staff, and to maintain liaison with other agencies engaged in
curricula studies and material preparation.
It is envisaged that as the physical facilities expand in the
future, additional centers would be accommodated in the combined center.



ANNEX 1 0
PILOT BARRIO (VILLAGE) DEVELOPMENT SCHOOLS
The first of these schools was established at Masaya and operates
under the close supervision and guidance of the University of the Philippines
College of Agriculture at Los Banos.
It is intended to establish additional schools in villages adjacent
to Munoz and Musuan, to be organized and supervised by CLSU and CMU,
respectively.
The enrollment in each school would be 100. The pupils would spend
half their time working at home; those in school would be accommodated in
2 classrooms. The project would include 2 teachers' offices and a small
workshop and store. Teachers would be provided with motorcycles to enable
them to supervise projects at the pupils' own homes; a small pick-up truck
would be provided for each school.
A major feature of the project would be the provision of tools,
equipment, and materials with which students would establish supervised
farming programs at their homes. These supplies would be considered as "on
loan" to the students and would be repaid in either cash or kind at the time
of marketing of produce. Each student would be required to maintain careful
records.
Courses would be of 4 years' duration as in other high schools.
The curricula would consist of 50% classroom instruction - each subject
containing a strong agricultural bias and 50% practical work on the projects.
Emphasis would be placed on arithmetic and its use in accounting and record-
keeping; each student would maintain a savings account in association with
the nearest rural bank. Work on projects would commence from the first year
and additional projects would be added in each of the succeeding years.
Projects would include vegetable and crop production and the husbandry of
rabbits, poultry and pigs.
Each school would require a staff of 3 teachers, 2 of whom would
also be responsible for supervising the projects at the pupils' homes.
Technical assistance would be provided by the staff of UPCA.






ANNEX 11
Page 1
PROPOSED RADIO STATIONS
AT THE UNIVERSITY OF THE PHILIPPINES COLLEGE OF AGRICULTURE (UPCA)
AND CENTRAL MINDANAO UNIVERSITY (CMU)
TECHNICAL DATA
Broadcasting in the Philippines
Broadcasting is operated by both government and private enter-
prise. There are some 300 radio stations. The Secretary of Public Works
and Communications supervises broadcasting through a regulatory body, the
Radio Control Office (RCO). Broadcasting rights are granted by franchise
by the Congress. Once a franchise is approved, the RCO allocates a
frequency, licenses the station and arranges for inspections. All non-
government stations pay an annual fee. No fees are imposed on receivers.
Areas to be Covered
DZLB (the radio station operated by UPCA) has at present a 250
watt transmitter, which enables it to cover the province of Laguna and
portions of the neighboring provinces of Rizal, Batangas and Cavite. Pos-
session of the more powerful transmitter to be provided under the project
would enable the station to effectively cover a substantial part of the
Southern Tagalog region, including the provinces of Laguna, Batangas, Rizal
and Cavite and also 3/4 of Bulacan, 1/2 of Quezon, Marinduque, Mindoro and
Bataan, and 114 of Zambales.
The station proposed for CMU would cover the provinces of Bukid-
non, Upper and Southern Agusan, Misamis Oriental, Davao del Norte, Davao
del Sur, Nothern Cotabato and Lanao, with an estimated number of transistor
radios totalling 71,000.
Broadcasting Time
At present DZLB broadcasts for 49 hours per week, 31 hours devoted
to information and education programs, including 17 hours produced in co-
operation with other institutions and agencies concerned with rural develop-
ment. Under the proposed project the hours of operation would be increased
to 84 per week.
The CMU station would broadcast for 16 hours per day.
Languages
DZLB:   English and Filipino.
CMU:    English, Filipino and Cebuano.



ANNEX 1 1
Page 2
Radius of Proposed Transmission
DZLB:  150 miles.
CMU:   350 miles.
Proposed Project Content
DZLB:   5.0 kw transmitter, studio equipment and accessories;
1 mobile broadcasting unit.
CMU:    5.0 kw transmitter, studio, tape-record library, control
room, offices, studio equipment, antenna and grounding
system, and mobile broadcasting unit.



j-LThTPPYIS - DATA 01'! TECHNXICAL INSTITUTES
Location                                  Manila               Bacolod            Ilivan              7otal
C.pacity i.e., Student places              600        .          40o                4O0              i,hco
Fnrollments (2 shifts)                   1,200                   8i00                800             2,800
^nnual output                              360                   240                240                84(
Type of coursps offered                Electrical              Electrical          ^1ect.rical
Electronics             Electronics        Electronics
Mechnical               Mechanical and    Mechanical
Autmotive               Aut,omotive        Automotive and
Civil Construction    Technology           Civil Construct-
and Chemical                               ion Technoloay
Technolo__r
Distribution of Time in Each Course (hours per week)
-       __ ~
Irste_ Year                    Secand YaaI                        Thi  rd.    _
Worksh.                                                               Wo rksh.
'en.   Tech.   and/or             Gen.   Tech.   and/or                rTen.   Tech.   and/or
-subjS.  SubJs.  Lab.      Total   Subjs. Suoj*. Lab.          Total   Subjs. Subjs.  Lab          Total
T 4, rricai                10        11       11        32       10     11       11        32        8       11       13       32
P1ect.ronins                10       13        9        32       10     11       11        32        8       10       14       32
'; echaniira 1             10        13        9        32       10     13        9        32        8       11       13       32
AuLtomotive               1l        10       12        32       10     10       12         32       8        8       16       32
;-,1vil 'onstruction        10                 C%       32       1      12       10        32        8       16        8       32
Thenist.nv                 10        i1         1]      32       10     12       13        32        8       10       14       32






PHILIPPINES - DATA ON REGIONAL MANPOWER TRAINING CENTERS (RMTC's)
_                    Annual Output    Annual Output
LOCATION          Capacity i.e.    from Full-time   from Evening                                           COURSES OFFERED
1-tudent places          Courses           Courses
Mariveles                      240                 520              1,040              Basic Mechanics, Machine Shop, Industrial Electricity, Boat Building, Electronics,
Welding, Sheet  Metalwork
Taguig                          90                 150                300             Manufacturing Processes, Advanced Machine Shop, Industrial Plumbing and
Special Welding Techniques
Talisay                        120                 230                460              Basic Mechanics, Machine Shop, Agricultural Mechanics, Plant Maintenance,
Diesel Engines, Welding
Iligan                        120                  250                500             Basic Mechanics, Machine Shop, Industrial Electricity, Diesel Engines, Sheet
Metalwork, Welding, Foundry
San Fernando                   120                 230                460             Basic Mechanics, Machine Shop, Diesel Engines, Electrical Installation, Car-
pentry, Sheet Metalwork, Welding
Marikina                        90                 170                 340            Machine Shop, Diesel Engines, Automotives, Welding
Binan                          120                 230                460             Basic Mechanics, Machine Shop, Diesel Engines, Industrial Electricity, Welding,
Sheet Metalwork
Naga                            90                 170                340              Basic Mechanics, Machine Shop, Carpentry, Agricultural Mechanics, Welding
Cebu                           120                 230                460              Basic Mechanics, Machine Shop, Diesel Engines, Industrial Electricity, Welding
Davao                          105                 210                 420             Basic Mechanics, Machine Shop, Industrial Electricity, Electrical Installation,
Sheet Metalwork, Welding
Cotal                       1,215                2,390              4,780
Time Schedules
Full-time courses:  8 - 12 a.m. and I - 5 p.m. x 5 days = 40 hours per week, of which 75% is practical work.
Length of courses = 3 - 6 months.
Evening courses  :  6 - 9 p.m. x 5 days = 15 hours per week, of which 75% is practical work.
Length of courses = 1-1/2 - 3 months.






                                                                                                                                          -
8   8                                                                                                                   8                             8;    8                         -   if   8
i       81
if                                                                                                                                                                  8      -
8                                                                                                                         1                                    1
18
if                                                              -    88
888888            88  a 188   '88  88
2$
-   -.                           -                 ..  ..jj
if                                                                         8 8888   8  88  8 8888 8                                   8
I                            18                                             8   888888       88  888   88   18   8
8   888888888888                                                            88  888888       88          88  88   8         
-a
88                                       ,..,,.,                            19
*1
88 .88 ''
I
8 8888
 1 if                          8881  818                                                          8888888888888888   88
6   8         8   8  .88       8              88   888                                                        1   8          888111        8    8888    S   88   8       88    88  88
-    -.  .-.-                                  -.         8                                                                           8811
8   881838             8                                             -         88.8.8.66                                          -.
8888888     8            888                                                     81
88  18   888    88  88                                         a]
88    81
8888      =8
888188,8888                                         8888   8    8888  88  ii  8 8188"'                                                                - I
-                                                                        88  8888888        8    888         88   88      888                                    1
88888888888    88  8881                                             88  888888       88               881        88888
88888888     a                                                  18                18   888         ;                                         1'
,,.,,,
88  88188                                                                                                                                               .        :
8sa181888        18                                                  8   88888888"     8    88?   88  888.  8   8888
F..
if   &SflhlI18         I   118                                if  11    1   8888888    18                                        88
S   88888888888881    8.    88  88  888                                   8    88888888    8    18?    8   88 8   8   8888
WI 1818,.....
38  8888.88    88   888    8   8                                              P
88888,,,,
8888888888888      118    a.  8888      "88888188
I  81"88 888888888  88  .8818888888888
88W888888       8   8888.        8..,....  .1818=        .              88888888     8                            8888888    8
888                 88888888      8     8                                  .   -            18188881..               if,.                      -.-.                   if
8888881    1     88                                 8   8      1   88881881
18                                                                                                                                                                            ..
IifififIi    if  if88        88        ..if8if88if   if  88       8if888if   88                             88811    88  88
88    8                             88888181.18   1                              888"1         8          888'    18                                88888888    8   88
818888888     -   881                        8888'-188888         88881588188    88    8         8   8          8888811III1  if  888.  8888.888  8888888.8    88  888  888t8  18






PHILIPPITES
Comrarative Indicators of Project Institutions
Gross Area    Average
Per Student   Utili-    Building       Capital Cost Per Student Place  (in US,)I/
Place or      zation    Cost Per   Construc-
Category          Staff House   Factcr    m2 (US$)   tion         Furniture  Equipment             Total
Academic and Communal
Facilities
Technical Institute         96m2 (11.8)    74%        70 (97)       686         135       1,135       1,955    (2,h16)
Manpow,!er Training             2(12.7
Centers                  15.hm2     7)    75%       7  (66)     1,11.3        130       1,559       2,802-   (2,318)
Staff ilousing             15hn   (130)       -       L6 (78)     7,218       2,200       1,150      10,568   (3,4,283)
1/ Professional fees and contingencies are not included.
2/ Utnit costs are based on the design capacity for 1,215 places; the annual output, however, wsould be 2,00
fron full-time day courses and 4,800 from evening courses.
( 3 Represent the median values for similar Bank/IDA-financed institutions (in 1970 prices).



PNILIPI'INES - SECOND EDUCATION ?ROJECT
Contingencies Allowances  in USS millions)
Professional              Technical Assistance
Site Develonmenit            Building               Furniture                 Equi..ent                Services               Experts               Feilowsi,ips               Sub Total
Local    Foreign           Local  Foreign        Local   Foreign            Local   Foreign        Local   Foreign    Local   Foreign             Local   Foreign            Local  Foreign           Total
Contingencies Percentages
(a)  Physical                        10%         10%            107.      107.        Nil        N-l            Nil         Nil          10%       107         Nil      Nil            Nil      Nil
(b)  Price                           207         20%            207.     207.          127.      12%            24%         14%          207.       207.       77%       22%           277.      227.
Totat (a + b)          307,        307.           307       307.         127       12%             247.       147          30.        307.       27%       227           277.      227.                                     20.27.
Total Project Coqt
Before Contingencies                 0.34        0.23           2.36      1.57         0.35      0.22            0.33       6.27         0.29       0.07       O.43      1.7l          u.Ui,     U.3t           4.14      10.W40          1.4.0O
Contingencies Asounts
(a)  Ph.sicsl                        0.03        0.02           0.24     0.16         Nil        Nil            Ni.         Nil          0.03      0.01        Nil      Ni-l           Nil      Nil              0.30     0.19            0.49
(b)  Price                           0.07        0.05           0.47     0.31         0.04       0.03           0.03        0.88         0.06      0.01        u.1l     u.it          O.O1     0.07             O.t4    .I.7>            S.59
Sub-Total of
Contingencies                  0.10        1.07           0.71      0.47         0.04      0.03            0.03       0.88         0.09       0.02       0.12      0.30          0.01    0.09              1.14    1.Yu              3.00
Tntal Project Cost
Including Contingencics              0.44        0.30           3.07      2.04         0.39      0.25            0.41       7.15         0.38       0.09       U.>)>     Z.1           (.O5 ..40,                >.i40                   i7.00



I" H I PP I   LI' 11 LDt   II 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANIE 1
Or  ffec:tive Dfate- U-
Organizatio oS   Protict In
Tendering & Coo r-c  Assards
CoosrotiocPer-iod           .,
Crierlia & DaLa Preparaion                             en
R,id LIsts & D-rament Prep-La ice                              cao             o       o
Tenderleg & Contract A.ards                                                                   00       o       o
De!i.nery &    taltOn                                                                                                  X.no    00     nn       n
Cuarantee&& Cltsieg: P-riod                                                         Iet                                                                       co      cn      00
Plhase 1I ConStruction
Plane &Specllfi-tio-                                                         cc        .no    ...    .ne.
Coos ru_rtion Periodte                                                                                                                 O      on      00
'Gaate& ClosIngPeriod00                                                                                                                                          00      00      cn
.Phase It Fn-it-r  &  Eqeipnent 
'Criteria & Data Preparanioo                                           n
Bid List  & Document Prepartion                                                               ...on c  ...
Tend-ring & Contrac  A-ad.                                                                                     c       0       c 
fG.arante- & CloingProdXc.e                                                                                                                                                             o      ..e
'TecOnical Assistane
Ed-rtino.l Men-ps-t. Cti-cc,la Robin
an-d Teotbeck Produc'tion
Sp-clslists                                                                        4       4       4       4        2       2       1        1       1       1       t 1 
F.,lo- shtps                                                                                                3       3       3       3        3       3       3       3       2        2       2       2
Agric.lt-lro Co11iese
SpeCisli,t:                                                        I       I       I        I       2      6        6      13     16        16      16      16      16      13      13        6       4      4       4       4       1
Frilo-ohips                                                                                                10     19       I6I1     6      16       16 iI I             16 i          7       5       5
ITechnical Instjtote-
spcial-t:                                     I       I       I       1       4       4       4        4       ~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~4  4  4  4  4     4       4      4
F.per  ipise                                                                                                                                         8 114    8      H 
Project I.plentto
Phas  I Protect                     Phas  11 P-oect,                                                                                                         TE C HN IC AL    AS SI S IA NC E
co-t-ti-     F-rit-ur  &                           Fttrsit-r  4                                                                                                                                                    FpcIlstlPloseships
Coostroctiott  Egttcpeett  C-ct-ut ion         Enuipoont
1 01        1. 01 H ~02II      1.        1                         dctoa   angtetCtcrl                           Anccotoal  oleg           C-nt d)              EdctictHaaeter  Cornicni                   Agricl-t-Ia
'01          2 111                  it I12          0Il,  'RfctadTolol   rd,sinPr   Icaloin                                                                                        Refrn and 'lestho  Production              Clee         osd)
0/ 3 it4        3 'II3 114         4 tWIt6 06        ti 'thIas    tcstt                                                                Apri-ulturl      .. geerch Pln-ing             Edrtoe    eerhPlant Pathology
9.01119,12        9 it t9 It                            7 ttL1 /6                        Voctina   Fd'-t,- t                            Agrtri-lcc-I EcteralorPang                      Ec-coics of Ed.ccato                       Wood Scianne
10.01/10 10  10 01 10 if                           H Il 'ti -ISIo1ad Caiiitrttrsr'College Adnir Itration                                                                           School Planning A llesigc                 Wood Tech-rlogy
OrthoProdit ton                                Forestry Re....rce M-nngeenet                  Agricolt-ral COllgSt.                      College Adinistration
Social  Studis, Circecit a flvcltp- Forest C-nernati-n & geforestation             Agricoltoral RosIne,s                     Feed HillI Operarions
-en  actd E-lt-uOt                          ElectronIs                                        MIaage-ten                               Technical Inaccteet
Agrtcultral C.11cg-r                            ettica  Inst  tItites                         Agricoltoral  Engireericg &               Teacher Training
Accic-lt-a  idtcati-n. Cul-   m                Trch-cal T-arte  Training. Chief                  Irrigationk                             M.4er.ic.1 Engineeri.g
P-rtt                                         ol p-ny                                       Food Processing                            Electrical  Engineering
Intt,,ttnlI  nt, -d ItaectI                   itIala           lc  ialEninerng                Etomology                                  Elcrnc
Acriciltiral  Hit Octs and torn    toIl , Cnttcic                                 Agricultural  Engineering                  Automtive Technology
ttanuiencnt                     ~~~~~~~'to Ic-t is ,  nd Sucncs                   rop Prod'ctingIdsralGsmar
f- e-h Pr.i-t                                          1~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~'nittttrl ndtcct 5--c-t-tt'olu   Imlmna  otSiAircondltioning
U   Sine spc fttc eah projectinplementttonsroiecc                  Cited  roccssin,PcotrmmrF                                                                                                                 Civil Cnestruction Tech-
-verlapping of u cqcences htiyidivdual prorc           1d                            'rt -itl Ag-0t-i                                                                                                                              olg
Ou'c'd SetlinoAAg



>0  >0a  >0v.a'aft->v L         >0'>  a  a-a  acaac-oaaa--a  can  0-   >0aa-0H>0.O>0>0  a
aaaaaftro   Oft--, 00  0-a-oa->-,a a  tic>    ac- ,,a  waa.-a'-ftvaaa-1                     IXI,    a oc-naao"IA   c-a
ala,       n-pa.-,                    I               I               l'lc   I                   I,,      gg-  Q    I
'a -v                                oaaaaa   >va  --aaaaac                  aa  -a.  a,  aaaacaaaaa    t -           oat.ft  aft> 
ft   2g yaaa             a,-  a  -      an                                a-a    a        at-ca allan  aa.aa  I, a  c-c--aa.  >0,-  >tcft,,pfl    -  a aa    -. --  paac.a a..--  vol  -  I  ca.aZ
ft                      p   aaO*aft  to-    2"Z'-  -                       aa
Oa,-aallOOalollpapO.-l,0.  "a-    -A                         -       aaa   a-  -'a  a. OlOanOaa,,a-a                 ,,      aa.-  ax
a               -            2  -       h  -                accftScca                       ax  ax  apa  acac
2  >lftnP ant--.,.-   -   0a.0c-V<22a    c<an at a- a.  ra.co22p..  ac
-  aftaa'a                                  a  Oat       O>0'a,  ttatat.        0 aft.ft  ft Op
-acllaftlcaftt,-        2%       *  ana  a              a -"                      0        a tO ax    -             -      taft c- ft,'.  j
ft ftaaa-a.-a                     a..cna              a a tr-,aa         a  aaaa.--aaaaaaa                        nato   taco
0        na--a.,  -                  aft     a   aaa       S      naft.-,a-
-     tea   ftft        O>a--t     C   '.a        -     -ft  ftfta           -       a  aaaa                            CO  a  at-p       a
I                                                    a  a.aca             '       a  a         -   a.            a  act  22           -
Ott      t-l>0      a                     ajft-ft'l            a                                     r  c-aft  atfta 
I                                                                         ft      ft  ft    0  lI   Gift
a        -  a  ft   n  a,        a  tc             aa      a      ta-ca.                       ft  a    a  a   aft                aa.  ft
aJftll          a       2                 a,-           acaa                 -       a            a   ft                          a'
a            a
a               a.      -                -       -  a
o                    -a                    a                          a           a
a                    a                                  *a        a       p   9                                 2
a-                   t    aap aft                        a  a             a
ft                                                      ft                   a'
ftt                                               ac,aaa                       c-a       -
B                                   an                     B      a--a                                  a           ft                   0
-a                          ft aDa                        a  3     a        -                       ft           a
a     a  aa                       '.         a       a                       a            a
P               Xccx tcaa            a-                           C                            -                 a!                      I
a                03                       1            U
3
a                            a                  tact                                                      a                      ccctat4        ccc       a
It
at,                   tacc,ta        oca.
cc                          a         aaccatc,ta           >0>0cc          a        aa  cc               aatc          act,,    toccata         a.
aaa>0        aaaa.a,a>0           tc>0>0       >0accaaaa>0a>0>0                 aa>0          ccata     aa                           I
a                       >0,ataa            aca>0a>0        aa>0         aaaaaaaaaa>0    at>0aa>0aaaa>0                 acca      taa
aa>0>0             aaaaaaaaa>0a>0               >0>0cncaaaa>0aaaaaaaa aaa   a                  ccaa  at                ccIc-
a>0>0a            ,aaa>0>0    >0aaa>0aa         aa>0a>0aaa >0att  tt>Cccaaa>0>0  a             tta>0  cc               a-         a
aaaaa>0aa        acaa>0              ai>0>0>0t'>0>0a>n>0a>0       aa>0a >0>0a>0aa>0   caOaaa at,a   a            cc>0a  cc
aaaaacaaa         a,>,)>             a >0a>0a>0aa>0a,>0a          ,-caaaa>0a>0aaaaa>0a >0>0a>0  a                >0>0cc  >0
>0aa>0a>0>0>0     a,oa>0             a>0a>0>0   >0>0>0>0>0>0>0    a >0aa>0aa>0>0aa   >0>0>0 aca>0aa  a           >0>0>0  a
aal>0aaaa,        aa>0>0             a->>0a>0    Ca tO   >0      >0 aa>0a>0a>0>0a>aaa>0accaa>0>0                   >tct  a
a             a   >0>0   >0ata    >0          a         aalCa>0a>0>0a>0,-                  aa  cc
a>0>a              a          >0>0cc    a          a       aa  a                 a  a            aa  a                  car
aaa                >0         >0        a          >0      >0>0  a               a  a            caa
>0>0,-)>                      >0                                                 >0    >0                              a.
00>0>0>0>0                             ,,>-c>>>0  oa,.c,aaa P



ANNEX 19
PHILIPPINES II - ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(in US$ millions)
Accumulated         Undisbursed
Quarter*       Disbursements              Disbursements           Balance
Amounts               %      Amounts    %         Amounts
1         -                                               100.0      12.70
2         -            -               -          -       100.0      12.70
3        0.1           0.01            0.1      0.01       99.9      12.69
4        0.3           0.03             0.3     0.04       99.7      12.66
5        0.3           0.03             0.6     0.07       99.4      12.63
6        0.7           0.07             1.1     0.14       98.9      12.56
7        0.7           0.08             1.8     0.22       98.2      12.48
8        2.1           0.26             3.9     0.48       96.1      12.22
9        6.1           0.78             9.9     1.26       91.1      11.44
10        7.7           0.98            17.6     2.24       82.4      10.46
11        8.7           1.11            26.3     3.35       73.6       9.35
12       17.2           2.18           43.5      5.53       56.5       7.17
13       17.4           2.22            61.0     7.75       39.0       4.95
14       15.1           1.93            76.2     9.68       23.8       3.02
15       13.6           1.73           92.0    11.41         8.0       1.29
16        3.5           0.45           93.4    11.86         6.6       0.84
17        2.3           0.28           95.6    12.14         4.4       0.56
18        1.6           0.20           97.1    12.34         2.9       0.36
19        1.6           0.20           98.7    12.54         1.3       0.16
20        0.3           0.06            99.2    12.60        0.8       0.10
21        0.3           0.06            99.7    12.66        0.3       0.04
22        0.2           0.02            99.8    12.68        0.2       0.02
23        0.1           0.01            99.9    12.69        0.1       0.01
24        0.1           0.01           100.0    12.70        0.0       0.00
*    Beginning from effective date.






PHILIPPINES
STRUCTURE OF THE FORMAL SYSTEM OF EDUCATION
AGE                             7   8  |9   10 | 11 |12 |                    1 13 | 1411516  !|201 21 122 | 23  2
I   I                               '   i   '   '   I   |   '   '  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  I  I
I   I         I         1 S  i  I    , 4      j
GRADE                                                      7 -'      i Year YearrYear    'Year ' Year Year Year Year'
I   I                              r   I   :   t   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ i   I   I   I   i           I
I         I                                   :    I    II  I    '      I      I   i    '       
t        I   '    I    I      I               I
PRE-                                     J                               
LEVEL       ELEMENTARY               ELEMENTARY          L        SECONDARY               TERTIARY              GRADUATE
PRIMARY      INTER-
I  I  MEDIATE                       AGRICULTURE
COMMERCE          .
I            Li                                l    GENERAL
I  l   l                        l    HIGH SCHOOLS           TEACHER
NATURE                                                  BARRIO ~I   IEDUCATION
NATURE    I              I                  I                  BARRIO                 LIBERAL ARTS 
OF                            I                                HIGH SCHOOLS           _
PROGRAM_                                                                                                          
PROGRAM      I                                 l   VOCATIONAL             ENGINEERING
|            I   I                                  INSTITUTIONS
Pilot BarrioLA
Pi Develotpmerrio      A.B. PROGRAM      LAW  PROPER
Schools                MEDICINE
I            I    I                          I     Schools o' Arts        T
I            I   I                                l & Trades,             T
| I~                              l                  lAgricultural High  PRQGRAM
I     I                                 t              [ Schools          TECHNICIAN
Fisheries High         TRAINING
Included in the project                                                                         World Bank-6438(3R)






PHILIPPINES
EDUCATIONAL PYRAMID 1970
ENROLLMENT IN PUBLIC AND PRIVATE SCHOOLS
Percent of age
Level   Grades                                                                                                                                                                                         Total   group in school
HIGHER
14                                                                                    58,977             83,963
13                                                                                   65348                93,022
732,850      24
12                                                                                 79,219                  112,781
11                                                                               98,834                       140,706
SECONDARY
10                                                                          156,84      4                       167,817
9                                                                      198,865                                     202,315
1,892.850      54
8                                                                 257,041                                        '      254,789
7                                                          334,4691                                                          320,711
ELEMENTARY
6                                                 422,664                                                                               435,386
5                                               471,139                                                                                   465.891
4                                       565,319                                                                                                  541,631
7,075,590     1141
3                                 624,861                                                                                                            580,039
2                           698,174                                                            '                                                          643,436
1             852,777                                                                                                                                                7 782,943
PRE-ELEMENTARY
NURSERY                                                                                          12,065   10,793
Male                                                                                  Female                                            48,418         2.112
KINDERGARTEN                                                                                            13,490   12,070
I  I                                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C)
1000                                        500                                          0                                          500                                        1000
(In Thousands)
1E.rollfent includas OvroWaed pupils
2peroent of .stimat.d number of five rnd six year old.
VVorld Bank-64401(3R)






O  ul a __ rw    i 2                                                          a  l 2:|
a  X   R  9  a  2  g  t  2 > 2 i < t _ X z 2 ss E 9 2 E 5 ;~~~i
u         Elg 1ts2W 'em3o9 oool=3                    
UJ   j   *   , +   4     r                                     :   :    ':::   : ::   :
Z  C;l=L2z                                                                 :   ;
_  ;  0   '   ;  i   - , 3 S W5t   8  , ( A.
fMa A4                                           > dAA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
[  I D    ~~2                       \r                                                     ,
IF                3     /         A               .~1-            g 



