Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4162
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
PHILIPPINES SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 349-PH)
November 1, 1982
Operations Evaluation Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ACRONYMS
BDS      - Barrio Development Schools
CCU      -  Curric:ulum Coordinating Unit
CMU      -  Central Mindanao University
EAHS     -  Experimental Agricultural High Schools
EDC      -  Educac:ion Development Center
EDPITAF  -  Educa:ion Development Projects Implementation Task Force
OPS      -  Office of Planning Services
RAC      -  Regional Agricultural College
RMTC     -  Regional Manpower Training Center
RS       -  (Agricultural) Radio Station
RSTC     -  Regional Science Teaching Center
SFP      -  Supervised Farming Program
SL       -  Socia]! (Extension) Laboratory
SSC      -  Social Studies Center
TI       - Technician Institute
UPSEC    -  Science Education Center, University of the Philippines
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
PHILIPPINES SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 349-PH)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface .        .........................................................          i
Basic Data Sheet .................................................                 ii
Highlights ............         ...........................................         v
Comments from the Borrower .......................................               vii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Summary and Conclusions     ......   ................ .                       3
Introduction    ...............................................               9
Project Background     ........   .................                           9
Project Implementation ......................................                15
Project Cost and Financing ................      ..    ................      27
Project Operating Ouzcomes ................      ..    ................      29
Conclusions    .................................................             41
Annexes
1.   Planned and Actual ]mplementation Schedule       ....... ..  .......      43
2.   Covenant Requirements .....................................                44
3.   Summary of Project Costs ..................     ..    ...............      47
4.   Schedule of Disbursements ..................................               49
5. Comparative Analysis of Estimated and Actual
Provided Gross Area     .................  ..     ..................     50
6. Comparative Analysis of Planned and Actual Areas
and Cost per Place     ........................ ............             51
7. Enrollments, Drop-out Rates, and Graduates of
Project Institutions ......     ..............     .................     52
8.  Actual and Revised E,timates of Use of Technical
Assistance and Fellowships ...............      ..    ..............     61
9.  Employment by Sector .......      ..............    ..................      66






- i -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
PHILIPPINES SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 349-PH)
PREFACE
This is a performance audit report on the Second Education Project
in the Philippines for which Credit 349-PH was approved in December 1972. The
credit was fully disbursec! by and closed in August 1980.
The audit   repoiet consists of a Project Completion Report (PCR)
prepared by the Bank Group's East Asia and Pacific Regional Office following
a brief mission visit in February 1981, and a Highlights resume prepared by
the Operations Evaluation Department (OED) which underlines some important
elements of the project experience.
As is customary in the preparation of audit reports, copies of the
draft audit report were sent to the representatives of the Borrower; this was
done on June 18, 1982.   Borrower comments were received on August 6, 1982 and
are reproduced on page vii.
The PCR was itself based on a report prepared by the Borrower and
a report prepared by UNESCO staff following a visit to the Philippines in
April/May 1980; it contains much more material than       the average Education
PCR, and has required only minor revisions and additions following OED com-
ment. The audit report is based on this PCR, first issued in August 1981 and
revised in May 1982, the Appraisal Report PE-50A dated November 30, 1972, the
President's Report P-1146 cf the same date, the Board discussion of this prior
to its approval on December 12, 1972, and the Development Credit Agreement
dated January 5, 1973.    Certain documents in Bank Group files have also been
consulted.
On the basis of this limited review, OED finds no reason to question
the analysis and conclusions of the PCR.     While no mission was specifically
undertaken by OED staff in connection with this audit, a two member OED
mission visited the Philippines in February 1978 and held extensive discus-
sions on this and other education projects in connection with a review of
education projects in 17 countries.






PROJECT P'ERFORMANCE AUDIT BASIC DATA SHEET
PHILI]'PINES SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 349-PH)
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal       Actual or
Estimate     Current Estimate
Total Project Cost (US$ million)                  17.7            21.4
Overrun (%)                                                      21 (in dollars)
40 (in pesos)
Credit Amount (US$ million)                         -             12.7
Disbursed                                         -             12.7
Repaid      ) 
Outstanding   to Mrch 31, 1982-                                 12.7
Date Physical Components Completed                03/77           12/78
in Months Since Credit Signature                 51              72
Proportion Completed by Above Date (%)             70              90
Proportion of Time Overrun (%)                      -              29
Institutional Performance                         Good         Satisfactory
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Original                      Actual or
Plan       Revisions     Estimated Actual
First Mention in Files                                            02/04/69
Government's Application                                           July 71
Negotiations                                                     07/24-28/71
Board Approval                                                    12/12/72
Date of Credit Agreement                                          01/05/73
Credit Effectiveness               04/10/73                       04/11/73
Closing Date                        12/31/78         --           08/27/80
Borrower                           Republic of the Philippines
Executing Agency                   Department of Education
Fiscal Year of Borrower            July 1 - June 30
Names of Follow-on Projects        Education Projects III - VII
Item                    Project III  Project IV   Project V  Project VI  Project VII
Loan No.                 1224T-PH       1374-PH     S-8-PH     1786-PH     2030-PH
Amount (US$ million)       25.0          25.0         2.0       38.0        100.0
Loan Agreement Dates     04/08/76       03/25/77   04/21/78    02/01/80    08/25/81






- iii -
MISSION DATA
Sent      Month/    No. of     No. of      Staff-    Date of
Mission         by        Year      Weeks*    Persons     Weeks*     Report
Identification     UNESCO     01-02/71     3.5        4          14.0     03/10/71
Reconnaissance      IDA        05/71       0.5        2           1.0     06/30/71
Preparation        UNESCO     06-07/12     3.0        5          15.0     08/13/71
Appraisal           IDA        11/71       3.5        5          17.5     11/30/72
Total                                                          47.5
Supervision I       IDA        08/73       1.0        1           1.0     08/30/73
Supervision II      IDA        06/74       1.0        1           1.0     07/05/74
Supervision III     IDA       11-12/74     0.7        2           1.5     01/14/75
Supervision IV     IDA        06-07/75     1.0        2           2.0     08/12/75
Supervision V      IDA        01-02/76     0.7        2           1.5     04/14/76
Supervision VI      IDA        11/76       0.1        1           0.1     01/04/77
Supervision VII     IDA        04/77       0.1        1           0.1     06/30/77
Supervision VIII    IDA        09/77       0.5        1           0.5     10/17/77
Supervision IX      IDA        12/77       1.0        1           1.0     01/31/78
Supervision X       IDA        06/78       0.5        2           1.0     07/18/78
Supervision XI     IDA         11/79       1.5        1           1.5     01/07/80
Completion         UNESCO     04-05/80     2.0        2           4.0
Total                                                        15.2
COUNTRY EXCHANGE RATES
Name of Currency (Abbreviation)              Philippine Peso (P)
Exchange Rates:
Appraisal Year Average                     US$1  =  P 6.40
Intervening Years Average                  US$1  =  P 7.31
Completion Year Average                    US$1  =  p 7.38
* Estimated number of weeks and staff-weeks attributable to this project
(including travel time).






- iv -
ALLOCATION OF CREDIT PROCEEDS (US$)
Original        Revised         Actual
Category                  Allocation     Allocation     Disbursement
(12/04/78)
I. Equipment, Furniture -and
Educational Materials       $ 6,800,000    $ 7,700,000     $ 7,454,950.10
II. Civil Works and
Professional Services
therefor                      1,870,000      3,300,000      3,798,783.22
III. Technical Assistance
--International Travel,
Remuneration and
Allowances                  2,100,000      1,700,000      1,446,266.68
IV. Unallocated                     1,930,000          -
$12,700,000    $12,700,000    $12,700,000.00






-v -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
PHILIPP'INES SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 349-PH)
HIGHLIGHTS
The Second Education Proje'e.i: ii the Philippines was estimated to
cost US$17.7 million equivalent.     It was financed in pait by an IDA Credit
of US$12.7 million, signed on January 5, 1973.     The project aimed at helping
to reform the education system and in meeting manpower needs for economic
development.    The project design was complex, including the creation or
development of no less than forty-four project institutions of several dif-
ferent types, spanning the fields of curriculum coordination and education
development at the national level, science teaching at the regional level,
plus a number of technical and agricultural education institutions.      The PCR
lists project components in para. 2.07.
The original Closing Date of the project was December 31, 1978,
and this was never officially changed.       The Credit Account was closed on
August 27, 1980 when the Credit funds had been completely disbursed.         The
final project cost was US$21.4 million, 21% over the appraisal estimate.l/
Civil works costs were substantially higher than estimated and economies were
made in other categories, particularly the equipment and technical assistance
categories, to cover them.
Despite its complexity, which' the PCR rightly criticizes (paras.
5.01, 6.01 and 6.04), the project has been worthwhile, and was successfully
implemented after some critical problems with approval of designs (PCR, para.
3.11). The main credit for this should go to the Government for its consistent
support of the project both financially and otherwise, and in particular to
EDPITAF, the project implementing agency which did a good job of coordinating
institutional views with IDA comments.      The PCR mentions (para. 5.01) the
success of EDPITAF in managing succeeding Bank-assisted education projects and
indeed the institutional-building elements of this project have been amongst
its major benefits.     Furniture and equipment lists were prepared by the
institutions concerned--always a desirable procedure where possible--or by
ad hoc committees in the case of new institutions (PCR, paras. 3.14 and
3.15). The transfer of funds for equipment to the civil works category to meet
cost overruns is however adversely affecting the achievement of project
objectives (PCR, para. 3.17).     The audit has been informed that a proposed
eighth education project will include funds to make up for these deficiencies.
Considerable savings were effected in the Technical Assistance category (see
Basic Data) which were made possible largely by using local instead of foreign
experts (PCR, para. 3.20).    A considerable increase in fellowship provision
was also made possible (PCR, para. 3.21).
1/   The cost overrun in pesos amounted to 40%.       See Key Project Data and
the PCR, para. 12.



- vi -
With such a diverse project, it is only to be expected that certain
components, particularly those of a more experimental nature, were not
entirely successful.     These include the experimental agricultural schools,
where the students were insufficiently mature for the practical programs
offered, and the schools have reverted mainly to college preparation and have
re-instituted degree programs (PCR, paras. 5.07-5.16).     Similar problems were
encountered with the Basic Development School programs; here the terminal
vocational agricultural programs, which were not popular, have been converted
to general secondary programs with an agricultural bias (PCR, paras. 5.17-
5.19).    The  attempt  to establish practically-oriented     Social  (Extension)
Laboratories has also not been completely successful (PCR, paras. 5.26-5.28).
These developments illustrate once more the difficulties inherent in changing
curricula, which have been noted often.
It is of interest to note that this project was included in the OED
Review of Bank Operations in the Education Sector.     While the Review comments
were generally favorable, it was noted that some cases of short-sighted
planning for project universities had posed problems regarding their further
expansion.2-
The other project elements, though suffering from minor problems,
are regarded as being successful overall; indeed even the less successful
project elements might well be regarded as successful in other situations and
in the context of less ambitious original aims.      The PCR (Chapter 5) gives a
good account of project achievements.
Other points of special interest are:
(a) the under-representation of industry on the Technician Education
Board (PCR, para. 3.29);
(b) the unrealism of IDA in the light of intense social demand and the
general educational levels of the population to try to institute
terminal secondary courses and to try to limit university enroll-
ments, although both policies were justifiable on manpower grounds
(PCR, para. 3.32).
1/   Report No. 2321 - Review of Bank Operations in the Education Sector,
December 29, 1978.    See paragraphs 4.17, 4.20, 5.24, 5.30, 5.40, 6.04,
6.06 and 6.10.



- vii -
COMMENTS FROM THE BORROWER
WORLDBNK641 450
45446 EDPITAF PM
8/6/82
WORLD BANK     r      J 
INTBAFRAD
FOR SHIV KAPUR. OPEI?ATIONS EVALUATION DEPARTMENT. THIS IS TO
ACKNOWLEDGE RECEIPT WITH MANY THANKS YOUR LETTER WITH COPY OF
WORLD BANK DRAFT ON THE PROJECT PERFOR:MANCE AUDIT REPORT OF
CREDIT 349-PH. WE AFE INDEED PLEASED WITH IT AND FIND IT
SATISFACTORY. WE HAVE NO COMMENTS TO MAKE. REGARDS.
TENMATAY
45446 EDPITAF PMu
WORLDBNK641450
45446 EDPITAF PM.....






PHILIPPINES
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT 349-PU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
August 20, 1981
(Revised May 19, 1982)
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office






- 3 -
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
The Project and its Objectives
1.        The general purpose of the project, as specified in the appraisal
report, was to lay the framework leading to possible future educational
reform and also to meet manpower needs in industry and agriculture. The
project was designed to assist the Philippine Government in improving
education planning, management and curriculum development; science teacher
training; training of technicians for industry and agriculture; and training
of skilled craftsmen aad farmers.
2.        The Credit Agreement for the Second Education Project was signed
between IDA and the Government on January 5, 1973. The Credit, which was for
US$12.7 million out of a total project cost of US$17.7 million, became
effective on April 11, 1973 and the target closing date was December 31,
1978. The institutions were handed over to the beneficiary Government
agencies with a six-month delay. At that time, 90% of the project was
implemented.
3.        A special un:it, the Education Development Projects Implementation
Task force (EDPITAF), was established to implement the project. While
EDPITAF initially experienced some difficulties in managing the project, as
it gained experience, it successfuly handled problems encountered during
implementation and valuable lessons were learned which greatly facilitated
the preparation and implementation of subsequent projects. During the
course of project implementation, EDPITAF has developed into an expert agency
charged with implementing all foreign assisted education projects and with
carrying out educational research.
4.        In general the educational objectives of the project have been met,
although there have been deviations from the original targets. The Associa-
tion's belief that manpower planning considerations should have the greatest
weight in determining project outcomes led it to include several educational
covenants among the standard set of Credit covenants. During project imple-
mentation, it became clear that there were important social and political
considerations which would not permit full realization of the goals set forth
in these covenants. Changes in goals set forth in the Credit Agreement were
noted for the following, components: (i) the Barrio Development Schools;
(ii) the Experimental Agricultural High Schools; and (iii) the Regional
Agricultural Colleges (paras. 5.18, 5.14 and 5.22). Overall, the project
was moderately successful.
5.        The strengthening of educational planning was achieved through the
establishment of the Curriculum Coordination Unit and the Education Develop-
ment Center. The component can be considered successful although, one
aspect, the proposed integration of the Science Education Center and Social
Studies Center, was not achieved in practice (paras. 5.03-5.04).



- 4 -
6.        The expansion of training of science teachers was achieved through
the establishment of Regional Science Teaching Centers and can be considered
successful (para. 5.05).
7.         The expansion of training of young farmers through the Experimental
Agricultural High Schools (EAHS) and the Barrio Development Schools (BDS) has
been modestly successful. Both institutions contribute substantially to the
level of educational attainment of the rural population and to the equali-
zation of educational opportunities, but less than anticipated to the
practical training of young farmers (paras. 5.08-5.15 and 5.20).
8.         The training of professional agricultural personnel and the improve-
ment of the agricultural extension services were pursued through the rein-
forcement of the agricultural colleges and the establishment of two Social
Laboratories and two Agricultural Radio Stations. The Agricultural Colleges
have been successful in expanding their agricultural courses, but the quality
of the instruction appears to have suffered principally because of high
student/teacher ratios (paras. 5.23-24). The Social Laboratories contribute
to agricultural research and model farming, but do little in extension
training which was the original purpose of the component (paras. 5.26-27).
Finally, of the Radio Stations, one (at UP Los Banos) is working properly,
while the other (at CMU) had serious difficulties and has just begun
functioning (para. 5.29).
9.         The training of industrial technicians through the Technician
Institutes is difficult to assess as yet since there have been no graduates
from one of the institutions and the other two have yet to reach full
capacity output. It appears that a better understanding of the role of
technicians is necessary and that measures should be taken to encourage more
direct participation of industry in the training process. An attempt to
establish a Board for Technician Training has so far failed (para. 5.35).
10.       The expansion and improvement of the training of skilled craftsmen
can be considered successful. All but one of the Regional Manpower Training
Centers are functioning and their output is slightly more than that forecast
at appraisal. Mechanisms to link output of the centers and manpower
requirements have not yet been established, and there is a lack of coordin-
ation of efforts between the several agencies dealing with craft training.
In addition, there is insufficient involvement of industry in the training
process. Measures should be taken to remedy these drawbacks (para. 5.39).
11.       Along with the considerable success of some components, the
project encountered problems in some domains and lessons have accordingly
been drawn. Difficulties developed in the areas of:



- 5-
(a) price escalation;
(b) architectural designs;
(c) procurement of furniture and equipment; and
(d) technical assistance.
(a) Price Escalation
12.       There were many reasons for the 40% cost overrun which the project
experienced. Implementation took place during the 1974 oil crisis which had
a general inflationary impact in the Philippines, as elsewhere. Delays were
experienced in the start of civil works and compounded the effects of high
inflation rates. Increases in areas constructed and unnecessarily expensive
designs for some institutions also contributed. Funds were transferred from
the equipment component to meet the increased cost of civil works (paras.
3.07-3.09 and 3.17).
(b)  Architectural Designs
13.       Architectural designs were the source of a series of misunder-
standings between the Association and EDPITAF. Consultant architects were
briefed by EDPITAF in a special seminar organized at the beginning of the
project, but some did not follow the instructions and produced nonfunctional
and unnecessarily expensive designs. Characteristic examples are the
buildings of the Barrio Development schools attached to the CLSU, additional
buildings at CLSU and the Technician Institute in Manila. The status and
reputation of the consultant architects made it difficult for EDPITAF to
influence them and obtain the necessary changes in the designs. Discussions
on this matter between EDE'ITAF and the Association resulted in only marginal
design changes (paras. 3.06, 3.07 and 3.11).
14.       Some suggestions have been made as to how similar situations should
be handled in the future. A simple first step would be to exclude from future
projects architects who were not cooperative. EDPITAF has already taken this
step. Other suggested measures include:
(i)  Briefing seminars, but with the participation of Bank
representatives (architects and educators);
(ii) More detailied architect's briefs (not limited to a set of
working sheets) to give the generalist architect a better
understanding of the importance of the functional aspect of a
school design and of the need for economies in construction.
The role of the Bank architects in supervision should also be
clearly explained;



- 6-
(iii)  Continuity in supervision.    The fact that several different
Bank architects were sent for supervision during the Second
Education Project seemed to have caused confusion; and
(iv) Bank review focusing on sketch design during project
preparation/appraisal (prior to the signature of the Credit/
Loan Agreement) (para. 3.10).
(c) Procurement of Furniture and Equipment
15.       Furniture produced was of uneven quality.    For subsequent projects
EDPITAF decided that manufacturers winning contracts should be asked to
produce prototypes to serve as control samples for the remainder of
production (para. 3.14).
16.       With respect to equipment, EDPITAF initially experienced problems
with procurement, including deliveries with missing components and/or without
instruction manuals, long delays in delivery and failure to supply some
equipment. In part, confusion was created because initial equipment lists
were not adequately prepared and because some orders were placed by item and
not by set or package.   In part, EDPITAF's lack of familiarity with Bank
procedures and ICB prevented it from using to full advantage the performance
bond and retention money as leverage vis-a-vis suppliers to hold them to the
terms of their contracts. EDPITAF has taken measures to remedy these
problems, including instituting procurement procedures which include an
effective system of checking and controlling delivery.
(d) Technical Assistance
17.       Difficulties in implementation of technical assistance were
principally due to Government's desire to reduce the number of foreign
specialists and increase the number of fellowships and its belief that
fellowships were to be awarded by the project Closing Date, rather than
completed by that date (paras 3.20-3.21). Several proposed foreign experts
were successfully replaced by local experts. By project completion, 1,052
man/months of fellowships and 41.5 man/months of expert services were not
used and were provided under the third loan (Loan 1224T-PH). In future
projects the availability of local expertise should be carefully examined
before including foreign expert services in a project.
18.       Other problems encountered included smaller per student area norms
than forecast at appraisal and overly optimistic projections of enrollment
decreases for project institutions (paras. 5.12, 5.17, 5.22). Despite an
increase in gross areas, the area per student place was considerably
decreased due to higher than forecast enrollments. The Association's desire
to bring output in the various subsectors into line with projections of
market demand led it to give less weight to the social demand for education
than was realistic.



19.       As a result of experience gained in the implementation of this
project, Bank staff have become more aware of the need to carefully assess
political and social conditions prior to the formulation of covenants. Thus,
educational outcomes may be based on more realistic expectations (paras. 5.15,
5.20).






- 9 -
PHILIPPINES SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT: COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      This completion report is based upon draft completion reports
prepared by the Borrower and by a Unesco mission. The Borrower's report
was prepared by the Educational Development Projects Implementing Task Force
(EDPITAF), the project implementation unit (PIU) for Credit 349-PH. The
Unesco mission visited the country in April/May 1980. The two draft
completion reports have been supplemented by interviews with project unit
staff and documents contained in the project file.
1.02      In all instances, the project has been analyzed according to the
relevance, effectiveness and efficiency of education in project institu-
tions, and compared, to the extent possible, with targets set in the Staff
Appraisal Report.
II. PROJECT BACKGROUND
The Setting
2.01      The Philippines, with a total surface of 297,000 sq km consists
of three island groups, Luzon in the north, Visayas in the middle and
Mindanao in the south. Administratively it is divided into 13 regions. The
population is estimated at approximately 49 million and has been growing at
an annual rate of 2.8% per annum (3% in the 1960s). Over 80% of the popula-
tion is concentrated in the two main islands of Luzon and Mindanao. There
are eight dominant local languages in the Philippines spoken by 85% of the
population. Pilipino, c,r Tagalog, has been made the national language by
the Government and it is understood by over 60% of the people. The policy
of the Government is to develop a bilingual nation able to communicate in
both Pilipino and English.
The Economy
2.02      GDP grew at an. average annual rate of 6.2% between 1970 and
1977, reaching P 78 billion (at 1972 prices) in 1977. The employment by
sector and its percentage distribution for the years 1970, 1975 and 1977 are
given in Annex 8. Unemployment is estimated to be around 15% of the labor
force at present, while underemployment is of the same order of magnitude.



- 10 -
Education System
2.03      The system of education comprises six years of elementary and four
years of secondary schooling. At the postsecondary level there are two year
diploma and three year degree level undergraduate courses. Postgraduate
courses are available in certain subjects. A major characteristic of the
formal education system is its high enrollment rate. In 1972, when this
project was appraised, a gross participation rate of almost 100% was reported
at the elementary level, 71% (now 55%) at secondary level and 25% (now 21%)
at the postsec6ndary level. However, studies of the system revealed that
its quality and the distribution of students among the various kinds of
courses did not meet development requirements.
2.04      When project implementation began, the Philippine Government had
just completed, with the assistance of the Ford Foundation, a massive review
of the education sector. The report of the Presidential Commission to
Survey Philippine Education, issued in 1970, identified several weaknesses
of the sector.   Foremost among those identified were:
(a) low quality of instruction in the educational system at
primary, secondary and tertiary levels;
(b) weak planning and management capability;
(c) outdated basic education curricula;
(d) uncoordinated curriculum development;
(e) inappropriate science and mathematics teaching methods;
(f) an oversupply of business and liberal arts graduates combined
with an acute shortage of qualified agricultural manpower;
(g) shortages of vocational and technical manpower;
(h) poorly equipped agricultural schools and colleges; and
(i) poorly trained teaching staff.
This report, detailing the above-mentioned sector weaknesses, among others,
served as a partial basis for setting the priority areas needing assistance
and, as a result, the composition of the second education project reflected
the diversity of sector investment needs.



Project Generation
2.05      This project was the second to be financed in the education
sector. The first project, Loan 393-PH had financed improvements to the
College of Agriculture of the University of the Philippines at Los Banos.
As that project neared completion, the Association began evaluating wider
sector needs. Prior to loan signing, the following missions were involved
in project generation:
(a)  Identification Mission (Unesco), January/February 1971.
(b) Reconnaissance (Association), May 1971.
(c) Preparation (Unesco), June/July 1971.
(d) Appraisal (Association), November 1971.
Project Objectives
2.06      As specified in the Appraisal Report, the purpose of the Second
Education Project was to lay the framework leading to possible future
educational reform and also to meet the manpower needs in industry and
agriculture. The project was to:
(a) provide the Department of Education and Culture, through the new
Office of Planning Service and the Education Development Center,
with the physical and human resources necessary to improve
educational planning and management and to reform the education
system;
(b) expand the training of science teachers in accordance with national
needs;
(c) expand the training of young farmers in rural areas and help them
to begin commercial farming enterprises;
(d) improve and reorient the training of professional agricultural
personnel at two colleges in accordance with urgent manpower
needs, with particular emphasis on the improvement of the
agricultural and extension services;
(e) initiate the training of industrial technicians to fill the
mid-level positions; and
(f) expand and improve the training of skilled craftsmen in accordance
with industrial manpower needs.



- 12 -
Project Items
2.07      There were eleven components in the project as listed below:
Table 1: PROJECT COMPONENTS AND COST
Items                                               Estimated cost
(US$ million)
Curriculum Coordinating Unit (CCU)
Equipment, books and materials for a Curriculum                     0.04
Coordinating Unit attached to the Office of Planning
Service (OPS) of the Ministry of Education and
technical assistance to supplement that being provided
by UNDP. The proposed CCU was to coordinate curricular
research being carried out by various agencies.
Education Development Center (EDC)
Construction, equipment and furniture for an Education              0.54
Development Center at the University of the Philippines
(UP) integrating the Science Education Center of the
University (UPSEC) and the Social Studies Education
Center of the Department of Education (SSEC).
Regional Science Teaching Centers (RSTCs)
Construction, equipment and furniture for two new RSTCs             0.49
and equipment and furniture for two existing centers.
The centers were to form an integral part of the
State College in the region concerned and provide
teacher training in science at undergraduate and
postgraduate levels, as well as inservice training for
science teachers during summer vacations. The centers
were also to experiment with instructional materials
developed by UPSEC and conduct research in the teaching
of science in elementary and secondary schools.
Experimental Agricultural High Schools (EAHSs)
Laboratory and workshop equipment, construction                     1.34
materials and initial supplies (fertilizers, seeds,
insecticides) for 13 agricultural high schools for the
introduction of a practically oriented curriculum in
these schools.



- 13 -
Items                                             Estimated cost
(US$ million)
Regional Agricultural Colleges (RACs)
Construction, equipment and furniture for additional              2.74
laboratories and workshops for two agricultural
colleges attached, orte each, to the Central Luzon
State University (CLSU) and the Central Mindanao
University (CMU) with the purpose of developing these
colleges into regionaLl centers for agricultural
training and research. Technical assistance was also
planned to support the universities  staff development
programs.
Social (Extension) Laboratories (SLs)
Construction, equipment and furniture for two Social              0.11
(Extension) Laboratories to be located "at the center
of a group of adjacernt villages" close to the two
universities (CLSU arLd CMU) to which they were
attached. The universities were to provide services
and staffing for the operation of these laboratories.
Pilot Barrio (Village) Development Schools (BDSs)
Construction, equipment and furniture for six BDSs,               0.34
three attached to the CLSU agricultural college, and
three to the CMU agricultural college included in the
project. The schools were to be located in nearby
villages and were to have a terminal program with strong
agricultural bias.
Agricultural Radio Stations (RSs)
Construction, equipment and furniture for a new agricul-         0.15
tural radio station at CMU, and equipment, studio
facilities and mobile units for an existing radio station
at the University of Los Banos (UPLB). The stations were
to cooperate with the Government and private agencies in
devising and operating their extension programs.



- 14 -
Items                                              Estimated cost
(US$ million)
Technician Institutes (TIs)
Construction,.equipment and furniture for two Technician           2.60
Institutes located, one each, in Manila and Bacolod, and
provision of additional equipment for the Iligan
Institute of Technology. The institutes were to conduct
a three-year course at the postsecondary level.
Regional Manpower Training Centers (RMTCs)
Construction, equipment and furniture for ten RMTCs.               3.68
The centers were to offer short, modular fulltime and
evening courses ranging from introductory to advanced
level for youths and adults, and in the process they
were to meet industry's needs for skilled craftsmen.
Technical Assistance
A provision of 62 man-years of specialist services and             2.57
56 man-years of overseas fellowships was included in the
project to assist the Project Unit in equipment procure-
ment, increase the staff of the agricultural colleges
and technical institutes, and strengthen the teams for
the pre-investment studies on textbook production,
educational planning and management, curriculum reform
and other educational research activities.
Total /a                                                          14.60
/a Excluding contingencies which totalled US$3.08 million for a total
project cost of US$17.68 million, of which US$12.7 million was financed
by the Association.



- 15 -
The Philippine Government expected to receive further technical assistance
from UNDP. It was agreed at negotiations that if such assistance were
forthcoming, the allocalion for technical assistance could be reduced
accordingly and the funds transferred to other components (see para. 3.19).
II::. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Overview
3.01      This project was very complex and provided the first wide-scale
assistance to the education sector. Perhaps because of its complexity,
a number of changes occurred during implementation. These changes and the
reasons for them are discussed below. Chapter III examines general imple-
mentation issues, Chapter IV analyzes total project costs, and Chapter V
examines project operating outcomes. Overall the project had mixed success
in meeting goals set forth at appraisal. As concerns educational outcomes,
it had greater success in meeting shorter term quantitative goals than in
meeting longer range institutional development goals. While considerable
difficulty was experienced with respect to civil works and equipment procure-
ment, resulting in a substantial cost overrun, the project set in motion a
number of changes which have borne fruit in subsequent projects. Most
notably, EDPITAF has become skilled at successful project implementation,
for Bank-assisted projects, as well as those financed by other agencies.
3.02      At appraisal it was expected that physical implementation would be
completed by December 31, 1976. Taking into account delays in physical
implementation, guarantee periods and implementation of the technical
assistance component, it was expected that project activities would be
completed by September 1978. December 31, 1978 was established as the
Closing Date. Due to considerable difficulties experienced at the outset in
the appointment of consultant architects, the formulation of architect's
briefs, the appointment of experts and changes in several sites, implemen-
tation was delayed, and disbursements were not completed until August 1980.
Despite these delays, the institutions assisted by the project were handed
over to Government only six months behind schedule. When the transfer took
place, 90% of project implementation had been completed (98% of civil works
were completed, 80% of furniture and equipment contracted, while 86% of
project funds were disbursed). Further delays were occasioned by late
delivery of equipment an,l the delayed arrival of some technical assistance
experts. Due to price e3calation during the implementation period and the
expensive design of some buildings (areas were increased by an average of
30%), total project cost exceeded appraisal estimates by 21%. No components
were deleted from the project, but the amount of equipment foreseen at
appraisal was reduced to cover the increased cost of civil works.



- 16 -
Credit Effectiveness
3.03      Two conditions were to be met by Government in order that the
Credit be declared effective: (1) the establishment and operation of a
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in the Department (now Ministry) of
Education and (2) the establishment and maintenance of a special fund
adequate to cover local implementation costs. Both conditions were fulfilled
and the Credit was declared effective on schedule.
Project Management
3.04      The PIU required by the Credit Agreement was called the Education
Development Projects Implementation Task Force (EDPITAF). It was responsible
to the Secretary (now Minister) of Education. During the course of project
implementation it developed into a powerful unit in charge of carrying out
project identification, preparation, implementation and educational research
in specified areas. Within one year of its creation, it was operating with
a staff of 100 persons. As might be expected, EDPITAF experienced some
difficulties during the early stages of project implementation. The PIU was
a newly established unit and had had no previous experience with IDA
projects, nor with functioning as a coordinated planning and implementation
unit. Initially EDPITAF found it difficult to obtain simple and functional
designs from the consultant architects, program divisions lacked expertise
in agricultural education and manpower planning required for the project,
and there were some coordination problems between EDPITAF divisions early in
the implementation period. After an initial "break-in" period, EDPITAF
gradually developed into an efficient and well managed unit.
Sites
3.05      When the Credit Agreement was signed, most of the sites had been
selected but not all were evaluated. Of 26 sites for new institutions
financed under the project, 21 were to be acquired. At the end of the
acquisition process, the location of five project institutions had to be
changed, as indicated in the table below:



- 17 -
Table 2: CHANGES IN PROJECT SITES
Moved
Institution            From           To                   Reason
RMTC                  Binan       Batangas City  Site unsuitable (flooding,
inadequate area)
RMTC                  Cagayan     Iligan City    Site unsuitable (no access
road)
RMTC                  Marikina    Guiguinto      Ownership problems
RMTC                  Naga        Npili          Ownership problems
Social Laboratory     Moramang    CMU campus     For convenience in operation
Lengthy legal procedures for the acquisition of the Marikina and
Naga sites led to consiclerable delays.   In addition, the decision to move
the social laboratory site from Moramang to the CMU campus was made only
in June 1975, that is, 26 months after the signing of the Credit Agreement.
This experience suggests that, whenever feasible, sites should be fully eva-
luated and acquired befoire the signing of the Credit Agreement.
Professional Services
3.06       Twenty-five firms of consultant architects were invited for pre-
qualification. Of these, 13 (all Filipino firms) responded and 12 were
recommended by the qualifications committee established in the PIU Civil
Works Division. Later the Association recommended that the number of firms
be reduced to nine to avoid unnecessary design duplication and because the
large number of consultant architects involved made it difficult for Project
Architects to control their work. All consultant firms were briefed by
EDPITAF during a two day seminar in 1973 and provided with an explanation of
what the terms of the Credit Agreement implied concerning space standards,
design and bidding procedures. They were also provided with an architect's
brief prepared by the Civil Works Division. After project implementation,
of the nine consultants, two were considered unacceptable by EDPITAF because
of their unwillingness to adjust to the cost norms implied by IDA credit
agreements. These architects were excluded from bidding on subsequent
projects implemented by EDPITAF.



- 18 -
Architectural Designs
3.07      Although the purpose of the briefing seminar mentioned above was
to introduce the consultant architects to the broad parameters within which
their work was to be done, and was, in principle, a sound straightforward
means of accomplishing this end, the difficulties encountered during project
implementation suggest that communication was not sufficiently clear. Most
of the consultant architects did not follow the basic principles explained
during the seminar and outlined in the architect's brief. Preliminary
designs were submitted with areas unnecessarily increased above those presen-
ted in the IDA worksheets and most were far more sophisticated and expensive,
as well.
3.08      Most notable for increases in areas and concomitant increases in
costs were: (i) the RMTCs in which gross areas for workshops were increased
by 50%, with an attendant cost escalation of 269%; (ii) the Taguig and
Visayas TIs where increased areas resulted in cost increases of 179% and
162%, respectively; and (iii) the CLSU construction which was increased by
31%, with a concomitant cost escalation of 123%. The Association strongly
objected to preliminary designs of the BDSs at CLSU and declined to finance
these schools finding their designs unsuited to their rural environment and
excessively costly.
3.09      Almost all preliminary sketch designs sent to the Association were
rejected. There followed a period of 18 months during which the Association
reviewed sketches both at headquarters and during supervision missions.
While the Civil Works Division of the PIU agreed that there were deviations
from worksheet norms, particularly with respect to the schedule of accommoda-
tions, areas and design sophistication, it did not concur with the Association
architects' belief that: (a) areas should not deviate by more than 10% from
the specifications set forth in the original worksheets; (b) while building
designs should accommodate local conditions, internationally accepted norms
should be adhered to whenever possible, especially with respect to cost
norms; and (c) the Credit Agreement's implied cost norms should prevail even
if Government is willing to absorb cost overruns above those provided for by
project contingency funds.
3.10      The entire 18 month period was characterized by a lack of effective
communication between IDA, EDPITAF, and the consultant architects. As a
result there were long delays in preparing tender documents. Because of these
delays, and a general inability of those involved to reach agreement, the
Executive Director of EDPITAF intervened to request clarification of the role
of IDA architectural supervision. His intervention eventually led to an
exchange of letters in which he proposed that: (a) the role of IDA staff on
supervision missions be clarified; (b) that Government's obligation to consult
IDA on architectural matters be clarified; and (c) that one Association
architect be designated to oversee the implementation of a particular project



- 19 -
from start to finish. Thle Association responded by proposing that: (a) an
agreement be reached on limits beyond which changes in worksheets could not be
made without a clearly recorded, convincing justification; (b) IDA architects
review and comment on draft architectural briefs and that this review take
place by the time of negotiations; and (c) that EDPITAF submit drawings at an
earlier stage in the desLgn cycle. Given the work program of the Division and
its obligations toward all Borrowers it would not be feasible to assign one
architect to follow a project throughout the implementation period.
3.11      The Association never formally approved the designs.    In order to
put an end to the communlcation difficulties and avoid further delays, IDA
agreed that if the Ministry of Finance approved the designs after having been
informed of IDA comments and the cost implications of the designs, then IDA
would make no further comments.
Bidding Procedures
3.12      International competitive bidding (ICB) was followed for civil
works, furniture and equLpment components. All contracts for civil works and
furniture were won by local firms. EDPITAF evaluated all bids, local and
foreign, and submitted the list to the Association for approval. In the case
of equipment, EDPITAF established a committee of three technical advisors,
chosen by the Executive Director. When the bids had been evaluated by
EDPITAF, they were sent with recommendations to the project institutions for
comment, then to the Tecmnical Committee for final approval.    Contracts were
made between EDPITAF and the supplier. Terms of contracts and payments,
approved by IDA, were based on advance payments equivalent to 90% of the
foreign costs. During the early phase of the project, bids were organized
item by item. Only a few items were packaged (electronic trainers, motors,
audiovisual equipment, etc.). Later bids were prepared by package. The Bank
also agreed to direct purchases by EDPITAF up to a maximum of US$50,000. When
it became evident that the cost of civil works was considerably higher than
appraisal estimates, it was mutually agreed to reduce the equipment purchase
orders so that the savinlgs could cover part of the cost overrun on the civil
works component.
Construction
3.13      While the quality of construction was good and timing was satisfac-
tory, the heavy workload of some contractors and their limited cash flow
slowed down the building process. There was, however, no need for retender-
ing. Due to an average delay of 8 months in the start of construction, at a
time when the inflationary effects of the 1974 world oil crisis were particu-
larly pronounced, construction costs greatly exceeded appraisal estimates.
Although EDPITAF considered advanced procurement of building materials as a
means of reducing costs, it finally abandoned this strategy because of the



- 20 -
administrative and procedural difficulties involved. Final construction costs
were 108% above appraisal estimates. All cost overruns were absorbed by
Government.
Furniture
3.14      During the early phase of the project, the Civil Works Division of
EDPITAF was responsible for design and procurement of furniture. It provided
designs for basic furniture for lecture rooms and general classrooms. Later
the responsibility for procurement was transferred to the Procurement
Division. Furniture lists were prepared by the institutions concerned and
submitted to EDPITAF. At the Closing Date, all but 2% of the furniture had
been delivered to project sites. However, in general, the quality of the
furniture is uneven and of a low standard. Several constructive suggestions
to improve the situation were made by EDPITAF, including: (a) a recommenda-
tion that manufacturers winning contracts be asked to produce prototypes of
furniture to serve as control samples for total production and (b) that
initial furniture lists be prepared more carefully so that they need not be
redone, resulting in delays and possible cost increases.
Equipment
3.15      Equipment lists were prepared by the institutions concerned and
supplemented by ad hoc committees including specialists from the Ministry of
Education and consultants hired by EDPITAF./1
3.16      At the time of the original closing date (December 31, 1978), 80.4%
of the allocation for equipment had been disbursed. The following are among
the main reasons for delays in the purchasing of equipment:
(a) shortage of counterpart funds required to meet cost overruns
and local handl'ng charges, resulting in the delay of further
bidding;
(b) delays in the completion of buildings (particularly technical
institutes and some RMTCs), which led to delays in procurement of
equipment; and
(c) reallocation of some equipment between project institutions.
/1 In the case of new institutions, the ad hoc committees took over full
responsibility.



- 21 -
In addition, it was found that some agricultural equipment delivered to the
project institutions was not suited to the type of soil or the type of crop.
Finally, a number of components were delivered with missing accessories
(which had been separately bid) or without an operational manual.
3.17      Due to delays and cost overruns in the civil works component, the
appraisal allocation for equipment purchases had to be reduced. Overall,
approximately 73% of the equipment was procured. Of the institutions assisted
by the project, the CCU) received the smallest portion of its original alloca-
tion. Only 33% of the equipment envisaged was purchased. The most severely
affected of the technical project institutions were the RMTCS which received
60% of their equipment allocation, but which were often unable to supply the
basic machinery received with the required accessories and parts. The Tech-
nician Institutes and the Regional Agricultural Colleges received approxi-
mately 80% of their original allocation. Despite reductions in equipment
allocations, equipment costs for some institutions exceeded appraisal esti-
mates. For the TIs, cost overruns were on the order of 117%. For the RACs,
costs exceeded appraisal estimates by an average of 35%. With respect to
the RMTCs, Government had to allocate +P 650,000 for the purchase of tools
to supplement those provided by the project. The proposed eight education
project (Vocational Training) includes equipment for the RMTCs to supplement
that received under the second project.
Technical Assistance
3.18      Appraisal estimates included provision for 62 man years of speciali-
zed services and 56 man. years of fellowships for training abroad at a total
cost of US$2 million. This assistance was provided in order to strengthen
educational planning an!d management, curricula development and evaluation,
reinforce the technical competence of staff in the agricultural colleges,
the technician institutes and in EDPITAF.
3.19      In addition to the technical assistance included in the project,
the Government expected UNDP to finance approximately 31 man-years of spe-
cialist services and 6.25 man-years of fellowships. However, due to UNDP
financial difficulties, this program did not materialize and the Government
had to seek bilateral assistance; hence considerable delays were experienced
in this respect.
3.20      In July 1975, EDPITAF proposed extensive changes in the technical
assistance program, principally in order to reduce the number of foreign
experts because they could be replaced by Filipinos, and increase the
allocations to fellowships. The major reasons for their proposal were:
(a) project institutions were reluctant to hire foreign experts where
local staff was available; savings realized could be transferred
to the fellowship program;



- 22 -
(b)  inflation had considerably increased the cost of expert services
and fellowships;
(c)  savings could be used to cover the cost of overruns in civil
works; and
(d)  changes in the enrollments at CMU and CLSU, requiring increased
faculty with higher qualifications, and changes in the study
program reduced the need for technical assistance.
3.21      Expert services were decreased from 744 to 576 man-months.     All
together, the specialists served for 582 man-months. The number of fellow-
ships was similarly revised from 38 to 167 with a corresponding increase
from 678 to 3,098 man-months. EDPITAF established a Technical Assistance
Coordinating Committee to evaluate the credentials of the candidates, but
scouting for and selecting experts was jointly carried out by the Project
Unit and the institutions. The above mentioned revisions together with
difficulties in the recruitment of experts and administrative red tape
resulted in considerable delays. As a consequence of the delays 1,052
man-months of fellowships and 41.5 man-months of expert services were not
used. Nevertheless, the cost of the fellowships surpassed the appraisal
estimate by 26%. As funds originally intended for the technical assistance
component were used for other project categories under Loan 1214-T-PH,
financing was provided for the expert services which had been deleted.
MAN-MONTHS OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE /a
Actual
Appraisal    Revised in 1974     Actual   Appraisal     %
I.  Specialists       744             576             582                78
II.  Fellows           678           2,960          3,098                457
/a  See Annex 7, Table 11 for details.
Covenants
3.22      Most covenants related to civil works were fulfilled (Article III
of the Credit Agreement).   Covenants related to the attainment of the pro-
ject's educational goals (Article IV) were substantially modified during
project implementation. Most modifications were made due to overriding
social or political considerations, which are discussed in detail below.
The status of all covenants is given in Annex 2.



- 23 -
(a) Training of Young Farmers
(i)  Experimental Agricultural High Schools
3.23      Section 4.04(b) of the Credit Agreement specifies that "within three
years after the date of this Agreement, all the agricultural high schools
included in the project cither than those at Munoz and Musuan should offer
courses only at the secondary level (i.e., Grades 7-10) for the purpose of
directing the efforts of such high schools to programs related to agricultural
development." Degree programs were phased out by July 1972, but were
reintroduced in 1975/76 for social and political reasons (para. 5.15).
3.24      Article 4.04(c) of the Credit Agreement stipulates that "the
Borrower should formulate within one year after the date of this Agreement
a detailed plan mutually acceptable to the Borrower and the Association, for
supervised farming projects at each agricultural high school included in the
project, and subsequently implement such plans." This covenant was fulfilled
in principle when the Department of Education and Culture, through EDPITAF,
deposited US$780,000 with the Central Bank to serve as initial "seed money."
However, during its implementation, several "supervised" projects proved
unprofitable and were abandoned to the great discouragement of the students
(para. 5.08).
(ii) Pilot Barrio Development Schools
3.25      Covenant 4.04(d) of the Credit Agreement states that the Borrower
shall "formulate, within one year after the date of this Agreement, a
detailed plan mutually satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association, for
supervised farming projects at each pilot village (barrio) development school
included in the Project, including the provision of credit facilities to
pupils of said schools, and subsequently implement such plans. The covenant
was fulfilled, but with limited success because of the change in the
curriculum and the reasons given under the EAHSs (paras. 5.08-5.10). Within
this framework, the Department of Education and Culture, through EDPITAF,
deposited US$120,000 (through the Agricultural Loan Fund Scheme negotiated
with the Central Bank) to serve as initial seed money for the farming projects
in order to assist the pupils. Covenant 4.05(c) of the Credit Agreement
provides that the "Borrower makes arrangements with the UP College of
Agriculture in Los Banos -or the provision of technical assistance for the
BDSs and ensure their impLementation." UP conducted a training program for
project leaders and teachers covering all phases of BDS operations. The
change of the curriculum :para. 5.14) lessened the impact of the trained
agricultural staff in the schools' operation.
(b)  Training of Professional Agricultural Personnel and Improvement
of the Agricultural Extension Services
(i) Regional 4Aricultural Colleges
3.26      Two covenants in the Credit Agreement aim at relating agricultural
education and training to manpower requirements in this area. To this end,
the covenant in Section 4.04(a) provides that "within two years, the



- 24 -
Borrower complete a study on national and regional manpower requirements in
the agricultural sector, on the capacity of existing agricultural training
institutions, including the appropriate location for a regional agricultural
college for the Visayas, and on the most efficient means of meeting such man-
power requirements." Furthermore, Section 4.05(a) of the Credit Agreement
stipulates that "within three years the Borrower enter into agreements with
Central Mindanao University for such University to: (i) adjust its student
enrollment to correspond only to areas of study for which manpower needs
exists; (ii) in the field of engineering offer only courses directly related
to agricultural'development; (iii) integrate business management training
with the operation of the commercial farms; and (iv) include in the agricul-
tural degree programs one extra semester of practical work."
3.27      The above-mentioned study on agricultural manpower requirements
was carried out by EDPITAF in 1975 and in 1976 it was complemented by more
detailed studies which led to the Fourth World Bank Education Project./l
Further, the results of the study were used as a basis for the introduction or
readjustment of certain programs (e.g. agribusiness and veterinary science),
but they were never used as a guide for adjusting the output of the colleges
to manpower requirements. Enrollments were not controlled to match manpower
requirements and the suggested deletion of the civil engineering course from
the CMU curriculum did not take place.
(ii) Social Extension Labs (SLs)
3.28       Covenant 4.08 of the Credit Agreement provides that "within one year
the Borrower make agreements under which CMU, CLSU, the Agricultural
Productivity Commission (APC) and other relevant agencies coordinate the
provision of extension services in the areas to be served by the SLs included
in the project." The effort the SLs made toward mobilizing resources in the
barrios for maximum utilization had only modest success for several reasons,
such as shortage of funds, the lack of interest of farmers, the uncoordinated
efforts of the agencies involved and rivalries among local leaders.
/1 Loan 1374-PH - Development of Visayas State College of Agriculture,
strengthening of the University of the Philippines at Los Banos (UPLB),
relocation of the College of Veterinary Medicine (from Diliman to Los
Banos), and establishment of the Philippine Training Centers for Rural
Development.



- 25 -
(c)  Training of Industrial Technicians and Skilled Craftsmen
(1) Industr:ial Technician Training
3.29      Covenant 4.07 of the Credit Agreement states that "the Borrower
should: (a) establish a technical education governing council with appro-
priate representation of industry, to supervise the operation of the three
TIs and ensure the application of uniform curricula and examination standards
to all three; and (b) train or cause to be trained annually about 60 teachers
for the TIs from 1973 through 1976." In compliance with part (a) of this
covenant, an Interim Bc,ard on Technician Education was established in Decem-
ber 1975, but it was later abolished and replaced by a Technical Panel for
Technician Education within the framework of the Ministry of Education and
Culture. However, this Panel does not function as foreseen. Competent
authorities claim that the Board should be expanded to include more indus-
trialists from the public and private sectors; at present there is an over-
representation of educators.   Fulfillment of part (b) of the covenant was
pursued through the establishment of a Technician Teacher Training Program
(TTTP) headed by the Don Bosco Technical Institute. The program, which
includes three course cycles, started in November 1974 and is still in
operation. At present 38 teachers have completed the first cycle, 48 the
second and 22 the third.
(ii) Skilled Craftsmen Training
3.30      Covenant 4.06 of the Credit Agreement stipulates that:     "(a) upon
completion, the RMTCs will be administered and operated by the NMYC and the
Borrower shall ensure that until such completion, its Department of Education
and the NMYC coordinate their activities with regard to the RMTCs; (b) the
Borrower will train, within three years after the date of the Agreement, about
150 instructors and 10 supervisors in the National Manpower Skills Training
Center in Taguig, Rizal to serve as instructors in RMTCs; and (c) not later
than one year after the commencement of the operation of each RMTC, it will
submit to the Association (IDA) an annual evaluation report on each of the
centers." Parts (a) and (b) of this covenant were satisfactorily fulfilled;
section (c) remains unfulfilled as no annual evaluation reports on each RMTC
have yet been submitted..
IDA Performance
3.31      The Associaticon made 11 supervision visits to the Philippines
during project implementation at an average interval of six months, but with
a range of 3-18 months. In general, during the early stages of implementa-
tion supervision focussed on physical and financial aspects of the project.
Educational aspects, particularly technical assistance and enrollment ratios
at project institutions began to receive more attention during the latter
half of the project, particularly after 1976 when architectural matters were



- 26 -
resolved. During the first two years of project implementation, design
issues were the subject of prolonged EDPITAF/IDA correspondence and super-
vision. However, the Association's suggestions had little impact on this
aspect of implementation (para. 3.09), but design review procedures developed
as a result of this project have benefitted subsequent projects.
3.32      During the second half of the project, the Association became con-
cerned with the high enrollment figures and correspondingly high student/staff
ratios at CMU and CLSU, the inclusion of post-secondary courses in the experi-
mental agricultural high schools, and the slow recruitment of technical
assistance. Although extensive discussions were held with the PIU personnel
concerning the first two issues, by project completion student/staff ratios
remained high and post-secondary courses had not been abolished. Given the
intense social demand for education in the Philippines and the level of
educational attainment of the general population, it was unrealistic of the
Association to try to institute a terminal secondary degree and to try to
limit university enrollments, although both were justified by analyses of the
manpower pool.
3.33      The completion date for this project was never extended beyond the
original date of December 31, 1978. The Association initially agreed to
extend the disbursement period to June 30, 1979 when 96% of the credit
proceeds were committed or disbursed. Subsequent to June 30, an informal
agreement was reached between Programs, Projects, Legal and the Comptroller's
Department to extend the disbursement period to March 25, 1980. At this date
a final application for disbursement had been received. However, at that
date there were also approximately 20 outstanding qualified agreements to
reimburse. Before payment of the last application, the Comptroller's
Department verified with the commercial banks holding the agreements
whether they would be paid or not. The verification process required about
five months so that the Credit was not fully disbursed, nor the account
closed until final disbursement could be made on August 27, 1980. In this
report, August 27, 1980 is assumed to be the Credit Closing Date and on
that basis the time overrun was calculated.



- 27 -
[V. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
4.01       Total project cost was esti,mated by the Appraisal Mission at
P 113.4 million or US$17.68 million. The total cost of the project
including additional expenses was, at the time of the Completion Mission's
visit, P 158.13 million or US$21.37 million, including depreciation of the
peso in the course of the project implementation from 6.40 to 7.38 pesos to
one US dollar. This represents a cost overrun of 40% and 21% on the basis
of peso and US dollar prices, respectively. Estimated and actual costs are
shown in Annex 3, Table 1; a summary is given in the following table.
Table 3: ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL PROJECT OJSTS
(including contingencies in US$ million equivalent)
A           B         C             D         E
Appraisal   Appraisal   Actual        Actual  Difference
Categories              estimate    estimate     Costs        costs        %
US$ (mil)    P (mil)  US$ (mil)/a    P (mil)    (D-rB)
Civil works
(construction and
site development)      5.85        37.44       10.76       79.62     +112.0
Professional services     0.47         3.0         0.47        3.48        0
Equipment and
furniture               8.20        52.48        8.33       61.64      +17.6
Technical assistance      3.16        20.22        1.81       13.39       -33.6
Total               17.68       113.14      21.37       158.13      +39.8
/a Actual project costs are calculated in 1980 US$ for which the exchange
rate is US$1 = P 7.40.



- 28 -
4.02       This major overrun is the accumulated result of a number of inter-
related factors, the most important being:
(i)  Delays in the start of project implementation due to administrative
difficulties in selecting and contracting consultant architects,
followed by an inability of some of them to adhere to Bank rules and
worksheet specifications. This led to increases in areas, and
expensive designs, and a long review process that delayed the
project implementation by 22 months (discussed in Chapter III); and
(ii)  From the end of 1974 until project completion (December, 1978), the
average cost escalation in the building industry was over 20% p.a.,
as compared to the 6% estimate of the Appraisal Report. Thus, at
the completion date, the cost escalation for construction only
(including contingencies) was about 2.1 times (133%) the appraisal
estimate.
4.03      Mounting costs led the Project Unit to request the Bank's approval
for a reallocation of Credit proceeds between the different categories of
the Project. It was agreed that in order to cover the exceptionally high
cost overrun for civil works, part of the disbursement originally allocated
to furniture and equipment be transferred to civil works. This was
detrimental to project objectives as the Government had to considerably
reduce the planned program in this area.
Disbursements
4.04      Annex 4 shows actual disbursements compared with appraisal
estimates. The first application for withdrawal was sent 29 months after
the effective date of the project and 18 months behind appraisal estimates.
This was due, as explained above, to delays in the early phase of the project
implementation. However, the amount of this first disbursement application
(US$2.722 million) was already 120% above the appraisal estimate for the
first two years of implementation and covered part of construction contracts
and advance payment for equipment (at the rate of 90% of foreign cost).
Recurrent Costs
4.05      This report does not include an estimate of recurrent costs for
project institutions as the data received were inadequate to calculate these
costs./l However, as enrollment rates for many of the institutions assisted
under the project varied considerably from appraisal estimates, the recurrent
cost figures are unlikely to provide much insight into the actual per student
operating costs under optimal learning conditions.
/1 A request has been made to Government to furnish further information.



- 29 -
V. PROJECT OPERATING OUTCOMES
Project Design
5.01      The Association appraised this project at a period when the
educational system of the Philippines had recently undergone a major review
and evaluation with the assistance of the Ford Foundation. The recommenda-
tions of that report were far reaching and implied major changes in the
structure and administration of the system. It was not possible at the time
of appraisal to design a comprehensive project which would assist Government
in revising the entire ;ystem. However, it was decided to support a number
of high priority areas. While the variety and intensity of the needs of the
educational system may have suggested wideranging assistance from the Asso-
ciation, and the projecl: was designed to provide as broad a range of assist-
ance as appeared feasible at the time, the very breadth of its coverage made
implementation and supervision difficult. As designed, the project was an
overambitious effort to meet as many of the country's needs as possible.
The many components (11), designed to meet the needs of three different sub-
sectors and to strengthen the overall planning capability of the educational
system, made it a difficult task for the newly created PIU (EDPITAF), as well
as for the Association to keep track of the development and status of project
components. That the project should have in large measure succeeded is a
testament to EDPITAF's ability to rapidly master Association requirements
and procedures. The "fruit" of that capability has been demonstrated by the
quality of its management of succeeding Bank-assisted projects.
Attainment of Project Objectives
5.02      The project had six major objectives:    (a) strengthening of
educational planning and management; (b) expansion of the training of science
teachers; (c) expansion of the training of young farmers; (d) improvement of
the training of professional agricultural personnel and of agricultural
extension services; (e) introduction of industrial technician training and of
skilled craftsmen; and (f) provision of technical assistance to aid project
implementation. In general, the educational aims of the project have been
achieved, although in some cases there have been deviations from the original
targets and objectives. A brief analysis of the performance of each component
is given below, with the exception of the technical assistance component which
was discussed above in Chapter III (paras. 3.18-3.21).
Educational Planning, Management and Reform
5.03      The first objective, as stated in the Appraisal Report, was to
"provide the Department of Education and Culture with the physical and human
resources necessary to improve educational planning and management, and to
reform the education system." This was pursued through equipping and rein-
forcing by means of technical assistance, a Curriculum Coordinating Unit



- 30 -
(CCU) attached to the Office of Planning Service (OPS) of the Department
(now Ministry) of Education and by establishing an Education Development
Center (EDC) attached to the University of the Philippines. The CCU was
activated in February 1974 and is contributing to curriculum coordination
activities through publishing and distributing curriculum research and
through the production of materials development, coordinating/monitoring
tools. It also holds consultations and conferences with individuals and
groups involved in curriculum development at both national and regional
levels.
5.04      The Education Development Centre (EDC) is functioning properly and
contributes substantially to the educational development process through the
preparation of manuscripts for textbooks, teaching guides and other instruc-
tional materials for elementary and secondary schools and through educational
research programs. The EDC premises house the Science Education Center of the
University of the Philippines (UPSEC) and the Social Studies Center (SSC)
under the Office of the Minister of Education and Culture (formerly under the
Bureau of Public Schools). A major objective of the component was to promote
coordination between the two centers and, as a first step, the University of
the Philippines and the Department of Education and Culture signed, in 1972, a
memorandum of agreement for the establishment of an Education Development
Council. Due to large differences in the activities of each Center, the
Council was never established and the coordination between the two centers
remained only at the level of sharing of facilities.
Training of Science Teachers
5.05      The objective of expanding the training of science teachers was
pursued through establishing two new Regional Science Teaching Centres (RSTCs)
and the equipping of two existing ones. As a result of this component, the
number of RSTCs increased to nine. Together with five other newly estab-
lished centers, dealing with areas other than science and mathematics
(social studies, communications arts and practical arts), the nine form,
within the framework of the textbook project (Loan 1224T-PH), a network of
Regional Staff Development Centers providing training on the use of new
textbooks for some 250,000 teachers.   More specifically, the establishment
of the five RSTCs contributed to extending the science and mathematics
training programs to the primary level and to upgrading science and
mathematics teachers (some 1,000 p.a.) through seminars and fellowship
activities.
Training of Young Farmers
5.06      This component provided equipment for 13 Experimental Agricultural
High Schools and for the construction of 6 pilot Barrio (village) Development
Schools.



- 31 -
(a)  Experimental Agricultural Schools (EAHSs)
5.07      The objective of this component was to expand and broaden the then
"new" experimental high school project, based on the brief experience in two
pilot schools, in support of the new practically oriented curriculum - Year 1
teaching the principles and practice of agriculture, and Years 2-4 having
supervised farming projects in crop, or livestock production.     The associated
Supervised Farming Program (SFP) for pupils was an essential part of the pack-
age, to encourage pupils to have practical farming responsibilities and exper-
ience with banks and credit.
5.08      The Experimental Agricultural High Schools provide secondary and
agricultural education in many deprived areas. Nevertheless, from the
start, drawbacks in the concept quickly became evident, among which are:
-    the system's cost was high;
-    many pupils dropped out;
-    students were physically and emotionally too immature for farm
work;
-    the skills taught were not sufficiently sophisticated for modern
farming;
-    Over 80% of pupils proceeded to higher education, for which they
were inadequately prepared;
-    pupils become discouraged from running unprofitable enterprises
through the SF? and related bank loans; and
-    the school staEf did not support the entrepreneurial program.
5.09      At the time the project was appraised, a shift in curricular empha-
sis in such schools away from college preparation towards vocational training
was expected. By 1978, the emphasis was once more firmly on college prepara-
tion, illustrated by the reduced practical work being undertaken. The EAHS
always retained their secondary program, however, the time taken from it for
practical work on SFPs dLsadvantages the majority of pupils taking the
National College Entrancie Examination (NCEE), and in their subsequent studies
(often in the degree prog,ram in the same institution - under the Bureau of
Secondary Education - BSE).   In addition, the poor record of rural banks and
their farmer clients vis--a-vis the Philippine National Bank required them to
curtail their activities in the EAHs. In many cases, they did not open a
branch there as provided for. At CMU, projects were eventually funded
directly through the President's Office.
5.10      In November 19;9, MEC/EDPITAF and the Central Bank reached a new
agreement to establish a Loan Fund of P 3,155,808 to be deposited with qual-
ified rural banks, to guarantee losses up to 85%.    Loans have a 10% interest
rate; 11 Ag. High Schools and 65 Agricultural training institutions benefitted
besides other institutions. This program is financing a Supervised Experience
Education Program (SEEP) to follow and enlarge on the SFP in Ag. High
Schools, to be monitored by BSE.



- 32 -
5.11      The drawbacks cited above, and subsequent shifts in emphasis have
resulted in EAHSs concentrating more on college preparation, and its required
secondary curriculum. With SFP grafted on, pupils were occupied 45 hours per
week, which - at their stage of physical development and in poor living condi-
tions - could not but affect their success in general studies.
5.12      During the course of project implementation, there were substantial
deviations from the original targets in the EAHs subcomponent, particularly
with regard to programs and enrollments. Enrollments in the secondary courses
of the EAHSs included in the project approached 10,000 in 1978/79 (project
completion year) as against 5,500 foreseen in the Appraisal. In addition,
there are some 4,000 students in postsecondary degree and nondegree
(certificate) courses. The number of graduates of secondary courses reached
some 1,300 in 1978/79. Annex 7, Table 1 gives enrollment and output of each
school by level for the 1974/75-1977/78 period. The rapid increase in
enrollments is certainly linked with the fact that postsecondary courses
have been reintroduced.
5.13      As discussed above (para. 3.23), to enable project schools to con-
centrate on secondary level programs, the Government agreed to phase out
degree programs in all except the CLSU and CMU Agricultural High Schools.
Indeed, by July 1972, all postsecondary programs at the eleven project schools
were phased out. However, in 1975/76 degree programs were re-introduced into
five schools and at present all project schools offer degree programs, in
addition to the secondary programs, and ten of them also offer post-secondary
nondegree programs.
5.14      This modification was due in part to changed political circumstan-
ces in the country and, in part, to overambitious expectations at appraisal.
In the long run no government would readily face the social implications of
downgrading established and functioning institutions. Although the covenant
dealing with this matter was justified on the grounds that the institutions
had neither the teaching staff nor the equipment to conduct such courses,
thereby increasing the possibility of lowering the quality of student
output, it has proven unrealistic on sociopolitical grounds.
5.15      There are no detailed data available which document the route
graduates of secondary courses follow, but it is estimated that some 20%
continue to postsecondary programs. A survey conducted by the project imple-
mentation officer (as part of his doctoral dissertation) on the occupational
placement of 216 students who graduated from EAH schools during the 1976/77-
1977/78 period revealed that over half (63%) continued their schooling; 47%
were studying full time in an agricultural institution and 16% were pursuing
full time nonagricultural studies. Fourteen percent (14%) were working in
agricultural professions and 7% were employed in nonagriculturally related
jobs. Twelve percent (12%) of those queried were unemployed and 4% were
engaged in a combination of the activities described above.



- 33 -
5.16      Despite the partial failure of this program, due mainly to inade-
quately trained staff, insufficient supervision of students and increased
cost of farming inputs, there was a positive outcome: the institutionaliza-
tion of student credit for supervised farming projects. As in the case of
the Barrio Development Schools, these EAHs experiences demonstrate the need
for a more equitable comprehensive school system, including basic academic,
as well as prevocational training for all - the latter to have a sectorial
or regional orientation - which would embrace agricultural training in most
regions of the country.
(b) Pilot Barrio Development Schools (BDSs)
5.17      The Barrio Development Schools were designed as four year lower
secondary schools (grades 7-10) with a terminal vocational agricultural
program comprising 50% classroom instruction with strong agricultural bias
and 50% practical work and supervised farming projects. Three BDSs were
attached to CLSU and three to CMU. The BDSs began functioning in 1974/75 with
an enrollment of 32 students per school per curriculum year which, by the end
of the fourth year, dropped to an average of 11 students per school per
curriculum year. The completion rates were 49% and 34% respectively for the
CLSU and the CMU schools. The supervised farm projects followed the pattern
outlined under EAHSs (para. 5.07).
5.18      Yielding to social pressure, first CLSU (1976) and later CMU (1978)
replaced the BDS curriculum with the Revised Secondary Education Program,
thus converting the terminal vocational agricultural schools into general
secondary schools with agricultural bias. The supervised farm program became
one among several electives and enrollment increased immediately. Annex 7,
Table 3 gives enrollments and drop-outs rates by school for the 1974/75-
1978/79 period. The Philippines' experience with these pilot BDSs may be
seen as a necessary stage in the evolution of a comprehensive junior secon-
dary school system for all pupils. That the concept rapidly outgrew its
social utility is beyond question, given the changing economic circumstances
and pupils/parents' aspirations. In the BDS context, as in the Experimental
Agricultural High Schools, the saddling of rural youth with quite heavy phys-
ical work tasks and with banking responsibilities, appears to have been
premature and contributed to that particular system's demise. Land, build-
ings and equipment continue to serve the village communities, but in a way
different from the project's objectives.
5.19      With their revised curriculum, the BDSs contribute to the equaliza-
tion of opportunities for access to secondary education, but little to the
training of young farmers which was the original purpose of the project.
In the Philippines it appears that terminal secondary level programs are
unlikely to succeed, unLess linked to avenues for further training.



- 34 -
Training of Professional Agricultural Personnel and Improvement
of the Agricultural Extension Services
5.20       These objectives were pursued through (a) expansion and reinforce-
ment of the Regional Agricultural Colleges of CLSU and CMU; (b) the establish-
ment of two social (extension) laboratories attached to the above-mentioned
institutions; and (c) the establishment of a radio station at CMU and the
strengthening of an existing one in Los Banos.
(a) Regional Agricultural Colleges (RACs)
5.21       In view of the magnitude of the development program in the two RACs,
local Project Implementation Units were organized to supervise their develop-
ment and serve as liaison between the colleges and the EDPITAF. The two
college presidents were designated as project implementation officers and
headed the units.
5.22      Both colleges have responded to pressure from the local citizenry
and regional secondary graduates and increased total enrollments. Enrollment
at each institution was projected at 1,500 by 1978. This target was exceeded
by 160% at CMU and by 290% at CLSU (Annex 7, Tables 4 and 5). The reasons
given for this explosion in enrollments are the relatively low cost of educa-
tion (to students) as compared to that in private colleges and universities,
the good performance of the graduates, and the Government policy to democra-
tize access in post-secondary education and, at the same time, to discourage
enrollment in the areas of law, business and liberal arts. The increase in
enrollments was not followed by a corresponding increase in staff, which
caused the student/teacher ratio to increase from 15:1 envisaged in the
Appraisal to 36:1 for CLSU and 21:1 for CMU, thereby endangering the quality
of the instruction.
5.23       A second major objective of this component was to improve the
qualifications of the teaching staff. While fellowships were provided for
staff upgrading, the following table which gives the number of staff by
qualifications in the two colleges for the years 1972/73 and 1978/79, shows
that the proportion of staff with masters and doctoral degrees increased
only slightly.



- 35 -
TabLe 4:  ACADEMIC STAFF IN CLSU AND CMU
CLSU                              CMUJ
Bachelor  Mast:er  Doctorate        Bachelor  Master   Doctorate
Year      degree    degree    degree  Total   degree    degree   degree    Total
1972/73   124        57         4      185     113       42         2       157
(67%)    (31,%)      (2%)            (72%)    (27%)      (1%)
1978/79   196        81        18      295     193       79        12       284
(66%)    (27;%)      (6%)            (68%)     (28%)     (4%)
5.24      The number oi graduates of the two colleges by level and speciali-
zation is given in Annex 7, Tables 6 and 7.   In 1978/79, there were 816
graduates as compared to 491 in 1972/73.   The number of graduates in
agricultural courses increased from 380 in 1972/73 to 789 in 1978/79, which
represents 77.4% and 96.7% of the total number of graduates respectively.
However, the ratio of agriculture graduates to enrollments remained
practically stable (around 12%) as against 22% foreseen at appraisal.
5.25      The introduction of Agribusiness Management in both universities
appears successful - st:udents benefit from a commercial approach, compared
with the scientific discipline approach more commonly encountered elsewhere.
Both colleges have veterinary faculties, with limited qualified staff. The
case for expanded veterinary training in the Philippines is not proven, and
there is a real danger of oversupply of underqualified veterinarians. Each
of these regional universities is playing a significant role in its region's
development, more particularly through their research, development and demon-
stration programs. Were student numbers limited further and staff qualifica-
tions further improved, the qualitative effect on their wide-ranging activi-
ties would be considerable.
(b) Social (Extension) Laboratories (SLs)
5.26      The major objective of the Social (extension) Laboratories was to
give new emphasis to on-the-job training of extension workers and to associate
them more closely with rural development. Two such laboratories were inclu-
ded in the Droject, onE each, at CLSU and CLIJ.  The concept originated at
UPLB where the original SL (under the Department of Agricultural Education)
was established in an adjacent group of villages to serve as a teaching lab
in rural problem-solving for "extension major" students and their teachers
and researchers. The laboratories were to provide in-service training for



.. 36 -
Government and other agencies' extension personnel, and intensive and well-
organized extension services to the villagers. Under university leadership,
all agencies were to coordinate their extension services in these areas.
The work program deviated considerably from the original concept. Both SLSs
are used mainly for applied research and direct extension work rather than
for training and coordination of extension activities as foreseen.
5.27      At present, the major contributions of the Social Laboratories lie
in: (i) their-research projects for improved seeds and agricultural pro-
cesses; (ii) small scale experimental farming, particularly in the CLSU Social
Laboratory, which maintains a model mini-farm with diversified cultures; and
(iii) technical and financial assistance to villagers for the creation of
small agricultural or consumer product cooperatives. Although all the
above-mentioned areas are very important to the development of the rural
population, the impact of the SLs' work appears to be minimal, principally
because of the small scale of the operation and the lack of a concrete action
program which could, in the long run, have a multiplier effect.
5.28      The SLs started at CMU and CLSU in 1974/75 demonstrated early pro-
mise and emphasized stimulating barrio residents into active participation in
social and technical programs, including pre-consumers' cooperatives. This
has been replaced by "transfer of technology" packages to raise the low in-
comes of participants and observe the effects. Due to transport and rapid
staff turnover problems, the target of 16 technicians in 16 barangays appears
never to have been reached (lack of budget and other commitments), resulting
in declining interest by Barrio residents. Efforts are now concentrated on
some 6 and 3 barangays (8 and 3 technicians, respectively) the former at CMU
in two pilot irrigation areas. Momentum in pressing the original objectives
seems to have largely been lost: the technicians are increasingly SL-
rather than Barrio-oriented and the physical facilities provided are more
integrated with general university activities. University students still
use the SL for field training. In CLSU, the SL building is now physically
the Rural Development Studies Center (mainly social science) and part of one
of five main divisions of the CLSU Research and Development Center; it is
only partially utilized by the social lab and BDSs. The original concept of
a field social teaching and research laboratory has given way to one of a
University Extension Demonstration area, with more limited objectives and
reduced enthusiasm, and providing an area for social science research. With
greater interest (but less action) in organizing a more unified extension
service, university involvement in that role appears to have waned.
(c) The Agricultural Radio Stations (RSs)
5.29      This component was aimed at reinforcing the agricultural extension
program.  The strengthening of the radio station at UP, Los Banos, presented
no particular difficulty as, since its inception in 1964, it has regularly
transmitted programs which are predominantly educational (56%) and



- 37 -
informative (25%), during its seven-hour daily air time. By contrast, a
multitude of problems had to be faced in establishing the new RS at CMU. The
transmitter room was too small; a nearby rice mill caused disturbing noise and
produced dust damaging to the equipment; piecemeal delivery of equipment
caused difficulties in assembling; and the transmitter developed malfunctions.
The problems were finally rectified and the radio station started functioning
properly in 1980.
5.30      The concept and utility of radio stations for agricultural/rural
development is becoming established and accepted. Stronger technical and
logistic support is required to reinforce and assist these extension programs
on the air. This implies closer cooperation with the agents of equipment sup-
pliers, adequate budgets,for spares and new equipment, and continuing strong
links with agricultural development agencies, especially the Regional Bureaux
of the Ministry of Agriculture. In many regions of the Philippines with
transport problems and difficult access, e.g., mountain or island communities,
such radio stations can play an important development role, with their con-
tinuing education programs, support to different agencies' extension programs,
and publicizing of well-tested research results, in addition to training
University students.
Training of Industrial Technicians
5.31      The objective of this component was to initiate the training of in-
dustrial technicians to fill middle-level positions. It was pursued through:
(a) the establishment cf two Technician Institutes (TIs) - the Manila TI in
Taguig and the Visayas TI in Bacolod; and (b) the provision of equipment for
the Iligan Institute of Technology (IT).
5.32       Actual enrollments in 1979/80 are shown below, together with those
foreseen in the appraisal.
Table 5: APPRAISAL ESTIMATES vs ACTUAL ENROLLMENTS
FOR THE TECHNICIAN INSTITUTES
Manila TI      Bacalod TI     Iligan IT          Total
App-           App-          App-           App-
rai            rai-          rai-           rai-
sal   Actual   sal  Actual   sal    Actual  sal      Actual
Capacity (day-shift
enrollment)          600   467     400   435     400 }          1,400}
}                }
Enrollment (two                                        }  794           }  1,696
shifts)            1,2.00    -     800     -     800 }          2,800}
Output                 -`60   266    240           240



- 38 -
The Manila and Bacalod Tls have not yet started their second shift courses.
Enrollments by year and specialization for the three institutes are given in
Annex 7, Table 8.
5.33      Staff turnover has been a major problem for the TIs, due mainly to
competition from industry. It appears that there is a predominance of
teachers with a purely vocational background. In the Manila TI, for instance,
60% of the staff are vocational teachers without an engineering degree. This
imparts a pronounced vocational character to the program which is more
appropriate to-the training of skilled workers than technician training.
5.34      The three-year technician programs were initiated by the project.
The curriculum which incorporates practical work in industry,/I was designed
by a team of foreign and local experts. As a first attempt, the curriculum
appears satisfactory. However, like any curriculum , there is room for
improvement and readjustment. Industry's cooperation in the application of
the industry-based part of the program is satisfactory so far. The question
remains, will that be the case when all the three institutes are in full
operation and the demand for training places grows larger? Perhaps more
direct involvement of industry in the training process as a whole should
be introduced in the near future, as is planned in the eighth education loan.
5.35      It is premature to assess the outputs of this project component as
two of the TIs have not as yet produced graduates. It is true, however,
that the role of the technician is not well established in the Philippines,
his tasks being currently carried out by degree engineers or skilled workers
promoted through the ranks. The ambiguous role of the technician makes
students reluctant to enroll in the TIs and it is the principal cause of the
relatively high drop-out rate observed so far (over 20% between the first
and second years). The fact that the TIs form part of the National
Polytechnic System with the vocationally-oriented Technical University of the
Philippines (TUP) as the apex and the fact that the majority of the teachers
have strong vocational backgrounds add further doubts as to the status of the
technicians. Finally, the failure of the Board on Technician Education and
the inaction of its successor, the Technical Panel for Technician Education,
are not encouraging signs for the future development of technician education.
It seems that a more direct involvement of industry in both curriculum
development and program implementation is a prerequisite for a positive
outcome.
/1 Six-week industrial orientation after the first year, six weeks on-the
job training after the second year and intensive on-the-job training
during the last term of the third year.



- 39 -
Training of Skilled Craftsmen
5.36      The expansion and improvement of the training of skilled craftsmen
was pursued through the establishment of ten Regional Manpower Training
Centers (RMTCs) under the National Manpower and Youth Council (NMYC).
5.37      The annual output of the RMTC courses in 1979 was 8,171/1 as against
a total of 7,170 (2,390 from full-time courses and 4,780 from evening courses)
envisaged in the appraisal. The distribution by course and center is given in
Annex 7, Table 9. The drop out rate as a whole was around 8%. The 1977
output was 3,646 and that of 1978 4,850. As of 1979 the RMTCs form part of
the National Polytechnic System. The programs offered are well-conceived and
meet the basic needs of industry.
5.38      A tentative assessment of the results of this project component
suggests that it has contributed positively to the improvement and expansion
of the training of skilled craftsmen. Industrialists have expressed their
satisfaction with the results and the rapid growth of enrollments indicates
that the courses are poplalar. However, attention should be drawn to certain
aspects which are important to a future expansion of the RMTC system, as
outlined below. There has so far been no attempt to assess manpower require-
ments at craftsmen level and to adjust training accordingly. Although this
poses no particular prob'Lem at the basic skill level, as long as there is no
proliferation of courses, it is of vital importance for more sophisticated
levels of training which are likely to be introduced in the near future. In
addition to the NMYC there are several other agencies dealing with vocational
training, such as the Ministry of Education through its public and private
vocational schools, the Ministry of Labor through its apprenticeship scheme,
the Cottage Industries Development Council (CIDC) and the National Cottage
Industries Development Auithority (NACIDA). Unless the role of each one of
these agencies is well defined and their activities coordinated, there is
likely to be duplication of effort and confusion leading to unnecessary
spending and waste. In general, there is insufficient involvement of indus-
try in the training process. As an example of increased industry involve-
ment, some centers have agreed with private firms to utilize some of the
center's facilities for ithe training of out-of-school youth and unemployed
adults while producing their products. Although the principle is sound,
attention should be drawn to the fact that this should not be done at the
expense of the regular p:rogam and that the center's facilities should not
simply used as productioni premises. For instance, in one of the centers
visited, the automotive workshop was removed and garment making machinery of
a nearby firm was instalLed in the area. Trainees are employees of the
firm.
/1 Excluding the RMTC, Mariveles which has not as yet started functioning.






- 41 -
VI. CONCLUSIONS
Procedural Issues
Project Generation
6.01      For a project as complex and ambitious as this one, the upstream
portion of the project :ycle was extremely short. A total of four missions,
including the appraisal mission, was sent to the field, all within a one year
period. This time frame seems all the more circumscribed given that the
first Bank financed pro;ject was limited to one subsector and that the second
project was appraised al: a time when the education sector was undergoing a
thorough examination ancl extensive planning for revision was underway. A
longer project generaticin period would have permitted more discussion of
fundamental policy issues (and design alternatives) and such initial dialogue
may have resulted in a simpler and better project design and more realistic
project goals (paras. 5.12, 5.18 and 5.22).
Project Implementation
6.02      The greatest logistical difficulties were encountered in the civil
works and equipment components. As a result of project experience, discussion
of design criteria and preparation of architects' briefs, preliminary draw-
ings and cost estimates, working drawings, and tender documents have taken
place much earlier in subsequent projects. As has been demonstrated in many
Bank projects, advancing these activities in the preparation period permits
issues between Government and the Bank to be resolved at an early stage and
allows implementation of the physical aspects of the project to begin as soon
as the loan/credit shall have become effective. Subsequent project
experience has proven the merits of this approach.
Policy Issues
Project Outcomes
6.03      Despite the needs of the education sector, the coincidence of
project appraisal with a thorough review of the education sector, and the
desire of Government and the Association to meet as many sector needs as
possible, this project was an over-ambitious effort to do an across the board
putting of the "Sectoral House" in order. While recognizing that fundamental
policy changes were required in order to meet sector weaknesses, the project
design implied that a one-step intervention would be sufficient to effect the
desired changes. Furthermore, the project was unrealistically optimistic
about the time frame required to bring about change and the potential
socio-political oppositiotn to the limiting of enrollments and the introduction
of practical courses which were necessary to bring output into line with
manpower needs and to make curricula more vocationally-oriented.



- 42 -
6.04       The "smorgasbord approach" taken in CR 349-PH was its greatest
weakness. In later projects the Bank has given greater emphasis to
(a) encouraging Government to examine and where feasible to adopt policy
changes necessary to the successful implementation of projects; (b) encour-
aging Government to set realistic timetables for realizing these changes;
(c) phasing Bank projects to coincide with policy changes; and (d) limiting
project components and goals to a realistic and manageable number.



PHILIPPINES
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (CREDIT 349-PH
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Planned amiu ctual Thmpiuit;ientaLgol Sohredulo
planned                       1973  '     1974        1975        1976        1977       1978         1979       1980
a Oi~           iA   2~I iii 12      ui6 4i i  I   5I 61ii 21       72,    75   85
appoint.&contraots consult.arch ,                                                _ _ _
plamed dLsburselmt    o 
select. & acquisition of sites                                              -                        /
desien phase(all proJect items)  __ _ _._________I
Construction phLsSO                             --    .                     actua- 4I^b"A-.t ,
------   ----- 
(            -__   _                                                    0
prep:qucrlrient list & bid doc,          - __  - - - - _  __/D 
prep.furmnSture list & bid doo.  f   _______                          /*-
0
contract equipment procurement  >          __    =           _    { 
deliveryf & instal. equtpmecnt                                                                                        r|_____/_ L
4~~~~f1        '             -t-,                                  v 
contr-act furn1ture pr-ocuremcatt                                                                                      m 
dellvery furniture           x                                  /                                  r 
___           _ _           l                      Yl         I          _                                  9(___ 
technical assistance                __J ==_                 g2_                 ___L__ 
experts                                 -crut)   --      v     r-- 
fellowfships              l     CLW   v      __;              |           I           IT|            _
I I, 8Y 



- 44 -
ANNEX 2
PHILIPPINES                                    Page 1
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (CREDIT 349-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COVENANT REQUIREMENTS
Credit
Agreement
Date                           Item                    reference           Fulfillment
Prior to          Employ architects acceptable to the       3.02(a)   Done.
scheduled         Association to help in the planning,
start of          supervision and implementation
construction      stages of the project.
Before date       Establish and operate a Project Unit      3.09      Done in.1972.
of effective-     in the Department of Education to
ness              function as described in Schedule 4
of the Credit Agreement.
Prior to          Acquire land and rights in respect of     3.08      Done as schedule.
scheduled          land as shall be required for the
start of          construction of the facilities included
construction      in the project.
Prior to          Employ specialists acceptable to the      3.04(c)   Fulfilled.
scheduled         Association to carry our the technical
start of          assistance portion of the project.
construction
During and        Establish and maintain a revolving        3.05      Fulfilled.
throughout        fund.
operation
Within 12         Obtain technical assistance as des-       4.03      Done on schedule through
months after      cribed in Schedule 5 of the Agreement               UNDP/ILO.
agreement date     (not funded by project funds).
Within 2 years    Produce study on national and regional    4.04(a)   Done in 1975.
after agreement   manpower requirements in the agricul-
date              tural training institutions
Within 3 years    Direct all agricultural high schools      4.04(b)   Degree programs were phased
after agreement   included in this project to programs                out by July 1972, but reintro-
date              related to agricultural development                 duced in 1975/76 for political
(except Munoz and Musuan).                          reasons.



ANNEX 2
- 45                           Page 2
Credit
Agreement
Date                          Item                    reference           Fulfillment
Within 1 year     Formulate plan for supervised farming    4.04(c) } Fulfilled, but difficulties
after agreement   projects at each agricultural high               } were encountered in making
date              school included in the project, and              } programs economically viable.
carry out subsequent implementation.             }
}
Within 1 year     Formulate a plaa for supervising pro-    4.04(d) }
jects at each piLlot village develop-
ment school inc2uded in the project,
including credit: facilities to pupils           }
and subsequent Implementation.
Within 3 years    Arrange with Central M. University       4.05(a)   Partially fulfilled, but student/
after agreement   adjustment of enrollment (i) to satisfy            staff ratios are much higher than
date              manpower needs, (ii) offer only courses            projected, non-agriculturally
related to agricultural development in             oriented engineering courses
the field of engineering), (iii) inte-             remain, and enrollment was not
grate business management with the com-            matched with manpower needs.
mercial farms operations, (iv) add one
extra semester o.f practical work to the
agricultural degree program.
Within 1 year     Arrange with the UPLB to train person-   4.05(b)   Fulfilled.
after agreement   nel of the CMU rsLtio station.
date -
Within 1 year     Arrange with the UPLB to provide techni- 4.06(a)   Fulfilled.
after agreement   cal assistance for the project pilot
date              village (barrio) development schools.
During operation  Coordinate activities of the Regional    4.06(a)   Fulfilled.
Manpower Training Centers in coopera-
tion with the National Manpower and
Youth Council unt:11 completion of the
Project.
Within 3 years    Train 150 instructors and 10 super-      4.06(b)   Fulfilled.
after agreement   visors in the National Manpower skills
date              Training Center in Taquig Rizal, to
serve as instructors in the Regional
Manpower Training Centers.



ANNEX 2
- 46                                Page 3
Credit
Agreement
Date                           Item                     reference           Fulfillment
One year after     Submit to the Association an annual       4.06(c)   Not fulfilled.
commencement       evaluation report on each of the
of operation       Regional Manpower Training Centers
of RMTC            after commencement of their operation.
Upon completion    Establish technical education govern-     4.07(a)   A panel has been established,
of the three       ing council, to adequately supervise                but industry is under-
technical          the three technical institutes and                  represented.
institutes        apply uniform curricula and examina-
tion standards.
From 1973 to       Train 60 teachers annually for the        4.07(b)   Partially fulfilled.  The train-
1976              three technical institutes.                          ing program is functioning, but
less than 60 have been trained
annually.
Within 1 year     Make arrangements with the CMU, CLSU       4.08      Official .arrangements were made,
after agreement    and the Agricultural Productivity                   but little coordination was
date               Commission to coordinate extension                  achieved in practice.
services, in the areas to be serviced
by the two Social laboratories.



PHILIPPINES
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (CREDIT 349-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Summary of Project Costs /a
(costs in Pesos OOOs)
Construction & site develop.              Purniture                    Equipment                Professional services           Technical assistance              1ne.1
Arrre'el'                          .. jj : Appraisai                                        Appraisal                      Appraisal                      Appraisal
estimate                       estimate                      estimate                       estimate                       estimate                       estimate
Exclud. Includ. ACtual    I    Exciud. Includ. Actual   X    Exclud. Includ. Actual    X    Exclud. Includ. Actual    X    Exclud. Includ. Actual    X    Exclud. Includ. Actual   X
contin. contin. costs   Diff. contin. contin.   costs D0ff. contin. contin.   costs D0ff. contin. contin. costs     Diff.  contin. contin.  costs  Dtff. contin. contin. costs D0ff.
1       2       3       4      5       6       7      8      9       10      11     12      13      14      15     16      17      18      19     20      21      22     23     24
Curriculum Coordi-
nating Unit              -       -       -     -        -       -      -     -      224     258      73   -71.0      -       -       -     -        -       -    928   -49.0  1,710   2.085   1.001   -52.0
Education Develop-
ment Center          2,024   2,631   3,328   +26.5    177     199     238  +19.5  1,126   1,289     976   -24.0    162     211     228    +8.0  1,486   1.826      14   -97.5  3,936  4,881   4.784    -1.0
Regional Science
Teachtng Center      1,359   1,767   3,033   +71.5    274     308     249  .19.0  1,396   1,598   1,040   -53.5    109     142     137    -3.5    447     551       -    -    3,138    3.815  4.459   +17.0
Agricultural Colleges  8,833  11,489  16.751   +59.0    685     769    948   +23.0  7.295   8,353  10,045   +20.0    705     918   1.119  +22.0       -       -  8,772   -34.0 28,306  34.793  37,635   +22.9
Social Extension
Laboratory             349     459     850   +87.0     31      38      80 +110.0    313     359     294   -18.0     35      46      41    -1.0 10 788  13.264       -    -       728    897   1,265   +41.0
Pilot Village Devel-
opment Schools       1,429   1,859   2,683   +44.0    166     187     164   -7.0    428     490     289   -41.0    141     183     121   -34.0      -       -       -     -    2.164   2,719  3,257   +20.0
Radio Stations           138     179     345   +92.0     14      17      71 +371.0    809     926   1,192   +28.7     14      18             -        -       -      -     -      975   1,140   1.608   +41.0
Agricultural Nigh          -       -   1,001     -        -       _     107                                                                                           -    -    8,549   9,788   9,463    -3.0
Schools                                                                      -            9,788   8,355   -14.5      -       -       -     -        -       -
Technical Institutes   5,054   6,568  13,746  +109.0  1,216   1,366     760 -433.0  8,549  11,414  21,648   +89.5    404     525     488    -7.0      -       -   3,632   -10.0 19,921  23,903  40,283  -68.5
Regional Manpover
Tratning Center      9,648  12,537  37,719  +200.0  1,012   1,137   1,245   +9.5 12,126  13,884  13,670    -1.5    772   1,004   1,320   +31.5  3,278   4,030       -     -   23,558  28,562  53.954  +89 0
Technical Assistance
(Procurement
Specialist)             -       -       -     -        -       -       -    -        -       -       -     -        -       -       -     -      448     552       -    -      448       -       -     -
Total            28,834  37,484  79,456  +112.0  3,575   4,021   3,871  -4    42,255  48,359  57,582   +19.0  2,343   3,047   3,454   +13.5 16,447  20,224  13,346   -34.0 93,434 113,134 157,709  +39.5
/a  Included In Project Item 4: CKIU Agricultural College.



- 48 -
ANNEX 3
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (CREDIT 349-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Summary of Project Costs /a
Appraisal estimate           Actual costs
Pesos    US$    % of      Pesos    US$    % of
Project items                        (millions)    total       (millions)    total
Construction
Site development                   3.64    0.57     3        n.a.     n.a.
Academic and communal             22.92    3.58    20        n.a.     n.a.
Staff housing                      0.89    0.14     1        -       -
Farm buildings                      1.38   0.21     1        -       -
Subtotal                       28.83    4.50    25       79.45   10.73   50.4
Furniture                             3.57   0.57     3         3.87   0.52
Equipment                           42.24    6.60    38        57.58   7.78
Professional services                2.34    0.36     2         3.45   0.47
Subtotal                       48.15    7.53    43       64.90    8.77   41.2
Experts' technical assistance        13.89   2.17    12       10.74    1.45
Fellowships                          2.56    0.40     2        2.60    0.35
Subtotal                       16.45   2.57     14       13.34    1.80    8.4
Contingencies                       19.71    3.08    18        -       -       -
Total Project Cost            113.14   17.68   100      157.69  21.30   100.0
(incl. contingencies)
/a  Exchange rate:   Original:  US$1 = P 6.40; Actual:   UJS$1 = P 7.40.



- 49 -
ANNEX 4
PHILIPPINES
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (CREDIT 349-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ million)
Fiscal            Disbursements per year              Cumulative disbursements
year and               % of                X of                            % actual
semester     Planned   total.    Actual    total    Planned    Actual     of planned
1973
1st       0.00       0.0     0.00        0.0     0.00       0.00          0.0
2nd        0.00      0.0     0.00        0.0     0.00       0.00           0.0
1974
1st       0.01       0.0     0.00        0.0     0.01       0.00          0.0
2nd        0.06      0.4     0.00        0.0     0.07       0.00           0,0
1975
1st       0.15       1.3     0.00        0.0     0.22       0.00          0.0
2nd        1.04      8.3     2.78       22.0     1.26       2.78       +220.0
1976
1st       2.09      16.5     0.93        7.8     3.35       3.71       +110.0
2nd        4.40     34.6     2.31       19.3     7.75       6.02         77.6
1977
1st       3.66      28.9     1.71       14.3    11.41       7.73         67.7
2nd        0.73      5.7     0.67        5.3    12.14       8.40         69.1
1978
1st       0.40       3.2      .95        7.5    12.54       9.35         73.8
2nd        0.12      0.9     0.39        3.2    12.66       9.74         76.9
1979
1st       0.03       0.3     0.43        3.4    12.69      10.17         80.2
2nd        0.01      0.0      1.73      13.9    12.70      11.94         94.0
1980
1st                          0.48        3.7               12.42         98.0
2nd                          0.27        2.1               12.69         99.9
1981
1st                          0.10        0.8               12.70          100
Total    12.70    100.0    12.70      100.0



PHILIPPINES
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (CREDIT 349-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Comparative Analysis of Estimated and Actual Provided Gross Area
Academic             G Cross Area in  sq. m.                           Gross area for
communal    Staff housing    Farm bldg.          Total                student places
Capacity        Enrolment     IDA           IDA             IDA          IDA                                   In
At ap- Actual At ap-            work-         work-          work-         work- EDPITAF            2    At ap-l sq. m.
Project items                proval  built  praisal Actual sheet Built sheet      Built   sheet Built   sheet  Brief   Built Diff.   praisal Actual
Curriculum Coordinating Unit                  -          -        -      -       -       - _  _     _      _     _       _                            -
Education Development Centre          -      -        -       -   2.830   Z,784     -       -       -      -  2,830  3,097   2,784    -2      -       -
Regional Science Teaching Centres     -      -        -       -   2,496   2,827     -       -       -      - 2,496   2,590   2,827   +13      -
Laolag City                       216      -        -       -   1,248   1,330     -       -       -      -  1,248  1,290   1,330   + 7      -       -
Bayambang                         216    288        -       -   1,248   1,497     -       -       -      -  1,248  1,290   1,497   +20      5.8     5.2
Iloilo City                         -      -        -       -       -      -      -       -       -      -     -       -       -     -      -
Zamboanga City
Regional Agricultural Colleges        -      -        -       -   8,398  11,680  1,232  1,060      5,214  6,292 14,844  15,636  19,032  +22   -       -
Central Luzon State Univ.          330   750    1,500   3,254   2,825   5,178     -       -   5,214  6,292  8 079  8,101  11,470   +43      8.5     6.9/a
Central Mindanao Univ.           +420   +980    1,500   3,068   5,575   6,502  1,232  1,060       -      -  6,805  7,535   7,562   +11      -       -
Social Laboratories                   -      -        -       -     330      -    336       -       -      -    696      -   1,003   +44      -       -
Munoz (CLSU)                        45   120        _       _     180       -    168      -       -      -             -     640   +84      4.0     6.0/b
Maramag (CMU)                      45      -        -       -     180       -    168      -       -      -    348      -     363   +4       -       -
Pilot Barrio Development Schools      -      -        -       -   1,728      -  1,440       -       -      -  3,168      -   3,171   nil      -      -
Porais (CLSU)                      75    150      100     125     288       -   240       -       -      -   528       -     459   -13      3.8    2.7/b
Bibidat (CLSU)                     75    150      100     148     288      -    240       -       -      -    528      -     459   -13      3.8     2.77i;
Palupasis (CLSU)                   75    140      100     138     288      -    240       -       -      -    528      -     459   -13      3.8     2.97W
Dancagan (CHU)                     75    120      1OO      46     288      -    240       -       -      -   528       -     598   +13      3.8     3.o7i
Quezon (CMU)                       75    120      100      78     288       -   240       -       -      -    528      -     598   +13      3.8     3.O7W
Lantapan (CMU)                     75      -      100       -     288       -   240       -       -      -    528      -     598   +13      3.8      -
Agriculture Radio Stations            -      -        -       -     163     215     -       -       -      -    163      -     215   +32      -
BZLB (UPLB)                         -      -        -       -       -      -      -       -       -      -     -       -       -     -      -       -
DOMU (CMU)                          -      -        -       -     163     200     -       -       -      -    163      -     215   +32      -       _
Experimental Agri. HAigh Schools      -      -        -       -       -      -      -       -       -      -      -      -       -     -      -
Technical Institutes               1,400     -    2,800       -   9,523  11,231     -       -       -      -      -  9,523  11,231   +18      -
Manila Tech. Institute             600   750    1,200     460   5,928   6.715     -       -       -      -      -   5,928  6,715     -      9.8     8.9
Visayas Tech. Institute           600    450      800     460    3,595  4,516
Iligan Tech. Institute            600    450      800   1,100       -      -      -       -       -     -  3,595       -   4,516     -      9.0    10.0
Regional Manpower Training Centres 1,215     -        -       -  18 660  28,024     -       -       -      - 18 660      -  28,024   +50     15.3     -
San Fernando, La Union            120    160        -     128   1,840  3,770      -       -       -      -  1,840      -   3,770 +105      15.3    23.5
Mariveles, Bataan                 240    n.a.       -       -   3,231   3,117     -       -       -      -  3,231      -   3,117    -4     13.4     n.a.
Quiguinto, Bulacaan                90  250/300      -     247   1,658   2,496     -       -       -      -  1,658      -   2,496   +51     18.4    10.0
Taguig, Metro Manila               90    145        -     282   1,580   2,679     -       -       -      -  1,580      -   2,679   +70     17.5    18.4
Batangas City                      120   160        -       -   1,788   2,556     -       -       -      -  1,788      -   2,556   +43     14.9    16.0    Ie
Pili, Camar del Sur                90    120        -       -   1,528   2,567     -       -       -      -  1,528      -   2,567   +68     16.9    21.0    k
Cebu City                         120  175/200      -   82+72   1,762   2,606     -       -       -      -  1,762      -   2,606   +48     21.7    15.0
Talisay, Negros Occ.               120   140        -     110   1,840   2,643     -       -       -      -  1,840      -   2,643   +44     22.0    18.8
Iligan City                       120    160        -     150   1,840  3,403      -       -       -      -  1,840      -   3,403   +85     28.3    21.3
Devao City                        105    175        -       -   1,593   2,187     -       -       -      -  1,593      -   2,187   +37     20.8    12.5
/a Academic & communal only. CLSU Library not included.
7i Academic & communal only.



PHILIPPINES
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (CREDIT 349-PD)
PROJECT CnMPLETION REPORT
Comparative Analysis Of Planned and Actual Areas and Cost per Place
Gross area          Area per
(academic & communal)   student place
Capacity               Per sq. m.      academic & comm. Total (in P 000)     Per sq. m (P)
At                     At                    At             At apprai-            At               Per student place
Project items                apprai-          X    apprai-           Z    apprai-          sal (incl. Actual    apprai- Actual    At apprai- Actual
sal   Actual Diff.     sal   Actual Diff.    sal    Actual conting.)   built      sal     b1ilt      sal     built
Academic & Comnmual Facilities
Curriculum Coordinating Unit         -     -           -        -     -      -           -           -        -         -        -         -         -
Education Development Centre           -     -      -     2,830  2,784    -2       -       -       2,631    3,328       929    1,195
Regional Science Teaching Centres
Leolag Ctty                        216   n.a.     -     1,248  1,310    +6.5     5.7     -         8R3    1,633       707    1,22P.     4,08P        -
Bayambang                          216   288    +33     1,248  1,497   +20.0     5.7     5.2       883    1,400       707      935      4,08C    4,F60
Iloilo City                             -      -       -        -     -      -       -         -         -         -             -          -        -
Zamboanga City                       -     -      -         -      -     -       -       -           -        -         -        -          -
Regnonal Arcultural Colleges
Centra Ljuzon state univ.       330   750   +127     8,035  9,562   +19.0    24.3    12.7     3,265    6,878       403      719      7,106   9,171
Central Mindanao Univ.            +420   +980  +133     5,573  6,547   +17.4    13.2     6.6     4,953    9,048       R88    1,382     It,702    0,232
Social Laboratories
Munoz (CLSU)                        45    120  +166        180   472  +162       4.0     3.9       156      392       666      830      3,466    8,711
Maramag (CMU)                       45    90   +100        180    363 +101       4.0     4.0       162      319       604      879      3,600    7,08A
Pilot Barrio Development Schools
Porais (CLSU)                       75    150  +100       288    408/a +52       3.8     2.72      20n      458       809    1,122      2, 76    3,051
Bibidat (CLSU)                      75    150  +100       288    4087i +52       3.8     2.72      209      469       809    1,150      2,786    3,12f.
Palupasia (CLSU)                    75    140   +86       288    4087a +52       3.8     2.72      209      469       809    1,147      2,786    3,126
Dancagan (CMU)                      75    120   +60       288    3147; +9        3.8     2.6  |
Quezon (CMU)                        75    120   +60        288    3147ia +9      3.8     2.6  {    627      928       725      85      2,786    2,975
Lantapan (ChU)                      75     -      -       288     3147a +9       3.8     2.6
Agriculture Radio Stations             -     -      -         -      -     -       -       -
BZLB (UPLB)
DOMU (CMU)                           -      -     -        163   200   +22.7     -       -         179      345       832    1,727          -        -
Experimental Agri. High Schools                     -         -      -     -       -       -           -        -         -        -          -
Technical Institutes
Manila Tech. Institute             600    750   +25      5,928  6,715  +13.3     9.88    8.95    3,910    8, 377      660    1 ,247     6,516   11, 16
Visayas Tech. Institute            600    450   +12.5   3,595  4,516   +25.6     8.98   11.30    2,658    5,369       739    1,1R8      6,645   11,931
Iligan Tech. Institute             600   450           -        -     -      -       -         -         -         -        -               -        -
Regional Manpower Training Centres
San Fernando, La Union             120    160   +33      1,840  3,770  +105     15.3    23.5     1,302    5,387       707    1,429     10,850   33,668
Mariveles, Bataan                  240    n.a.    -     3,231  3,117    -3.6    13.4     -       2,032    8,S22       629    2,714      P,466        -
Quiguinto, Bulacaan                 90 250/300 +177      1,658  2,496  +50.0    18.4    10.0     1,077    3,385       643    1,356     11,844   13,504 
Taguig, Metro Manila                90    145   +61      1,580  2,679  +69.5    17.5    18.4     1,062    2,968       67?    1,107     11,600   2r) 4684
Batangas City                      120    160   +33      1,788  2,556  +24.0    14.9    16.0     1,10    3,783       641    1,480      9,583   23,643 q
Pili, Camar del Sur                 90    120   +33      1,528  2,567  +68.0    16.9    21.0       832    2,949       544    1,149      9 244   24 575   0'
Cebu City                          120  175/200 +46      1, 762  2,606  +47.9   21.7    15.0     1,247    2 446       708      918     10,391   11 977
Talisay, Negros 0cc.               120    140   +16      1,840  2,643  +43.6    22.0    18.8     1,361    3,163       740    1,196     11,341   22,597
Iligan City                        120    160   +33      1,840  3,403  +85.0    28.3    21.3     1,361    2,309       740      67P     11,341   14,411
Devao City                         105    175    -       1,593  2,187  +37.3    20.8    12.5     1,127    2,807       707    1,283     10,733   16,040
/a Includes staff housing.



PHILIPPINES
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (CREDIT 349-PTI)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Experimental Agricultural High Schools
Enrollments (Including Degree Programs), SY74/75 to SY78/79
1974/75        1975/76            1976/77              1977/78             1978/79
Institutions                    S    PS   D    S    PS   D    S      PS     D      S      PS      D      S    PS     D
INAC, Ilocos Norte              596  -    -    643  -    -    726    185    125    755     170    315    736  103    432
LAC, Abra                       539  -    -    605  -    -    618     95    463    624      95    463    500   44    398
RMAIS, Isabela                  445       -    477  -    -    596     66     68     531     66     68    472   47     85
WLJAC, Zambales                 500  -    -    712  -    -    809    162    173   1,005    162    173  1,038  117    170
BNCAT, Laguna                  603   -    -    682  -    -    857    324     76    954     157    181    897  107    282
MNCAT, Oriental Mindoro         379  -    -    385  -    -    556    118    225    609     118    225    742  101    238    4
CAFS, Capiz                     340  -    -    458  -    -    759    399    304  1,006     192    304  1,046  115    313
SAS, Cebu                       497  -    -    625  -    -    687    117     88    613     117    148     NA   NA     NA
MONAS, Negros Occidental        479  -    -    592  -    -    633      -     324   595       -    338     NA    -     NA
KNAS, Zamboanga del Norte       388  -    -    502  -    -    627     16    205     747     16    205    791   81    280
NORMINAC, Butuan City           400  -    -    675  -    -    573    456     NA    614     159     30    617  107    108
CLSU, Nueva Ecija               736  -   /a    758  -   /a    689      -     /a    412       -     /a    235    -     /a
CMU, Bukidnon                   576  -   /a    717  -   7a    901      -     7Ha 1,052       -    7-a     NA    -     7-a
Total                   6,478   -    -  7,831  -    -  9,031  1,938  2,051  9,517  1,252   2,450  7,074  822  2,306
/a See RACs.
Notes: S = Secondary program
PS = Postsecondary program
D = Degree program
NA = Not available



-53 -                                  ANNEX 7
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
SECONI) EDUCATION PROJECT (CREDIT 349-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Experimental Agricultural High Schools
Output for Secondary, Postsecondary and Four-Year Degree Programs,
SY74/75 to SY77/78
1974/75       1975/76          1976/77         1977/78
Institutions                 c   PS  D    S   PS    D     S     PS    D    S   PS    D
INAC, Ilocos Norte           98   -  NG  129   64   45     127  127  374  125   81   26
LAC, Abra                    91   -  23   99   72   36      89   93   65  143   15   63
RMAIS, Isabela               54   -  NG   64    -   NG      98   40   NG   98   22   NG
WLJAC, Zambales              81  45  NG   79    -   NG      88   75   NG   NA   NA   NG
BNCAT, Laguna                90   5 NG   100   21   NG     128   54   NG  130   67   NO
MNCAT, Oriental Mindoro      59  21  NG   54   47   NG      77   25   NG   82   19    6
CAFS, Capiz                  39  17  10   42    9   NG     105   30    6   78   50   32
SAS, Cebu                    61   -  NG   82   25   NG     109   93   NG   NA   NA   NG
MONAS, Negros Occidental     39  NG  19   34   NG    19     53   NG   13   NA   NG    -
KNAS, Zamboanga del Norte    51   -  NG   47   13   NG      65   42   NG   94   17    -
NORMINAC, Butuan City        33   -  NG   40    -   NG      70  104   NG   87  159   24
CLSU, Nueva Ecija           124   -  /a   89    -   /a    120    -    /a  127    -   /a
CMU, Bukidnon                92   - 7    loi    -   77     104    -  7a    NA    -    a
Total                  912  88  52  960  251  100  1,233  683   458  964  430  151
/a See RACs.
Notes: S = Secondary program
PS = Postsecondary program
D = Degree program
NA = Not available
NG = No graduates



- 54 -                                       ANNEX 7
Table 3
PHILIPPINES
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (CREDIT 349-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Barrio Development Schools, Enrollments and Dropouts, SY74/75 to SY78/79
1974/75         1975/76          1976/77         1977/78          1978/79
Enroll-  Drop-   Enroll-  Drop-  Enroll-  Drop-   Enroll-  Drop-  Enroll-  Drop-
Location         ment      out    ment     out    ment      out    ment     out    ment      out
Under CLSU
Porais           30       1       45      4       86       14     102     12       72    NA
Bibiclat          38      4       48     16       61       19     108     21       96    NA
Palusapis         40      6       50     14        90      11      86     21        52   NA
Subtotal      108     11      143     34      237       44     296     54      220    NA /a
Under CMU
Dangcagan         29      9       39      7        58      21      66     12       39    NA
Quezon            30      3       46      7        83      35      39      7         6    NA
Lantapan          29      8       30     11        81      40      43     10        10    NA
Subtotal      88      20      115     25      222       96     148     29       55    NA /a
Total         196     31      258     59      459      140     444     83      275     -
/a Dropout data not yet available.



- 55 -                                   ANNEX 7
Table 4
PHILIPPINES
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (CREDIT 349-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CLSU - Regional Agricultural College (RAC)
Enrollments by Course/Degree, SY72/73 to SY78/79
Course/degree                1972/73  1973/74  1974/75   1975/76  1976/77  1977/78  1978/79
Graduate
Master of science              22       19        0         0        0       15       22
Undergraduate
BS agriculture                902    1,131    1,458     1,157    1,302    1,397    1,432
BSA major in farm manage-
ment and agribusiness         0        0        0         0        0      100       134
BS agribusiness                40       98       75        87       60       57       46
BS agricultural education     302      462      473       313      276      266      244
BS agricultural engineer-
ing                         261      425      516       381      564      739      946
BS agricultural extension
education                     0        0       72        56       83      118      182
BS inland fisheries             0        0        0         0       41      110      162
Doctor of veterinary
science and medicine          0        0        0         0        0        0      108
Subtotal agriculture     1,505    2,116    2,59     1,994     2,326    2,787    3,254
BS home economics             312      315      247       145       92       58       69
BS elementary education       106       62       28        12        1        0        1
First common year               -        -        -     1,165    1,040    1,283    1,418
Subtotal undergraduate   1,923    2,493    2,869    3,316     3,459    4,128   _4742
Nondegree
Agricultural mechanics         15       26       59        39       40       40       33
Special courses                 7        0       26        11        7        2        1
Subtotal nondegree          22      *26       85       50        47       42       34
Total                    1,967    2,538    2,954    3,366     3,506    4,185    4,798



- 56 -
ANNEX 7
Table 5
PHILIPPINES
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (CREDIT 349-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CMU - Regional Agricultural College (RAC)
Enrollments by Course/Degree, SY72/73 to SY78/79
Course/degree                1972/73  1973/74  1974/75   1975/76  1976/77  1977/78  1978/79
Graduate
Masters agricultural
extension                     0        0        0        0         0        0        0
Masters education               0        0       38        27       19        1        1
Subtotal graduate            0        0       38       27        19        1        1
Undergraduate
BS agriculture                396      660    1,083     1,332    1,678    1,863    1,971
BS forestry                   374      276      284       204      165      194      261
BS agricultural engineer-
ing                         189      271      405      453       539      555      593
BS agricultural education      54       42       76        63       57       71      108
BS agricultural extension
communication                 0        0        0        0         0       14        1
Doctor of veterinary
medicine                      0        0        0        19       57      102      134
Subtotal agriculture  1,013       1,249    1,848    2,071       496    2,799    3,068
BS civil engineering           68       79       81       47        44       35       75
BS education                   24       25       48       22        17       15       12
BS business education           0        0        0        0         0       36       73
BS home economics              70       86      107        87       82       74       71
Bachelor of arts               41       82       65       86       161      130      132
Liberal studies                15        9       11        13       12        5        2
Subtotal undergraduate   1,231   1j530     2,160    2,326    2,812     3,094    3,433
Nondegree
Forest ranger's certifi-
cate                          4        4        1        0        0         5        0
Postsecondary agricultu-
ral training                  4       15       28       37        16        6       10
Subtotal nondegree           8       19       29       37        16       11       10
Total                    1,239    1,549    2,227    2,390     2,847    3,106    3,444



- 57 -
ANNEX 7
Table 6
PHILIPPINES
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (CREDIT 349-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CLSU - Regional Agricultural College (RAC)
GraduE&tes by Course/Degree, SY72/73 to SY78/79
Course/degree                1972/73  1073/74  1974!75   1975/76  1976/77  1977/78  1978/79
Graduate
Master of science              8        7        6         3        5        4        2
Undergraduate
BS agriculture               135      120       82       124      157      246      243
BSA major in farm manage-
ment and agribusiness        0        0        0        0         0        0        0
BS agribusiness                0        0        0         7       21        8       13
BS agricultural education     58       24       27       42        50       75       67
BS agricultural engineer-
ing                         18       17       12       19        21       53      100
BS agricultural extension
education                    0        0        0        0         3       11       32
BS inland fisheries            0        0        0        0         0        0       10
Doctor of veterinary
science and medicine         0        0        0        0        0         0        0
Subtotal agriculture      211      161      121      192      252       393      465
BS home economics             58       3R       26       42        19       32       17
BS elementary education       26       33       15        10        3        0        0
Subtotal undergraduate    295      232      162      244      274       425      482
Nondegree
Agricultural mechanics        13       15       41       31        21       29       15
Total                     316      254      209      278      300       458      499



- 58 -
ANNEX 7
Table 7
PHILIPPINES
SECON) EDUCATION PROJECT (CREDIT 349-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CMU - Regional Agricultural College (RAC)
Graduates by Course/Degree, SY72/73 to SY78/79
Course/degree                1972/73   1973/74  1974/75  1975/76   1976/77  1977/78  1978/79
Graduate
Masters agricultural
extension                    0        0         0        0        0         0        0
Masters education              0         0        1        0         2        0        0
Subtotal graduate           0        0         1        0        2         0        0
Undergraduate
BS agriculture                55       26        39       40       79       137      205
BS forestry                   48        33       40       38       34        24       24
BS agricultural engineer-
ing                         13        19       16       28       23        51       57
BS agricultural education     21         3        4        5         5        5        5
BS agricultural extension
communication                0        0         0        0        0         0        0
Doctor of veterinary
medicine                     0         0        0        0         0        0        0
Subtotal agriculture      137       81        99      111      141       217      291
BS civil engineering           0         0        2        3         1        3        3
BS education                   0         1        1        3         1        1        2
BS business education          0         0        0        0        0         0        0
BS home economics             19        10       22       11        14       17       18
Bachelor of arts               0         4        2        0         1        4        2
Liberal studies                0         0        0        0        0         0        0
Subtotal undergraduate    156       96       126      128      158      242       316
Nondegree
Forest ranger's certifi-
cate                        19       13         5        0        0         0        1
Total                     175      109       132      128      160       242      317



- 59 -                                          ANNEX 7
Table 8
PHILIPPINES
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (CREDIT 349-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Enrollment by Course and by Curriculum Year
(1977/78-1979/80)
1977/78               1977/78              1979/80
Course                     Yr 1   Yr 2   Yr 3   Yr      Yr 2   Yr 3   Yr 1   Yr 2    Yr 3
Manila Technician Institute (MTI):
Common First Year                     145      -       -    123      -      -     168      -
Automotive Technology                   -      -       -      -     19      -       -      6     18
Chemical Technology                     -      -       -      -     32      -      -      10     30
1vil Technology                        -      -              -     29      -      -      15     27
Electrical Technology                   -      -       -      -     36      -      -      20     35
Electronics Technology                  -      -      -       -     39      -      -      30     36
Mechanical Technology                   -      -       -      -     36      -       -     27     34
Refrigeration & Air Conditioning        -      -       -      -     15      -      -       0     11
Subtotal                        145      -      -     123    206/a    _    168    108     191
Total                                  145                   329                  467
Target Annual Output:   360
Visayas Technician Institute (VTI):
Common First Year                     196      -      -     143      -      -    164       -      -
Automotive Technology                   -      -       -      -     14      -      -      18     13
Chemical Technology                     -      -       -      -     35      -      -      19     34
Electrical Technology                   -      -      -       -     21      -      -      18     21
Electronics Technology                  -      -       -      -     40      -      -      18     37
Mechanical Technology                   -      -       -      -     32      -      -      35     30
Refrigeration & Air Conditioning        -      -      -       -     13      -      -      15     13
Subtotal                        196      -      -     143    155      -    164    123     148
Total                                  196                   288                  435
Target Annual Output:   240
Iligan Institute of Technology (ITT):
Common First Year                     422      -      -     387      -      -    282      -       -
Automotive Technology                   -     36     31       -     15     39      -      11     14
Chemical Technology                     -     25      17      -     38     18      -     30      33
Civil Technology                        -     61     50       -     53     40      -     62      53
Electrical Technology                   -     45     39       -     29     49      -     36      27
Electronics Technology                  -     35     31       -     52     26      -     58      49
Mechanical Technology                   -     22      18      -     30     25      -     37      28
Metallurgical Technology                -     19      22      -     26     10      -     29      24
Refrigeration & Air Conditioning        -     12      16      -     13     12      -     11      10
Subtotal                        422    255    224    387     256    219    282    274    238
Total                                  145                   862                  794
Target Annual Output: 240
/a 90 students were absorbed from the Institute of Industrial Technology of the
Rizal Technological colleges.



P'HILIPPINES
SECONfD EMEIIATION PROJECT (CREDIT 349-PH)
PROJECT COMP'LETION REPORT
ElTOn - E-r1l1et aad Output by C-ente     ad Sp..ali..tton
(1979)
EMIt I       EleaItrioty   Automotive       Welidlg     Mathi.e Shtp     C-rpetry         RAC        Sheet metal   Bldg -at-.       Ga-mnts        Faurliture  -OOdilotell.     PItmblag      Electronics     Priatiag        d-rmlng        Total
E-11l- Out-    E-rol- Out-    E-roll- Out-   E-no11- Out-  E-11l- Out-    En-oll- Out-   E-11l- Out-    E-1oi- Out-   E-1ol- Out-    E-1ol- OIut-   Enrol- Out-    Enroll- Out-   Enroll- Out-  En-ol- Out-    Enroll- DOut-  EntoIl- Out-
..ent   put    me-t   put     aC-t   put     meat   put    me.at   put    me-t   put     -elt   pot     meet   pot    moot    pot    ment   put     met    put    meat    put     ..ent  Put    tent    Put    tent    put    ..eat  put
L. U. "        79     71     164    149    221     202     69      67     60     43      II     1I      13     12     16      lb     86     79      10     10                                                                              728     659
C. lgoIat0     51     50    i06     105     91      91     48     48      14     13                                   66     65      30     28                    42      42                                                               448     442
CTa golg    1,272  1,167     702    622    226     199    507     479                   230    202     119    107                   251    230                                   56      43    456,    370     48     54                 3,867   3,473
ll.t.ag..      75     64      20     19     26      26                                                                                                                           25      25                                                 146    134
Pill                         299    287     43      39     24      22     59     49                                                                                                                                                        415     397
TaIi..y                      100    l0(                   210     2119                                                                                                                                                                      310    30
Cebo          491    481     435    398    229     200    302     301                                                                34      34                                                                                          1, 49-0 1,414   0
1111400       149    132     117     85     73      67     37      30     52     39                     54     32     72      68                                                 57      55                                   27     25    620     535
Sa.o-         261    244      66     66    127     108    121     113                    53     53                                  110    101      24     24                    47      40     59      59                                 848     808
Total      378.2  .2~ 209  99  1 831  1.035    932  1 318    263Q    IR     144     293    265     168    151    154     149    511    592      34     34     42      42    IRS     163    515    429      48     54      27     25   1992~ 8171.
/a The 9141 In K-rl-e1- ha. aot started fun..tionIng as yet.



- -- -- - - - - - - - - - ------- ---- - - - - ---------  -- - - - - --
4.4.00  0   .4                              2~~~~~~~0  1
-~~~     n r 
252 ~ ~ ~ ~ " *0                           S S ^s> >^>1 
2I ~ ~ ~ ~ - - - - -- - - - -- - - - -- - - - -- - - - -- - - --- - - -
0.4~~~~~~~~~~~
c zo0.,4                           .0o 
C    0   4             C
a           C          C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l
la~~~~~~~~~~~~~aa
o~~~~~~                          ~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Y  C 
o _                                            S^  
c.                            a 1 0c -  0   e -
o  8    XI           . e  z  c r            0  1_ 0
I               4,           u W 
C.~ ~  -                                I 
a                                .u
^~~~~~~~                    0 c S 
s    s0      2                   .17en o>?  ac  u@<e3 ne =s 
C.~~ ~ 1.   o  e.  n   cI n                       S .c lu n e II 
..Xoo.ius   I         I  2 I- icu SIctg  - SXw  I
-~~  u   -W~  _       !~*c=c5a        i 
p.~ ~  a  < .  aC.4OUO...IO  t  r  Z  |  a Q D} e 



o            n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
*                01 H0
c  04a             0                  0 
e~~~~~~~        ~  ~   ~ ~  ~ ~~~~~ ej  0"4 O  1o
O,      SC      .
_0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 0   C  00  C C C  C  0,  >, , ,0 0 0  0.7  , 
C _  U .  .4  .4>  0..0> O   C1 D 
z~~~~~~~~~~~ 0   _0 _oa 
0~ ~  0f 20 o4 c,<_ ,   @"c   1e 



--     - --      ------1---------------
.41  0*41141  41, 414  a10   4
N~~~~~~~4     :   o41 1 4   C -  to  4 4   41e  C
41  41  410  04141  0  a-.
.   e ~~~~ = W   c a   c~a     1
e1  x e il e   xa  0 0  V  e e    41
41          4141,410,41,00  41041,41  ~~~~~~~.41  4141441  1.I40a0   1 l 1 1 C0 1 0
41                        4140               - Xtvv:  O~z_ _  0 0 0a, O*X .O 
41u c 11,40  toE _1.,44             4141 a_-O f  _ u *3 e|C 
x 3c Q2sqc7 Z  r          v *-  o e 4.  - - - - - - -----,,  - - - -C- 0  - G 9  -
41- -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
_ __---------------------------------------------------------o-__________
'41k  0  41                                           41 0~IL  
cc~~~~~~~~~                    a
>0 41 1. 1.  0 1  0  I~~~~~1  4
Co Z1 41rs_Nso~rsso~"rl><Ns">              "             O  0000
I~ ~ ~  ~  ~~~.0. .oZ                     0      . 
Z4             -9,                                   - *   I   I  I   I   0   a
- - - - - - - -   e-                                         - - - - - - - - - - - --V- C  G W  > U R   X "  c
8  410   ..,             ~~~                             C   C,4,J1  toI1
41  0  0       41410    0                   41
c Se""c  .
O:  0 1: ): 9                    j  4       - h
.0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 444.  4141.4141410          [04:.4:
_  4 c e"C eY oC ce y~~~~~~~~~~~~---41          41
u ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   0   0    4 c.4,o       0 e4    .o o |
u _0 
et  _        4 tX  s 



t -   :----:-----------'1 ---------------- -- ----------------------
XI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
4.  . 4.4,  . ..O   4.,
C C~~~~~~~~C
0                                        20 ..2C      .4
CC - H o .
* o   o .4                                     04-44II. I
C                                       -4.4"-  4.4.4.-I4v  
0                                        0.4.4  fl44.2C  Cl .. .  
*   ~-   - - - - - -        - - - - - - - -     - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
C 0  -C       rC
o  a  s  b S                     C               0hSz>SsS>t 
C ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~ 
Ci                 e       0       c  c
a~~~ C. c  cc4  *                  -I
'0  0 ~ ~ ~ ~ 1  o          *~ C0 C44  W-o * '  4  - ~--C  C  I.C  C
4~~~~~~~~~~~ 52       -               -c  ' 03uo 
~0.                     n               o - ..  fu. =
0~ _
o        r                       rCr D 0n0
_      C * .0   C  \.
:'   u cu    C U c o . 
.-  _  0  _ 4  . .C0
c cu  -4  4440C .0... ) 



--------- ----------------------------- ----------------- --------X------------
01.-.I0  0 ~ ~  ~  ~   ~   ~  ~  ~   ~  c    
0.                                                           H  oH
0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~  ~  ~ ~  ~  ~  0
L              0 0  0~~I  II 000      0000 0 0 0 0 0 0 00 0
0                0    64  _ o  -4 o  Z I   o  0.  3 1. o _
.0  0           0    ~~~~0   a A000
0o-                        --0    - 0    0 M------------------_-----------
,* a O  00  0  3  0  0    0  -    a -  0  4.' o_ucz 
v                          10  0v                      00  
a. 0 0 0 ..  0  0 4 ( 0 .  '. 4 0 0   0  0 . .  0  0 
1                           40'.i. 0 *. 0   0 4   0 . o  *L  a c
O               *  t  _ ~~~~oX O         WE 1. *  cX  ate -  t  <C. Ct
0  0            0  0  .40..40..444.~~-4.04  0. 060..  10  4 0.000L-  
|4 a4                   00    04 i 00 0 0   LiLaiC: _Oc a2a  **a 
0  -           0.30.04444~3 0 .  0 0 3    0   4 0  4   00.i 
0                0.40  .40000.400 40 c  00.  0   00 *   .4.t
e - ~c ------------------------------------------------------------------
,                              P  00a   a ^0        0  .0-
0    0  0 0 0  0 0 0  0 0 0  0 0 0  0 0 0
0.  v '440,   ' ^
Op ~ ~ ~ ~ ^ 0 | 34' 1t4LLiiiLL    Li'  Liii''' Oiiiii i  L
.4 3 S                      . 0. 00. 00...000....000...  . 0...000a. 0



- 66-                                  ANNEX 9
PHILIPPINES
SECOND EDIJCATION PROJECT (CREDIT 349-PIH)
PROJECT COTLETION REPORT
Employment by Sector
1970            1975           1977
Thousands of Persons
Agriculture, fishery and forestry           5,614           7,190          7,694
Mining and quarrying                           50              54             47
Manufacturing                               1,323           1,609          1,596
Electricity, gas and water                     31              46             46
Construction                                  437             456            521
Commerce                                      815           1,591          1,934
Transportation, conaunication and
storage                                     495             488            672
Other services                              1,964           2,381          2,838
Total Employment                        10,729          13,815         15,348
Distribution in Percentage
Agriculture, fishery and forestry            52.3            52.1           50.1
Mining and quarrying                          0.5             0.4            0.3
Manufacturing                                12.3            11.7            10.4
Electricity, gas and water                    4.1             0.3            0.3
Construction                                  7.6             3.3            3.4
Commerce                                      4.6            11.5           12.6
Transportation, communication and
storage                                     4.4             3.5            4.4
Other services                               14.8            17.2           18.5
Total Employment                         100.0           100.0          100.0
Source: NCSO, National Sample Survey of Households Bulletin.



