CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 349 PH
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Education Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 5, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 349 PH
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Education Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 5, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT,       dated   January   5,   1973,   between   REPUBLIC
OF THE PHILIPPINES (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to twelve million seven hundred thousand
dollars (S 12,700,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Borrower and the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement and to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement;
provided, however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any
country which is not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.


﻿4
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in April 1972 and in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1978 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on March I and
September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each March 1 and September 1 commencing
March 1, 1983 and ending September 1, 2022, each installment to and including
the installment payable on September 1, 1992 to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative, financial, technical
and educational policies and practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in the preparation of design
of buildings and other facilities included in the Project and in the supervision of
the construction work included in the Project, the Borrower shall employ architects
acceptable to the Borrower and the Association upon terms and conditions mutually
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.


﻿5
(b)   The Borrower shall prepare and submit to the Association for
comment, promptly upon their preparation, the preliminary architectural drawings
and the outline of the specifications for the buildings and facilities included in
the Project and shall incorporate such amendments as the Association shall
reasonably request.
Section 3.03. In carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall employ or cause
to be employed contractors mutually acceptable to the Borrower and the
Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Association.
Section 3.04. (a) In carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall establish
and operatL a Project unit in the Department of Education with such functions,
powers and responsibilities as are described in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(b)   The Borrower agrees that the staff of the Project unit shall include,
inter alios, a Proiect executive director, a Project architect, a Project educator,
a Project financiai officer and   a Project procurement officer, all to hav:
qualifications, duties and responsibilities mutually satisfactory to the Borrower and
the Association, and to be appointed in consultation with the Association, provided,
that the Project procurement officer shall be employed within six months after
the date of this Agreement or such later date as shall be agreed to between the
Borrower and the Association.
(c)   In carrying out Part E of the Project, the Borrower shall appoint
qualified and experienced experts acceptable to the Borrower and the Association
upon terms and conditions (including without limitation as to terms of reference,
timing and duration), mutually satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.05. In carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall establish and
maintain a special fund, and shall adjust and replenish the amount of the special
fund at monthly intervals to a level at least equivalent to the estimated amount
of payments to be made for goods and services required for the Project less the
estimated amounts of payments to be made directly by the Association to the
suppliers, consultants or contractors for such goods and services, during the next
three months' period.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.


﻿6
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to inspect
the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in
respect of land as shall be required for the construction (and operation) of the
facilities included in the Project and shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Association that such land and
rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause each entity and institution
included in the Project to carry on its operations and manage its affairs in
accordance with sound administrative, financial, technical and educational policies
and practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause each entity and institution included in the
Project to operate and maintain its plant, equipment, properties and facilities and
make all necessary renewals and repairs thereof, all in accordance with sound
engineering and financial practices.


﻿7
(c)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, title to all goods
financed in whole or in part with the proceeds of the Credit shall be obtained
free and clear of all liens.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. Within twelve months after the date of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall make arrangements, mutually satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Association, to obtain such technical assistance as described in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
Section 4.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall:
(a)   complete, within two years after the date of this Agreement, a study
on national and regional manpower requirements in the agricultural sector, on the
capacity of existing agricultural training institutions, including the appropriate
.          location for a regional agricultural college for the Visayas, and on the most efficient
means of meeting such manpower requirements;
(b)   ensure that, within three years after the date of this Agreement, all
the agricultural high schools included in the Project other than those at Munoz
and Musuan offer only courses at the secondary level, for the purpose of directing
the efforts of such high schools to programs related to agricultural development;
(c)   formulate, within one year after the date of this Agreement, a detailed
plan mutually acceptable to the Borrower and the Association, for supervised
farming projects at each agricultural high school included in the Project, and
subsequently implement suci plans; and
(d)   formulate, within one year after the date of this Agreement, a detailed
plan mutually satisfactory to tiir Borrower and the Association, for supervised
farming projects at each pilot village (barrio) development school included in the
Project, including the provision of credit facilities to pupils of said schools, and
subsequently implement such plans.
Section 4.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree:


﻿8
(a)   the Borrower shall, within three years after the date of this Agreement,
enter into arrangements with Central Mindanao University for such University to:
(i)         adjust its student enrollment to correspond only to areas of
study for which manpower needs exist;
(ii)        in the field of engineering, offer only courses directly related
to agricultural development;
(iii)       integrate business management training with the operation of
its commercial farms; and
(iv)        include in the agricultural degree programs one extra semester
of practical work.
(b)   the Borrower shall, within one year after the date of this Agreement,
make arrangements mutually satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association with
the University of the Philippines' College of Agriculture at Los Baros, to provide
training for the personnel of the radio station at Central Mindanao University
included in the Project, and shall ensure the implementation of such arrangements;
and
(c)   the Borrower shall make arrangements mutually satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Association with the University of the Philippines' College of
Agriculture at Los Banos for the provision of technical assistance for the pilot
village (barrio) development schools included in the Project, and shall ensure their
implementation.
Section 4.06. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower undertakes that:
(a)   upon completion, the Regional Manpower Training Centers included
in the Project will be administered and operated by the National Manpower and
Youth Council of the Borrower; and the Borrower shall ensure that until such
completion its Department of Education and the said National Manpower and
Youth Council coordinate their activities with regard to such Regional Manpower
Training Centers;
(b)   it will train, within three years after the date of this Agree. .ent, about
150 instructors and 10 supervisors in the National Manpower Skills Training Center
in Taguig Rizal, to serve as instructors in the Regional Manpower Training Centers;
and


﻿9
(c)   not later than one year after the commencement of the operation of
each Regional Manpower Training Center, it will submit to the Association an
annual evaluation report on each of the said Centers.
Section 4.07. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall:
(a)   establish a technical education governing council with appropriate
representation of industry, to supervise the operation of the three technical
institutes included in the Project and ensure the application of uniform curricula
and examination standards to all three technical institutes; and
(b)   train or cause to be trained annually about 60 teachers for the technical
institutes referred to in sub-section (a) hereof from 1973 through 1976.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall, within one year after the date of this
Agreement, make arrangements mutually satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Association, under which Central Mindanao University, Central Luzon State
University, the Agricultural Productivity Commission and other relevant agencies
of the Borrower will coordinate the provision of extension services in the areas
to be served by the two social laboratories included in the Project.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations, resources and expenditures in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out any part of the Project, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic


﻿10
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at


﻿11
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the special fund referred
to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement has been established.
Section  8.02.  The    date  April  10,   1973  is   hereby  specified
for the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article IV of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty-five years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Secretary of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary of Finance
Department of Finance
Manila, Philippines


﻿12
Cable address:
SECFINANCE
Manila, Philippines
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By /s / Carlos P. Romulo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Robert S. McNamara
President


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
I.    Equipment, furniture            6,800,000          100% of foreign
and educational ma-                                expenditures and
terials                                            100% of ex-fac-
tory cost of such
goods produced
locally
II.   Civil Works and                 1,870,000          38% of total ex -
professional services                              penditures
therefor
III.  Technical Assistance            2,100,000          100% of total ex-
for Part E of the                                  penditures
Project - interna-
tional travel, re-
muneration and al-
lowances
IV.   Unallocated                     1,930,000
TOTAL         12,700,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower;


﻿14
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed directly under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount
represented by the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph
I above in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all
such taxes, such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the
Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association  shall have reasonably   determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the


﻿15
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category II shall
increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation to such
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of an education development program of the Borrower
to reform its education system and to meet manpower requirements of its economic
development. The Project consists of:
Part A.    improvement and strengthening of curricula research, educational
material development, and teacher training, including:
(1)   equipping and furnishing of a Curriculum Coordinating Unit, to
be established within one year after the date of this Agreement,
in the Office of Planning and Research, in the Department of
Education, having the functions, powers and responsibilities as
described in Annex 1 to this Schedule;
(2)   establishment of an Education Development Council within one
year after the date of this Agreement; construction, equipping
and furnishing of an Education Development Center comprising
the Science Education Center of the University of the Philippines
and the Social Studies Education Center of the Department of
Education, with the functions, powers and responsibilities
described in Annex 1 to this Schedule; and
(3)   construction, equipping and furnishing of two new Regional
Science Teaching Centers at the Northern Luzon Teachers'
College and at the Central Luzon Teachers' College, and the
provision of additional equipment for the two existing Centers
at Zamboanga State College and West Visayas State College.
Part B.    innovation in and improvement of agricultural education and training
to provide personnel to meet manpower requirements in the
agricultural sector, including:
(1)   provision of equipment for thirteen existing agricultural high
schools and the provision of construction material and
agricultural supplies for the implementation of supervised
farming programs and practically oriented curricula;
(2)   expansion of the Central Mindanao University and the Central
Luzon State University; and


﻿17
(3)   construction, equipping and furnishing of six new pilot village
(barrio) development schools in villages (barrios) in the vicinity
of the Central Mindanao University and the Central Luzon State
University.
Part C.     improvement and strengthening industrial training to provide skilled
personnel to meet manpower requirements in the industrial sector,
including:
(1)   construction, equipping and furnishing of two new technical
institutes at Taguig, Rizal and Bacolod and expansion of an
existing technical institute at Iligan; and
(2)   construction, equipping   and   furnishing  ten  new  Regional
Manpower Training Centers.
Part D.     pre-service  and  in-service  training  of  extension  personnel and
improvement and strengthening of agricultural extension work,
including:
(1)   construction, equipping    and   furnishing  two   new   social
(extension) laboratories in villages (barrios) in the vicinity of
the Central Mindanao University and the Central Luzon State
University to provide pre-service and in-service training for
agricultural extension workers and improvement of extension
work in the area; and
(2)   construction, equipping and furnishing of a new radio station
at the Central Mindanao University and provision of additional
equipment for the existing radio station at the College of
Agriculture, University of the Philippines, to disseminate
agricultural information to agricultural extension workers and
to farmers.
Part E.     technical assistance:
The provision of specialist services for strengthening educational
planning and management, for curricula development and evaluation,
for staff for the agricultural colleges and technical institutes and for
project implementation, and of fellowships for training abroad.


﻿18
The specific institutions included in the Project, their location and planned
capacity, and the approximate areas to be constructed for each institution are set
forth in Annex 2 to this Schedule and the details of technical assistance under
Part E hereof are described in Annex 3 to this Schedule, as such Annexes may
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association.
Parts A to D of the Project are expected to be completed by December 31,
1977 and Part E of the Project is expected to be completed by December 3 1,
1978.


﻿19
ANNEX 1 TO SCHEDULE 2
A.    Functions, Powers and Responsibilities of the Curriculum Coordinating Unit
in the Office of Planning and Research
1.   Identify existing activities in curricula research;
2.    Effect coordination between all the agencies engaged in curricula
research;
3.    Organize inter-agency conferences;
4.    Identify areas of deficiency;
5.    Conduct curricula research in educational areas where no other agency
is engaged;
6.    Carry out a pre-investment study to draw up a textbook development
program to include recommendations on production, distribution and
financing;
7.    Analyze existing textbooks and instructional materials; determine, in
consultation with subject matter specialists in the proposed Education
Development Center, the Department of Education, the universities
and schools, the need for new textbooks and their required content;
B.    Functions, Powers and Responsibilities of the Education Development Center
I.    Conduct research in the fields of science, mathematics and social
studies curricula development;
2.    Prepare materials, including books and teaching manuals and develop
prototype equipment for science, mathematics and social studies
teaching;
3.    Organize testing of the effectiveness of the materials in schools;
4.    Effect dissemination of the results of its research and development
work;
5.    Train instructors for Regional Science Teaching Centers and teacher
training colleges;


﻿20
6.    Conduct in-service programs initially in science and mathematics and
similar programs in social studies for elementary and secondary
teachers; other areas to be covered at a later date; these teachers would
subsequently conduct conferences and seminars for other teachers in
the areas from which they come;
7.    Assist in university pre-service teacher courses and other courses in
science, mathematics and social studies;
8.    Maintain liaison through the Curriculum Coordinating Unit with other
agencies engaged in curricula research.
9.    Assist the Department of Education and other relevant agencies in the
dissemination of books, teaching manuals and equipment for science,
mathematics and social studies teaching.


﻿21
ANNEX 2 TO SCHEDULE 2
List of the Educational Institutions
Reference                                                      Approximate
under Part                                                    Gross Area of     Additional
A of the                                                       Construction      Student
Project               Location                                (square meters)     Places
(1)     Manila                                                    -              -
(2)     Diliman, Quezon City                                    2,860            -
(3)     Regional Science Teaching Centers
Loag City (Ilocos Norte)                                1,248            -
Bayambang (Pangasinan)                                  1,248            -
Iloilo City (Iloilo)                                      -              -
Zamboanga City (Zamboanga)                                -              -
Reference
under Part
B of the
Project
(1)     Agricultural High Schools
Pasuquin (Ilocos Norte)
Lagangilang (Abra)
Bayombong (Nueva Viscaya)
San Marcelino (Zambales)
Alcate (Oriental Mindoro)
Siniloan (Laguna)
Pontevedra (Capiz)
Cebu City (Cebu)
Kabankalan (Negros Occidental)
Butuan (Agusan del Norte)
Liloy (Zamboanga del Norte)
Munoz (Nueva Ecija) (C.L.S.U.)
Musuan (Bukidnon) (C.M.U.)
(2)     Agricultural Colleges
Central Mindanao University, Musuan (Bukidnon)          6,805            450
Central Luzon State University, Munoz                   8,776            200
(Nueva Ecija)
(3)     Pilot Village (Barrio) Development Schools
Porais (Nueva Ecija) (C.L.S.U.)                           528            100
Bibiclat (Nueva Ecija) (C.L.S.U.)                         528            100
Palasupis (Nueva Ecija) (C.L.S.U.)                        528            100
Dangcagan (Bukidnon) (C.M.U.)                            528             100
Kiokong (Bukidnon) (C.M.U.)                              528             100
Lantapan (Bukidnon) (C.M.U.)                              528            100
Reference
under Part
C of the
Project
(1)     Technical Institutes
Taguig (Rizal)                                          5,928          1,200
Bacolod City (Negros Occidental)                        3,595            800
Iligan City (Lanao del Norte)                             -             800


﻿22
Approximate
Gross Area of     Additional
Construction      Student
Location                                 (square neters)    Places
(2)     Regional Manpower Training Centers
San Fernando (La Union)                                 1,840
Mariveles (Zambales)                                    3,231            -
Marikina (Rizal)                                        1,658            -
Taguig (Rizal)                                          1,580            -
Binan (Laguna)                                          1,788            -
Naga City (Camarines Sur)                               1,528            -
Cebu City (Cebu)                                        1,762            -
Bacolod City (Negros Occidental)                        1,840            -
Iligan City (Lanao del Norte)                           1,840            -
Davao City                                              1,593            -
Reference
under Part
D of the
Project
(1)     Social (Extension) Laboratories
Munoz (Nueva Ecija) (C.L.S.U.)                            348
Maramag (Bukidnon) (C.M.U.)                               348
(2)     Agricultural Radio Stations
Los Banos (Laguna) (U.P.)
Musuan (Bukidnon) (C.M.U.)                                163


﻿23
ANNEX 3 TO SCHEDULE 2
Technical Assistance
A.    Specialist Services
(a)   Educational  Management,     Curricula  Reform    and   Textbook
Development
About 5 man-years for 4 specialists to work in the Office of Planning
and Research of the Department of Education in data processing,
vocational education, school and facility design, and textbook writing;
and 2 man-years for a specialist in the development of social studies
to work in the Educational Development Center included in the
Project.
(b)   Agricultural Education
About 40 man-years for 10 specialists at the Central Luzon State
University and 7 specialists at the Central Mindanao University to assist
in institutional planning, curricula development and teaching.
(c)   Technical Education
About 13 man-years for 4 specialists for the technical institutes
included in the Project to plan curricula and assist in teaching.
(d)   Project Implementation
About 2 man-years for a Project procurement specialist to be
responsible for procurement of equipment, furniture, materials and
supplies required for the Project.
B.    Fellowships for Overseas Studies
(a)   Educational Management and Research
About 8 man-years for 3 fellowships for staff of the Office of Planning
and Research of the Department of Education.


﻿24
(b)   Agricultural Education
About 40 man-years for 11 fellowships for staff of the Central Luzon
State University and 8 fellowships for staff of the Central Mindanao
University.
(c)   Technical Education
About 8 man-years for 16 six-month fellowships for staff of the
technical institutes included in the Project.


﻿25
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    Contracts for Civil Works
1.    With respect to any contract for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent
of $40,000 or more:
(a)   If bidders are required to prequalify, the Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be
followed and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Association
shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement
of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification, shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association for its
comments before the applicants are notified and the Borrower shall make such
additions to or deletions from the said list as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, a list of all contracts for civil works to be let in carrying out
the Project indicating the estimated value of each contract and the forecast
timetable for award, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the Lidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders. The bidding documents shall, inter
alia, specify that the bidder may submit bids in respect of individual educational
institutions included in the Project or a group of them included in the bid invitation,
together with related facilities or any combination thereof, the bids therefor to
be opened simultaneously and the Borrower to have the option of awarding to
one contractor one contract in respect of all such institutions and facilities, or
separate contracts in respect of several such institutions and facilities to different
contractors.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the Project Unit


﻿26
referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendations for award of the said
Project Unit, and the reasons for the intended award. The Association shall, if
it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of any such contract.
2.    With respect to any other contract for civil works the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of any such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract is not consistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
B.    Contracts for Materials, Furniture, Equipment and Books
1.    Within two years after the date of this Agreement and before inviting bids,
the Borrower shall send to the Association for its approval, the lists of materials,
furniture, equipment and books required for the Project showing the specifications
and the estimated unit and total price. Items shall be indexed, coded and numbered
for identification regarding the respective educational institution and the spaces
for which they are required. Insofar as practicable, contracts for such items shall
be for not less than $40,000 equivalent. Amendments to such lists which may
be made from time to time shall also be submitted to the Association for approval.
2.    Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for
its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to
be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further


﻿27
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
3.    Procurement shall be limited to those items of materials, furnituie, equipment
and books which are specified in the approved lists mentioned in paragraph B.1
above and which shall be identified in contract documents by the same indexes,
codes and numbers as in such lists.
4.    The Borrower shall send to the Association, after bids have been evaluated,
a summary and analysis thereof, and obtain the Association's approval before
awarding a contract. In case of a contract to be awarded to other than the lowest
bidder, or of a contract involving a price of 10% or more above the original estimate
as submitted under paragraph B. 1 above, the Borrower shall send to the Association
a brief justification by the project unit of the proposed award.
5.    Promptly after bids have been evaluated and the contract has been awarded,
the Borrower shall furnish the Association with the following:
(i)         a certificate signed by the Project Director that the goods
contracted for are in accordance with the quantities and
specifications in the list approved by the Association under
paragraph B.1 above; and
(in        two conformed copies of the contract awarded, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Association of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from its Credit
Account in respect of such contract.
6.    With respect to any contract for materials, furniture, equipment or books
estimated to cost less than $40,000 equivalent, the Borrower may procure such
goods under such contract on a competitive basis in accordance with the normal
procurement procedures of the Borrower, provided that the aggregate cost of the
goods to be procured in accordance with this procedure shall not exceed $250,000
equivalent.
C.    Evaluation of Bids for Materials, Furniture, Equipment and Books
For the purpose of evaluating bids for materials, equipment, furniture,
book and associated services included in Category I of the table set out in paragraph
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, the following rules shall apply:


﻿28
(a)   Definitions:
(i)         "Type A Bid" means a bid submitted by a bidder entitled to
preference under Republic Act No. 6142 of the Borrower.
(ii)        "Type B Bid" means a bid for goods produced, manufactured
or processed in the territories of the Borrower submitted by
a bidder who is not entitled to preference under Republic Act
No. 6142 of the Borrower.
(iii)       "Type C Bid" means any bid other than a Type A Bid or a
Type B Bid.
(iv)        "Ex-factory price" means the price at factory exclusive of
national and local sales tax due on the sale by the bidder to
the Borrower.
(v)         "C.I.F. (Manila) price" means the invoice value of the goods,
including freight, postage, insurance, commission and excluding
customs duties and any other taxes due on the importation of
such goods to the territories of the Borrower.
(b)   Base of Comparison:
(i)         Type A Bid. the ex-factory price of such goods plus inland
freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of the goods to
the place of their use or installation.
(ii)        Type B Bid or Type C Bid: the ex-factory or c.i.f. (Manila)
price of such goods, respectively, plus 15% thereof, plus inland
freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of the goods to
the place of their use or installation.


﻿29
SCHEDULE 4
The Project Unit
The Project Unit shall have the following functions, powers and
responsibilities for the execution of the Project:
(a)   the coordination of the work of the various agencies concerned in
the Project;
(b)   the selection, briefing, coordination and supervision of architectural
consultants and contractors referred to in Sections 3.02 and 3.03 of
this Agreement;
(c)   the approval of the civil works design of the educational institutions
included in the Project;
(d)   the preparation of detailed lists of the furniture, equipment and books
required for Parts A, B, C and D of the Project;
(e)   the procurement of civil works, furniture, equipment and books
-4-                   including the preparation of bidding documents, the analysis of bids
and the making of recommendations regarding the award of contracts;
(f)   the regular inspection of all construction work and acceptance of the
consultants' certification of completion of works;
(g)   the keeping of records, including financial records, of the execution
of the Project, and the preparation of regular reports to the
Association;
(h)   the selection, briefing, coordination and supervision of the specialists
provided under Part E of the Project; and
(i)   the selection, arrangement and supervision of the fellowships provided
under Part E of the Project.


﻿30
SCHEDULE 5
Technical Assistance Referred to in Section 4.03
A.   Specialist Services
(a)  Educational Planning and Research
About 5 man-years to assist in the operation of an Office of Planning
and Research in the Department of Education.
(b)   Curricula Reform and Material Preparation
About 3 man-years to assist in science teaching and curricula
development in the Science Education Center which is part of the
Education Development Center included in the Project.
(c)  Manpower Training
About 23 man-years of specialist services for curricula development
and teaching in the 10 Regional Manpower Training Centers included
in the Project.
B.   Fellowships for Overseas Studies
Manpower Training
About 6 man-years of fellowships for curricula development and teaching
in the 10 Regional Manpower Training Centers included in the Project.


