Dorn
The Woi
FOR omaI,
RbpwtNo. 9923
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
SECTOR PROGRAM FOR ELEMENTARY EDUCATION
(LOAN 2030-PH)
SEPTEABER 25, 1991
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department II
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Philippine Peso (P)
US$1.00 - P 7.5
(At appraisal, February 1981)
US$1.00 - P 22.50
(At final disbursement, August 1989)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
SCHOOL YEAR
June - March
ACRONYMS
BEE       -   Bureau of Elementary Education
CDC       -   Cash Disbursement Ceiling
COA       -   Commission on Audit
DECS      -   Department of Education, Culture and Sports
(formerly the Ministry of Education and Culture)
DPWH      -   Department of Public Works and Highways
(formerly the Ministry of Public Works)
EDPITAF   -   Educational Development Projects Implementing Task
Force
ERP       -   Educational Reorientation Program
FMS       -   Financial Management Service
HSMS      -   Household and School Matching Survey
IMC       -   Instructional Materials Corporation
LAC       -   Learning Action Cell
MIS       -   Management Information System
NEDA      -   National Economic and Development Authority
NELC      -   National Educational Learning Center
NESC      -   New Elementary School Curriculum
OPS       -   Office of Planning Service
PCR       -   Project Completion Report
PROCEED   -   Program for Comprehensive Elementary Education
Development
PRODED    -   Program for Decentralized Educational Development
PTS       -   Project Technical Staff
RELC      -   Regional Educational Learning Center
RPMT      -   Regional Project Management Team
SBC       -   School Building Committee
SBP       -   School Building Program
SOUTELE   -   Survey of Outcomes of Elementary Education
TBS       -   Textbook Board Secretariat



FOR OMCIuL USE ONLY
THE WOt. L' RANK
Washington. DC 20433
U.S A
O'cie of Directcw-G letaI
Opwat"ms Evaluatiol
September 25, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report - Philippines
Sector Program for Elementary Education (Loan 2030-PH)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report - Philippines Sector Program for Elementary
Education (Loan 2030-PH)", prepared by the Asia Regional Office, with
Part II of the report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this
project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this
time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFF'ICIAL ULSE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
SECTOR PkOGRAM FOR ELEMENTARY EDUCATCION
(Loan 2030-PH)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .
Evaluation Summary  ......  .  ..  .  ..  .   .. .                    iii
PART I:    PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Background   ..1................... .   1
Project Objectives and Description   . . . . . . . . . . .
Project Design and Organization  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Project Implementation   ....  .  .    ....  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  4
Project Rest".ts  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Project Sustainability   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Bank Performance        ............ . 10
Borrower Performance   ................. .                 10
Project Relationships ................. . 11
Consulting Services  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Project Documentation and Data   . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
PART II:   PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . 13
Project Background, Objectives and Plan  . . . . . . . . . 13
Project Management       ............ . 13
Project Implementation   . . . . .  . .          . . . . . . . 14
Policy Improvement  ....  .  .   ......  .  .  .  .  .   . 14
Management Improvements     .......... . 15
Software Components      ........... . 16
Hardware Components . . .      .... ..........  .  18
Management Problems     .. .              ......... . 20
Project Outcomes   . . . . . .           .     .21
Project Costs, Financing and Disbursement  .22
Bank's Participation in the Project  . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Recommendations  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Insights and Lessons Learned   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
PART III:  PROJECT DATA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
SECTOR PROGRAM FOR ELEMENTARY EDUCATION
(Loan 2030-PH)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Elementary
Education Sector Loan (No. 2030-PH), for which the amount of US$100 million
equivalent was approved on July 2, 1981. On December 31, 1986, US$19.5
million equivalent was canceled at the request of the Government of the
Philippines. The loan was closed on December 31, 1988, two years after the
original Closing Date. The final disbursement was made on August 28, 1989,
at which time a remaining undisbursed amount of US$471,486.03 was canceled.
The PCR (Preface, Evaluation SummaL,  Parts I and III) was prepared
by the Bank's Population and Human Resource- Division, Country Department II,
Asia Regional Office, based on a review of Staff Appraisal Report No. 3423a-PH
of May 29, 1981; President's Report No. P-3085-PH of June 4, 1981; the Loan
Agreement of August 25, 1981 and its sub!equent Amendments; project files,
including Bank supervision reports and internal memoranda; and the Borrower's
PCR prepared by the Department of Education, Culture and Sports, Government of
the Philippines. Bank staff involved in project supervision were also
consulted, and discussions were held with Government officials in the course
of processing a follow-up project. Part II is a summary of the Borrower's
(old-style) PCR which is available in OED and the Region's files.
The Asia Region wishes to express its appreciation to the Government
officials involved in project implementation for their assistance in producing
this report, in particular to the staff of the various committees which
drafted and reviewed the Borrower's PCR. These committees consisted of
representatives from the Educational Development Projects Implementing Task
Force, the Bureau of Elementary Education, the Office of the Planning Service,
the Financial and Management Service, and the Regional Offices of the
Department of Education, Culture and Sports, and the Instructional Materials
Corporation.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
SECTOR P'ROGRAM FOR ELEMENTARY EDUCATION
(Loan 2030-PH)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Oblectives
i.       The project was originally designed to support four years of the
Government's ten-year development program (1981-90) for elementary education.
The main objectives of the program were to raise student participation and
achievement, with particular emphasis on regions with low educational
performance, and to improve the managerial.J. ^^ficiency of the Department _f
Education, Culture and Sports. Specifically, the Government was to: (a)
introduce revised policies for sector financing and management to raise
quality, reduce disparities in educational opportunity, and increase internal
efficiency in the school system; (b) effect institutional changes to
strengthen sector management; and (c) prepare revised instructional programs
and materials, and improve the distribution of teachers and facilities to
strengthen performance at the school level.
ii.      The project investments consisted of;  (a) the introduction of a new
curriculum supported by revised teaching techniques and instructional
materials; (b) development, printing and distribution of textbooks, teacher's
manuals and other instructional materials, including the construction and
equipment of 26 instructional materials warehouses; (c) provision of
classrooms in accordance with needs based on systematic facilities planning;
(d) provision of basic school furniture and equipment for regions most in
need, as well as office equipment for the BEE, OPS and DECS Regional Offices;
(d) establishment of a system to monitor teacher supply and demand by the DECS
Regional Offices in cooperation with teacher training institutions; (e)
trainii.g for educational managers, planners and school staff, including the
construction and equipment of 13 regional training centers; and (f) systematic
evaluation of sector performance by monitoring regional data on an annual
basis and regular achievement testing throughout the project, an in-depth
evaluation of the determinants of school participation and achievement, and
resea ch on selected topics related to sector performance. Overall cost was
estimated at US$448 millioi. and a Loan of US$100 million was approved.
Implementation Experience
it.      The project was to be implemented in four yea;s from 1982 to 1985,
wit'. the Closing Date originally scheduled for December 31, 1986. The project
encoLu.tered implementation delays and required a two-year extension of the
Loan Closing Date. The slow pace of project implementation was due mainly to
management difficulties, budget constraints and procurement delays (paras.
1.10-1.12). Project performance improved considerably following two loan
restructuring agreements in 1985 and 1986, aided by significant increases in
Government budgetary allocations to education from 1986 to 1988 as a result of
the priority given to the sector by the then-new Government (paras. 3.4-3.5).



- iv -
Results
iv.      The project, which was prepared between 1978 and 1981, represented an
innovative approach to education lending in the Philippines. Its design as a
sector operation broadened its impact by encompassing the whole elementary
education investment program, and by promoting the improvement of sector
policies and planning, and the development of sector-.ide institutions.  The
project also propelled a major shift in focus from the quantitative expansion
of elementary schooling to critical issues of quality, efficiency and regional
variations in student performance.
v.       The project succeeded in meeting its objective to build institutional
capacities within the Department of Education, Culture and Sports (DECS) and
its Regional Offices, and substantially met its physical implementation
targets as defined at appraisal (Table 3.4). In terms of performance
irdicators, student participation and teacher utilization measures showed some
improvement, but there was apparently little change in cohort survival,
student achievement and the reduction of regional disparities (Table 3.7).
It is extremely difficult to assess the impact that the project may or may not
have had on student and sector performance since no monitoring and evaluation
mechanisms effectively tracked resources actually provided to schools and
their effects on student achievement and other educational outcomes (paras.
1.21-1.22).
Sustainability
vi.      Project sustainability was addressed mainly by integrating project
activities into the regular functions of the agencies involved in elementary
education. The focus of these efforts was decentralizing to the DECS Regional
Offices responsibilities for identifying priority school building projects,
procuring other civil works, providing equipment and furniture, distributing
textbooks and training administrative and school staff. Regional budgets now
include provisions for components formerly funded by the project.
vii.     A follow-up project, the Second Elementary Education Project (Loan
3244-PH), is currently supporting the Government's 1990-92 elementary
education investment program and action plan to help sustain the provision of
essential school resources and other quality improvement measures, and to
continue strengthening DECS capacities in planning and management.
Findings and Lessons Learned
viii.    Project implementation improved as a result of Government efforts
to streamline procurement procedures (paras. 1.11), following a series of
Country Implementation Reviews. The Bank should continue to address on a
country-wide basis systemic issues affecting all Philippine projects,
including slow budget releases (para. 1.12), utilization of Special Accounts,
which did not facilitate implementation and accelerate disbursements in this
project (paras. 1.12, 2.39), and compliance with audit covenants, where
project staff can do little to expedite the preparation and submission of
Commission on Audit reports (para. 1.29).
ix.      The project was adversely affected by frequent modifications in the
structure, functions and staffing of the project management unit between 1981



-v -
and 1984 (paras. 1.10, 2.6). Project management and implementation problems
also arose from the lack of clarity in the roles and relationships of the
various agencies and departmental units involved in the project (para. 1.30).
A firmly establishec project management structure staffed with qualified
personnel, and a clear definition of organizational responeibilities and
linkages among implementing agencies are critical to effective project
implementation.
x.       Despite the serious delays and difficulties experienced by the
project, particularly during the first half of project implementation, the
Borrower's commitment to the objectives of the project facilitated the
accomplishment of the major physical and institutional targets (para. 1.28).
Bank review missions made substantial contributions to improve project
implementation, although the Borrower noted the lack of continuity in the
assignment of Bank staff to project supervision (paras. 1.26-1.27).
xi.      The key project investments in quality improvement at the school
level were a new curriculum supported by revised instructional materials and
teaching techniques, but their potential for raising student achievement was
weakened by the lack of coordination in the design and implementation of these
elements (paras. 1.7, 1.13, 2.55). Well-coordinated implementation plans for
teacher training and the development and timely distribution of textbooks and
other instructional materials are essential for effective curriculum
implementation.
xii.     Funding constraints led to a reduction :.... the number of classrooms
below appraisal targets, as well as in the standard classroom size from
63 sq.m. to 48 sq.m. Given that budgetary limitations have not allowed
classroom shortages to be fully addressed, two issues raised during project
preparation should be revisited: whether or not special work areas are in
fact essential for teaching vocational arts at the elementary level, and the
possibilities for greater participation of local governments and communities
in school construction, rehabilitation and maintenance (para. 1.15).
xiii.    The project's major shortcoming was that an effective monitoring and
evaluation system was not established to assess the impact and benefits of
project inputs. More front-end attention needed to have been given to
coordination of the various elements of the systam, clear assignment of
operational and reporting responsibilities, idantification of information
needs at different administrative levels in relation to available staff and
skills, and more systematic utilization of specialist services (paras.
1.21-1.22).
xiv.     The actual utilization of expert services was much lower than the
requirements estimated at appraisal, and project performance was less than
satisfactory in monitoring and evaluation where extensive technical expertise
was identified as needed but wab not fully utilized (para. 1.31). The project
might also have benefitted from linkages with overseas institutions which
could have provided both staff training and consulting services (para. 1.32).
xv.      The structural, policy and institutional issues of teacher education
represent an important area where further development is clearly needed
(paraes. 1.8, 1.23). Dialogue on these issues has been initiated in studies on
teacher training under the ongoing Second Elementary Education Project.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
SECTOR PROGRAM FOR ELEMENTARY EDUCATION
(Loan 2030-PH)
PART i. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Prolect Identity
Project Name:   Sector Program for Elementary Education;
also the Program for Decentralized Educational
Development (PRODED) -
Loan Number:    2030-PH
RVP Unit:       Asia Regional Office, Country Department II
Country:        Philippines
Sector:         Education
Subsector:      Elementary Education
Background
1.1      The Program for Decentralized Educational Development was
conceptualized and prepared during the late 1970s, a period during which the
Government of the Philippines was reexamining its development strategy and
objectives. In contrast to an earlier emphasis on maximizing growth in output
and the development of large-scale industry, greater attention was being given
to the generation of productive employment, improvement in economic and social
equity, and meeting basic human needs. Consistent with these objectives, new
initiativea in education called for redressing the geographical and
socioeconomic imbalances of educational opportunity, improving educational
quality, and strengthening educational administration to increase efficiency
and to make the system more responsi-e to local needs. This shift in the
country and sector development strategies coincided with the Woeld Bank's own
growing focus on poverty alleviation and on basic education (as well as its
emerging interest in sector lending). From both the Government's and the
Bank's perspectives, effective elementary education was essential to meeting
other basic needs and to accelerating overall national development.
Proiect Obiectives and Description
1.2      The project was originally designed to support four years of the
Government's ten-year development program (1981-90) for elementary education.
The main objectives of the program were to raise student participation and
achievement, with particular emphasis on regions with low educational
performance, and to improve the managerial efficiency of the Department of
The "Sector Program for Elementary Education" was the project name used in
the President's Report and the Staff Appraisal Report, while the Loan
Agreement referred to the "Sector Loan for Elementary Education." PRODED
was the name used in the Philippines and among Bank staff involved with the
project. Since a follow-up project has been prepared and processed, PRODED
is also currently referred to as the first Elementary Education Project.



Education, Culture and Sports (DECS). Specifically, the Government was to:
(a) introduce revised policies for sector financing and management to raise
quality, reduce disparities in educational opportunity, and increase internal
efficiency in the school system; (b) effect institutional changes to
strengthen sector mi.nogement; and (C) prepare revised instructional programs
and materials, and improve the distribution of teachers and facilities to
strengthen performance at the school level. The Bank-assisted project
comprised three major components corresponding to each of these objectives--
policy reforms, management changes, and investments for performance
improvement.
1.3      The policy reforms involved:  (a) regional allocation of development
funds on the basis of a population-waighted indicator of deficiencies in
participation, cohort survival and student achievement, to give priority to
regions with below average performance; (b) apportionment of recurrent
expenditures to incrt-ase the share of non-salary items, including
instructional materials, classroom supervision, in-service training and
maintenanc_. oGf school facilities; (c) improved utilization of subject matter
teachers; and (d) stricter enforcement of student admission at age 7, and
introduction of continuous diagnostic testing, followed up by remedial and
enrichment programs as appropriate.
1.4      In implementing the management changes, the organization, functions
and staffing of the main agencies involved in elementary education were to be
modified as follows: (a) the Bureau of Elementary Education (BEE) was to
formu..ate sector policies and standards, and would be assigned line authority
for technical supervision in the regions to guide effective development and
management of the subsector; (b) the Divisions for Elementary Education of the
DECS Regional Offices would be given direct responsibility for managing,
implementing and monitoring policies and programs in accordance with BEE
criteria and standards, and for providing related assistance to the provincial
and district authorities; (c) increased responsibilities for the Office of the
Planning Service (OPS) would include preparing national plans and budget
requests for education, assisting the regions in planning, maintaining a
comprehensive information system based on regional statistics, and conducting
systematic monitoring of sector performance; (d) permanent planning units
would be established in every DECS Regional Office; and (e) the Textbook
Agency would be converted into a permanent government corporation, the
Instructional Materials Corporatior (IMC), charged with implementing programs
for the development, production or procurement and distribution of
instructional materials for public elementary and secondary schools, and the
Textbook Board would be replaced by an Instructional Materials Council to
approve materials for use in schools and encourage private sector involvement
in educational publishing.
1.5      The investment program for performance improvement consisted of:  (a)
introduction of a new curriculum supported by revised teaching techniques and
instructional materials; (b) development, printing and distribution of
textbooks, teacher's manuals and other instructional materials, including the
construction and equipment of 26 instructional materials warehouses; (c)
provision of classrooms in accordance with needs based on systematic
facilities planning; (d) provision of basic school furniture and equipment for
regions most in neeO, as well as office equipment for the BEE, OPS and DECS
Regional Offices; (e) establishment of a system to monitor teacher supply and



3 -
demand by the DECS Regional Offices in cooperation with teacher training
institutions; (f) training for educational managers, planners and school
staff, including the construction and equipment of 13 regional training
centers; and (g) systematic evaluation of sector performance by monitoring
regional data on an annual basis and regular achievement testing throughout
the project, an in-depth evaluation of the determinants of school
participation and achievement, and research on selected topics related to
sector perforaance.
Project Design and Organization
1.6      PRODED, which was prepared between 1978 and 1981, represented an
innovative .pproach to education projects in the Philippines.  Its design as a
sector lending operation broadened its impact by encompassing the whole
elementary education investment program, and by promoting the improvement of
sector policies and planning, and the development of sector-wide institutions.
The project also propelled a major shift in focus from the quantitative
expansion of elementary schooling to critical issues of quality, efficiency
and regional variations in student performance.
1.7      The introduction of a new curriculum supported by revised
instructional materials and teaching techniques was central to meeting the
objective of raising qurlity in elementary education. A major weakness in
project design was th. lack of coordination in planning for curriculum
implementation, the development and distribution of textbooks and other
instructional materials, and related teacher training. The need for
coordination was clearly recognized and, in fact, was one of the reasons for
incorporating what was to be a separate textbook project into the elementary
education program (paras. 3.2-3.3). As described in the Staff Appraisal
Report, however, grade-wise implementation of the new curriculum was to begin
in 1983, but the supporting textbooks for the Grade 1 in Mathematics and
Pilipino were scheduled for delivery in 1984 and 1985, respectively. In no
single grade was a complete set of revised textbooks to be available in the
year that the new curriculum was to be introduced. The stated aim of in-
service training for school teachers and principals was to support the
introduction of the new curriculum, however, only half of the teachers and
principals were scheduled to be trained for the duration of the project.
1.8      Pre-service teacher education was not included in the elementary
education program on the assumption that it would be covered under a proposed
project in secondary education. The Secondary Education Development Project,
currently under implementation with financing assistance from the Asian
Development Bank, is undertaking research on the content of teacher education
programs, teaching methods in major subjects, a teacher competency p-ofile and
incentives to attract mathematics and science teachers. The structural,
policy and institutional issues of teacher education have not, however, been
systematically addressed, and represent an important area where further
development is clearly needed.
Prolect implementation
1.9      PRODED was to be implemented in four years from 1982 to 1985, with
the loan closing date originally scheduled for December 31, 1986. The project
encountered major implementation delays and required a two-year extension of



4
loan closing. Project performance improved considerably following two loan
restructuring agreements in 1985 and 1986 (paras. 3.4-3.5), aided by
significant increases in budgetary allocations to education from 1986 to 1988
as a result of the priority given to the sector by the then-new Government.
110     The slow pace of project impl2mentation was due mainly to management
difficulti.es, budget constraints and procurement delays. The management
problems derived first from the complexity of the project, which involved
numerous subprojects and implenenting agencies at the national and local
levels. Moreover, previous Bank-financed projects had been managed by the
semi-autonomous Educational Development Projects Implementing Task Force
(EDPITAF), and the lack of project experience within the DECS was revealed in
the weak direction and coordination of early project activities. This
situation was exacerbated by the frequent modifications in the structure and
functions of the project management unit up until 1984 (related in part to
senior personnel changes) and by the Department's insistence that a full-time
project manager was unnecessary. It was not until 1985 that a project
management structure was firmly established, with all implementing agencies
represented in a coordinating authority directly under the Secretary of
Education, and with the addition of experienced staff to the management unit.
1.11     Implementation delays caused by procurement and fundiag problems
were, in large part, the result of complicated and time-consuming Government
proce_. -es. Until 1986, procurement contracts over P 2 million required
approval by a Cabinet Standing Committee on Contracts and the Office of the
President. Implementation improved dramatically from 1986 when the Standing
Committee was abolished and the ceiling for zontracts requiring approval of
the Department Secretary was raised from P 2 million to P 10 million (and
later to P 20 million). The approval time for IMC paper and printing
contracts, for example, was raduced to an average of four weeks from the prior
six to fourteen months. Continuing Government efforts to facilitate
pro urement, including the early approval and release of funds for
infrastructure projects and allowing start-up of bidding procedures prior to
the release of funding allocations, significantly improved performance in the
School Building Program, the largest project component. An attempt during the
1985 restructuring to increase disbursements by allowing loan financing for
civil works had been unsuccessful, however, due to the difficulty of gathering
statements of expenses for completed civil works from the field offices of the
Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH). The problem of obtaining
reimbursement documents stemmed primarily from a lack of clarity _n
procedures, and is being addressed in the follow-up project to PRODED, the
Second Elementary Education Project currently under implementation.
1.12     Complex fund release and payment procedures, compounded by national
financial constraints in the early to mid-1980s, regularly led to delayed and
reduced budgetary releases to the project. Releases in the form of Cash
Disbursement Ceilings (CDCs) were valid only for the fiscal year in which they
were issued and had to be revalidated when they lapsed. The protracted
procurement processes often resulted in CDCs expiring before they could be
committed. Since the non-availability of funds had been identified as a main
cause of delay in previous projects, a Special Account was established for
PRODED (paras. 3.6-3.7). While the objective was to facilitate project
implementation and accelerate disbursements, the Special Account added yet
another bureaucratic layer to the already cumbersome process of obtaining



5 -
financial releases.  CDCs were still required for expenditures to be financed
from the Special Account, and Treasury Warrants issued against CDCs were drawn
from a regular Treasury Demand Deposit. DECS then used these Warrants to file
a reimbursement application with the Treasury, at which time the amount of the
Warrant was transferred from the Treasury Demand Deposit to the Special
Account. Direct payment by the Bank to suppliers and contractors was possible
even without formal budgetary releases, and wae thus the preferred mode of
payment. However, when the Special Account allotment was increased from US$3
million to US$8 million during the 1985 loan restructuring, only contracts
over US$1.25 million became eligible for direct payment.
1.13     Instructional Programs.  The new curriculum, instructional materials
and teacher training programs were the key project investments in quality
improvement at the school level, but the potential for raising student
achievement was weakened at the outset by the lack of coordination of these
components (para. 1.7). Grade-to-grade implementation of the new curriculum
was officially conducted from 1983 to 1988, but supporting textbooks and
teacher guides either had not yet been developed or printed as required, or
were late in reaching schools. Teachers in the first two grades were expected
to ensure attainment of the new curriculum "minimum learning competencies" but
were provided no guidance in utilizing the old textbooks. As a stopgap
measure in 1985 and 1986, schools were provided an index that matched the
learning competency requirements of the new cu.riculum with existing Grade 3
and 4 books. Support could also have been provided through the in-service
training program, particularly since the DECS had decided that all teachers
and school principals would be trained (instead of the appraisal target of
50%). However, the first teacher training packages developed were heavily
value-laden and almost devoid of instructional strategies related to the new
curriculum. Subject content and teaching methodology were eventually given
more emphasis in the in-service teacher training programs.
1.14     The new elementary school curriculum described in the Staff Appraisal
Report consisted of three subjects in the first two grades (English, Pilipino
and mathematics), a'id four subjects from Grades 3 through 6.2/  The
reduction in the number of subjects from the previous eight in each grade
aimed to permit increases in the share of class hours allocated to mathematics
and English. The program of study as implemented includes four subjects in
Grades l and 2, six in Grade 3, and seven in Grades 4 to 6, with an additional
20 to 30 minutes each day of character education for all grades. Compared to
the appraised curriculum, the total number of weekly instructional hours was
decreased significantly--in Grades l and 2 by 23% (from 25 to 19.2 hours), and
in Grades 5 and 6 by 14% (from 35 to 30 hours). Early Bank review missions
were particularly concerned about the reduction of the time allocated to
mathematics. Only 3.3 hours per week are devoted to math instruction
throughout the elementary cycle, which is equivalent to 11 of total hours
in each of the last two grades.
1.15     School Facilities.  The School Building Program was the '.zgest
component of the investment program, representing 66% of total ,roject costs.
2/ The fourth subject was not described in the Appraisal Report, but the
President's Report referred to "Environmental Education" with units in the
sciences, social science, art and practical arts.



-6-
The appraisal target of 11,000 classrooms annually from 1981-90 was to meet
total classroom requirements to accommodate enrollment increases and reduce
existing backlogs. About 48,500 classrooms were actually built from 1982-88,
for a yearly average of 7,000 classrooms. Funding constraints were the main
reason for the reduction in the number of classrooms built, as well as in the
standard classroom size (in 1984) from 63 sq.m. to 48 sq.m. About 2,600
multipurpose workshops were also built under the project, and since 1986, the
construction of about 1,000 toilets annually has been included in the School
Building Program in response to health and sanitation concerns. According to
the Staff Appraisal Report, requests for workshops for the teaching of home
economics and/or agricultural-industrial arts were to be considered only where
basic classroom requirements were met, and only for "complete" schools
offering the full, six-year elementary cycle (about 60% of the total number of
schools). Given that budget constraints have still not allowed classroom
shortages to be fully addressed, two issues raised during project preparation
should be revisited: (a) whether or not special work areas are in fact
essential for teaching vocational arts at the elementary level, taking into
consideration that the unit cost of a workshop is currently about 22% more
than that of a standard classroom, and that these special facilities are being
provided to the more advantaged complete schools; and (b) the need to explore
possibilities for greater participation of local governments and communities
in school construction, rehabilitation and maintenance.
1.16     Four agencies have traditionally been concerned with the School
Building Program--the DECS, the DPWH, the Department of Local Governments and
the Department of Budget and Management. A 1980 Memorandum of Agreement among
these agencies detailed the roles of each agency, and provided for the
creation of divisional School Building Committees (SBCs). The main
responsibilities of the DECS were to define criteria for prioritizing needs
and identification of project sites, to establish building designs and
standards, and to accept completed works from DPWH in accordance with these
standards.  Finai authority for project selection, however, lay with the SBCs.
The Borrower's review notes that the DECS role in ensuring conformity with
selection criteria was undermined by the fact that the SBCs are chaired by the
provincial governor or city mayor; the review thus recommends that these
committees be chaired by a DECS representative as a way to reduce future
political interference (paras. 2.28, 2.60, 2.64). While the recommendation
has merit, the DECS was responsible for subproject appraisal and therefore
should have had recourse during project implementation to disallow financing
for subprojects which did not meet identified criteria.
1.17     Dissatisfaction with the quality of construction, and instances of
non-compliance with site and building specifications were also reported by the
DECS (2.28, 2.63). Final payments to contractors were certified by the DPWH,
and unless the DECS formally accepted the works as having been satisfactorily
completed, the classrooms could not be utilized. In 1986, the budget which
had been allotted to DPWH as part of the national infrastructure program was
transferred to DECS; however, this had no practical effect as the budget was
still suballoted to the DPWH Regional Offices. In March 1991, responsibility
for the administration and management of the School Building Program was
transferred from DPWH to DECS, upon DECS representations to the Office of the
President. The impact of this decision should be closely monitored and
evaluated under the Second Elementary Education Project, particularly since it
was not clearly established beforehand that DECS has the necessary technical



-7-
expertise to take over from DPWH the administration of the School Building
Program.
1.18     Furniture.  According to the Staff Appraisal Report, furniture
contracts were to be awarded either on the basis of Local Competitive Bidding
procedures or through negotiations with trade schools able to manufacture
furniture of satisfactory quality at reasonable prices. Although Bank
supervision missions advised that these two procedures be compared in terms of
production capacity, quality, delivery time and prices, there is no record
that this comparison was undertaken, and the bulk of classroom furniture
contracts was negotiated with trade schools. The Borrower's review emphasizes
the educational and social benefits of contracting trade schools (paras. 2.33,
2.61), but it should be noted that the cost of the furniture component
exceeded appraisal estimates by 712 in US Dollar terms, despite an overall
cost underrun of 15X.
1.19     Costs.  The actual total project cost is estimated at US$379 million
equivalent, compared to the appraisal estimate of US$448 million equivalent
(Table 3.5, para. 3.8). The overall cost underrun of 15Z in US Dollar terms
was due in large part to the devaluation of tpe local currency from Pesos 7.5
per US Dollar in 1981 to Pesos 22.5 in 1989.-  Cost underruns in the civil
works and staff development components (23? in each case) were also related to
revisions in program targets. Even though overall instructional materials
targets were met, costs for printing and distribution was lower than the
appraisal estimate by 38Z. Technical assistance costs exceeded appraisal
estimates, but only by 7?. The one major cost overrun was in the furniture
component, as noted above (para. 1.18).
Proiect Results
1.20     Except for the reduced number of new classrooms (para. 1.15), the
project substantially met its physical implementation targets as deZined at
appraisal, including the construction of warehouses and trainling centers,
production and distribution of instructional materials, procurement of
furniture and equipment, and training of teachers, school principals and
education managers at all administrative levels (Table 3.4). The projent also
succeeded in meeting its objective to build institutional capacities within
the DECS and its Regional Offices. The Bureau of Elementary Education has
provided regular assistance to the regions, particularly in the utilization of
curriculum materials and conduct of in-service staff training. The DECS
Office of the Planning Service has improved its data collection inatruments
and procedures, computerized its national Management Information System and
developed staff capacities in the preparation of educational plans and
budgets. Responsibility for the implementation of policies, programs and
projects has been delegated to the Regional Offices, where Elementary
Education Divisions and permanent Planning Units were established and
strengthened as a result of the project. Once its status as a Government
corporation was confirmed in 1985, the Instructional Materials Corporation
developed into a highly efficient agency able to produce and distribute over
20 million texts in one year. The in-service training structure developed
3/ In Peso terms, the actual total project cost of Pesos 6.1 billion was
greater than the appraisal estimate of Pesos 3.4 billion by 822.



- 8-
under the project holds long-term promise for continued professional staff
development. It is also worth noting that audio programs and materials
developed under the earlier Bank-assisted Mass Media Pilot Project (Loan
S008-PH) were utilized for PRODED's in-service teacher training.
1.21     The policy reforms and investment inputs under the project were
intended: (a) to improve (i) net participation and cohort survival rates,
(ii) student achievement, and (iii) teacher utilization; and (b) to reduce
regional disparities in these three categories. While participation rates,
student-teacher and teacher-class ratios showed some improvement, there was
apparently little change in cohort survival, student achievement and the
reduction of regional disparities (Table 3.7). It is extremely difficult to
assess, however, the impact that the project may or may not have had on
student and sector performance since no effective monitoring system tracked
resources actually provided to schools. Thus, improvements in learning could
not be evaluated nor project benefits established. As described in the Staff
Appraisal Report, the project was to implement the following monitoring and
evaluation activities: annual monitoring through the OPS Management
Information System of inter- and intra-regional comparisons on student
participation, performance and expenditures; school mapping for planning the
location and distribution of educational facilities and resources; inventories
of school facilities, furniture and equipment every four years; monitoring of
teacher supply and demand; regular administration of standardized achievement
tests; an in-depth evaluation involving baseline and follow-up surveys on
school and home determinants of educational p.articipation and achievement; and
research studies contributing to the formulation of sector policies and
achievement of sector objectives.
1.22     Development of the OPS Management Info.mation System focussed on
improving the retrieval of school uata and timely generation of an annual
Statistical Bulletin to provide basic enrollment information. Special studies
were conducted on school location planning and teacher supply and demand, and
while useful instruments were generated, these were not fully integrated into
the management systems. Facilities and furniture inventories undertaken in
1982 have not been updated, and while student testing was conducted in
connection with other project components, the regular administration of
national tests was not implemented. Bank review missions noted that key
information was generally unavailable, e.g., actual location of School
Boilding Program recipients compared to identified priorities, actual
deliveries of furniture, equipment and instructional materials to schools,
teacher utilization and deployment at the sub-regional levels, reliable
student achievement data over time. Data relevant to these concerns were
gathered but were not analyzed. Such analysis was particularly necessary to
support decentralized programs, to target resources in accordance with the
stated policy of giving priority to more disadvantaged schools and areas, and
to evaluate the impact of such targeting. Effective monitoring and evaluation
mechanisms might have been put in place if more front-end attention was given
to coordination of the various components of the system, clear assignment of
operational and reporting responsibilities, identification of information
needs at different administrative levels in relation to available staff and
skills, and more systematic utilization of specialist services.
1.23       Data generated by the 1981-82 baseline survey for the evaluation of
determinants of educational participation and achievement (the Household and



-9-
School Matchir,g Surveys) have been utilized for sector analysis and other
research studies. PRODED studies have informed policy and planning where
decision-makers were directly involved in the identification of research
questions and discussion of results, as with the special studies identified at
appraisal (Table 3.7, para. 2.25). PRODED also supported a large number of
smaller studies but there was limited outside review to determine the
technical adequacy of these research efforts, and relatively few had clear
links to pressing policy and implementation problems in the subsector. Those
studies which had important policy and program implications were not always
fully exploited. One series of studies, for example, found no significant
difference in teaching effectiveness between having one teacher teach all
subjects in the fifth and sixth grades and the current policy of utilizing
specialized subject teachers. These results have not led to significant
policy discussion, however, despite the fact that improved utilization of
fifth and sixth grade teachers was a principal objective of the project, and
given that the use of specialized teachers reduces flexibility in addressing
teacher supply and demand issues, in addition to having important cost
implications. Such questions might usefully be considered in the policy
dialogue that has been initiated in connection with the teacher training
studies being undertaken in the Second Elementary Education Project.
Proiect Sustainabilitv
1.24     Sustainability was an explicit concern for both the Bank and the
Borrower throughout project implementation, and was addressed mainly by
integrating project activities into the regular functions of the agencies
involved in elementary education. The focus of these efforts was
decentralizing to the DECS Regional Offices responsibilities for identifying
priority school building projects, procuring other civil works, providing
equipment and furniture, distributing textbooks and training administrative
and school staff. The gradual transfer of these functions was well planned
and involved, among others, increased budget support, the appointment of
regional procurement committees and quality control officers, and the training
of trainers for staff development programs at all levels. Regional budget
proposals submitted to the DEOS central office now include provisions for
components formerly funded by the project. Future development will require
continued staffing, training and funding of the Regional Offices, and the
installation of effective regional and sub-regional planning, monitoring and
evaluation systems. With reference to the Government's textbook development
program, plans to convert the INC into a regular DECS agency should be
carefully studied with due consideration to issues of costs and efficiency in
attaining program objectives (para. 2.58).
1.25     A follow-up to PRODED was a project identified following the Bank's
1988 Education Sector Study (Report No. 7473-PH), which found a need for
continued support at the elementary level in order to reduce social inequities
and improve quality in the educational system as a whole. The Second
Elementary Education Project (Loan 3244-PH) is currently supporting the
Government's 1990-92 elementary education investment program and action plan
to help sustain the provision of essential school resources and other quality
improvement measures, and to continue strengthening DECS capacities in
planning and management. While PRODED provided the inputs and strengthened
the organizational structures necessary for improving the delivery of
educational services, the benefits derived from these accomplishments cannot



- 10
be precisely established (para. 1.21). The Second Elementary Education
Project includes components designed to develop more effective monitoring and
evaluation systems, including a national assessment program to routinely
generate data on student achievement.
Bank Performance
1.26     The Bank recognized immediately that the project required more
intensive supervision than might normally be expected under a sector loan, and
conducted 18 review missions between October 1981 and September 1988 (an
average of 4.7 month intervals, compared to a Bank average of 6 months).
Detailed aide-memoires anA supervision reports of these missions reveal
commendable efforts on the part of Bank staff to help improve project
implementation. The Borrower's review focusses on the assistance given in
matters related to procurement and utilization of loan proceeds (para. 2.48).
As importantly, however, supervision missions consistently addressed
substantive issues and provided crucial advice on teacher in-service trainirg,
instructional materials, and other aspects of educational quality.
1.27     The Borrower's review correctly notes the lack of continuity in the
assignment of Bank staff to project supervision and the consequent need for
continuing orientation of staff new to the project (para. 2.53). Between 1981
and 1988, six different Project Officers had responsibility for PRODED, and
fourteen other Bank staff and consultants participated in supervision
missions.
Borrower Performance
1.28     Despite their limited experience prior to the project, PRODED staff
rose to the challenge of a complex and difficult project, and demonstrated
exemplary commitment to its educational and institutional objectives. The
competence and confidence of the various implementing agencies at the central
and regional levels has clearly grown over the course of project
implementation.  The Borrower's overall commitment was reinforced by the
renewed priority given to the education sector and the project by the
Government since 1986. The project also benefitted from ongoing efforts to
streamline procurement and fund release procedures and thereby facilitate
project implementation (para. 1.11).
1.29     Delays in the submission of the annual audit reports for calendar
years 1982-88 ranged from 3 months to 5 years (Table 3.8). Since final
disbursement from the Loan was made in August 1989, an audit report for 1989
was required but has not been forwarded to the Bank. Although required by the
Loan Agreement, the annual audit reports did not include a separate opinion on
the use of Statements of Expenditures and a separate Special Account audit
report was received only for 1986. A Bank review of the 1983 and 1984 audit
reports noted that the accounts submitted by the Commission on Audit (COA)
were much more elaborate than necessary and dealt with a considerable number
of management issues in addition to the financial aspects. It was suggested
that the Bank's audit requirements could be more simply and promptly met by a
verified statement of receipts and expenditures, and expenditure sources, with
the accompanying auditor's evaluation, and without a full performance audit as
COA had been doing. Beyond following up with COA, however, there was little
the Borrower's project staff could do to expedite submission of audit reports.



- 11 -
Prolect Relationships
1.30     Early project management and implementation problems seem to have
derived in part from a lack of clarity in the specific roles and relationships
among the agencies and departmental units involved in the project. Since the
long-term status of EDPITAF was in question at the time of project preparation
(its original mandate as a ten-year task force was expiring in 1982), its role
in project implementation could not be clearly defined from the outset, and
logistical and morale problems arose over the first attempts to regularize
EDPITAF staff into the DECS bureaucracy. Initial difficulties in the
implementation of the textbook component were attributed to inadequate
definition of management responsibilities between the IMC and the BEE, and to
the dismantling and reconstitution of Curriculum Development Centers which
were responsible for the writing of manuscripts. There was also a lack of
clarity at the sub-national levels about the responsibilities of local
aithorities for various stages of textbook distribution. Despite the
existence of a Memorandum of Agreement among the agencies involved in the
School Building Program, Bank supervision missions regularly mentioned the
need to clarify and strengthen the role of DECS. The Borrower's review also
notes that project implementation would have been facilitated had an official
directive specifically identified the departmental unit (i.e., the Bureau of
Elementary Education) responsible for overall coordination of the project
(para. 2.54).
ConsultinR Services
1.31     Individual consultants were engaged to provide about 6 and 1.75
staff-months of local and foreign expert services, respectively, and a number
of institutions were contracted to assist in fulfilling specific project tasks
(Table 3.4). The actual utilization of expert services was much lower than
the requirements estimated at appraisal, which were 290 and 216 staff-months
of local and foreign consultancies, respectively. This was due to the
Government's desire to allocate more funds to fellowships, in which the Bank
concurred, as noted favorably by the Borrower (para. 2.50). While fellowships
and other training were important for the longer-term objectives of developing
local staff and institutional capacities, expert services were also needed for
the more immediate accomplishment of specific project activities. It is
telling that project performance was less than satisfactory in the various
aspects of monitoring and evaluation (para. 1.21), where extensive technical
expertise was identified as needed by both the Borrower and the Bank during
appraisal and negotiations, but was not fully utilized.
1.32     Due largely to the high cost of foreign consultants, the Government
has encouraged the increased use of local experts. The Borrower's review
asserts that local consultants were as qualified to provide expert services to
the project as foreign consultants (para. 2.62). Clearly, local expertise
should be utilized where this exists; identification and assessment of such
expertise remains, however, an essential task of project appraisal and
supervision. One Bank review mission recommended that, where foreign
expertise was deemed necessary, such expertise could be obtained through
linkages with well-established overseas institutions which could provide both
staff training and consulting services. If such institutional linkages had
been pursued, they would more have been likely to have had long-term benefits



- 12 -
for the Borrower than contracting placement agencies to adminieter the foreign
fellowship programs, as was done in this project.
Prolect Documentation and Data
1.33     Project files in the Asia Information Center were well-maintained and
readily provided most of the data required for the preparation of this report.
Important information and insight were also provided to this report by the
full Borrower's PCR, which was the product of a noteworthy process of bringing
together the agencies involved in implementation to assess project
performance. This highlights the fact that the maintenance of project data
and thorough documentation by the Borrower complement the Bank's efforts to
maintain effective project databases, and contribute to the development of
Borrower capacities in project implementation and evaluation.



- 13 -
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE Al
Proiect Background. Obiectives and Plan
2.1         The reform program in elementary education was embodied in a ten-
year development program (1981-90) known as the Program for Comprehensive
Elementary Education Development (PROCEED). Thiq program was the first
concrete effort in developing a long range program to upgrade the elemen. y
education sector. In view of the Government's inadequacy to fund PROCEED, a
US$100 million World Bank loan was solicited to help finance its first four
years which was the Program for Decentralized Educational Development,
popularly known as PRODED.
2.2         Specifically, PRODED aimed to:  (a) raise pupil achievement from
48% in 1979 to 55% by 1985; (b) increase the participation rate of 7-year olds
from 74% to 84% in 1985/86; (c) improve the cohort survival rate from 65Z to
78% within 1981-1985; (d) raise the pupil-teacher ratio from 31:1 to 36:1 by
1986/87; and (e) improve management capabilities to increase system
effectiveness and efficiency.
2.3         Specific sector policy issues identified to redress disparities in
educational opportunity as well as to improve quality and efficiency included
the introduction of: (a) a revised investment policy; (b) a revised policy
for recurrent financing; (c) revised policies for student intake and
progression; and (d) a revised policy for teacher deployment.
2.4         The investment program consisted of the following subprojects:
(a) the New Elementary School Curriculum (NESC) which emphasizes basic skills,
intellectual development and values; (b) staff development to provide training
opportunities and to improve the delivery of btaic education; (c) technical
assistance to improve the program by awarding fellowships and availment of
experts/consultancy services for strengthening the technical capability of the
top-level management in implementing development programs; (d) special studies
and research to provide empirical data required for sector policy-making and
evaluation of PRODED effects; (e) instructional materials development, in
support of the NESC and to sustain the efforts introduced by the Textbook
Project under Loan 1224-PH; and (f) facilities development such as civil works
which includes the School Building Program and other works, equ..pment and
reference materials and furniture, to provide adequate facilities for the
public elementary school system.
4/ Part II was extracted by Bank staff from the PCR prepared by DECS to
reflect the Borrower's assessment of project performance; the Borrower's
PCR is available in OED and the Region's Files. Comments received from
DECS on the PCR (Parts I to III) were incorporated in the present Report.
In a letter forwarded to the Bank by DECS, the National Economic
Development Authority (NEDA) recommended areas for further analysis; this
letter is reproduced in full at the end of Part II. The issues raised by
NEDA would best be addressed in an in-depth impact evaluation of the
project.



- 14 -
Proiect Manakement
2.5         The magnitude of PRODED necessitated a policy-making structure
which would provide direction in the administration and implementation of the
investment program. From 1979 up to 1988, a structure consisting of an
advisory group to the Secretary, a policy-making body known as a management
group, a technical body known as the Project Technical Staff (PTS), and a
.egional planning body known as the Regional Project Managemont Team (RPMT)
was set up. RPMTs were created in each of the 13 DECS regions. At the
operations level, the PTS took charge of all planning, implementation,
monitoring, evaluation, resource identification/acquisition, loan availment
and liaising with the World Bank. The main function of the RPMT was the
generation and preparation of regional subproject requests and the
implementation of approved subprojects. The implementation of the textbook
component was the main function of the IMC.
2.6         Until 1982, the PTS operated as a self-contained project
implementing unit but underwent organizational modifications as a result of
top-level reorganizations and subsequent changes in management policies.
There were also changes within the PTS and EDPITAF structures during the
project cycle. These changes which attempted to achieve efficient project
operation, however, caused substantial delays in project implementation.
Project Impleme!ntation
2.7         On the whole, all the project components were satisfactorily
implemented with loan drawdowns reaching more than 90% as the Loan Account was
closed on August 31, 1989.
Policy Improvement
2.8         In an attempt to narrow the gap in the allocation of expenditures
among regions and provide emphasis on educational performance, a formula for
resource allocation was introduced under PRODED. Three revisions were made on
the original formula during the PRODED years. An analysis shows that
whichever version was used, inequities still remained. That is, some regions
which are classified as deficient in terms of the prescribed education index
received less allocation than certain regions with better performance index.
The trends indicate that the search for an appropriate investment formula that
will address educational deficiencies should not end with PRODED, particularly
with the growing awareness that the country's future growth will come mainly
from improved efficiency in the use of its scarce resources.
2.9         The project was to help formulate policies that would increase
non-salary items from 2% to 7% of budgetary allocations during the period
1982-90. Since 1986, the non-salary items have substantially increased,
surpassing project expectations, in allocations for maintenance, operations,
learning resources, as well as capital expenditures for building construction,
facilities and equipment. Continuing assessment was done to determine whether
the DECS attempted to attain the following project targets: 22-3% of the
total appropriation for recurrent expenditures is to be allocated for
instructional materials and supplies; 2S-32 for project development and
supervision and in-service training and 12 for maintenance of facilities.
PRODED funded a study on school cost and financing which reports that from



1984 to 1988, the Government appropriated substantial amounts for these items
and satisfactorily met the targets set by the project.
2.10        Improvements in teacher utilization were expected to be made by
assigning teachers to classes of more than one grade level in the intermediate
grades, but keeping them close to their area of specialization. Requirements
for teachers would be reduced if the teacher-class ratio in Grades 5 and 6
were reduced to 1:1 or 4:3. Such a policy was expected to free resources for
non-salasy expenditures. In 1988-89, there were 179,838 primary classes
handled by the same number of teachers using the 1:1 plan. Although there
were only 71,546 intermediate classes, a total of 107,810 teachers were needed
to handle these classes, which means a ratio of 1.5 teachers to a class. To
explore further strategies to maximize the utilization and deployment of
teachers, PRODED funded the special study on Teacher Supply and Demand, one
objective of which was to develop a formula for allocating new teacher items.
The study also initiated dialogues with teacher training institutions on how
to produce prospective teachers who are competent in teaching all subject
areas in the elementary curriculum.
2.11        The DECS exerted efforts to ensure enrollment of all 7-year old
children in school. To improve participation by accommodating every child who
meets the admission requirements, the following measures were taken by the
schools: (a) enroll as many as 40 to 45 pupils per class or employ a 4:3 or
1:1 tiacher-class ratio in the intermediate grades; (b) resort to multigrade
classes under one teacher whenever' necessary; (c) resort to the two-shift plan
in case of shortage of claasrooms; (d) observe early registration to obtain
advance estimates of the number of classrooms, teachers and instructional
materials needed.
2.12        The elementary education sector undertook certair. interventions
which reflected the sector's efforts to improve the cohort survival,
progression and dropout rates which include the following: (a) the
organization of multigrade classes to accommodate pupils of school age in
remote areas; (b) the development of multi-level materials to cater to varied
ability groups of pupils; (c) introduction of the Accelerated Learning Program
for Elementary Schools to meet the needs of the fast learners through vertical
acceleration; (d) non-traditional approaches of delivering basic education.
Management Improvements
2.13        The BEE, as the lead implementing unit of the project, spearheaded
several activities in order to improve its management capabilities and its
linkages with the regions for better monitoring of sectoral activities at the
field level. The BEE took an active role in introducing guidelines and
standards for the development and utilization of curriculum materials, staff
in-service training and physical facilities. To equip BEE staff with the
necessary management and supervisory skills, the project awarded fellowships
to key personnel. The BEE also assisted the PTS in creating the RPMTs. The
Elementary Education Division of each region likewise took a lead role in the
RPMT activities, thus upgrading staff capability at the regional/sub-regional
levels. Each region is now staffed by a regional research group, curriculum
group, a regional training team and a supervision and evaluation team.
Improvements are manifested by the coordination among the units involved in
the management of elementary education. The BEE and the Regional Offices have



- 16
been equipped with the management capa'bility to respond to the national
educational strategy and to the regional needs as well.
2.14        The second management concern of the project was the expansion of
the functions and organization of the OPS in particular and the planning work
of the Department in general. As in BEE, substantial project funds were
allocated to staff development, fellowships and expert services. A great
majority of the OPS staff were trained in educational research and evaluation,
statistical methods, cost-benefit analysis and educational planning. These
staff now man key positions of the OPS. Regional Planning Units were
established at the regional levels through the initiative of OPS. The project
took a lead role in the installation of a computer-based MIS envisaged to
reduce data processing time and enable the OPS to respond with greater speed
to the information needs of top level officials in planning and decision-
making. The project purchased 240 microcomputers for the planning work of the
central and regional offices, contracted the services of the appropriate
consulting groups to develop software packages and conduct computer training
among central and regional staff. The project also assisted the DECS
Financial Management Service (FMS). The project provided for the
computerization of financial data and subsequently, computer training for FMS
personnel. Further, the project procured a computer system to upgrade the
DECS mainframe computer being used for payrolls and other financial planning.
2.15        As a condition to the effectivity of Loan 1224-PH, EDPITAF
organized the Textbook Board Secretariat (TBS) to serve as the central
directing and coordinating unit for strengthening textbook development,
production, distribution and utilization. By 1981, TBS had become a fully
organized central agency staffed with qualified managers and specialists. The
Government committed itself to convert TBS into a corporation to implement the
textbook component of PRODED. Executive Order No. 806 was issued on May 27,
1982 establishing the IMC. On May 31, 1985, Letter of Instruction No. 1463
ordered the opevationalization of IMC and confirmed the transfer to the
corporation of the TBS staff and all assets and liabilities, as well as all
applicable appropriat.ons in the General Appropriations Act of 1985 pertaining
to the DECS textbook development provision program.
Software Components
2.16        The new curriculum (NESC) was the centerpiece around which the
other project components were woven. The NESC renewed emphasis on return to
the basics as well as values of humanism and Filipinism. There was a
reduction in the number of learning areas or subjects from eight subjects to
four in Grades 1 and 2, from eight to six in Grade 3 and from eight to seven
in Grades 4 to 6. The NESC was gradually introduced nationwide on a grade by
grade level each year starting with Grade 1 in 1983/84 up to Grade 6 in
1988/89.
2.17        The Instructional Materials Development component of PRODED was
designed to support the NESC. This involved: (a) the development of
textbo<cs with corresponding teacher's manuals and provision of supplementary
or reference materials; (b) the production and distribution of about 11
million textbooks yearly; and (c) the production of a number of reference
materials. The start of the development of the NESC materials in January 1982
and subsequent implementation by grade level each year starting with Grade 1
in June 1983 did not allow enough time for developing new textbooks according



17 -
to the regular schedule which normally covered a period of three years.
Consequently, a one- and two-year crash program was adopted for the provision
of materials for Grades 1 and 2. Pending production of the new textbooks
under the new curriculum, supplementary veacher's guides were written to
assist teachers in using the available texts and manuals. For Grades 3, 4, 5
and 6, a regular development cycle was followed.
2.18        During the period January 1, 1982 to December 31, 1988, a total of
137 elementary school titles were developed. Production and delivery of the
said materials, however, were considerably delayed due to the problem in paper
procurement and printing services which were only eased with the new
Administration's policy in reducing time for major contracts and increasing of
the contract signing authority of the DECS secretary from P 2 million to P 10
million. At the end of the project in 1988, all textbook titles required by
the NESC had been developed and 86.67 million copies of textbooks, teacher's
manuals and workbooks were printed and dispatched to the regions and school
divisions from the IMC central warehouse. Using IMC distribution grants,
regional and division officials moved the books to the end-user schools.
However, textbooks that had been dispatched from the IMC central warehouse and
supposed to have reached the schools were often found still stored in
provincial warehouses. One of the most common reasons given was the delay in
the receipt of the distribution funds from the Regional Offices.
2.19        In support of the NESC, the Educational Reorientation Program
(ERP) was developed. At the start, the training curriculum was focused solely
on Values/Beliefs and Interpersonal Skills on the premise that any teacher who
graduated from a teacher training institution would be equipped with the
technical skills required in classronm management. Feedback, however, showed
that the training did not render the Grade I teachers equal to the challenges
of the new curriculum. So the ERP curriculum, starting from the Grade 2
teachers was revised to include the technical aspects which aimed to enhance
teaching efficiency for the teachers and administrative managerial and
organizational skills for the educational managers.
2.20        The ERP used two strategies in the pursuit of its objectives:  the
formal training phase, and the non-formal training phase, conducted through
the network of Learning Action Cells (LACs). The LAC became the mechanism for
the continuous staff development efforts after the formal training phase. The
LAC identified its problems, planned alternatives to solve these problems,
..mplemented and evaluated same. LACE were organized from the school to the
national level. In order to achieve maximum efficiency and to ensure
commitment in the training program, a common implementation strategy was set
and a corps of trainers was trained from the regional and sub-regional levels.
2.21        Training was originally intended for teachers from disadvantaged
districts. However, upon the request of unserved clientele, DECS targeted the
training of 100X of the public school teachers and the school administrators.
This more ambitious program exacerbated problems of lateness and inadequacy of
materials, and the processing of contracts. Nevertheless, despite such
problems, the targets of teachers and administrators to be trained were
achieved and exceeded.
2.22        The task of planning and implementing the technical assistance
program was undertaken by the Technical Assistance Screening Committee and
PTS. Training needs were determined after a survey and consultation with the



- 18 -
heads of recipient offices.  At the end of project implementation, a total of
1,696 staff-months or 81S of the available 2,087 staff-month provision (532
foreign; 1,555 local) for the fellowship program had been utilized. This
represents 179 foreign fellows (13 degree; 166 non-degree) and 979 local
fellows (30 degree and 949 non-degree). IMC, which directly managed its own
fellowship program, sent 56 fellows to foreign e'..ort-term courses utilizing a
total of 93.75 staff-months.
2.23        The areas where the services of experts/consultants were likely to
be needed were determined in the same manner cited earlier. The original
target of 506 staff-months for expert services was reduced to 235 (55 foreign
and 180 local) in 1985. The target was further reduced to 49 staff-months (13
foreign and 36 local) in 1986 as a result of the loan reduction and the
Borrower request to allocate the unutilized expert services for fellowships.
In the event, PRODED utilized only two foreign experts for a total of 1.75
staff-months.
2.24        The research component addressed itself to the whole research
community in general as it elicited participants of research consumers and
producers. The 58 researches conducced by the project covered all the
research concerns of the elementary sector identified. The studies were
completed between 1982-89, however, nnly 40Z have completed the final reports
while only 38% of the reports have been. dLstributed to the field.
2.25        Six special studies were undertaken during the PRODED years,
namely:   (a) School Location Planning; (b) Teacher Supply and Demand; (c)
Sector Monitoring; (d) Household and School Matching Survey (HSMS); (e)
Philippine Elementary Education Cost and Financing; and (f) Try-out of the
NESC. The first three special studies were intended to strengthen the
capability of OPS in providing statistics and information needed in planning,
implementing and evaluating the elementary education sector, and to strengthen
the capability of the regional and sub-regional offices in collecting,
processing and utilizing statistics and related information. The HSMS was
intended to evaluate PRODED's impact on the performance of the elementary
education system, particularly if PRODED positively reduced disparities
between low performing and high performing regions.
2.26        The research and special studies have served as inputs to sector
policy directions, planning and implementation of innovative and cost-saving
educational programs and projects. The project research findings have reached
up to the regional/divisional level; however, they have not extensively seeped
down to the teacher level, primarily due to lack of structures and avenues for
disseminating the research findings. Some research studies on dissemination
schemes initiated by the project are presently being completed by selected
regional staff.
Hardware Components
2.27        Accomplishments under the regular School Building Program (SBP)
over the period 1982-88 include: (a) 48,532 newly constructed classrooms; (b)
19,751 repaired structures; (c) 2,608 multi-purpose workshops; and (d) 863
toilets representing 722, 67%, 76Z and 452 respectively of the programed
quantities. About 9,700 classrooms were built annually from 1982-85, and
about 4,100 classrooms per year from 1986-88, or an overall yearly average of



- 19 -
7,300 (66% of the appraisal targets) new classrooms for the entire investment
period.
2.28        The major problems which affected SBP include:  (a) realignment of
project sites which were often outside the control of DECS. To minimize these
incidents, a more systematic reporting/feedback mechanism was set and site
selection procedures, through OPS, followed the results of its School Location
Planning Study. However, this problem still persisted through the project
cycle; (b) the SBP was beset by non-compliance with building specifications by
the contractors who could receive final payments, even without the concurrence
of the DECS representative, so long as project accomplishments were properly
certified by a government engineer which in this case, comes from DPWH; and
(c) the lack of proper coordination of management efforts at the DECS Regional
Offices.
2.29        In order to ptovide a base for the development of staff,
curriculum and materials at the regional levels, one Regional Educational
Learning Center (RELC) was constructed in each of the 13 regions (two RELCs in
Region IV on account of its size and geographical location). Six RELCs (in
Regions III, IV, IX, X, XI and XII) were constructed between 1982 and 1983
within the contract schedule of 120 days and the cost estimate of P 1 million
each. They were directly managed by the DPWH. Completion of the other seven
RELCs was considerably delayed in view of their implementation by phases.
Phases I and II were managed and supervised by the DPWH with funds coming from
its office and the DECS. Phase III which was financed out of loan proceeds
was fully managed by the regions under the technical L pervision of EDPITAF.
2.30        The project included the construction of the National Educational
Learning Center (NELC) to serve as the apex of all the RELCs. The NELC
construction (January 1988-April 1989) exceeded the contract completion period
of 180 days by nine months owing to slippage during the early months (21t
accomplishment against 75% target within five months of construction).
2.31        To accommodate the increase in volume of textbooks and facilitate
their distribution at the local level, 26 provincial textbook warehouses and a
central warehouse annex were constructed. Construction of the provincial
warehouses and the central annex, which were started in early 1986 and
December 1987, respectively, was supervised by EDPITAF.
2.32        PRODED was to provide:  (a) tablet chairs, grader's tables,
teachers' tables with chairs and chalkboards to schools identified as
underprovided in terms of books, teachers, equipment and furniture; and (b)
furniture for the multi-purpose workshops and learning centers. Classroom
furniture procurement was done in phases. The assistance package for 1982 was
considered as Phase I, that for 1985-86 as Phase II and the 1986-88 package as
Phase III. These last two phases formed the greater bulk of PRODED's
furniture program.  Another major package comr-ised the furniture for training
centers and dormitories.
2.33        The bulk of classroom furniture contracts were awarded to various
trade schools through direct negotiations. Furniture items for the learning
centers and dormitory facilities were purchased through Local Competitive
Bidding procedures. The major problems which hampered contract execution by
the trade schools were: (a) revalidation of CDCs was very slow which resulted
in delayed release of contract payments; (b) the Regional Quality Control



- 20
Officer designated to sciuervise and monitor manufacturing and delivery work
was not accorded adequate logistical support; and (c) lack of technical
capability of certain regions to manage and implement furniture projects in
their respective jurisdictions. Positive externalitie& were observed as a
result of contracting the trade schools such as student laborers who
participated in the project were able to develop their vocational skills while
generating income, out-of-school yout',s and unemployed adults in the community
were given employment opportunities, and the undertaking served as an
additional source of income for vocational teachers.
2.34        The equipment and reference materials which were provided to the
regional and subregional offices of DECS were the minimum basic requirements
of the recipient office/school.  Procurement of this equipment suffered delays
and certain items were not procured as planned due to organizational and
management changes as well as implementation problems such as difficulty in
preparing specifications in accordance with Bank requirements, and existing
policies on contract approval. To facilitate the procurement process,
EDPITAF, PTS and BEE in 1985 jointly undertook a thorough review and
evaluation of PRODED's procurement program. Realignments in program
requirements were effected in terms of equipment itemization and quantity,
specifications, selection of prospective recipients and schedules. The bids
and awards committee introduced the conduct of pre-bidding conferences which
ensured the clarity and orderliness of the tender documents,
Management Problems
2.35        Lack of baseline data and different statistics from various
offices at the central and field levels posed problems to planning and funds
allocation. This problem eased towards the end of the -iroject when the
Electronic Data Processing unit of OPS, which was the official source of all
DECS statistics, became operational.
2.36        Organizational st-:uctures and the necessary staffing complement
which were recommended by the project were either acted upon only after a long
time with low salary rates, or totally disapproved. Recruitment was therefore
delayed, causing further constraints to project operations. As a remedial
measure, requests for secondment or detail of qualified staff from different
offices were made to respond to the project staffing requirements.
2.37        The project management encountered difficulties in soliciting the
participation of a big number of project implementors from the central,
regional and sub-regional levels. Reaching out to them, involving them in
decision-making, making them fully aware of the program and soliciting their
actual participation posed continuing problems that had to be reckoned with
from the planning to the implementation phase.
2.38        The process of reimbursement from the loan funds was impaired by
the slow submission of Bank-required supporting documents by the Regional
Offices and by external agencies involved in the project. Further,
liquidation of cash advances took a long time and the project had to closely
monitor regional staff to retrieve financial statements needed for subsequent
fund releases.
2.39        The Special Account, a mechanism originally planned to facilitate
withdrawal of Loan proceeds, actually did not contribute to better fiscal



- 21 -
management. The project should have been able to maximize the Special Account
utilization if it were governed by a modified control syetem, approved by
appropriate fiscal agencies, instead of its being subjected to the usual
budgeting procedures.
Proiect Outcomes
2.40        In general, the various project inputs have helped in the
upgrading of the elementary education sector as well as of the whole DECS
machinery in the areas of policy, management and sector performance. All the
project efforts were geared towards the overall improvement of the sector
performance during and beyond the project cycle, in terms of quality, access
and efficiency.
2.41        A test of pupil performance was conducted for Grade 6 classes, the
terminal grade of the elementary level, during the school year 1988/89. These
classes completed Grades 1 to 6 under the NESCO An overall mean score of
47.34 across subject areas was obtained. This was 52 higher than the overall
mean obtained by the Grade 6 classes in the Survey of Outcomes of Elementary
Education (SOUTELE) test of 1976, and 10% higher than the score of the 1983
HSMS Grade 6 samples. The three surveys are all national in scope and covered
the same subject areas; however, different test instruments were used. The
SOUTELE and HSMS results indicate a decrease in the achievement levels of
elementary school graduates between 1976 and 1983, and a widening of
disparities in achievement among pupils as indicated by the almost doubling of
the standard deviation. The statistics also suggest that further
deterioration of pupil performance between 1983 and 1989 has been arrested,
although wide variations in performance among students persisted. It can be
noted that the data from the three surveys showing that pupils knew only less
than half of what they ought to know, indicate that much is still to be
desired in terms of quality in elementary education.
2.42        The participation rate registered improvements from the base year
of 88.87 in 1979 to 91.9% in 1989. The overall participation rate for both
public and private sectors registered at 99.6%, indicating a very satisfactory
DECS performance in terms of encouraging school entry.
2.43        The cohort survival rate registered slight gains.  In 1979, the
rate was 63.52 and it increased to 65.7% in 1988/89. The gain was lower than
the project expectation of 78% by 1986.
2.44        On the whole, the performance of the elementary sector has shown
some improvements; however, the magnitude of effect attributable to the
project still has to be established. It should be noted, that not all PRODED
inputs were in place as of project completion time (school year 1987/88). Two
other summative studies initiated by the project called Project Impact and
HSMS Round II would be able to assess in depth the effects of PRODED on
educational performance.
2.45        Partial results on impact of the project on the private sector
were derived through a mini-survey. Initial results showed the following:
(a) almost all the suppliers and contractors surveyed said that their
involvement provided them the opportunity to offer better quality service to
clients; (b) the teachers and administrators group said that their involvement
resulted in better management techniques, greater awareness of the needs of



- 22 -
elementary clients, deeper commitment to quality education and sincere concern
for the teacher's needs and welfare. On the whole, the non-government offices
felt that their involvement in PRODED had very positive effects on them.
2.46        To a great extent, institutionalization and subsequent
decentralization of project inputs were achieved by the project. The
structures and activities initiated by the different project components are
now being sustained in the regions, resulting in more enhanced responsibility
of the field staff. However, it is to be noted that some issues still affect
the process of implementation at the subregional level, such as the general
lack of adequately trained staff, systems and resources to facilitate the
performance of the new functions attendant upon decentralization.
Proiect Costs, Financing and Disbursement
2.47        The total project cost estimated at appraisal was P 3.56 billion
or an equivalent of US$448 million consisting of P 2.61 billion or US$348
million local counterpart funds and a P 0.75 billion or US$100 million loan
from the World Bank. In 1986, a second loan restructuring was effected by the
project through a reduction of the loan amount from US$100 million to US$80.5
million. The Government counterpart was correspondingly increased pursuant to
the priority attention given by the new Administration to the education
sector. In Peso terms, the project cost estimated at appraisal increased by
project closing to F 6.116 billion. This increase appears to have been caused
by two major factors: the steady increase of the exchange rate of the Peso to
the US Dollar from P 7.50 to P 21.09 in 1988, and the continued increase in
the cost of equipment, furniture and construction materials. The real Peso
value of project using 1981 prices is only P 3.252 billion which is 47Z lower
than the nominal value. Project funds disbursement extended to December 1988
from the original schedule of December 1986, 24 months behind schedule due to
multifarious problems that beset project implementation especially during the
early stages. The total Loan proceeds withdrawn for the project amount to
about US$80.0 million.
Bank Performance
2.48        The sector approach of the project necessitated the continuing
review and modifications of the project plans and strategies at the different
stages of implementation.  The Bank provided assistance in the following
areas:  (a) accelerating the withdrawal of Loan proceeds; (b) planning for the
unallocated amount of the Loan proceeds; (c) contract review; and
(d) monitoring the progress ot project components.
2.49        The periodic Bank supervisory and review missions made possible
the joint assessments with the project staff towards more efficient project
operations. The Bank visits averaged twice a year during the peak
implementation years 1984-87. For its part, the project management
synchronized its own work with the scheduled visits of the Bank so that both
could conduct simultaneous review of project activities and field visits.
2.50        While the Loan Agreement specified a substantial amount for
foreign consultants, the Bank concurred in the project management decision not
to hire foreign experts and, instead, use the funds for fellowships--a move
that benefitted teachers, school administrators and educational managers.



- 23 -
2.51        The project records show that while the Bank gave immediate
responses and approval of project requeots for the acquisition of simple
learning materials such as globes, maps and office equipment, it took time
before it gave comments on more sophisticated items such as the microcomputer,
hardware and software, audio-visual equipment and the mainframe computer
upgrade. The average response time for the latter was three to five weeks.
2.52        The Bank's standing practice of allowing only bulk withdrawal
applications hampered efforts to accelerate Loan disbursements. There were
differing opinions from Bank mission members on procedures pertinent to loan
withdrawals for the technical assistance contracts, and on some items eligible
for disbursements.
2.53        The Bank review mission members who visited the project at various
stages were education specialists, finance staff, research specialist,
economists and project management staff. The education specialist closely
monitored the project only until early 1985, after which the other Bank staff
took turns in visiting the project until completion date. The project notes
that after 1985, there was a loose continuity of Bank review as the new
mission members had to be oriented on the project operations.
Recommendations
2.54        For future development projects similar to PRODED, a directive
identifying the office which has overall project responsibility should be made
by proper authorities to facilitate project implementation.
2.55        Future sector project plans should take into account the full
cycle of development-through-utilization of inputs in each project component,
and arrive at a timetable that synchronizes all these. Activities should be
well orchestrated so that components that require antecedent activities like
teacher training and books development may be implemented as scheduled.
Fellowship and staff development scheme both at the central and regional
offices should also be planned early so that actual training can start upon
availability of funds and thus, expertise and skills gained can be utilized by
the project during implementation and later in the eventual
institutionalization and decentralization phases.
2.56        Changes in structures, systems and management are logical
consequences of top leadership reorganizations. However, it is desirable for
new officials to first try out the existing project structures, system and
staffing complements before implementing organizational modifications. This
will minimize disruption of the proje.t implementation.
2.57        It is suggested that work plans and schedules take into account
the financial environment so that more realistic schedules and time frames can
be drawn up. In implementing innovations introduced by the project (i.e.,
Special Account), an equally innovative approach in budgeting procedures could
be adopted, without prejudicing governmernt interest.
2.58        It is strongly recommended that the DECS leadership restudy the
government directive to convert the IMC to a regular government agency under
the DECS. Despite many difficulties, the IMC was able to deliver the
requirements of PRODED precisely because of its semi-autonomous operations.



- 24 -
2.59        It is recommended that future projects attend to the ERP inputs
which may be harnessed in future activities. The project was able to develop
a fully committed '-orps of trainers who could staff the regional training
projects. The sector should attend to the continuing upgrade of competencies
of this corps to assure the availability of their expert services. In
addition, the Learning Action Cell as part of the staff development program at
all levels should be strengthened, revitalized and given financial support.
2.60        The existing guidelines state that the School Building Committees
(SBCs) chaired by the local chief executives shall be responsible for
formulating school building proposals. However, DECS as the actual user of
schools should have full control and authority over site selection and
prioritization. Hence, it is recommended that SBCs be reconstituted so that
the DECS representative will sit as the Chairman.
Insights and Lessons Learned
2.61        The utilization of Loan proceeds has consequences beyond project
parameters. Although not a primary concern, the project hoped to generate
positive externalities specifically those which may help the domestic bus:.ness
community through the purchase of locally made or manufactured learning
resources, equipment, office materials and other inputs. However, it was
noted that all throughout the project life, the sector identified requirements
that had to be imported (about half of the procured goods were imported).
2.62        The quality of services of many local experts was equal to those
of foreign experts. The project observed that the local education specialists
and consultants hired for the project were able to give expert guidance to the
project in as satisfactory a manner as foreign experts did. Similarly, in the
area of awarding fellowships, the project utilized the services of a number of
reputable local educational institutions which were able to satisfactorily
train sector staff. This measure proved to be cost beneficial and the project
was able to grant fellowships to more sector personnel.
2.63        The sector has a weak voice in technical activities.  Experience
shows that DECS and the project monitors cannot make technical assertions
especially on construction activities, since they are viewed more as educators
or teachers than as technical staff knowledgeable with construction work. As
a result, school building projects are generally completed and turned over
without taking into account the comments of DECS end-users.
2.64        Political inputs in the selection of school recipients are part of
social processes in a country like the Philippines. Local politicians have a
pivotal role in bringing the national development efforts to the farthest and
smallest constituent. However, DECS is concerned over the choice of priority
recipients in some areas because some politicians work for the construction of
school buildings in areas where they have political support but which do not
form part of DECS priority.
2.65        Values development and borrowing in the Philippine context are
generally regarded as issues that conflict.  "Living within one's means" is
one of the rallying points in the present values development framework of the
curriculum. In the business and economic circles, however, obtaining loans is
an accepted practice. It is, therefore, a challenge to the education sector
as well as other groups to evolve an appropriate place for this practice in
the overall value orientation of the Filipinos.



- 25 -
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL ECONOMIC AND DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
NEDA sa Pasig, Amber Avenue, Pasig, Metro Manila
Cable Address: NEDAPHIL
P.O. Box 419, Greenhills
Tels. 673-50-31 to 50
15 August 1991
Asst. Sec. Ramon Bacani
Office of the Planning Service
Department of Education, Culture and
Sports (DECS)
Rizal Building, University of Life
Maralco Avenue, Pasig
Dear Assistant Secretary Bacani:
This refers to the draft Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Program
for Decentralized Educational Development (PRODED).
We are presently verifying with our Project Monitoring Staff (PMS) the
figures/data used in the PCR to ensure accurate and up-to-date reporting. We
shall inform you of our observations and corrections on the figures as soon as
they are available.
Meanwhile, we note that certain points still need to be smplified/
included in the report, namely:
(a)   analysis of the magnitude and efficiency of project fund flows
from the national down to the community level (since the PCR
concentrated mainly on fund flows between the Bank and Borrower
only);
(b)   effect of textbook production/distribution on textbook-pupil
ratio;
(c)   analysis of the marginal cost per pupil arising from the
implementation of the project;
(d)   findings/results of the major research studies undertaken under
the project and an analysis of their utilization; and
(e)   effect of the regional autonomy thrust, i.e. establishment of the
Cordillera Administrative Region (CAR) and the Autonomous Region
of Muslim Mindanao (ARMM), on the implementation/performance and
institutionalization of PRODED.



- 26 -
In addition, we observed that project benefits were assessed in terms of
the actual vis-a-vis the target levels of various sectoral indicators such as
the participation rate, cohort survival ratio, student achievement, and
student-teacher ratio. Extreme care should be taken in this regard since
various factors outside the project may significantly influence the above-
mentioned indicators. There may be a need to specify the relationships
between each of these indicators, on one hand, and the project inputs on the
other.
Best regards.
Very truly yours,
FLEUR DE LYS 0. TORRES
Director IV
Social Development Staff



27 -
PART III. PROJECT DATA
Table 3.1:   RELATED  IBRD LOANS/IDA CREDIT
Loan/Credit Number                                                            Year of Approval
Project Title                            Purpose                               Status
Loan 393-PH                                                                    1964
The Development    Assist a five-year development program of the University of  Completed
Program of the     the Philippines College of Agriculture (UP-CA) through the  and closed in
University of the  construction, renovation and equipment of college facilities,  December 1972
Philippines College   and support to staff training, curriculum and research activities
of Agriculture
Credit 349-PH                                                                  1972
Second Education   Improve agricultural and industridl education and training by  Completed
Project            supporting two regional agricultural colleges, 1 3 agricultural  and closed in
high schools, 10 regional manpower training centers, three  December 1978
technical institutes, and the training of extension personnel
Loan 1224T-PH                                                                  1976
Third Education    Develop and distribute 27 million textbooks, and support    Completed
(Textbook) Project  related curriculum development and teacher training; establish    and closed
an educational management information system and carry out a   in June 1 983
pre-investment study on the use of educational mass media
Loan 1374-PH                                                                   1977
Fourth Education   Strengthen specialized facilities for forestry, animal science  Closed in
Project            and veterinary medicine at the UP-CA, develop a regional    December 1983;
agricultural college in the central Philippines and provide  completed in 1985
training for agricultural extension workers and farmer leaders
Loan S008-PH                                                                   1978
Fifth Education    Support experimentation in educational radio for classroom  Completed
(Mass Media Pilot)  use and in-service teacher training                       and closed in
Project                                                                        December 1981
Loan 1786-PH                                                                   1979
Sixth Education    Strengthen technical end managerial expertise and research  Closed in
(Fisheries Training)  for fisheries development through the establishment of a  December 1989;
Project            university-based national center, and a network of regional  completed in
fishery technology institutes and fishermen treining centers  December 1990
Loan 2200-PH                                                                   1982
Vocational Training   Strengthen the national industrial training system by    Completed in
Project            restructuring the National Manpower and Youth Council,      December 1990;
increasing training capacity in sector-training centers,   scheduled for
establishing a system of contracting for training, and     closing in April
expanding trade testing and certification                  1991
Loan 3244-PH                                                                   1990
Second Elementary  Increase equity, efficiency and quality through the provision  Effective on
Education Project    and improved distribution of classrooms, desks, textbooks and    August 30, 1990;
equipment, improvement of the professional c. mpetence of  currently under
teachers and school administrators, introductiot on a pilot  implementation
basis of measures to prevent elementary school dropout,
expansion of literacy training, and further development of
institutional capacities for planning and management



- 28
Related IBRD Loans/IDA Credit
3.1      The Bank lending strategy for education in the Philippines has
sought to develop the technical and managerial skills needed for economic
growth, and to improve the provision and quality of basic education as the
essential foundation of human resource development. These objectives have
been pursued through eight IBRD loans and one IDA credit, with a total lending
amount of US$432 millior equivalent. The Bank has supported five projects for
the development of middle- and higher-level agriculture, fisheries and
industrial training; and four basic education projects, including the
elementary education sector project reviewed in this report and its follow-up
project. The Second Elementary Education Project, which became effective on
August 30, 1990, would assist the Government in building on the achievements
of the first project while continuing to address the persistent quality,
efficiency and equity issues in elementary education.
Project Timetable
3.2      Preparation.  The project was broadly identified subsequent to
discussions with the Government based on an August 1977 education sector
memorandum. Since 1972, the Bank had been working primarily with EDPITAF, a
non-civil service, semi-autonomous arm of the DECS created in that year. With
higher staff salaries and dynamic leadership, EDPITAF had become an effective
project development and implementing agency. The task at hand was to create
similar capabilities in the DECS central offices (as was the original intent
behind the creation of EDPITAF), in addition to developing the managerial
capacities of the DECS regional offices established in 1975. The initiating
project brief of September 18, 1978 proposed a project confined to one or two
regions to address these obje:tives in a limited geographical context as a
basis for developing institutional and educational approaches which could
subsequently be replicated in other regions. The Bank was also considering at
this time a separate project to improve the quality of basic education through
the provision of instructional materials and use of instructional media,
following on the earlier Textbook Development and Mass Media Pilot Projects
(Loans 1224-T and S-8, respectively). The proposed regional education and
basic education projects were to be supported by Bank loans of US$25 million
and US$20 million, respectively.
3.3      The decision to focus the project on the elementary education
subsector derived from the Government's long-term education development plan,
which highlighted the need for improved quality instruction at this level.
Project briefs dated February 2 and November 8, 1979 reflected the revised
scope of the project and the adoption of the sector lending approach. On the
recommendation of the preappraisal mission, an increase in the loan amount to
US$55 million was approved in March 1980. Shortly thereafter, it was agreed
that the second phase of textbook development and production would be
incorporated into the elementary education project, to ensure continuity in
these efforts and closer coordination with overall subsector development
objectives, as well as to reduce the overall number of projects in the Bank's
lending program. The final loan amount was set at US$100 million during
negotiations in May 1981.



29 -
Table 3.2:  PROJECT TIMETABLE
---- ----------  - D  a t e  s --------------
Planned    Revised    Revised
Stage              (Feb. 1979 ^') (Aug. 1984) (Jun. 1986)  Actual
Identification
(Initiating Project Brief)                               9/18/78
Preparation           1/79-9/79                             5/79 b'
Preappraisal              12/79                            11/79 2'
Appraisal                  6/80                             9/80 d/
Loan Negotiations          8/80                             5/81
Board Presentation        11/80                          6/30/81
Loan Signing              12/80                          8/25/81
Loan Effectiveness         3/81                         11/10/81
Completion                12/85      12/86      6/88       12/88
Loan Closing              12/86      12/86    12/88    12/31/88
e/ Planned dates for completion and loan closing are those stated in the original
Loan Agreement dated August 25, 1981.
b/ Date of a visit to Bank headquarters by an EDPITAF team undertaken in lieu
of a formal Bank preparation assistance mission .o the Philippines.
2X The class, ' ronstruction component was preappraised in March 1980.
d/ Date of main appraisal mission. The classroom construction and monitoring
and evaluation components were appraised in July 1980. Two post-
appraisal missions reviewed progress in the instructional materials and
evaluation components in February and March 1981, respectively.
3.4       Implementation.  More than two and one-half years after Loan
Effectiveness, only US$5.7 million had been disbursed (includirng a US$2.6
million deposit into the Special Account), compared to an appraisal estimate
of US$25 million. The Bank's June 1984 supervision mission initiated
discussions on a program to complete implementation and realize project
objectives, with agreement reached on a restructuring plan during the October
1984 supervision mission. There was no change in the range of activities
supported under the sector program although their scope was modified to ensure
attainment of objectives. The restructuring agreement signed in January 1985
added civil works as a category for loan financing, reallocated loan proceeds,



- 30 -
PROJEC TIMETABLE
12/88  12/88
L          10 12/BO  3/8          1/88
/7/
INITIATING PB  PREAPPRAISAL  NEGOTIATIONS    SIGNING  COMPLETION
PREPARATION    APPRAISAL    BOARD DATE  EFFECTIVENESS   CLOSING
Stage
{3 Planned -K Revised  - Actual
increased disbursement percentages, raised the authorized allocation of the
Special Account, and allowed financing from the Account for foreign as well as
local expenditures. The agreement also noted the likelihood that the Closing
Date would have to be extended by at least one year.
3.5      Dramatic improvements in project implementation were achieved in 1985
and maintained during the first half of 1986, despite the change in
Government. Still, with only six months remaining to the original Closing
Date, only 35% of the Loan had been disbursed. Bank financing of civil works
did not accelerate disbursements as expected, due to the difficulty of
collecting supporting documentation for reimbursements from the DPWH district
and regional offices. The Government requested from the Bank a two-year
extension and a second Loan restructuring, based on an updated plan of project
activities and expenditures, and taking into consideration proposed increases
in the investment and recurrent budgets for education. The two-year extension
was also to allow full implementation of the new curriculum to the end of the
elementary cycle, with increased financing provided to textbook production and
teacher training. The second restructuring agreement involved the
cancellation of US$19.5 million of the Loan effective December 10, 1986, and
reallocation of loan proceeds in line with the Government's revised program.
The Closing Date was extended by one year to December 31, 1987, with the
understanding that a second extension would be granted subject to satisfactory
progress in meeting revised implementation targets. The formal request to



31 -
further extend the Closing Date to December 31, 1988 was submitted to the Bank
in October 1987. The Loan Agreement was amended in January 1988 to reflect
the new Closing Date as well. as to revise lcan allocations and permit the
financing of future project preparetion and sector studies. In accordance
with Bank policy at the time, the Bank was to disburse against withdrawal
applications received within six monLhe of the Closing Date, but this deadline
was extended to August 31, 1989 upon the request of the Government.
Table 3.3: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
-----------------  Cumulative disbursements in US$ million -----------------------
Actual
IBRD fiscal  Appraisal       Revised         Revised         as % of
year/semester   estimates     estimates       estimates       appraisal
May 1981 Actual  Feb. 1985 Actual  Dec. 1986 Actual  estimates
1982 2nd         1.5  2.7 1'                                   179
1983 1st         5.0  3.0                                       60
2nd         11.0  3.5                                      32
1984 1st        18.0  5.4                                       30
2nd        25.0  5.7                                       23
1985 1 st       33.0  7.3                                       22
2nd        45.0            20.0  13.5                      30
1986 1st        65.0            32.0  20.9                      32
2nd        90.0            54.0  30.5                      34
1987 1st       100.0           76.0  35.3                       35
2nd                       100.0            48.3  49.4      49
1988 1st                                       60.3  62.4       62
2nd                                        71.5  65.9      66
1989 1st                                       80.5  69.4       69
2nd                                        80.5  76.5      77
1990 1st                                       80.5  80.0       80
a/ Included US$2.6 million deposit into the Special Account.
Disbursements
3.6      PRODED was the first project in the Philippines for which a Special
Account was established. While the Bank's Legal Department expressed concern
about introducing this procedure, it was the combined judgment of the then-
Projects, Programs and Controller's Departments that the Special Account would
accelerate disbursements cnd thus facilitate timely implementation of the
project. The Account was maintained in the Central Bank of the Philippines
and controlled by the Bureau of the Treasury. It was originally intended to
be used for local expenditures only, to be replenished by the Bank on receipt



32 -
hgure 2:
CUMULAThV LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
loc                                          /  ,
90     _ _ _ _ _-   --   
60      _ _ _ _ _  
-50 
~40                              -
a)
~-20
*~10
1982  1q83  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990
IBRD fiscal year
Appraisal estimate  B   Revised estL 1985    )K Revised est 1986  -&-Actual
of statements of expenditures and withdrawal applications with appropriate
supporting docume.its covering the relevant items.  The Government was to .akek
entire payments (its share of the financing and the Bank's) and submit
appropriate documentation to the Bank before it could draw the relevant amount
of the loan proceeds from the Special Account. The Loan Agreement required
the submission to the Bank of certified mon'.hly statements and annual audit
reports of the Special Account.
3.7      Because existing Government policy required that an account funled
from proceeds of a foreign loan must be maintained in local currency, an
initial deposit of Pesos 22.0 million (US$2.6 million equivalent) was made in
April 1982, and all subsequent replenishments were made in Pesos. In the 1985
restructuring agreement, it was agreed that the Special Account should be
available for both local and foreign expenditures and that the allocation for
the Account should be increased from US$3 million to US$8 million. A Special
Account denominated in US Dollars was thus established in June 1985, and the
Peso Account was terminated. As a result of the Account having been
maintained in the local currency and the exchange rate having in-creased from
Pesos 8.5 per US Dollar in 1982 to Pesos 18.8 in 1985, the Government
sustained a loss equivalent to about US$1.6 million.



- 33 -
Table 3.4: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Objective/Target Defined at Appraisal       Actual Accomplishmont/PCR Estimate
School Buildinn Proaram
On average, 11,000 new            From 1982 to 1988, a total of 48,632 new classrooms were
classrooms would be constructed   constructed, for an average of about 7,000 classrooms annually.
annually.                         2,608 multi-purpose workshops and 863 toilets were also
constructed.
Rehabilitation of classrooms would    9,751 classrooms were repaired or rehabilitated.
also be supported.
Textbook Warehouses
26 textbook warehouses would be    Accomplished, bringing the total number of local warehouses in
constructed to reduce the distance    the textbook distribution system to 152. Construction of the 26
between stocks and end-users.     provincial textbook warehouses started in November 1986 and
was completed in 1986. Construction of an annex to the IMC
central warehouse began in December 1987 and finished in 1988.
These construction activities were supervised by EDPITAF.
13 regional training centers would  14 Regional Educational Learning Centers (RELCs) were
be provided to support staff      constructed (two for Region IV). DPWH oversaw the construction
development activities.           of six RELCs completed between 1982 and 1983, and the first
phase of construction of seven other RELCs. In 1985, completion
of RELC projects became the responsibility of DECS Regional
Offices under the technical supervision of EDPITAF. Dormitories
were added to all RELCe between 1986 and 1989 to permit
greater utilization of the training centers.
Existing facilities at the Baguio Teacher's Camp were upgraded so
house a National Educational Learning Center (NELC). Work
undertaken from January 1988 to April 1989 was supervised
initially by a Construction Manager and later by EDPITAF.
Furniture, Equipment and Materials
Furniture would be provided to    From 1982 to 1986, about 1 10,000 chairs and 20,000 tables
reduce acute shortfalls in school  were produced by selected schools of arts and trades, meeting
districts with poor performance.  about 10% of furniture needs for new classrooms. About
600,000 school desks were produced in 1986-87 under the
Community Employment and Development Program, a local
emplyrment generation project.
Furniture was also provided for multi-purpose workshops and the
RELCs (including dormitories). The total value of furniture
procured under the project was US$26.6 million. The Loan
financed US$7 million of classroom furniture and US$0.4 million of
furniture for other facilities.
Administrative equipment would be    The Loan financed US$1.4 million of equipment for agencies
provided for the DECS central and  attached to the DECS central offices (including BEE, OPS, FMS,
regional offices, and the regional  EDPITAF, NELC), and US$6.3 million for the DECS Regional
training centers.                 Offices and RELCs. Office, audio-visual and computer equipment,
and vehicles were provided.



34 -
Table 3.4:  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  (cont.)
ObjectivefTarget Defined at Appraisal            Actual Accomplishment/PCR Estimate
Reforence materials, including dictionaries, atlases,
encyclopedias, and library books, were provided to
schools and learning centers. The Loan financed
US$0.2 million of reference materials to BEE and
US$14 million to the DECS Regional Offices and
RELCs.
US$4.6 million of furniture and equipment was
provided to the regions from the 1988 and 1 987
Government budgets.
Phototypesetting equipment for preparing pilot   IMC received US$0.7 mii,on of equipment and
editions and a library of prototype publications    reference materials financed from Loan proceeds.
would be provided to the IMC.
Instructional Materials
About 11 million textboolks would be printed  From 1982 to 1988, about 54 million textbooks
and distributed annually.                   were distributed, two-thirds of which were new
curriculum texts. About 29 million workbooks for
Grades 1 and 2 in Pilipino and Mathematics were
also distributed.
About 6 million teacher guides and 500,000  About 2.6 million teacher guides, 758,000
supplementary materials would be provided to    supplementary and reference materials, and 186,000
support the basic textbooks.                charts were distributed.
Training WorkshoDs
Al professional staff involved in elementary  A national training agency was contracted to
ecucation at the DECS central and regional  develop training workshops for the project.
offices and IMC, and about 50% of school    Three basic training packages were implemented
heads and teachers would be trained during the   from 1982 to 1988:
period from 1982 to 1985.
- an Educational Systems Management Program
Training workshops to develop skills in       aimed at strengthening DECS management
organizational management and program         capabilities was provided to 384 Division/Assistant
planning would be provided to 555 professional    Division Superintendents, 2199 District
staff of the BEE, FMS and DECS Regional       Supervisors and 1947 Subject Area Supervisors.
Offices, 225 Division Superintendents and
1800 District Supervisors.                  - an Educational Planning and Management Program
aimed at improving school administration and
Workshops for 14,000 principals and 125,000  teacher supervision was provided to 18,410
teachers would support the introduction of the  principals and head teachers (100% of school
revised curriculum and instructional techniques.    heads); and
125 IMC staff would participate in workshops    - a Teacher Formation Program aimed at improving
on the development of instructional materials  instructional management skills was provided to
and management of publishing activities.      272,303 teachers (100% of elementary school
teachers).



35 -
Table 3.4:  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  (cont.)
Objective/Target Defined at Appraisal                Actual Accomplishment/PCR Estimate
In addition, 384 staff underwent an intensive
five-week Trainer Development Program aimed
at developing skills to manage teacher and other
staff training programs; and approximately
20,000 staff received training to lead Learning
Action Cells at the school, district, division
and regional levels.
Fellowships
About 250 DECS central and regional office staff  1,1 58 DECS staff participated in the fellowship
would participate in fellowship training, with  program, with a total of 1,e96 staff-months
awards totalling to 1,850 staff-months during the  provided as follows:
period from 1981 to 1985. 400 staff-months of                     Participants Staff-months
local and 200 staff-months of foreign degree    - Foreign degree       13        239
fellowships would be awarded. 1,000 staff-      - Foreign non-degree   1 s6      285
months of local and 250 staff-months of foreign  - Local degree        30        607
fellowships would be provided for non-degree     Local non-degree     949        565
training.
About 109 months of non-degree, foreign         56 IMC staff received a total of 94 staff-months
fellowship training would be provided for 30 staff    of foreign, non-degree training.
of IMC in management and accounting, textbook
writing and editing, design, manufacturing and
distribution.
Expert Services
180 staff-months of expert services (90 foreign,  T he project utilized 6 staff-months of local and
90 local) would be provided to DECS for         1.75 staff-months of foreign expert services.
educational testing and evaluation, school location
planning, date systems and processing, curriculum  A number of institutions were contracted to
and teaching methods, financial management and  assist in fjlfilling specific project tasks,
budgeting, and for introducing the monitoring   including a national training agency in the design
scheme for teacher supply and demand.           and implementation of the staff training program;
a local university-affiliated foundation in pianning
An additional 200 staff-months of loca! expert  the DECS management improvement program;
services would be provided to assist directly with    two private firms and a national training agency in
implementation of the development program.      developing the educational management
information system; a local educational testing
36 months of expert services would be provided  service in evaluating the new curriculum; and two
to develop workshops for IMC staff. 90 months   foreign institutes (Australian and U.S.) in
of foreign expert services would be provided for  administering the foreign fellowship programs.
six experts in textbook development, management   (No information is available about the number of
and production, printing, accounting and data   staff-months of expert services involved in these
processing.                                     various contracts.)



- 36 -
Table 3.5: PROJECT COSTS
(in US$ million)
Estimated Costs !'    Revised 1' Revised 4'    Final Costs
(Appraisal, May 19811   (01/85) (11/86)   (December 1988)
Category          Local Foreign  Total    Total   Total   Local Foreign Total
Schools and other     265.9  66.3  332.2    190.5 "' 294.2   204.3  51.1 255.4
civil works
Equipment, materials    1.7  37.3  39.1      31.9   29.9     1.5  36.9  38.4
and paper
Furniture              10.7   5.3   1 6.0     9.6   22.0    18.3   9.0  27.4
Printing, development
and distribution of
instructional
materials             14.4  11.8  26.3      14.4   13.7     9.0   7.3  16.3
Training workshops/
Staff development     21.0   2.3  23.2      10.7   19.6    16.0   1.8  17.8
Consultants' services
and fellowships/
Evaluation, studies    5.0   6.5  11.6       7.5   10.8     6.1   6.1  12.2
and preparation of
future projects
Project management      -      -     -        -       -      9.6   1.7  11.3
Total Project Cost    318.7  129.4  448.1    284.5  390.2   2 4.9 113.9 378.8
in Pesos million    2,390   971  3,361    4,781 e' 7,980   4,184 1,932 6,116
"' Estimated costs include physical and price contingencies.
b' Based on exchange rate of June 1985.
Proiect Costs
3.8      The total project cost was estimated at appraisal at US$448 million,
including US$134 million of contingencies, for expenditures over a four-year
period (1982-85). At the appraisal exchange rate of Pesos 7.5 to US$1, this
was equivalent to Pesos 3.4 billion. The final project cost was Pesos 6.1
billion, expended over seven years. Based on average annual exchange rates
ranging from Pesos 8.5 in 1982 to Pesos 22.5 in 1988, the final project cost
is estimated at US$379 million equivalent. The foreign exchange component was
estimated as follows: 20Z for civil works; 96Z for equipment, materials and
paper; 33% for furniture; 45% for printing, development and distribution of
instructional materials; 10% for training workshops; 502 for consultants'
services and fellowships; and 15% for project management.



_ 37 -
Table 3.6:  PROJECT FINANCING
(in US$ million)
Estimated Financing    Revised Loan Allocations  Final Financing
(Appraisal, May 1981)  (02/85) (12/88) (01/88)  (August 1989)
Category             GOP IBRD  Total   IBRD   IBRD   IBRD        GOP  IBRD  Total
Civil works            330   0 330
Schools                                 21      5.4      6.0    244.7   6.0  250.7
Other works                              2      1.8      2.0       2.3   2.3    4.8
Equipment, materials
and paper               0  35  35       28    26.9    30.0         8.0  30.4   38.4
Furniture                0  15  15        9      5.4      e.0      21.2  8.1   27.4
Instructional materials
Printing                0  10  10        a      8.0      9.0       1.1   9.6   10.8
Development and
distribution            5   5  10        4     3.6      4.0       2.7   2.9    5.8
Training workshops
(staff development)     7  13  20       10    11.7    13.0        4.1  13.7   17.8
Consultants' services
and fellowships/        0   9   9        7      9.7    10.5       4.8   7.4   12.2
Evaluation, studies
and preparation of
future projects
Project management             -   -       -       -        -      11.3     -   11 .3
Special Account          0   3   3        8      8.0        -         -  1.8    1.8'
Unallocated              8  10  16        5        -        -         -     -      -
TOTAL               348 100 448    100    80.5    80.5    300.4  80.0  380.4 k'
*' Represents the loss in US Dollar terms as a result of the depreciation of the local currency between
1982 and 1985 when US Dollar deposits into the Peso-denominat6d Special Account were converted
into the local currency and remained in the Account.
b/ Total cost of US$378.8 as reported by the Government (Table 3.5), plus the US$1.6 million Special
Account exchange rate loss.
Project Financing
3.9       The original Loan of US$100 million was to finance 22% of total
project cost. As a result of the 1985 loan restructuring, the share of Bank
financing was estimated to increase to 38% of total project cost. US$19.5
million was canceled in connection with the 1986 restructuring, and an
undisbursed amount of US$471,486.03 was canceled following the final
disbursement from the Loan on August 28, 1989. Loan proceeds totalling
US$80 million thus financed 21Z of the final total project cost.



- 38
Table 3.7:  PROJECT RESULTS
A.  Benefits
Objective/Target Defined at Appraisal              Actual/PCR Estimate
Intake Rate of 7-year olds
(Proportion of the 7-year old population enrolled
in the first grade)
The intake rate of 7-year olds would rise from  This indicator was not monitored.
74% in 1979/80 to 84% by 1985/86, and to
90% by 1990/91.
Net Participation Rate
(Ratio of enrolled students aged 7-1 2 to the  The Borrower's PCR reports that the net
total 7-12 population)                        participation rate in 1 979/80 was 89%, and
92% in 1988/89. A reduction in the proportion
The net participation rate would increase     of enrolled over- and under-aged students from
from 84% in 1979/80 to 90% by 1990/91.         15% in 1979/80 to 11 % in 1985/86 also
suggests an improvement in net participation.
Disparities, reflected in regional participation  Net participation rates by region are given
rates ranging from 54% to 95% in 1979/80,     below, but the data appear to be unreliable.
would be reduced.                             Region XII, for example, is reported to have a
net participation rate of 100%, compared to
54% in 1 979/80. The participation rates are
also inconsistent with the reported cohort
survival rates. DECS has continually had
problems reconciling their enrollment statistics
with official population figures.
Cohort Survival Rate
(Proportion of each entering cohort reaching the
final sixth grade within the prescribed 5 years)
The cohort survival rate would increase from  The survival rate of the cohort in Grade 6 in
65% in 1979/80 to 78% by 1985/86, and to      school year 1988/89 is 66%.
86% by 1990/91.
Disparities, reflected in regional survival rates  As shown in the table below, regional survival
ranging from 50% to 84% in 1979/80, would     rates in 1988/89 ranged from 47% in Region XIl
be reduced.                                   to 85% in the National Capital Region.
Student Achievement
Student scores on standardized achievement    Tests were administered to Grade 6 students in
tests would rise from an average of 48% in    school year 1988/89 in connection with the
1979/80 to 55% by 1985/86, and to 63% by      evaluation of the new curriculum. The overall
1990/91.                                      mean score was 47%, with a standard deviation
of 16. Since the tests were aimed at evaluating
the curriculum rather than student learning, the
results can only be taken as indicative of
continuing low achievement levels and wide
disparities in student performance.



- 39 -
Table 3.7: PROJECT RESULTS
A.  Benefits (cont.)
Net Participation Rates by Reaion
1979/80       1985186       1988/89
Region        Actual        Actual         Actual
1          88             93             99
1          92            92             87
CAR                                         92
III          90            91             96
IV           84            92             97
V           86             92             91
VI           86            8e             90
VIl          84             81             84
Vill          78            85             91
IX           95            91             99
X           85             90             91
Xi           80            92             97
XII          54             94            100
NCR            88            80             77
National          84            90             92
Cohort Survival Rates by Reqion
1978/79       1985/86       1985/86       1988/89
Region        Actual        Target         Actual        Actual
1          82             87            78             80
If          66            78             6o            e6
CAR                                                       61
III          77            84            77             77
IV           78            84            75             74
V           so             78            63             64
VI           60            74            60             64
VII          61             74            58             63
Vill          52            84            55             56
IX           51            71            48             52
X           64             77            57             58
Xl           66            78            59             60
XII          50             70            46             47
NCR            84            88            87             85
National          65            78            64             66
Note:  The Cordillera Administrative Region (CAR) was created in 1988 from
provinces previously included in Regions I and 11.
NCR is the National Capital Region.
Sources: Staff Appraisal Report (1978/79, 1979/80 and 1985/86 targets);
the Borrower's PCR (1 985/8 actual, 1988/89).



- 40 -
Table 3.7: PROJECT RESULTS
A. Benefits (cont.)
Objective/Target Defined at Appraisal              Actual/PCR Estimate
Teacher Utilization
Improvements in teacher utilization would be
reflected in:
- a decrease in the teacher-class ratio in Grades   The eacher-class ratio in Grades 5 and 6 was
5 and 6 from 2:1 in 1979/80 to 1.2:1 in     1.5:1 in 1988/89.
1986/87; and
- a corresponding increase in the elementary  The national elementary student-teacher ratio
student-teacher ratio from 31:1 in 1979/80 to    was 33:1 in 1988/89.
36:1 in 1986/87.
Disparities, reflected in regional student-teacher    Regional data given in the table below show a
ratios ranging from 25:1 to 39:1, in 1979/80  range from 29 students per teacher in Region I
would be reduced.                             to 38 students in Regions Xi and XII.
Students Per Teacher by Region
1979/80       1985/86        1988/89
Region         Actual        Actual         Actual
1           25             26             29
11          34             32              34
CAR                                           30
III          33             33             35
IV           31             32              33
V            32             32             33
VI           28             28              30
VIl           29             29             32
Vill          32             33              37
IX           32             33              37
X            36             34             37
Xi           39             35              38
XII           31             32             38
NCR            31             29              32
National           31            31              33
Sources: Staff Appraisal Report (1979/80);
the Borrower's PCR (1985/86, 1988/89).



- 41 -
Table 3.7: PROJECT RESULTS
B. Studies
Purpose of Studies as Defined at Aggraisal                Status and Impact
The project was to support research on the main issues in  58 studies were undertaken
elementary education and on experimental delivery systems.  between 1982 and 1989. As of
About 30 studies were to be undertaken from 1982 to 1985    August 1989, 23 final reports had
by research proponents from the Government and universities,   been submitted. The Borrower's
with regional cooperation as appropriate. Studies were to be    PCR lists the research studies
assessed on the basis of potential contributions to the   financed under the project.
achievement of program objectives and the formulation of
sector policies. Three studies were identified in the Staff
Appraisal Report, although their specific objectives were not
detailed: (a) the financing of education; (b) a review of
pre-service teacher training programs; and (c} the expected
impact of the elementary education development program on
the secondary school system.
Results of Studies Identified at Anoraisal
(a) The specific objectives of the 'Philippine Elementary Education Cost and Financing' study
(1988) were to estimate the recurrent expenditure of an average public elementary school, to
review alternative financing schemes, and to analyze the Government's policies and procedures
in estimating funding requirements for elementary education, in authorizing budget allocations,
obligating funds for the procurement of goods and services, and obtaining resources. The
results of the study were reportedIV utilized to initiate improvements in budget preparation and
allocation, and the administration and accounting of local and school funds.
(b) Four studies related to teacher education were undertaken: "Baseline Research on Elementary
School Teacher Education' (1982), "Trends in Teacher Supply and Demand" (1982),
"Capabilities and Prospects of Teacher Training Institutions in Region 111' (1983), and "Review of
the State-of-the-Art of Educational Research--Teacher Education (1983). These studies were
descriptive in nature, giving some basic data about teacher training institutions, courses offered,
enrollments and staff. A methodology for assessing teacher requirements at the national level
was the main feature of the 'Teacher Supply and Demand" study (1 987) undertaken by the
DECS central office.
(c) PRODED helped finance a series of studies on secondary education, including early estimations
of the effect of the elementarV education program on student enrollment, completion and
achievement levels. These studies served as inputs into a development plan designed to
strengthen policies, management and instructional programs in secondary education, and led to
the preparation of a secondary education project. Preparation activities related to the proposed
project were financed by PRODED, including technical assistance for detailed planning and the
provision of office equipment to selected secondary schools. The Government eventually
requested financing from the Asian Development Bank, which appraised the Secondary
Education Development Project in 1988 and is currently supervising its implementation.



- 42 -
Table  3.8:  COMPLIANCE WITH LOAN  COVENANTS
Loan Agreement
Reforence                   Covenant                            Status/Remarks
.. ,............. .......... .........................   ...........................  ............................   ................. ---------------....... ............... ....................... .............................
2.02  Open and thereafter maintain a Special Account on        Complied with. A Special Account in
(b)   terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.          Pesos woe established in April 1982;
in June 1986, the Peso Account was
closed and replaced by a Special
Account denominated in US Dollars
(pars. 3.7).
3.02  Award fellowships to qualified candidates in             Complied with.
accordance with criteria and procedures satisfactory
to the Bank, and employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment are satisfactory to the Bank.
3.04  Prepare and furnish to the Bank by June 30, 1989         Complied with. The Borrower's Project
(d)   (six months after the Closing Date) a report on the     Completion Report was submitted to
execution of the project, its cost and benefits, the    the Bank in August 1989.
performance of the Borrower and the Bank of their
respective obligations under the Loan Agreement,
and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
3.06  Acquire as needed all such land and rights as required   Complied with.
for carrying out the Project.
3.06  (a) Select and implement subprojects in accordance       Coniplied with.
with procedures outlined in Schadule 6 to the Loan
Agreement; and (b) furnish to the Bank for its review
and comments not less than three months before imple
mentation such subproject proposals as the Bank may
request.
3.07  Establish by October 31, 1981 the Instructional          Complied with. Executive Order No.
Materials Council end the Instructional Materials       806 creating the Instructional Materials
Corporation with powers, responsibilities, staff and    Corporation and Council was issued on
resources satisfactory to the Bank.                     May 27, 1982. On May 31, 1986,
Letter of Instruction No. 1463
confirmed the transfer to the
corporation of the Textbook Board
Secretariat staff and all assets and
liabilities, as well as all applicable
appropriations in the General
Appropriations Act of 1985 pertaining
to the DECS textbook program.
3.08  Appoint and retain suitably qualified staff in adequate  Complied with.
numbers at the DECS for the implementation of the
Elementary Education Program.
3.09  Avail of the expertise and staff of the EDPITAF or any   Complied with.
other agency of the DECS to provide assistance in
carrying out the Elementary Education Program under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.



- 43 -
Table 3.8:   COMPLIANCE WITH LOAN COVENANTS (cont.)
Loan Agreement
Reference                 Covenant                           Stetus;Remarks
.. ..................I........................   - -   -- - - - - - - - - -  ....... ........... .. ...... ........ .. .... ... ..........   ............. .... ... ......... .... ........ ...... .  .... . ....
3.10  Consult with the Bank in the event major changes in  Complied with.
the Policy Statement or Elementary Education
Program are required.
4.02  Maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance   Complied with.
(a)   with sound accounting practices the project
operations, resources and expenditures of the
agencies responsible for carrying out the project,
including separate accounts reflecting expenditures on
account of which withdrawals are requested from the
Loan Account on the basis of certificates of
expenditures.
(b)   Retain until one year after the Closing Date all records   Complied with.
evidencing the expenditures from the Loan Account
on the basis of certificates of expenditures, and
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to
examine such records.
4.03  Furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the   Annual reports were submitted as
(a)   end of each Government fiscal year (i.e., calendar  follows:
year) certified copies of audited financial statements  Calendar Year Date Received
and the report of such audits, including a separate      1982       May 1988
opinion as to whether the proceeds of the Loan           1983       July 1986
withdrawn from the Loan Account on the basis of          1984       July 1986
certificates of expenditures have been used for the      1986       November 1986
purpose for which they were provided.                    1986       November 1987
1987      September 1988
1988      May 1990
The 1989 report due on June 30, 1990
has not been received.
A separate opinion on certificates or
statements of expenditures (SOEs) has
not been included in the annual audit
reporte. The November 1986 review
mission received assurances from the
DECS Resident Auditor that the audit
of accounts from 1983 to 1985 included
a detailed audit of receipts relating to
SOEs.
(b)   Furnish to the Bank not later than four months after  A Special Account audit report was
the end of each Government fiscal year certified    submitted for calendar year 1986
copies of the audit of the Special Account and the  (received May 1988).
auditor's report, including a description of the auditing
procedures, and a separate auditor's opinion as to  Certified statements of the Special
whether the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the   Account were submitted with withdrawal
Special Account were used to make payments for      applications for replenishment of the
goods, works or services used for carrying out the  Account.
Project and eligible for financing under the Loan
Agreement; and furnish to the Bank each month
certified statements of the Special Account.



- 44 -
Table 3.9:  BANK MISSIONS
A. Identification through Appraisal
Estimated
Month/  No. of    no. of
Mission         Year    persons   staff-days  Specializations represented
Identification/
Reconnaissance    12/78       1        2      Education Planner                '
3/79        1       2       Education Planner                A1
Preparation       9/79        1        5      Education Planner
Preappraisal     11/79-       5       82      Economist, General Educator,
12/79                        Evaluation Specialist,
Management Specialist,
Education Planner
3/80        1        3      Architect                        c,
Appraisal         7/80        2       15      Architect, Evaluation Specialist    d/
9/80-       4      71       Economist, General Educator,
10/80                        P ,curement/Disbursement
Specialist, Educational Publisher
Post-appraisal    2/81        2       20      Economist, Educational Publisher   '
3/81        1      10       Evaluation Specialist
I  Sublot                         210
Note: The number of ,taff-davs was estimated from mission terms of reference, aide-memoires,
back-to-office reports and/or supervision reports.
f' To specify project objectives and components based on an initiating project brief issued
on September 18, 1978, and a revised brief dated February 2, 1979.
b/ To ascertain the status of project preparation by the Government. A four-person EDPITAF team
had visited Washington from May 14 to 20, 1979 to discuss the Government's draft Loan
Application. The final document was received by the Bank on November 6, 1979.
2f To preappraise the classroom construction component.
d/ To appraise the classroom construction and monitoring and evaluation components.
f' To post-appraise the project, with emphasis on the textbook component.
I' To review progress in the development of the evaluation component.



- 45
Table 3.9: BANK MISSIONS
B. 3upervision
Estimated                               Over-    Implemen-
Month/ No. of   no. of                                  all      tation
Mission     Year   persons  staff-days Specializations represented  status    problems
Supervision
l       10/81-     3       6       Architect, Gerneral Educator,    1
11/81                     Administrative Assistant
ll       6/82-     4      20       General Educator, Procurement    1    C, P, l
7/82                      Specialist, Architect, Economist
Ili     10/82      2       6       Architect, Economist             1    C (3); M, I
IV       2/83      1       2       General Educator                i'
V        9/83-     2      16       3eneral Educator, Evaluation     2    D (3);
10/83                     Specialist                             F, C, i
VI       6/84      3      17       Technical Educator, Economist,   2    D, F (3); M,
Loan Officer                          P. C, CO, I
VIl      9/84      1       4       Loan Officer
Vill    10/84      2       8       General Educator, Technical      2    D, F (3); M,
Educator                              P, C, CO. I
lX       2/85      2       4       General Educator, Technical      2    D (3); F, M,
Educator                              P. CO, I
Notes:
Overall status ratings: 1--problem-free or minor problems; 2--moderate problems; 3--major problems.
Implementation oroblems are the areas of project implementation reported on the Supervision
Summary (Form 590) as moderate or major problems (the latter indicated by a "3"). Prior to
April 1985, Form 590 ratings were required for, among others, the following:
C--Compliance with Loan Conditions; P--Procurement Progress; M--Management
Performance; D--Disbursements; F--Project Finances; CO--Anticipated Completion; l-
Institution-Building.
3' Review by the Country Coordinator of ongoing projects in the country; not a formal
supervision mission, thus only a back-to-office report was filed.
b/ Review of project implementation by the Loan Officer; not a formal supervision mission.



- 46 -
Table 3.9: BANK MISSIONS
C.  Supervision (cont.) through Project Completion
Estimated                              Over-    Implemen-
Month/ No. of  no. of                                 all       tation
Mission    Year  persons  staff-days  Specializations represented  status    problems
Supervision
X        6/85       1      4      General Educator                 2    AF, PM, Di
Xl       10/85      1      5      Architect                        2    AF, PM, Di
XII      1/86       1      3      General Educator                 2    AF, PM, Dl
XiII     6/86       1      5      Economist                        2    AF (3);
PM, DI
XIV      10/86     3      15      General Educator, Architect      2    PM, DI
Technical Educator
XV       3/87      4      20      Technical Educator, Architect,   2    PM, Dl
General Educator, Economist
XVI      10/87     2      10      General Educator, Economist      2    PM, DI
XVII     4/88      2       4      General Educator, Education      2    AF. PM, Di
Planner
XVIII    9/88       1      3      Procurement Specialist           2    Dl
Subtotal                   154
Completion   3/89      1      2       Procurement Specialist
(PCR)
5/89      1      2       Procurement Specialist
TOTAL                     368
Notes:
Overall status ratings: 1-prok,lem-free or minor problems; 2-moderate problems; 3-major problems.
Implementation problems are the areas of project implementation reported on Form 590 as
moderate or major problems (the latter indicated by a 3"). Revised in April 1985 and renamed the
Implementation Summary, Form 590 required ratings for the overall status of implementation and
the following: AF--Available Funds; PM--Project Management; DI-Development Impact.
Revised again in March 1989, Form 590 currently requires mandatory ratings for overall status,
project development objectives, compliance with legal covenants, project management peformance
and availability of funds. The last Form 590 on record is dated August 15, 1989 and gives a w23
rating to the project in each of these areas.



- 47 -
Table 3.10: BANK STAFF INPUTS BY FISCAL YEAR AND STAGE OF PROJECT CYCLE
(In staff-weeks)
IBRD  --------------------------- Stage of Project Cycle ---------------
fiscal  Identification Appraisal to
year   to appraisal negotiations Negotiations Supervision  Other El  Total
1977         3.9                                       0.1         4.0
1978         5.5                                       2.4         7.9
1979         3.6                                       2.9         6.5
1980        58.0       2.3                             2.7        63.0
1981        44.9      27.9       11.3       1.3       10.5        95.9
1982                                        7.7        0.1         7.8
1983                                        7.3        2.0         9.3
1984                                       12.3        1.2        13.5
1985                                        9.7        2.4        12.1
1986                                       11.8        0.6        12.4
1987                                       16.6        1.4        18.0
1988                                       12.9        0.1        13.0
1989                                        8.8        1.0         9.8
1990                                                   4.0         4.0
1991                                                  12.0        12.0
Total      115.9      30.2       113       88.4       43.4       289.2
1l Including Project Implementation Review, Administration and Completion Report.



