Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 22603-BR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
FOR A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$14.46 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
FINANCIAL SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
August 7, 2001
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Real (Rs$)
EXCHANGE RATE
1999 Rs$1.79 = US$1
June 2001 Rs$2.41 = US$1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADR            American Depository Receipt
BCB            (Banco Central do Brasil ) Brazil Central Bank
BIS            Bank for International Settlement
BNDESpar       (Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Econ6mico e Social - participaciones)
BOVESPA        (Bolsa de Valores de Sao Paulo) Stock Exchange of Brazil (Sao Paulo)
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CBTAL          Central Bank Modernization Technical Assistance Project
CMN            (Consehlo Monetario Nacional) National Monetary Council
CPMF           Contribuicao Provis6ria sobre Movimentacao Financeira
Provisional (tax) Contributions on Financial Transactions
CVM            (Comissao de Valores Mobiliarios do Brasil) Brazil Securities Commission
FSTAL          Financial Sector Technical Assistance Loan
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
IBRD           International Bank for Reconstruction and- Development
IAS            International Accounting Standards
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
IDB            Inter-American Development Bank
IFC            International Finance Corporation
IMF            International Monetary Fund
MOF            Ministry of Finance
NBF            Not Bank-financed
NCB            National Competitive Bidding
PCU            Project Coordinating Unit
PFSECAL        (First) Programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
PFRSAL         Programmatic Fiscal Reform Structural Adjustment Loan
PROER          Restructuring and Strengthening of the National Financial System.
PROES          Reduction of State level participation in banking activities
QCBS           Quality-and-Cost-Based Selection
SIAFI          Sistema Integrado de Administracao Financeira (government chart of accounts)
SISBACEN       Information System of the Central Bank
SOE            Statements of Expenditure
SPC           (Secretaria de Previdencia Complementar) Secretariat of Complementary Pension Funds
SUSEP          (Superintendencia de Seguros Privados) Superintendency of Pension Insurance
TA             Technical Assistance
TOR            Tenns of Reference
UNDP           United Nations Development Program
Vice President                               David de Ferranti
Brazil Country Director                      Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Director                              Danny M. Leipziger
Team Leader                                   Anjali Kumar



Brazil
Financial Sector Technical Assistance Project
CONTENTS
A Project Development Objective .................................................................2
1. Project development objective .................................................................2
2. Key performance indicators .................................................................3
B Strategic Context .................................................................3
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project .........3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy .................................................................4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices .................................7
C   Project Description  Summary .................................................................8
1. Project components .................................................................8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project .......................................9
3. Benefits and target population .................................................................9
4. Institutional and implementation  arrangements ............................................................ 10
D Project Rationale ................................................................                                                       11
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ............................................. 11
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ....... 12
3. Lessons learned and reflected  in the project design .................................. ................... 13
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ..............................                           ..................... 14
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ................................................................ 14
E  Summary Project Analysis ................................................................                                               14
1. Economic ................................................................                                                  14
2. Financial ................................................................                                                  15
3. Technical ................................................................ 15
4. Institutional ................................................................                                              15
5. Social ................................................................                                                     15
6. Environmental assessment ................................................................                                   15
7. Participatory  approach ................................................................                                    16
F Sustainability and Risks ................................................................                                                16
1. Sustainability ................................................................                                            16
2. Critical Risks ................................................................                                             17
3. Possible Controversial Aspects ................................................................                             17



G Main Loan Conditions ...........................                                                                                                  17
1. Effectiveness Conditions ........................... 17
2. Other ........................... 17
H Readiness for Implementation ........................                                                                                            S18
I Compliance with Bank Policies ....................................................                                                                18
Annexes
Annex  1.  Project Design  Summary  ..................................................... 19
Annex 2. Project Description ..................................................... 21
Annex 3.  Estimated  Project Costs ....................................................                                                            31
Annex 4. Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary. or
Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary .....                             ......... ................................ Not applicable
Annex 5. Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or
Financial Summary ....................................................                                         Not applicable
Annex  6.  Procurement and  Disbursement Arrangements ................................................ .... 34
Table A.            Project Costs by  Procurement Arrangements  .................................................... 35
Table  Al.   Consultant Selection  Arrangements  ...                                   ................................................. 36
Table B.    Thresholds for Procurement Methods and  Prior Review   ......................                                         ................ 37
Table C.  Allocation of Loan Proceeds.                                      .................................................... 40
Annex  7.  Project Processing  Budget and  Schedule ..................................................... 41
Annex 8. Documents in Project File ..................................................... 42
Annex  9.  Statement of Loans and  Credits ..................................................... 43
Annex 10. Brazil - Country at a Glance ........ ................... .                                                                               47



Brazil
Financial Sector Technical Assistance Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Brazil Country Department LCC5C
Date: August 7, 2001                                 Team Leader: Anjali Kumar
Country Manager/Director: Gobind T. Nankani          Sector Manager/Director: Danny Leipziger
Project ID: P073192                                  Sector: FS - Financial Sector Development
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)    Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention:   [ ]  Yes [X] No
Project Financing Data
[X] Loan       (I Credit      [3 Grant      Li  Guarantee       [  Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m):                    14.46
Proposed terms:  LIBOR based variable spread loan (VSL)
Grace period (years):            5
Years to maturity:              15
Commitment fee:                 0.75%
Service charge:                 n/a
Front-end fee on Bank loan:     1.0%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                                    Local            Foreign            Total
Government                                                 3.60                                3.60
IBRD (incl. front end fee)                                 2.30             12.16              14.46
IDA
Other (specify)
Total:                                                     5.90             12.16             18.06
Borrower: Federative Republic of Brazil
Guarantor: Ministry of Finance, Government of Brazil
Responsible agenc(ies): Banco Central do Brasil (BCB); Comissao de Valores Mobiliarios do Brasil (CVM)
Addresses and Contact persons
Banco Central do Brasil, SPS - Quadra 3 - Bloco B - Edificio Sede - 18 andar, 70074-900 Brasilia (DF), Brasil
Contact Person: Helio Jose Ferreira. Tel: (61) 414 1368; Fax: (61) 224 5360 email: hjose@bcb.gov.br
Comissao de Valores Mobiliarios, Rua Sete de Setembro, 111, Rio de Janeiro RJ CEP 20159-900, Brasil
Contact Person: Jose Alexandre C. Vasco Tel: (21)2212-0232 Fax (21)2212-0573 & 2212-0475 email : vasco(cvm.gov.br
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
FY                          2002          2003         2004        2005
IBRD Front end fee               0.14
Annual                 0.62        5.19         6.79         1.71
Cumulative                0.76         5.95        12.75        14.46
Project implementation period: 3 years
Expected effectiveness date: November, 2001           Expected closing date: June 30, 2005
OCS PAD Form: October 9, 1998



Page 2
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective. (see Annex I)
The central objective of the project is to support the development of institutional capacity to assist the
implementation of Brazil's program offinancial sector reforms. Brazil has embarked upon a far-reaching
program of financial sector reforms, which are being supported by the Bank through programmatic
adjustment lending. The First Programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (Loan 7053-BR) was
presented to the Bank's Board on May 24, 2001. The proposed Financial Sector Technical Assistance
project has been prepared in parallel to the first phase of programmatic lending, of $404 million, and will
facilitate the achievement of the reforms targeted for the next stages of programmatic lending. Subsequent
phases of programmatic lending will include two to three loans depending on the pace and depth of future
reform implementation, for a total amount ranging between US$800 million and US$1.2 billion.
The broad-based and comprehensive financial sector reform program pursued by the government and
supported by the Bank's programmatic lending includes: (a) actions to raise efficiency in financial
intermediation and broaden access to financial services, by strengthened credit contract enforcement,
improved debtor information, and reduction of risks in the payments system; (b) reforms to enhance
financial system transparency and the effectiveness of regulation and supervision for both the banking
system and securities markets through strengthening prudential norms and their enforcement,
rationalizing the division of responsibilities among supervisory agencies, enhancing institutional capacity
of the supervisory agencies, upgrading disclosure and accounting standards and improving corporate
governance for companies; and (c) steps to bolster defenses against financial crisis through more
effective bank failure resolution and deposit insurance systems and improved contingency crisis planning.
Not included in the Bank's program but also incorporated in the government's reform agenda are reforms
such as constitutional amendments enabling critical changes to central bank/financial system laws, as well
as deep restructuring of the federal banks.
The proposed project would therefore support both the achievement of these reform objectives and the
long term development of institutional capacity, through technical assistance to the two key financial
sector regulatory agencies in Brazil entrusted with the design and implementation of the reform program;
the Banco Central do Brasil (BCB, Brazil's central bank) and the Comissao de Valores Mobiliarios
(CVM, Brazil's securities commission). Technical assistance is targeted at a number of areas which are
included in the scope of the reform program and which would support the overall effectiveness of the
supervisory agencies. Specifically, assistance to the Central Bank would include: support to the reduction
of interest rate spreads and payments system reform, strengthening of banking supervision, regulation,
and failure resolution as well as enhanced preparedness for banking sector difficulties, and finally,
support to increase the overall efficiency of the Central Bank through a follow up to Bank-assisted
diagnostic work on information technology systems. Support to the CVM would focus on: strengthening
compliance, supporting greater transparency and better monitoring of corporate financial accounting and
disclosure, improving market surveillance, strengthening investor protection and public information, and
finally, undertaking diagnostic studies on the present and future roles, resources and responsibilities of
capital market regulatory agencies.
During the period of project implementation, there could be a restructuring of financial sector regulatory
activities. Authorities in Brazil are investigating the restructuring of responsibilities so that issues of
systemic importance, and the banking sector, are monitored by the Central Bank, and responsibilities for
issues related to financial markets, consumer/investor protection come under the purview of a
consolidated securities market regulator. A draft law reflecting these broad principles is under
preparation. The present operation broadly supports the adoption of such a program, and its design
already reflects provisions for its smooth integration within such a structure.



Page 3
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Indicators in terms of the achievement of project development objectives would be closely linked to the
progress achieved in terms of programmatic goals for financial sector reform, as described in the Brazil
First Programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment Loan. They would include the preparation of reform
strategies and action plans based upon the policy/diagnostic studies undertaken and the initiation of
regulatory reforms ready for approval. In addition, indicators of progress would also include the adoption
of key institutional strengthening measures, through training and technology modifications.
Specific project output indicators for each of the two agencies' major components are:'
Outputs - Central Bank Component                    Indicators:
*   Payment System risk reduction and               /   Studies launched on risk management at clearing houses, measures identified
strengthened securities markets for                 to mange clearing house risk, and actions taken to adopt such measures.
government debt.
*   Strengthened banking supervision                /   Introduction of examination manuals and bank rating system
*   Strengthened bank failure resolution            /   New law on bank failure drafted, contingency plan formulated within Central
Bank.
*   Sectoral Policy to enhance intermediation       /   Studies undertaken on financial system competition, spreads, bankruptcy
efficiency (studies and action plans)                procedures, collateralization, and taxation. Action plans formulated.
*   Reduction of intermediation spreads through     V   Enhanced Credit Risk Center put into operation.
improved Risk Center
*   IT Diagnostic & Implementation.                 /   Formalization of IT upgrading plan and implementation of proposals on
electronic data management and Unified Access interface.
Outputs - CVM  Component                            Indicators:
*   Diagnostic studies including CVM                /   Special studies launched on CVM's role and resources, administrative
organization, role of related agencies               procedures. Special diagnostic of Information Technology needs undertaken.
Discussions of results with senior officials and Action Plans formulated.
*  Strengthening Compliance                         /   Draft new CVM regulations prepared on areas including govemance, minority
investor protection. Digitalization and public availability of database on
regulation, rulings, decisions, etc.
*  Improved Corporate Financial Analysis            /   Training programs on corporate financial analysis and accounting completed.
capacity
*   Enhanced Surveillance / Inspection              /   Enhanced on-site inspection program formulated and launched
*  Strengthened Investor Protection and             v   Website strengthened and increased information for investor protection made
increased transparency in collective                 available
investment schemes
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 22116-BR of May 1, 2001.                       Date of latest CAS discussion: May 24, 2001
The present technical assistance loan accompanies and supports a series of proposed programmatic
adjustment loans for the financial sector. Programmatic adjustment lending to the financial sector is
embedded within the Bank's assistance program to Brazil, in its most recent CAS (May 2001). On the
basis of its importance for growth and poverty reduction, and given the evidence of reform progress, the
Government and the Bank have confirmed the financial sector as a priority area for assistance through
programmatic adjustment lending. Specifically, the CAS anticipates continued programmatic lending in
the area of the financial sector subject to the continuation of a quality sector dialogue and achievement of
reform goals.
Detailed further with a time-phased program in minutes to negotiations.



Page 4
A quality dialogue is continuing and the govemment's commitment to reform remains strong. The
proposed operation follows an existing technical assistance loan to the Central Bank. While the previous
technical assistance loan had a major emphasis on banking regulation and supervision (Loan 4245-BR of
1997), it also provided a vehicle to support Bank dialogue in the financial sector, which has expanded and
deepened over the past year to encompass a number of jointly selected new areas. Government follow up
to the intensive discussions of the past year is the next phase is reflected in the recent adjustment lending
program, embodied by the presentation to the Bank's Board on May 24th of the first of a proposed series
of programmatic financial sector adjustment loans. The present proposed technical assistance loan would
be the vehicle which would assist the government to determine options and modalities for implementation
of its policy agenda for second and possible third phase adjustment lending.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy.
2.1 Shallow and high-costjfinancial intermediation
Brazil's financial system is largely bank dominated. While assets of the banking system, at about US$500
billion, or 95 percent of GDP, are high, credit to the private sector accounts for only 35 percent of GDP,
or only 33 percent of banking system assets. A large part - about one half - of bank credit to the private
sector is provided by state-owned institutions. Stock market capitalization amounts to some US$230
billion or around 40 percent of GDP, while debt securities on issue amount to around US$270 billion or
50 percent of GDP. These shares are high by Latin American standards, although equity markets are
illiquid and debt securities largely dominated by government paper. Outside the banking system, the
largest holders of financial assets in Brazil are pension funds, either directly or through their mutual
funds. Total assets of pension and mutual funds are estimated at about US$120 billion (22 percent of
GDP). An increase in the depth offinancial intermediation in Brazil is a key issue, which requires both
the channeling of bank deposits towards new loans, and raising the depth and liquidity of financial
markets.
Reducing the high costs of intermediation in Brazil has been identified as a major challenge for the
achievement of greater depth in intermediation. Factors that lead to high spreads have been identified to
include indirect taxation (principally the tax on financial transactions, CPMF), forced investments, and
unremunerated reserve requirements. Limited competitive pressures and high costs of contract
enforcement and debtor monitoring have also been identified by the government as causes, due to
prevailing judicial processes for collateral repossession and corporate reorganization and bankruptcy. The
authorities are also aware that more efficient sharing of credit information would help reduce
informational rents, thereby increasing competition between lenders, and disciplining borrowers. Brazil
has made great progress towards improving debtor information, through the BCB's Risk Center, although
much still remains to be done, especially to enhance the availability of positive, as opposed to negative,
debtor information.
2.2 Banking -access issues and the role of the federal banks
On average, Brazilian private banks appear profitable, liquid, and well provisioned and capitalized
Risks to systemic stability in the Brazilian banking sector are considered low. This is because of the
dominant presence of federal banks (whose creditworthiness is ultimately that of the government), the
financial strength of the largest Brazilian-owned private banks, and the growing presence of highly-rated
international banks. In addition, the unsound major private banks were already removed in the context of
the 1995-96 wave of bank failures. Nevertheless, access to financial services is skewed in Brazil, with
some segments of the population under-served or left out of the formal financial system. It is estimated
that Brazil has about 45 million checking accounts and 44 million saving accounts, for a population of
approximately 170 million people. Probably less than 20 percent of Brazilians households have access to
bank deposit instruments, and even less to bank credit. Brazil's banking system (total assets of US$500



Page 5
billion or 95 percent of GDP) is concentrated and still dominated by public (mainly federal) banks,
although foreign bank presence has risen significantly in recent years.
A thorough restructuring of the state-owned bank sector has taken place over the last five years in Brazil.
The government-established PROES program in 1996 provided federal funds to states whose banks were
either restructured, privatized, converted into a development agency, or liquidated. The government also
began, in 1999-2000, to take significant anid unprecedented steps, particularly in terms of diagnosis,
public disclosure, and supervision of the federal banks.  TIhe Central Bank extended a Global
Consolidated Inspection program to the two largest federal banks, Banco do Brasil and Caixa, and
commissioned a major study on the financial situation of the entire federal banking group. These efforts
have been followed, very recently in June 2001, bv the government's anouncements about significant
restructurings of the balance sheets offederal banks. Details, and an assessment of impact, are still under
evaluation.
2.3 Upgrading of banking regulation and supervision
After somewhat slow progress through 1997, the Central Bank has made significant strides towards
strengthening bank supervision, although there are still needs for training a sufficient contingent of
qualified staff in implementation of the new regulations and the new supervision techniques. With the
recent acceleration of progress, Brazil is now considered to be near full compliance with the Basle Core
Principles for Effective Banking Supervision. Most visible has been the qualitative jump in on-site
supervision, associated with the introduction of the Global Consolidated Inspection (GCI) program.
About a year ago the inspection program was extended to cover also the federal banks. There has also
been a substantial upgrading of prudential regulations. The 1997 World Bank technical assistance loan to
the Central Bank has been helpful in boosting the sense of reform urgency and its implementation.
2.4 Strengthening the safety net - bankfailure resolution and contingency planning
The current bank failure resolution and deposit insurance framework--established in the mid-1990s-has
so far served Brazil adequately well. Key components of this framework are Law 9447 and the Fondo
Garantidor de Creditos (FGC); a deposit insurance fund. These two institutions, combined transitorily
with a government restructuring program, PROER, enabled the authorities to skillfully manage the wave
of bank failures that unfolded in 1995-96, including the orderly resolution of 3 of the 10 largest banks in
Brazil. The deposit insurance fund exhibits many of what could be considered "better international
practices." However, some estimates suggest that liquid resources available to this fund may not be fully
sufficient to confront failures of the largest banks. Reforming the Brazilian bank failure resolution
framework, with regard to the process of extra-judicial liquidation, and the role recently entrusted in this
context to the Central Bank, also presents a challenge. The government is proposing a review of the
entire framework of bank failure resolution and a re-examination, in this context, of the role of the
guarantee fund.
2.5 Financial infrastructure - reducing risks and raising efficiency in Payments Systems
The Central Bank has devoted considerable resources to redesign the country's payment infrastructure.
In the present system, the Central Bank has shouldered the risks of payment failure by providing
overdrafts to participants as necessary to ensure finality in settlement. Risks have also arisen due to
limited integration between payments and securities settlement procedures.  As the economy has
stabilized, the government has shifted its attention from speed of payments to problems of risk
management, and the need to establish a sound and reliable legal framework for payments. A series of
actions underway today aim at eliminating ihe ri.lcs i; .wurr.d b.V the Central Bcnk, and at transferrinig
residual risks to relevant private participants in the payments system under new rules and oversight. As
part of this structural shift, the role of the Central Bank is being altered, to strengthen and provide a legal
underpinning to its oversight of the payments system. Risk management principles for private participants
are being enunciated in a new law and accompanying regulations. When the reform is completed, Brazil



Page 6
will have a safer and sounder payments system which protects the Central Bank from risk of loss while
reducing moral hazard.
2.6 Strengthening Capital Markets
Potential for the further development of securities markets in Brazil appears substantial, especially in
view of the huge size and rapid pace of growth of institutional investor funds. Total assets of institutional
investors are estimated at about US$120 billion or 22 percent of GDP-the highest among Latin countries
excepting Chile. However, Brazil has a number of challenges to face in terms of expanding the use of
capital markets for corporate finance. The bulk of debt securities outstanding (over 80 percent) are
comprised of government bonds. A significant part of debt securities moreover mobilizes bank finance -
i.e., they are funded by bank deposits. Liquidity in equity markets-although higher than in many Latin
countries is low, especially for voting shares. Like many other countries in the region, a large proportion
of trade takes place in non-voting shares, while trading in many larger companies is meanwhile moving
offshore, to international capital markets.
Development of securities markets is constrained by a number of factors. Apart from the sizeable
government refinancing needs, there have been major deficiencies in corporate governance, with
minority shareholders unduly exposed to risks of expropriation by controlling shareholders, especially
during major transfers of corporate control, e.g., when companies go public or go private. These arise due
to the large proportion of shares with no voting rights, poor representation on boards, the lack of "tag
along" rights (which allow minority shareholders to "tag along" and obtain the same price as the
controller shareholder in the event of a company sale) and low "public float" (the set of shares traded).
Transactions costs in securities trading are high. Regulatory responsibilities are scattered across a number
of agencies, creating some overlaps or gaps in functional coverage. While the CVM has been striving for
strengthened disclosure and investor protection, improved market surveillance and securities regulation, it
has been constrained in terms of its own resources. Human resources of CVM are stretched and its
enforcement powers limited, undermining its capacity to investigate and punish violations.  The
government is addressing key issues in capital markets through radical changes in the present corporate
law and securities law, as well as through an agenda of reinforcing regulations and changes in operating
procedures at the CVM. A series of proposed changes are embedded in the revised corporate law and
securities law, which have recently been approved (end-March 2001) by the lower House of Congress.
Final passage is now awaited.
2.7 Institutional structure of financial system regulation
Regulatory policy for the financial system as a whole is mainly the responsibility of the Consehlo
Monetario Nacional (CMN). The Central Bank of Brazil (BCB), a relatively strong and mature
supervisory agency, is responsible for monetary policy and inflation targeting, in addition to the
regulation and supervision of large segments of the financial system - banks, a multitude of non-bank
financial institutions, debt mutual funds, broker dealer registrations, money and foreign exchange
markets, interest and exchange rate futures, and the payments system. The Comissao de Valores
Mobiliarios (CVM), is a newer, less powerful regulatory agency, with greater resource constraints. The
CVM is responsible for the regulation of listed companies, broker dealer activities, and equities trading.
Pension fund regulation is under the purview of the Secretaria de Previdencia Complementar (SPC) in the
case of closed-end corporate pension funds, and of the Superintendencia de Seguros Privados (SUSEP) in
the case of open-ended funds. SUSEP is also in charge of regulating and supervising insurance
companies. The government is aware that the organization of regulation and supervision of the financial
system is segmented, with some variance in the quality of prudential oversight across supervisory
agencies together with overlaps in function or gaps in coverage. Authorities in Brazil are investigating the
restructuring of financial sector responsibilities, with responsibility for issues of systemic importance,
and for the banking sector, to the Central Bank, and responsibilities for issues related to financial
markets, consumer / investor protection to a consolidated securities market regulator. A draft law



Page 7
reflecting these broad principles is under preparation. The present operation reflects support for the
adoption of such a program and is designed to be smoothly integrated within such a structure.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The proposed project encompasses a broad-based agenda of knowledge and policy formulation support
for virtually the entire range of issues discussed in the previous section, to Brazil's key financial sector
regulatory agencies in the implementation of the government's financial sector reform agenda. It also
aims at the long term enhancement of institutional capacity in the regulatory agencies themselves. The
present Financial Sector Technical Assistance Loan (FSTAL) builds upon the accomplishments of the
previous Central Bank technical assistance project (CBTAL) of 1997, which focused more specifically on
banking supervision and regulation, and diagnostic work in a number of other central bank modernization
areas.
Three principal channels of effort are envisaged for the support to the government's overall financial
sector reform program, which will provide the underpinning for the Bank's proposed phased
programmatic lending to the financial sector, and anchor future milestones of achievements in
programmatic lending to an agenda of specific reform actions. First and foremost among these is technical
assistance, both under the present as well as the previous project, under which the government will initiate
and manage specific activities which contribute to the reform program, making use of the Bank's
financing. Second, in parallel to technical assistance, the government is engaged in a dialogue of
analytical and advisory activities with the Bank (AAA), through which certain issues will be explored and
policy options analyzed directly by Bank staff and consultants. Third, the government is undertaking
selected studies on its own initiative, independent of Bank funding, on sensitive priority areas.
Compared to the principal policy areas of the PFSECAL, areas of assistance supported under the present
operation include, in 'Intermediation Efficiency and Access to Financial Services', policy-oriented studies
on the impact of actions to reduce spreads, on collateralization, bankruptcy procedures, and on financial
sector competition, in addition to support for the redrafting of the bankruptcy law. With regard to the
Banking System Soundness and Safety Net, support for the strengthening of banking supervision is being
provided by the CBTAL, while support for the formulation of revised bank failure resolution rules,
improved bank intervention processes, and the development and maintenance of a contingency plan is
under the present proposed FSTAL. With regard to Payment Systems and Securities Clearance and
Settlement, the FSTAL would finance consultancy services to help strengthen the Central Bank's ability
to evaluate risk control management of clearing houses, as well as the upgrading of operational desks at
the Central Bank for the introduction of the new payments system. In the area of Securities Markets, the
technical assistance would include a number of measures to strengthen the regulatory and enforcement
framework, which include support for the preparation or revision of regulations on minority shareholder
protection, strengthened corporate financial analysis, improved off-site supervision, increased web-based
disclosure and better investor protection through enhanced public information. Apart from the technical
assistance agenda, the Bank has tentatively discussed an agenda for analytical and advisory activities
(AAA) with Brazilian authorities, which would include issues of access to financial services, especially
for the underserved population, and financial sector taxation. The authorities' own agenda for analytic
work includes investigations of sensitive areas such as rural and housing finance, which will play an
important role in the reform agenda for the largest federal banks.
In terms of strategic choices, the technical assistance loan, in parallel to the PFSECAL, does not explicitly
address issues concerning Federal banks, as debate continues in this area, and the likelihood of major
reform actions is probably beyond the time horizon of the Bank's programmatic reform. Federal banks,



Page 8
together with the rest of the banking system, will nevertheless benefit from support in the other project
areas, such as strengthened banking supervision.2
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components: (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown)
The first component comprises support to address systemic financial sector issues, and reinforce banking
supervision, through the Central Bank. Issues covered include (I.1) support for payments system reform,
(through policy advice on risk control management at clearing houses, the upgrading of operations desks
for the implementation of the new payments system), and for the development of a more efficient market
in government securities. The next subset of activities addresses the banking system (1.2-1.4) and
encompasses  strengthened  banking  supervision  (through  a  combination  of studies, information
technology upgrade, the formalization of written policies and procedures, training for supervision staff
and the initiation of off-site supervision); and improvements to the banking system safety net (through a
revision of bank failure resolution rules, the initiation of contingency planning, and improved monitoring
of bank interventions).
Project Description Summary
'Costs Inic    % of   Bank-      % of
Projet Components                  Category        Contingencies totlo  finamcing    Bank-
(US$ 000)     t (USS 000)  financing
1.  Support to address systemic financial sector issues, and reinforce   11,215  62.1      8,215       73.2
banking supervision, through the Central Bank (Total)
Pre-identified Activities
1.1.  Payment System Reform               Policy / Institution building     780   4.3         780        100
1.2.-1.4 Improve Banking Supervision,      Policy / Institution building    2,434   4.5       2,434       100
Regulations; Bank Failure Resolution and
Preparedness
1.5.-1.6 Reduction of interest rate/spreads and  Policy                       584    1.7       584        100
Other studies on Sectoral Policy
1.7.  Implementation of IT Diagnostic     Policy/ Institution building     2,310   12.8     2,310        100
Proposals
1.8.  Project Management                  Project management              3,000   16.6          -          0
Second Phase/Supplementary Activities                                2,107  11.7       2,107       100
11.  Support for the strengthening regulation and compliance, and         6,700  37.1       6,100       91.0
increasing transparency and investor protection, in the area of
securities markets, through support to the CVM (Total)
Pre-identified Activities
11.1  Diagnostic Studies                  Policy I Institution building    1,274   7.1       1,274       100
11.2-11.4 Strengthening Compliance, Corporate    Cons/Trg & Equip            1,906   5.2      1,906        100
Finance; Surveillance and Inspection
11.5-11.6 Investor Protection and Public    Cons/Equip                        384   1.1         384        100
Information; Collective Investments
11.7  Institutional Support and Project   Cons/Trg & Equip                 1,336   7.4        736       55.1
Management
Second Phase/Supplementary Activities                                1,800  10.0       1,800       100
Total                                                               17,915  99.2      14,315       79.9
Front End Fee (1% ofIBRD)                                              145   0.8         145       100
Total incl. Front End Fee                                           18,057 100.0      14,457       80.1
2Support in this area is expected to be undertaken through Bank Analytic and Advisory Activities (AAA).



Page 9
A third tier of activities (1.5-1.6) addresses issues related to overall financial intermediation (through
studies on interest rate spreads, financial sector competition, financial sector taxation, bankruptcy and
collateralization). A final component (1.7) on informnation technology supports the overall strengthening
of the Central bank, building upon the recommendations of a diagnostic study undertaken in the previous
technical assistance loan.
The second component is focused upon support for strengthening regulation and compliance, and
increasing transparency and investor protection. in the area of securities markets. through support to the
CVM, Brazil's securities markets regulator. Specifically, the project supports diagnostic work (11.1) on
the role, responsibilities and resources of the CVM, an investigation of measures to strengthen
enforcement, and the overall allocation of regulatory responsibilities between capital market entities. The
project also supports (11.2) the upgrading of the regulatory framework to help CVM achieve its agenda in
terms of strengthened governance, (II.3) support to new accounting techniques expected under the revised
Corporate and Securities laws, (11.4) improved market surveillance, and (11.5-11.6) strengthened disclosure
and investor protection. The project also fortifies the overall capacity of both the Central Bank and the
CVM through training, information technology support, and in the case of CVM, support to the project
administration unit.
Both components include a number of pre-identified activities, and also include additional funds for
supplementary / second phase activities amounting to around a quarter to a third of total project value.
These include both activities which are foreseen as necessary, but where the scope and design, and hence
cost allocation, is not possible without a prior phase of diagnostic work, as well as potential activities
which emerge as institutional priorities in the second and third years of project implementation. Given the
rapid evolution of the financial system, and indeed the likelihood of structural changes in the organization
of financial oversight, some degree of flexibility would be vital to maintain the overall momentum of
reform in the evolving environment.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Policy reforms supported by the project are described in Part 2 above, and are also detailed in the
documentation of the first programmatic lending operation for the financial sector (PFSECAL) which this
loan accompanies.
The project also has an important institution building role to play with both the Central Bank and the
Comissao de Valores MobiliArios. The project strengthens human capacity in both institutions especially
in the areas of banking supervision both through onsite inspection (at both institutions) and off-site
monitoring (BCB) and market surveillance (CVM). The project also fortifies the analytic capacity, and
access to key sectoral information and the sharing of this information with key players, through
information technology design and development. This will promote, for example, the disclosure and
analysis of material information by listed companies at the CVM, analysis of information on mutual funds
and pension funds, and the maintenance of public information on a website, for better investor protection.
In the case of the Central Bank, information technology design and development will critically support
the installation of the new payments system, the enhanced functioning of a Credit Risk information
system, and the linking of a series of data bases required for the purposes of monitoring and regulating the
financial system.
3. Benefits and targetpopulation:
A strengthened financial system benefits all segments of the population. The reforms supported by the
technical assistance loan would have a bearing on poverty reduction by increasing long-term growth;
improving the capacity to deal with volatility and mitigate cycles; enhancing preparedness for, and
reducing the probability of, financial crises; and broadening access to financial services.



Page 10
Evidence from empirical studies has firmly established a causal link running from financial system depth
and soundness to economic growth. The financial sector reforms supported by this loan would help
increase long-term growth through their impact on real interest rates and productivity, through measures
to enhance efficiency of intermediation and reduce risk of bank failures. Improvements sought in the
program for supervision, credit contract enforcement, debtor information systems, minority shareholder
protection, etc. will enhance the financial sector's capacity to perform its basic functions of mobilizing
savings, allocating capital, monitoring corporate managers, and transforming risk. Availability of
financial services would enable the poor better to confront sharp economic fluctuations. And strong
financial systems play a primary role as absorbers of shocks, as they shelter and diversify savings.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Institutional and implementation arrangements at the Central Bank are well defined and already in place,
as there is an inherited structure which was set in place for the previous technical assistance loan. It is
expected that the same office will continue oversight functions for the new technical assistance loan. The
project implementation unit, commended in a recent mid-term review of the project for its "very
competent and committed staff', has an appropriate resource endowment to discharge its responsibilities.
The head of the unit is a senior Central Bank staff, and is supported by three additional senior persons
plus three junior advisors. Some areas for further strengthening project monitoring have been recently
discussed, and should further enhance the unit's high overall competence. Procurement functions for the
Central Bank (and for the CVM) are likely to be undertaken by the UNDP.
Institutional arrangements at the CVM, an agency relatively new to the bank, are affected by the
considerably more severe resource constraints suffered by CVM. Project coordination responsibilities
will be handled by CVM's headquarters in Rio de Janeiro, and the project manager appointed is the
institution's chief financial officer, who has recently also been appointed as a superintendent of CVM. He
will be supported in this function by a steering committee which includes department heads of all
functional departments participating in the project, as well as a technical working group of persons
operating below the steering committee, in the respective departments. The project coordinator will be
supported by CVM staff for procurement and financial management, and additionally, 4 persons, financed
by the Bank's loan, for planning and procurement, financial monitoring, operational monitoring and
overall office support, who will be supervised by the office of the financial superintendent. The project
provides assistance for the funding of these persons, due to CVM's extreme resource constraints, although
it is envisaged that there will be a gradual and parallel transfer of knowledge and capacity to in-house
staff. Currently the CVM has a staff of only 290, as against a staff authorization of 397. Due to national
budgetary constraints, the CVM has not been permitted to fill its existing vacancies and, in fact, since
1996 its staff size has actually declined. However, some lifting of the hiring freeze is expected in late
2001, and ten to twenty new staff may be expected on board by year end. CVM will also be assisted by its
informal contacts with the Central Bank's Brasilia office, whose prior experience with Bank-financed
technical assistance is very valuable. CVM's contacts with Brasilia could also be facilitated by its own
Brasilia office.



Page 1 1
Financial Sector Technical Assistance Project - Implementation Arrangements
CVM PTO9Ie Coordin*Xr                                 i~ n
D: Project CtrRatiionoa
Saperkaft"00)
t    Sedn  (:mmtt                Senior Advsor       Senior Alviior      Scuior Advisor
Pr1cu rem ant naed    Finacnnd           Operations
planoin
Teuiral CommalcXFf    
Junior Advisor   | Junior AdvisorI|     |Aals 
|Team Assistant 
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection.
More than one alternative vehicle for the delivery of technical assistance to the financial sector was
considered, but rejected in favor of the present loan design. First of all, the possibility of lending support
to the entire financial sector programmatic adjustment package through the existing TA loan (CBTAL)
was explored. However, the Mid-term review of the CBTAL clearly revealed that residual funds in the
present loan were far from adequate to cover needs envisaged. Second, the present CBTAL would be
closed before the proposed programmatic series of loans, so that support for the entire period of the
reform program would not be available. Third, the CBTAL encompasses only a single regulatory agency.
Despite the pivotal and powerful role of the Central Bank, this would imply that only a part of the
spectrum of financial sector issues would have been covered. Given the positive expansion of our
dialogue with the authorities to encompass capital markets issues, and in view of the greater needs of the
CVM, it was considered important to use a vehicle which would permit the extension of support to the
CVM as well as the Central Bank. It was therefore determined that a new technical assistance loan would
be essential. However, it was also decided that to the extent that there are residual funds in the existing
TA loan which could be allocated towards meeting programmatic reform objectives, residual funds in the
ongoing technical assistance project (CBTAL) could also be tapped, especially where there is urgent need
to expedite the launching of the reform program (details are in Section C below). This is facilitated by the
design of the present TA loan, where funds for future years were not predetermined.
Another alternative considered in terms of project design was an even wider technical assistance loan,
spanning a larger number of regulatory agencies. Thus in addition to the Central Bank and the CVM.
agencies such as SUSEP, the regulator of insurance and open-ended pension funds, or the SPC, which is
responsible for the oversight of closed end pension funds, could also have been included in the scope of
the technical assistance. This alternative too was not adopted, for a number of reasons, including
especially, the resulting complexity of the project and likely implementation difficulties, the differences
in juristic nature of the entities (as SPC does not enjoy the independent legal status of the other agencies),



Page 12
and finally, the likelihood of their ultimate merger anyway, under a single umbrella, over the course of the
next few years.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies:
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Central Bank Modernization
Financial sector Technical Assistance;   Technical Assistance Project  S            S
Banking supervision and institutional    (Loan 4245-BR; Project ID
development                             No: P048357)
Overall financial sector reform   First Programmatic Financial
Sector Adjustment Loan
(Loan 7053-BR; Project ID
No: P070640)
Other development agencies
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), H-U (Highly Unsatisfactory)
The present project is closely associated, first of all, with the first Programmatic Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan to Brazil, (Loan 7053-BR; Project ID No:P070640), recently submitted to the Bank's
Board on May 24, 2001. As discussed above, the aim of the present operation is to support the
government's overall reform program in the financial sector, as described in Section 2 above, and in
particular, to facilitate the achievement of the reform targets, which would contribute to future
programmatic adjustment loans in the sector. Major indicators of satisfactory progress, pointed out in the
recent CAS, which would be directly supported by the present Technical Assistance operation, include
improvements in the monitoring system for banking sector risk, new legislation for bank closure and
deposit insurance, and issuance of corporate governance regulations. A series of two or possibly three
programmatic loans to the sector are envisaged over the 2001-2002 CAS cycle.
The proposed project is also associated with a previous Bank operation in Brazil; the Central Bank
Modernization Technical Assistance Loan (Loan 4245-BR; Project ID number: P048357), of November
1997. The previous operation focused on complementing the Central Bank's modernization efforts,
especially in terms of professionalizing banking supervision. It also aimed to assist diagnostic work on
the financial sector's structure, and on continuous strengthening of Central Bank management systems.
Despite delays in startup, primarily due to macroeconomic constraints and changes in personnel at the
Central Bank, implementation has now accelerated remarkably, under the leadership of present strongly
supportive Central Bank management. The project was rated fully satisfactory in the most recent Project
Status Report, of March 14, 2001, following an extensive mid-term review in December 2000.The
CBTAL project proved to be an important vehicle for a meaningful financial sector dialogue with the
government, on a wide spectrum of issues, and provided support for the launching of the proposed
programmatic financial sector adjustment operation. It has also laid the foundations for the institutional
capacity which will serve to implement the present proposed loan. The implementation team is also
providing advice and guidance to the new, additional agency in the present project, the CVM, and would
thus be able to help the CVM in its startup phase of implementation.
While cumulative disbursements of the CBTAL end-December amounted to some US$12.7 million, a
number of additional activities are under way and funds up to US$6.5 million are already committed to a



Page 13
pipeline of ongoing activities. Additional activities will be launched as budgetary allocations of funds
from the government become available; however a number of competing proposals and plans for such
activities exist, and funds will be allocated in order of institutional priority. A part of the residual funds in
the present CBTAL will be used in support of the proposed programmatic adjustment lending, in the case
of activities where swift startup (prior to the next round of budgetary approvals) is sought. Funds
earmarked for such activities amount to at least some US$756,000, and are directed primarily to the
programs of strengthened banking supervision and enhanced credit risk management, as well as towards
the implementation of information technology diagnostic proposals (see table below for details). These
estimates are preliminary only and further increases in these allocations, out of the residual US$3.5
million, may be considered appropriate depending on bids received for current tenders. As such,
implementation of the extended program of support to the Central Bank under the proposed financial
sector adjustment loan would not be possible on the basis of residual funds in the present project. The
Central Bank has strong ownership of and commitment to the present project, recognizing its role in
institutional modernization. As such, institutional support for its successor is enthusiastic.
Proposed Expenditures from the CBTAL
for Support to the Financial Sector Reform Pro ram under the PFSECAL
Component                                   Category         Contingenc;e
A.  Improve Banking and Supervision Regulations                                              179,000
- Formalization of written policies and procedures of off-site  Consultancy/ Training    99,600
surveillance process. (DIFIS)
- Formalization of training plan. (DIFIS/DEPES)           Consultancy/ Training          79,400
B.  Credit Risk Information Center                                               .           345,200
- Adjustments in the current system to satisfy supervisory needs  Consultancy/ Training/  345,200
during the period of development of the new system.             Equip.
C.  Enhance Preparedness for Future Banking Sector Difficulties                                8,300
- Initiate Contingency Plan Directives (DIFIS)                Consultancy                 8,300
D.  Implementation of IT Diagnostic Proposals                                                224,000
- Formalization of a Implementation Plan, based on the Gartner  Consultancy/ Training   224,000
Diagnostic. (DEINF)
Total:                                                 756,500
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design: A first lesson is the importance of a flexible
design which is adapted to the borrower's needs and priorities as they evolve over the period of
implementation. The strong support for the CBTAL owed much to this design feature, which has
permitted the project to sustain and indeed enhance its relevance despite changes in senior Central Bank
management, and changing macroeconomic circumstances. The lesson is reflected in the present project
to the extent that (i) certain activities for both agencies will be specified later, based on preliminary
diagnostic needs assessments to be undertaken in the initial stages of implementation. Additional funds
have been allocated for such needs, as well as other unspecified needs which may arise as implementation
proceeds. Such additional funds amount to a quarter to a third of total borrowing per agency.
A second lesson to emerge from the CBTAL is the vulnerability of project implementation to
disbursement of funds from the government, which can lead to delays in implementation. In Brazil,



Page 14
government agencies which are project beneficiaries of IBRD loans are nevertheless required to request a
release of project funds annually from the government together with the rest of their budget allocation. In
years where compelling fiscal reasons have forced the government to restrain its spending, there have
been difficulties in securing the release of project funds. The present project will attempt to incorporate
prompt release of funds to the beneficiary in loan documentation.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Commitment of the Central Bank to the present project is a continuation of the support extended to the
first (CBTAL) project. The mid-term review of the CBTAL particularly commended the 'very competent
and committed' project coordination unit established by the Central Bank. Efforts made by the Central
Bank to follow up on suggestions and recommendations made in course of supervision of the CBTAL and
the preparation of the FSTAL are further indicators (e.g., suggestions with regard to project monitoring
and procurement monitoring).
In the case of the CVM, support for the project was evident in the several detailed discussions held with
all CVM departments, which would be the implementing units for various project elements, as well as
from the Chairman and the Superintendent General. Many units contributed their own proposals for
project design and keenly debated alternative conceptual approaches towards implementation. Both
agencies have been very cooperative during the process of preparation, in terms of the preparation by
Bank staff of procurement readiness assessments and financial management capacity assessments. Both
agencies have already prepared procurement plans. Project coordinators of each agency have been invited
to a week-long Bank procurement seminar, and have agreed to attend. Finally, both agencies financial
contributions to the project and its execution also reflect their commitment. These contributions in the
case of CVM and BCB include substantial local taxes, on some expenditure categories amounting to as
much as 20 percent of the value of purchases, payments to the procurement agents at a total of 4 percent
of purchases, and additionally, in the case of BCB, payments for all expenses in the project coordination
unit.
S. Value added of Bank support in this project.
As detailed in Sections B and C above, there are close ties between the PFSECAL program and the
present project, and therefore Bank support to this project is a key element in the achievement of the
overall support of Brazil's program of financial sector reforms. Apart from facilitating the achievement of
specific reform objectives through targeted institutional support, the project also provides for overall
capacity enhancement of key regulatory agencies, which would promote sound supervision of the
financial system. Additionally, the project provides a vehicle to the Bank for sustained dialogue over
issues identified with the government over the period of programmatic adjustment lending. Finally, the
Bank's presence helps Brazil's government to stay abreast of and achieve international best practice with
regard to the its financial system reforms, while the Bank's supervision machinery acts as an aid to the
government's own project monitoring mechanisms in keeping up the momentum of reform and fine-
tuning its implementation over time to achieve the desired objectives.
E: Summary Project Analysis: (detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic: (supported by Annex 4)
[ ]Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$  million; ERR= %                    Not applicable
[  Cost Effectiveness Analysis.                                     Not applicable



Page 15
Note: The technical assistance character of the present operation imply that quantitative economic and
financial analysis are not possible or appropriate. However, if successfully carried out, the proposed
project will bring benefits at two levels; support to overall financial sector reform in Brazil and second,
enhanced capacity, credibility and effectiveness of the key policy making, regulatory and supervisory
bodies in the financial sector; the Central Bank and the CVM.
[ ] Other (specify)
2. Financial: (see Annex 5)     NPV=US$                     million; FRR=  %
Not applicable
Fiscal impact:
No direct fiscal impact. However, the support given to improved crisis and contingency planning should
protect the government against potential future contingent liabilities which could arise in the eventuality
of any future financial crises.
3. Technical:
Technical merits of project design at the CVM have been examined by high-level Bank consultants, over
the course of project preparation. Project design for BCB elements related to diagnostic studies have been
discussed in detail with Bank staff, as part of the preparation of programmatic financial sector adjustment
lending. Details of other elements, especially with regard to banking supervision, the credit risk center,
and support for the reinforcement of information technology needs, is grounded in detailed diagnostic
work prepared by prominent firms of international consultants, financed under the CBTAL. There is thus
a high level of confidence in the design of these project elements.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: Banco Central do Brasil and Comissao de Valores Mobiliarios. The BCB
now has a proven track record as an executing agency and CVM has participated fully in the
sound planning of project implementation. Capacity assessments, particularly with regard to
procurement and financial management responsibilities, in both agencies, have been found to be
satisfactory.
b. Project management: Project coordination units established by the Banco Central do Brasil and
Comissao de Valores Mobiliarios. The unit at BCB is already operational and effective; plans for
the organization of the project management unit at CVM have been discussed in detail and are
clearly identified. The structure envisaged should be adequate for project support purposes.
5. Social:                                                     Not applicable
6. Environmental assessment:        Environmental Category  [ ] A    [ ] B   [X] C



Page 16
7. Participatory approach. [key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced; iJ
participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable]
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Primary beneficiaries of the proposed technical assistance are the government, in terms of overall support
to its financial sector reform program, and the two institutions concerned, the Central Bank and the
Securities Commission, who would be more effectively able to monitor, regulate and supervise the
financial system through the support of the project
b. Other key stakeholders:
The larger group of stakeholders includes the populace as a whole, as the program of support to financial
sector reform would benefit all members of society, including the poor and vulnerable (see Memorandum
to the President of the proposed Programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment Loan).
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability.
There has been a demonstration of sustainability of reforms at the Central Bank. Commitment to the
project was sustained despite many changes in management, and the project has also achieved its core
development objectives. Staff trained are now making effective use of training, as witnessed by the huge
increase in the scope and rigor of supervision of the banking system, credit risk monitoring has been
enhanced, and a large volume of thorough analytical work has preceded the design of current reform
efforts.
Concems about sustainability at CVM are somewhat greater due to the severe staff constraints that CVM
has suffered from. Many of the project elements proposed however are designed to make irreversible and
permanent improvements to CVM's capacity - e.g. the enhancing of its capacity for corporate financial
analysis, the digitizing of its legal opinions to enable easier and more widespread access, and the
enhancing of its public website. Moreover, CVM's staff remain committed to the institution and staff
turnover is low. This should enable the retention of trained staff and extension of training to other in-
house persons.



Page 17
2. Critical Risks: (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
Risk                          Risk Rat4            Risk Minimization Measure
From Objective to CAS Goal
* Institutional strengthening objectives and support to  M          Sustained reform momentum built up with
reform  program  at Central Bank and CVM  is                      executive agencies in government through the
sustained even if there are changes in political                  PFSECAL program, robust in face of changes
leadership.                                                       in political leadership.
From Outputs to Objective
* The coordination unit at the Central Bank will not be  N          Frequent contact with Central Bank project
ably coordinate the initiation and execution of tasks             management unit as well as operational units
with the several concerned departments.                           to ensure coordination.
* In the event or a change in the institutional structure  M        Discussions of possible changes in
of CVM and other capital market regulatory bodies                 institutional structure which show that the
during the duration of the project, there will not be a           project would remain relevant in the new
smooth  continuation of the project by the new                    frameworks under consideration. Close
entity, (if created), or by CVM itself, in the event of           consultations with authorities on new
an expansion in its mandate.                                      structure.
* CVM  is not able to allocate adequate human            M          Project monitoring during supervision to
resources to project as it proceeds to ensure lasting             encourage local capacity building
building of capacity
* Maintenance of stable project coordination unit in     M          Considerable preparation time was spent with
CVM's Rio office, which also maintains adequate                   CVM project coordination office to ensure
coordination with procurement agents, who may be                  smooth supervision and the loan provides for
located elsewhere, eg., Brasilia.                                 additional support to the project office.
Provisions have been made in project design to
help consultant travels between Rio and
:=_______________    Brasilia.
From Components to Outputs
* The Central Bank and CVM do not receive adequate       M          Propose specific annual transfers to be agreed
budgetary allocations from the government                         in advance
* Timely drawdown of residual funds in CBTAL, to         N          Detailed discussions and reviews of pipeline of
ensure initiation of disbursements of funds in FSTAL              projects in CBTAL
does not occur.
* Implementation / startup difficulties of CVM, as a     M          Intensive preparation/ supervision, advance
relatively new and resource constrained agency                    training seminars to key personnel, and peer
support from Central Bank
Overall Risk Rating                                       M          I
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
Overall it should be noted that the combination of two agencies with two project agreements in a single
project, together with the high supervision requirements described above, also suggest that on the Bank's
side, a commensurate supervision budget will be necessary.
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
2. Other.: (classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements)



Page 18
Requirements at negotiation (to be agreed upon and recorded as minutes of negotiations):
CVM and BCB will submit to the Bank the format of the financial, procurement and monitoring reports,
and establish the flow of funds to disburse the funds from the loan account. This condition was met.
Requirements before disbursement of loan proceeds to CVM:
CVM will establish the project management unit at its office in Brasilia Key staff including a
procurement advisor and financial manager will be identified and contracted. CVM will furnish the
Bank with evidence that it has assistance satisfactory to the Bank to carry out the procurement activity.
H: Readiness for Implementation
[ I 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
[X] 1. b)                                                           Not applicable.
[XI 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[X] 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
Project implementation plans focussing on procurement and financial reporting have been prepared by
both agencies. Many elements such as the audits of performance expost, monitoring., etc., have been
discussed in detail with Bank staff and Bank suggestions have been incorporated. Periodic updates to
reflect revised timetable of final approval are also being undertaken.
[ I 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1: Compliance with Bank Policies
[ X] 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ] 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
Team Leade'r: Anjali Kumar
Acting SeRor Director: Jyoti Shukla (for Danny Leipziger)
Cou  y  rector: Gobind T. Nankani



Page 1 9
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
Brazil: Financial Sector Technical Assistance Project
avf''Ki1Y L*00Ino u?
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:                   Sector t Country Reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
(see PFSECAL MOP)
Supportfinancial sector       >   Increased depth and efficiency   Evaluation of sectoral indicators  tovfincia sector reforn in res
reforms on the baszs of their     ad widened accs inoerl    will be integrated with the        toefinancial sheco Preogramatincra
importance for growth and         financial intermediation;dendbytePormai
poverty redution, through                   risks ned iat        monitoring of programmatic     Financial Sector Loan is sustained
programmatic adjustmnent      >'  Reduction of rik  nfnnil adjustment lending to the            at present levels even if there are
infrastructure;              financial sector under PFSECAL   changes in political leadership.
lending and subject to the    >   Soundness in operation of
continuation of a quality sector  private and public banks;
dialogue and agreement on     >   More efficient bank exit and
reform priorities.                better capacity to respond to
crises
>   Effective surveillance,
disclosure and investor
protection in securities markets
Project Development           Outcome I Impact Indicators:    Project Reports:                 (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:
t>   Policy studies/ diagnostics to  Task supervision Team and   Institutional strengthening
formulate appropriate reform  Project coordination units will    objectives and support to reform
nstituponat capacith to assist    strategies launched and action    monitor implementation of  program at Central Bank and
tnstitutiona capity to asis    >   plans drawn up;              targets of FSTAL in close      CVM is sustained even if there
the rmpoflementation of orazil s   Regulatory reforms ready for    coordination with monitoring of   are changes in political
preogramso. icilsco                approval;PFEAledrhp
reforms.                     '>  Institutional strengthening
through training / IT
modifications launched
Output from each              Output Indicators:                Project Reports:               (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
I. Central Bank                                                 Output indicators will be      The coordination unit at the
V   Studies launched on risk      monitored by Periodic Progress    Central Bank will ably coordinate
* Payment System risk             management at clearing        Reports generated by the Project  the initiation and execution of
reduction and strengthened        houses, measures identified to    Coordination Units presented to  tasks with the several concemed
securities markets for            mange cleaming house risk,    the Bank. Regular contact will    departments.
govemment debt.                   and actions taken to adopt such   be maintained with the Bank
* Strengthened banking            measures.                     supervision team.
supervision                   V   Introduction of examination
manuals and bank rating
* Strengthened bank failure       system
resolution                    V   New law on bank failure
* Sectoral Policy to enhance      drafted, contingency plan
intermediation efficiency         formulated within Central
(studies and action plans)        Bank.
* Reduction of intermediation   V   Studies undertaken on financial
spreads through improved Risk     system competition, spreads,
Center                            bankruptcy procedures,
* IT Diagnostic &                 collateralization, and taxation.
Implementation                    Action plans formulated.
V Enhanced Credit Risk Center
put into operation.
V Formalization of IT upgrading
plan and implementation of
proposals on electronic data
management and Unified
Access interface.



Page 20
Output from each               Output Indicators:                  Project Reports:                 (from Outputs to Objective)
component: II CVM
/   Special studies launched on
*   Diagnostic studies              CVM's role and resources,
ingtning CVM                    administrative procedures.     Output indicators will be           In the event or a change in the
including  ~ ~     ~     pcil ianstc finstitutional structure of CVM and
organization, role of                                           monitored by Periodic Progress    other capital market regulatory
related agencies                Information Technology needs and                                * by     is Projeca
pubnfraeion                    Reports gnrosj                   bodies during the duration of the
undertaken. Discussions of     Coordination Units presented to   project, there will be a smooth
results with senior officials and   the Bank. Regular contact willpcty
Strengthening Compliance           Action Plans formulated,        be maintained with the Banke
D Draft new CVM regulations andnew entity, (if created), or by
prepared on areas including               tCVM itsef, in the event of an
govemnance, minority investor                                   expansion in its mandate.
protection. Digitalization and                                  a CVM is able to allocate
public availability of database                                 adequate human resources to
on regulation, rulings,                                         project as it proceeds to ensure
   Improved Corporate              decisions. etc.                                                 lasting building of capacity
Financial Analysis ve   Training programs on                                                         Maintenance of stable project
capacity                        corporate financial analysis and                                 coordination unit in CVM's Rio
accounting completed.                                           office, which also maintains
*   Enhanced Surveillance /         Enhanced on-site inspection                                      adequate coordination with
Inspection                      program formulated and                                           procurement agents, who may be
launched                                                        located elsewhere, eg., Brasilia.
*   Strengthened Investor      V Website strengthened and
Protection and increased        increased information for
transparency in collective      investor protection made
investment schemes              available.
Project Components/Sub-    Inputs: (budget for each                 Project Reports:                (from Components to
Components:                    component) in US$m                                                   Outputs)
1. Central Bank                      11.2                           Both agencies will maintain     * The Central Bank and CVM
reports of allocations of funds  will receive adequate budgetary
* Payment System Reform,    >      3.8                           according to standard and agreed   allocations from the govemment
Banking Supervision, Bank                                           reporting formats               * Timely drawdown of residual
Failure Resolution and Banking                                                                      funds in CBTAL to ensure
Sector Difficulties; Interest                                                                       initiation of disbursements of
rate/spreads and Studies on                                                                         funds in FSTAL
Sectoral Policy                                                                                     * Implementation / startup
* IT Diagnostic & Implement-   >      7.4                                                           difficulties of CVM, as a
ation, Project Management;                                                                          relatively new and resource
Supplementary Activities                                                                            constrained agency are
successfully overcome
11. CVM                                6.7
* Diagnostic Studies,          >       3.6
Compliance, Corporate
Finance, Surveillance I
Inspection and Investor
Protection and Collective
investments
* Inst. Support/ Proj. Mgmt    >       3.1
and Supplementary Activities



Page 21
Annex 2: Project Description
Brazil: Financial Sector Technical Assistance Project
(Note also Annex Table 2B: Links between Ongoing Central Bank Modernization Technical Assistance
Loan and Proposed Financial Sector Technical Assistance Loan)
Proiect Component I - US$11.2 million:
Support to Address Systemic Financial Sector Issues, and Reinforce Banking Supervision
through the Central Bank.
The thrust of this component is to ensure that areas related to systemic issues, and areas related to the
banking sector, incorporated in the government's financial sector reform program, have the necessary
support to facilitate implementation. In summary, topics covered include (I.1) support for payments system
reform, (through policy advice on risk control management at clearing houses, the upgrading of operations
desks for the implementation of the new payments system), and for the development of a more efficient
market in government securities (this supports both securities market development and the reinforcement of
public sector debt management, at the secondary market level). The next subset of activities addresses the
banking system (1.2-1.4) and encompasses strengthened banking supervision (through a combination of
studies, information technology upgrade, the formalization of written policies and procedures, training for
supervision staff and the initiation of off-site supervision); and improvements to the banking system safety
net (through a revision of bank failure resolution rules, the initiation of contingency planning, and improved
monitoring of bank interventions). A third tier of activities (1.5-1.6) addressespolicy issues related to overall
financial intermediation (through studies on interest rate spreads, financial sector competition, financial
sector taxation, bankruptcy and collateralization). A final component (1.7) on information technology
supports the overall strengthening of the Central bank, building upon the recommendations of a diagnostic
study undertaken in the previous technical assistance loan. Additional details on the specific activities to be
initiated are given below, and further information may be obtained from preparatory work in project files.
1.1 Payment System Reform and Bond Market Development'
Strengthening BCB 's ability to evaluate risk control management of clearing houses.
The new Brazilian payment system will be characterized by the co-existence of several clearinghouses.
Many of them will start operations or will re-structure their operations as a result of the reform process now
underway. Under the new regulatory framework, each clearinghouse will assume the counterpart risk vis-a-
vis its participants. The central bank is required to evaluate the risk control procedures being proposed by
each clearing house as an integral component of the clearing house approval and authorization process.
Senior central bank representatives involved in the reform process expressed concern as to their lack of
experience and technical skills to carry out this important activity. This is especially critical as most central
bank resources are absorbed by the development of the new central bank owned and operated RTGS system.
The activities could be envisaged to include consulting support in the area of risk management, pre-training
at central bank headquarters of involved personnel, and short visits to meet key people in other central banks
1 Government bond market development issues and payments system reform issues are linked, in Brazil, in part due to the proposal
that the new payments system will provide for the smooth integration of government bond trading with the payments system.
Additionally, oversight for debt securities in Brazil is under the Central Bank and not under the Securities Commission.
Administratively, both departments are under the same directorate in the Central Bank.



Page 22
recently involved in this activity (e.g. Federal Reserve, European Central Bank, Bank of Japan).
Upgrading of the Operation Desks for the Implementation of new Payment System
A parallel activity, associated with the implementation of the new payments system, is the need to upgrade
the operation desks of the International Reserves Operations Department (DEPIN), the Open Market
Operations Department (DEMAB), and the Banking Operations Department (DEBAN), for monitoring
arrangements, to enable the implementation of the new payment system.
Improvement of the market infrastructureforfixed income securities (government bonds).
The emphasis of this exercise is to identify the type of the market microstructure needed to ensure liquid and
efficient government debt markets. This will imply evaluating the "optimal" design of trading, reporting,
transparency and settlement regimes that the country needs given the size of the market and the
sophistication of the market participants. The focus of this effort would be on those areas where there is a
role for public policy.
Building of institutional and retail demandfor government bonds
In Brazil, the government has been relying largely on financial markets for the distribution of government
paper and its institutional investors vehicles are in many cases sophisticated. One untapped potential market
is the active engagement of retail segments in the purchase of bonds, directly and through mutual funds. For
the government to be able to identify the major impediments to this process, this task envisages a detailed
assessment of the most common problems limiting the development of voluntary demand, focusing on the
retail dimension of the demand for securities, exploring ways to make better use of the existing retail
networks, and evaluating the incidence of the new technology (internet, etc), issues of investor education and
market transparency.
Expansion of Benchmarks
The recent development of a more liquid fixed-rate debt market provides a unique opportunity to shift away
from the current reference rate for floating instruments and lessen the widespread indexation to the SELIC
rate. As of today, roughly 60% of federal domestic debt are floating-rate (LFT) securities, indexed to the
overnight SELIC rate. However, as liquidity increases in some of the large short- term LTN issues, the
government could have the opportunity to shift away from SELIC and start using a more conventional 3, 6
month or I year interest rate Tbills to index the floating LFTs. The Indice de Renda Fixa de Mercado (IRF-
M) recently developed by ANDIMA (a private broker's association) may be able to play an important role by
becoming a more conventional risk-free benchmark for the market, and increasing transparency and investor
awareness about true market interest rates. The proposed activity would explore with the help of consultants
who offer experience in relevant developed countries which underwent a similar process, ideas on what the
government of Brazil could do to gradually move to a longer duration reference rate for the market.
1.2 Improve Banking Supervision and Regulation:
Formalization of information technology upgrading plan
The component would build upon and expand the considerable work initiated in this area in the CBTAL.
Special attention would be focused on information technology needs of off-site examination and system
supervision. The overall objective is the development of a medium and long term plan in order to improve
the effectiveness of supervision through information technology platforms.
Mainfain best practices in money laundering prevention/supervision.
Brazil has initiated a series of activities, notably regulatory reforms, to increase transparency in financial
practices and prevent money laundering. The present proposal would promote training events for the staff of



Page 23
the Department of Surveillance of Illegal Activities (DECIF), enabling them to compare working routines
with those of similar agencies in developed countries, and propose actions to be developed within the
Brazilian context.
Upgrading of the Supervision Unit's Unified Information System (SISUP)
The off-site surveillance function in BCB is relatively weak; a situation recognized by BCB's management
who is making a considerable effort to improve this area and is aware that information systems should be
developed in order to capture, compile and present relevant information on a timely basis for easy analysis
and review by the on-site examiners. The expertise of the analysts in this area needs to be increased
substantially and the staff should be well trained in order to develop an early waming system which will
permit a continuous analysis of banks that will enable not only the detection of existing weakness, but also
the projection of potential weakness based on analysis of key financial indicators. The focus of the present
activity would be the development of a blueprint for the modernization of SISUP, the Central Bank's unified
information system, in order to make information such as balance sheets, periodic reports of financial
institutions, or institutional performance with regard to regulatory limits, etc., more accessible and user
friendly, aiming for a reliable and functional system. This is expected to require a change in the technological
environment of the system. Improvement would explore, but not be limited to, the SENTINELA (warning
system) and INDICOM (economic-financial indicators) transactions. Other transactions identified as needed
may be included. The activities suggested follow upon the recommendations of information technology
diagnostic work undertaken by the Central Bank technical assistance loan.
Upgrading and improvement of analytical reports generated in the supervisory process
Associated with the previous component, the current system does not permit the customizing of the reports
produced by inspectors, or the possibility of inserting comments in the paper on-line. Upgrading the system
would aim to enable the insertions of comments and qualifications, and also reports to be accessible on-line.
Study on the regulation of competitiveness within the financial system
Over the last few years, there has been a trend towards concentration in Brazil's banking system, with the
merger of several banks with larger banks, and the closure of some smaller banks. While on the one hand this
may have occurred in the context of stricter prudential regulations on issues such as capital adequacy, and
may thus have contributed towards the overall soundness of the sector, there may also be an impact upon
sectoral competition. The study would aim to evaluate the overall status of competition in the financial
system and make recommendations for the strengthening of contestability while maintaining safety and
soundness of financial institutions (see also, 1.5 and 1.6 below).
Licensing offinancial institutions
The proposed task aids the strengthening of the regulatory framework of the Central Bank, through the
formalization of written policies and procedures of authorizations for the licensing of financial institutions.
1.3 Bank Failure Resolution:.
Revise Bank Failure Resolution Rules and prepare new draft law. An important drawback of the Brazilian
bank failure resolution framework relates to the process of extra-judicial liquidations of failed banks which
have proven to be cumbersome, saddled with heavy bureaucratic procedures and protracted. As a result,
unnecessary and significant asset value destruction has become the norm. The Central Bank has initiated a
program to amend the relevant legislation for bank failure resolution, as well as the statutes of the deposit
insurance agency. It involves several technical and policy studies. This review process would assess central
issues. These include: (i) the reduction of the Central Bank role in the extra-judicial liquidation process and
the increase of the role of the private sector; (ii) the balance of rules and discretion in the corrective phases of



Page 24
dealing with troubled banks; (iii) the introduction of more efficient resolution techniques for closed banks-
such as "purchase and assumption" operations; (iv) the potential role of FGC in a reformed liquidation
process; (v) the strengthening of FGC financial position, particularly via access to contingent lines; and (vi)
possible changes to the design of the deposit insurance (e.g., the introduction of risk-based premiums and
other complementary monitoring powers).
Strengthen effectiveness in the administration of bank failures. An extension of the above topic, this
component would improve the supervision process during intervention: off site (effective accompaniment,
introducing new computerized methods; settle standard accompaniment to each stage of intervention
process) and on-site (schedule of supervision; focus on management).
1.4 Enhance Preparedness for any Future Banking Sector Difficulties:
The Central Bank has initiated work to develop a blueprint contingency plan to ensure adequate preparedness
to deal with early stages of a financial crisis, should one unexpectedly arise. In developing a contingency
blueprint, the work program would find solutions to ensure: (i) minimization and adequate management of
risks of contagion and systemic illiquidity; (ii) inter-institutional coordination and effective decision making
processes; (iii) adequacy of existing legal powers and protection for supervisory actions; and (iv) suitable ex-
ante special legal powers. The plan would seek to protect the interests of depositors (especially small
depositors), avoid incurring unnecessary large costs in the process, minimizing any future burden on
taxpayers; and promptly restoring the solvency, liquidity and profitability of the banking system.
Develop contingency banking crisis plan. The first step in this process would be to develop a basic plan, in
order to help identify the types of actions that may have to be taken during a crisis, taking into consideration
the skills, policies and processes that would be required. It could be envisaged to include measures for
determining the conditions of banks; strengthening undercapitalized banks as appropriate,  resolving
insolvent banks, managing and re-privatizing banks under temporary state ownership, and establishing a
crisis management unit.
Revision of Contingency Plan, as necessary. Once a blueprint is in place, dry runs would be practiced from
time to time to test the system and correct any shortfalls. Revisions to the plan would aim at keeping up to
date the measures proposed during the development of the plan, as well as strengthening identified aspects of
the plan, in order to maintain crisis preparedness.
1.5 Reduction of Interest Rate/Spreads; and 1.6 Studies on Economic Policy
It is recognized by the BCB that Brazil exhibits one of the highest interest rate spreads in the world. A recent
internal study shows that inefficiency and cost-based reasons for high intermediation margins relate mainly
to overheads and government-imposed costs such as indirect taxation (principally the CPMF), forced
investments, and unremunerated reserve requirements. High overhead costs may be attributed to limited
competitive pressures and the high costs of contract enforcement and debtor monitoring. The costs of credit
contract enforcement is in turn related to inefficient judicial processes for collateral repossession, corporate
reorganization and bankruptcy. Debtor screening and monitoring costs also feed into overhead costs. More
efficient sharing of credit information would help reduce informational rents.
As part of a broad-based set of actions to foster the reduction in spreads the Central Biank is initiating a series
of actions, which include follow up studies on the rationalization of financial sector taxation, enhanced
transparency, and debtor information. The actions proposed in this context in the present technical assistance
loan include: (i) draft reformulation of bankruptcy law to allow for prioritizing of secured creditors,



Page 25
replacement of management and increased flexibility in restructuring; (ii) a study (model) of the impact of
actions to reduce spread, through measures such as improved creditor rights (better contract enforceability,
repossession of collateral), more efficient judicial processes, and bankruptcy reform. It would include the
development of credit and default risk indicators through the use of the credit risk information center and
other data resources, as well as facilities for modeling the spread through macroeconomic, microeconomic
and financial structure variables. The tasks also include (iii) a study to propose measures to increase
productivity and/or competition in the financial sector which would identify regulatory objectives and
make recommendations on measures to achieve objectives; (iv) a study on bankruptcy procedures, and (v) a
study on taxation. The latter study would examine both the implication of financial sector taxation for
spreads, as well as broader issues of neutrality of tax treatment across different financial sector instruments,
and between foreign and domestic investors. Finally, a study is also proposed on the subject of (vi)
collateralization, which is intended to explore the enhanced use and repossession of collateral as a means
towards broadening the availability of basic financial services to the under-served segments of the
population, in addition to lowering credit risk (and hence spreads).
1.7 Implementation of Information Technology Diagnostic Proposals:
This component will be based on the recommendations of the Gartner Group report, and the work plan to
implement the approved measures, developed within the first Central Bank Modernization TA Loan
diagnostics study. An interrelated series of follow up actions have been identified which are proposed to be
taken within this proposed TA Loan are: (i) an Electronic Document Management System study, on the
procedures of generation, flow, safekeeping, control and retrieval of documents within the BCB; the
acquisition of associated software and hardware, and training as necessary; (ii) training of IT for new
managerialfunctions, especially, project managers for the implementation of information technology needs
for the various end use areas of the BCB. This also involves training in the implementation and use of a new
technological platform; and (iii) development of an Unified Interface for the access of the various systems
of the BCB, such as SISBACEN, internet, intranet, news agencies, message services, as well as management
reports.
1.8 Supplementary / Additional Fund Allocations
To the extent that some items can only be defined following the detailed studies and works proposed for the
project, additional funds have been put in reserve for these needs, which will be better defined in Years 2 and
3. If BCB considers that further needs may arise, other than in the areas defined above, it may be possible to
increase the envelope of funds in this category to encompass additional unforeseen needs.
Proiect Component II - US$ 6.7 million
Support to Brazil's securities markets for Strengthening Regulation and Compliance and Increasing
Transparency and Investor Protection
Through support to the Comissao de Valores Mobiliirios
General Introduction
The CVM is in the difficult position of regulating increasingly sophisticated markets with severe constraints
on available resources. Complex corporate business transactions requiring CVM review are becoming more
prevalent. The Internet, automated securities trading and increased access to foreign markets is making
market oversight more difficult and time-constrained.
The CVM has identified several areas of responsibility where it believes it must increase its efforts, provided



Page 26
sufficient resources become available. Of particular note is its need to increase periodic direct inspections of
market participants, including brokerage firms and mutual funds. Currently, firms are inspected on-site only
if a problem has been identified. The CVM also would like to increase its direct monitoring of daily trading
practices on the exchanges. In addition, there is little direct inspection by the CVM of the exchanges
themselves and their fulfillment of their self-regulatory responsibilities. Although there is dual regulatory
responsibility, the Central Bank has been primarily responsible for direct oversight of clearance and
settlement facilities and financial institution capital adequacy.
At the same time, a number of legislative initiatives are likely to further increase the workload of the CVM.
Changes in corporate governance could affect the recent spate of going private transactions. The recent
changes to the nation's bank secrecy laws is likely to facilitate easier CVM access to private banking and
trading records, increasing the number of investigations the CVM will be able to undertake. A number-of
other structural changes are also under consideration that could affect the CVM, for example the
establishment of a quasi-private entity to oversee accounting standards and the CBLC implementation of a
T+3 clearance and settlement system.  There are also ongoing discussions of possibly regulatory
consolidation within the government.
Internally, staff of the CVM identified a number of other initiatives that have been delayed due to lack of
funding.  For example, public corporations are currently required to submit financial statements
electronically, via physical delivery of a diskette. The CVM would prefer to have companies file the entire
document, not just the financial statement, electronically. This would facilitate implementation of a selective
review process, improving CVM efficiency and enable the CVM to make the documents available publicly
over the Internet. Also, the CVM would like to undertake a comprehensive updating of its regulations and
then digitize them, along with all current CVM interpretive opinions, so that they would be readily available
to the industry and the public. Easy public access would increase ease of compliance and reduce requests for
CVM interpretations in areas that have been previously addressed. As noted, there is an expressed need for
more robust market surveillance software. While a number of commercially available packages exist,
funding has not been available.
Automation plays a substantial part in a number of other desired CVM initiatives. A project currently under
development, through private funding from the Brazilian Bankers Association, will create a system for
mutual funds electronically to file periodic reports on a fund's securities positions as well as its financial
statements. The CVM Internet website has been highly successful. It would be the primary vehicle for
disseminating publicly the information generated from these other initiatives. This would increase the
system demands for storage, indexing and transmission. The current CVM computer infrastructure could not
accommodate these initiatives. While the existing local area network links all CVM staff personal computers,
there are insufficient funds for the purchase of pc's for new staff or for the purchase of the additional file
servers necessary to support these applications. In addition to limiting system performance, the lack of
adequate file servers creates security risks. For example, the use of a single file server for both internal
storage and storage of information for external use on the Internet website is recognized by the CVM as a
security issue. While the need for computer capacity is vital to operations, budgetary limitations have
resulted in spending for information technology to be reduced from $2.9 million (US) in 1996 to $1.2 million
(US) in 2000. During our visit in December, we learned that a number of maintenance contracts for the
system had to be cancelled for the remainder of the year due to lack of available funds.
The issue of adequate resources is not merely a matter of money. Under the Brazilian civil service system,
all hiring must be through competitive exams. These are conducted yearly for each government agency with
the authority to hire new staff. Vacancies arising during the year remain unfilled until the next year's exam
cycle. If authority for an exam is not obtained, no one may be hired. Another recent change in the Brazilian



Page 27
personnel system is the consolidation of all attorney positions within the Ministry of Justice. The CVM must
request an assignment of lawyers from the Ministry, which has final discretion over the request. Once
assigned, attorneys must be supervised by other attorneys within the CVM legal office. While attorneys may
apply through the exam process for non-attorney positions, if hired, they may not provide formal legal
opinions.
Specific tasks described below have been determined against the background of an overall review of CVM,
its present and future responsibilities in the context of changing regulatory and market conditions, and its role
in proposed financial sector reforms. Details on individual components are described below.
11.1 Diagnostic Studies:
These would span CVM's institutional needs (and the needs of a new restructured securities market
regulator); the regulatory authority of CVM, its  overall information technology requirements; and
complementary studies on the future role of CVM in the context of the internationalization of Brazil's
financial markets
Comprehensive Internal Assessment of CVM's resources and responsibilities.
The study would undertake an assessment of CVM's resources and requirements in the context of the
changing capital market environment; a comparison of CVM resources, in terms of fees, budgetary outlays,
etc., to other securities regulators in developed and emerging markets; projections of the likely impact of
proposed statutory reforms and Brazilian market expansion / contraction on CVM's duties and resource
needs; an examination of staffing numbers and skills available relative to requirements; CVM's links to
SROs; and recommendations on more appropriate alignment of responsibilities and resources.
Study and Recommendations for Strengthening Enforcement
Study of the extent and consequences of the CVM's limitations in enforcement due to its limited
administrative remedies, lack of access to civil litigation and / or criminal sanctions; structural delays due to
need for commissioners to sit as adjudicators at the hearing stage, and delays arising from appellate review of
disciplinary sanctions by the CRSFN, a body which reviews financial sector legal judgments.
Recommendations for legal and non-legal remedies.
Examination of the overall Brazilian regulatory structure and the role of the CVM.
Identification of emerging issues for which regulatory responsibility/structure is not established; such as
investment advisers, information vendors, individual firm clearance and settlement responsibilities, oversight
of individual employees of regulated broker dealers, firms and individuals in the futures markets.
Identification of areas of overlap in responsibility / gaps in responsibility between government agencies,
including areas in which multiple agencies have parallel regulatory programs for discrete segments of the
overall industry, such as the variety of collective investment vehicles (closed pension funds, mutual funds,
foreign fixed income and variable income funds). Comparisons with regulatory structures in other markets,
especially in terms of degree of consolidation of supervisory responsibilities between securities markets
regulators and relative to banking supervision. Development of a plan to eliminate gaps and harmonize the
approaches of the relevant agencies, providing guidance on specific changes to supervision issues.
Study on Internationalization of Brazilian Securities markets
Role and likely impact of listing / trading of Brazilian firms overseas; Entry of foreign investors in the
domestic market; impact of the internet on cross border transactions, especially in terms of applicability and
enforcement of domestic regulations.



Page 28
Information Technology capacity assessment and identification of needed enhancements.
This foundational study would pay special attention to infrastructure capacity and security, market
surveillance and Internet website needs, including improved public access to corporate and mutual fund
data. Where appropriate in terms of the degree of integration of diagnostic and design work, writing of
specific softwares / protocols would be undertaken as part of this overall package. This study is likely to
serve as an input into a part of the work program of Years 2 and 3.
11.2 Strengthening Compliance and Regulations
Digitizing and indexing of all official CVM statements, legal and accounting interpretations and disciplinary
actions, and making them available on the CVM website. (Market participants, as well as their legal and
accounting advisors, need ready access to ensure that they are in compliance. Ready access to policy
statements also facilitates compliance and should reduce the workload of CVM staff by eliminating requests
for advice or interpretation on previously considered topics) by updating and expanding the body of policy
statements and improving their public availability
Updating a select number of CVM's existing regulations to reflect the government's financial sector reform
agenda, and changes in the marketplace. CVM's staff have identified a number of existing instructions
requiring updating and revision, including instructions 5 (listing standards), 13 (tender offers) and 31
(material event disclosure). Many of these are designed to emphasize governance issues, in accordance with
the new Corporate Law and other initiatives. It is envisaged that further such regulations would be identified
in subsequent years.
11.3 Supporting Corporate Finance and Disclosure
The CVM staff review the typical array of corporate disclosure documents, including securities registration
filings, periodic disclosure documents and special event or special transactions filings.  Information
technology support could improve CVM operations in several ways, as discussed below. The particulars of
these systems would need to be defined first, and this could be undertaken as part of the overall information
technology study in A.5 above. Activities anticipated in this area include (i) the installation of a system for
tracking all documents filed to enable closer monitoring of staff productivity and timeliness of staff review,
improving management of the process. This would require the design of software to customize the tracking
system to CVM's organizational processes. (ii) Installation of software enabling implementation of a
selective review system to improve the quality of CVM review and increase the efficiency of its reduced
staff; and (iii) on-line availability of the full text of all corporate disclosure documents to enhance public
access to all filed documents.
Support to the Corporate Finance department would also include training in select areas of Corporate
Financial Analysis and Accounting Standards, especially in emerging areas such as valuation of assets and
companies for purposes of determining whether corporate reorganizations, mergers or going private
transactions are fair to minority shareholders (this is a requisite under the new Corporate Law). CVM's
Corporate Finance department has also identified training needs in areas relating to accounting standards
such as comparing Brazilian accounting standards with foreign standards. The program would include:
specialized in-country training programs with a combination of foreign / local trainers.
11.4 Market Surveillance And On Site Inspection
A fundamental responsibility of a securities regulator is monitoring activities of securities markets and
participants to ensure fair dealing for investors and financial integrity of system. The CVM currently



Page 29
performs ongoing surveillance of trading on the securities exchanges. Less extensive is its use of on-site
inspections of market participants to assess compliance with the law and on-site monitoring of SRO
regulatory functions to ensure they are performing at an acceptable level. Assistance would be provided to
CVM to strengthen existing surveillance and inspection programs, including:
Study to assess existing CVM market surveillance capacity, identify regulatory objectives and make
recommendations on system upgrade, expansion or enhancement to achieve objectives. (combined with the
overall Information Technology study in A.5 above). Institutional capacity would also be strengthened by the
provision of portable computer equipment to on-site inspectors, and the acquisition of resources
recommended by consultancy, which would establish data processing capacity to identify, analyze and
recreate aberrant trading patterns.
Consultancy to assist in updating existing CVM operations manuals and protocols for inspections of
broker-dealers and mutual funds. This would include, inter alia: Identifying appropriate areas for inspection
(e.g. - customer sales practices, regulatory compliance program, books and records maintenance, customer
funds segregation, and for broker dealers, capital adequacy); drafting formal inspection protocols;
establishing firm inspection methods and review cycles; establishing procedures for determining when to
conduct special cause inspections and protocol for inspection; and providing basic training on the use of
manuals and in on-site inspection methods. To the extent that inspection protocols for mutual funds have
already been established by the Central Bank, full use would be made of these materials.
Consultancy to assist in establishment of CVM program for surveillance and inspection of commodity!
stock index futures markets and participants; including: licensing standards for member firms and
regulatory requirements and procedures for fair trading practices and for recording and disclosing
transactions (trading priority rules and audit trail systems).
Consultant study to prepare comprehensive analysis of Brazilian electronic trading systems and identify
potential systemic or regulatory issues that CVM may determine to address, such as (a) capacity of existing
exchange and member firm trading systems; (b) accuracy and integrity of trade information disclosure; (c)
Suitability issues; (d) internalization of order flow and best execution.
11.5 Investor Protection and Public Information
The central focus of this component would be on increased disclosure, and information to investors to enable
them to make informed decisions. Securities markets function best with a well-educated fully informed
investor population. The internet is an extremely effective vehicle for reaching investors. CVM currently has
a fully functioning website that has capacity limitations. An upgraded website could relieve some of this
problem. CVM also proposes to use its website to provide investor education materials. The components
would be: (i) consultancy to redesign and upgrade CVM website, including the identification of all
categories of public information to be made available on website. (The particulars of such a system would
need to be defined; this would be undertaken as part of the overall information technology study in A.5
above); (ii) procurement of equipment and software required for upgraded website; and (iii) consultancies
to assist with designing online information sheets, including, e.g.; understanding a corporate balance sheet,
calculation of mutual fund or pension plan fees and expenses; guidelines for on-online trading for the
individual investor. Around 3-5 topics are expected to be addressed in each year for the next three years.
11.6 Mutual Fund Investor Protection
In view of the rapid growth of mutual funds in Brazil in recent years and their importance as collective
investment vehicles, the provision of investor protection in this area takes on a special significance. The



Page 30
extent to which the CVM should make available information on individual mutual funds through its own
website, or whether it should be set up with appropriate linkages to data maintained on individual funds'
websites, or on the site of an industry association, is debatable, and the evaluation of alternative models
would be considered as a part of the overall assessment of information technology capacity and
requirements. Components included would be: (i) Consultancy on use of CVM website to make publicly
available statements of mutualfunds' data including monthly holdings, and possible inclusion within the
system data to calculate fund net asset value, expenses and administrative fees, and methods to compare
positions held with the investment policies stated in a fund's prospectus. (This could be undertaken as part of
the overall information technology study in A.5 above, which could also examine as an option / alternative
the possibilities of creating links on the CVM website to each mutual fund's individual web page). Training
in the use of the mutual funds data system would be included. (ii) CVM would undertake to engage
consultancy services of a survey design firm to assist in design and preparation of a survey on investor
protection, including design of the sample and distribution system and tabulation and analysis of the
responses. The goal of CVM's proposed survey is to obtain a clear understanding of the level of
sophistication of the public to better focus the investor protection program and identify areas requiring future
action by CVM, both educational and regulatory. Providing survey design assistance for CVM's proposed
survey on public knowledge of investing, including differences in types of investments and associated risks.
11.7 Overall Institutional Support.
Project coordination unit. Recognizing the extreme resource constraints of the CVM at present, the project
would finance the use of long term local consultants to work with staff in the project coordination unit, to aid
with the implementation of the project, including the local travel of some consultants to ensure coordination
between the Rio and Brasilia offices. Limited additional equipment requirements of such staff, such as desk
top computers, copiers, and ancillary office equipment, would also be financed. It is understood that over the
period of the project, interchanges with staff in CVM and the project unit would allow a transfer of skills to
CVM staff.
The project would also support on a limited basis, institutional capacity building initiatives which would
serve all departments. These would include: (i) provisions for continued Training. It is envisaged that the
CVM would continue to benefit from external advisory services in select areas, which could be arranged in
an ad hoc basis, or through the organization of seminars. Provisions for such advisors over the period of
project implementation are built in to the project. (ii) Foreign Tours / studies CVM staff in a number of
departments indicated the usefulness of foreign tours to study particular issues. Given that there was demand
for this facility across all areas of the institution, it was considered advisable to centralize the availability for
the use of all departments. (iii) Library and Reference Materials. This would comprise not only the
purchase of books and reference materials, but also the subscriptions to journals and CD ROM's, and the
availability of online services ( e.g., legal, accounting, etc.)
11.8. Additional Fund Allocations for Years 2 and 3
To the extent that some items can only be defined following the detailed diagnostic work in the first year of
the project, additional funds have been put in reserve for these needs, which will be better defined in Years 2
and 3. It appears that the largest share of these funds is likely to be in the area of consultancy for the design
requirements of information technology systems, where optimal design selection will be determined in the
first phase of the diagnostic work.



Page 31
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
Brazil: Financial Sector Technical Assistance Project
Pr2 joct ConeDou.nts                 l,ocel   F=treIg    TOOl    % Foreignp   % Totl
.C Coow)            EIehanAg. Base Costs
L.  Support to address systemic financial sector issues, and  3,928,032   7,071,968  11,000,000  64.3   98.1
reinforce banking supervision, through the Central
Bank (Total)
Pre-identified Activities
1.1  Payment System Reform                                 33,000    722,800    755,800       95.6       96.9
1.2-1.4 Improved Banking Supervision, Regulations, Bank Failure   399,032   1,946,368   2,345,400  76.67  95.9
Resolution and Preparedness
I.5-I.6 Reduction of interest rate/spreads and Studies on Sectoral    408,000  143,600    551,600  22.75  94.05
Policy
1.7  Implementation of IT Diagnostic Proposals             88,000   2,152,000   2,240,000     96.1       97.0
1.8  Project Management                                 3,000,000          -  3,000,000          0       100
Second Phase/Supplementarv Activities                         2,107,200   2,107,200       100       100
11.  Support for the strengthening regulation and       1,848,910   4,730,450   6,579,360     71.9       98.2
compliance, and increasing transparency and investor
protection, in the area of securities markets, through
support to the CVM (Total)
Pre-identified Activities
11.1  Diagnostic Studies                                  224,000   1,005,900   1,229,900     81.8       96.5
11.2-11.4 Strengthening Compliance, Corporate Finance, Surveillance  419,000   1,444,200   1,863,200  75.5  98.3
and Site Inspection
IL.5-II.6 Investor Protection, Public Infornation and Collective  350,000  13,400    363,400    18.0       95.4
Investments
11.7  Institutional Support and Project Management        855,910    466,950   1,322,860      35.3       99.0
Second Phase/Suvplementarv Activities                         1,800,000   1,800,000       100       100
Total Base Costs                                   5,776,942  11,802,418  17,579,360     67.1       100
Price Contingencies                                  118,797    215,821    334,618       64.5        1.9
Total Project Costs                                5,895,739  12,018,239  17,913,978     67.1      101.9
: Price contingencies for local costs are based on domestic price escalation rates of 4% and international price escalation rates of 2%
based on the index of unit value of manufactured imports.



Page 32
Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Brazil: Financial Sector Technical Assistance Project
(Not Applicable)
Main Assumptions:
Cost-effectiveness indicators1
' These indicators should compare the project with a suitable comparator, e.g., unit project costs of alternative project designs or
international standards.



Page 33
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue Earning Project Entities
(Not Applicable)



Page 34
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Brazil: Financial Sector Technical Assistance Project
1.    Procurement Responsibility. Project implementation will require procurement of a limited quantity of
goods but significant technical assistance services for studies and other consultant assignments. For the CVM
component, the office of the Financial Superintendent in the Rio headquarters will be responsible for the
overall project procurement activity, including compliance with procedures and timetables agreed with the
Bank. The project management office SEPRO (Secretaria de Projetos) of the Central Bank will carry out
same functions for the Central Bank component.  The Central Bank will continue to hire UNDP as
procurement agent, as under the ongoing CBTAL currently under implementation, and CVM will also hire
UNDP as procurement agent, to carry out the procurement under the Project. The Superintendent in Rio is a
qualified manager, knowledgeable about procurement issues. Although recently appointed to the position of
project manager, he has made every effort to familiarize himself with all aspects of the project. The project
management office within the Central Bank (SEPRO) is a well established unit that has experience in Bank-
financed projects.
2.    The CVM Financial Superintendent and project coordinator in Rio will organize a procurement team
consisting of at least one experienced staff and an administrative assistant who may be selected with UNDP
assistance, or through open competition. The team will be formed as soon as possible. The team, who should
be already familiar with the Bank's procurement guidelines, will provide UNDP staff with clear working
instructions closely reflecting the Bank's procedures and outlining all procedural aspects of procurement under
the project. The working instructions should be an integral part of the project's procurement reference
documentation or Black Book, which was under compilation by the appraisal mission. In addition, a
procurement workshop, involving the procurement team, UNDP staff and the implementing staff of the
Central Bank would be organized prior to the Loan's effectiveness. The workshop would focus on the Bank's
procurement policy and procedures and their application to the procurement arrangements planned for project
implementation.
3.   Procurement Plan. CVM and Central Bank prepared procurement plans during the project appraisal.
The plans cover the first and part of the second year of the project implementation. Many of the initial studies
consist of diagnostics and action plans that would require additional consultants services and hardware and
software for further implementation. The procurement methods envisioned for the second and third year of
implementation include NCB for Goods and QCBS and Individual services for consultants. The plans for the
first and second year which include clearly identified items and services were approved by the RPA's office
and are in the project files. The procurement plans consist of: (i) procurement plan for the project's goods,
including contract packaging, applicable procedures and process scheduling; (ii) a consultant selection process
plan for the project's consultant services, including contract packaging, applicable procedures, shortlists, and
selection criteria. The procurement plan and consultant selection process plan will be updated periodically,
every 6 months. The plans include the (i) list of contracts completed, under execution, under procurement, to
be procured in the upcoming calendar semester and, tentatively, in the subsequent semester; (ii) costs of
completed and under execution contracts, and estimated costs for upcoming contracts; (iii) schedule of
bidding; and (iv) particular methods of procurement of goods or selection of consultants.
4.   Methods for Bank-Financed Procurement. Bank-financed procurement will be carried out in
accordance with provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement and the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement
(published in January 1995, revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999) for
supply of goods and the Bank's Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants (published in January
1997, revised in September 1997 and January 1999) for technical assistance and other consultant assignments.
The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents and Standard Request for Proposals will be used for the Bank-
financed ICB goods and consultant services, respectively. For NCB procurement of goods, CVM and the
Central Bank will use the model standard bidding document issued by SEAIN in November 2000. The



Page 35
project's procurement arrangements for each component are summarized in Table A.
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ thousand equivalent)
PROCUREMENT METHODS
CATEGORIES             ICB            NC               Other       -     7'
CVM   BC  cvM  BC   (VM -JC j                      T  i
1. Goods                   3,000   500.0  932.5   590.0'      -     218.02   704.43    1,308    4,636.9
2. Consultants                                    5,009.3  4,282.2  382.14  2,295.65   5,391.4  6,577.8
and Training
3. Front Fee                                       61.0      82.1                       61.0     82.1
Total                      3,000   500.0  932.5  5,660.3  4,364.3   600.1   3,000    6,760.4  11,296.8
Notes: ICB: International Competitive Bidding; NCB: National Competitive Bidding;
Other: includes National and Intermational Shopping; NBF: Not Bank-financed
Shopping: US$190,000; Direct Contracting of journals, magazines US$200,000; and US$200,000 through administrative/operational
procedures for paying travel, airfare, per-diem, etc. against an annual plan approved by the Bank
2 Taxes at 20%
3Taxes at 20%
4Taxes for consultants at 5%; UNDP fee at 3% and ABC fee at 1%
5 Project implementation unit costs; taxes for consultants at 5%; UNDP fee at 3% and ABC fee at 1%
5.    Bank- Financed Goods and Associated Procedures.  The proposed project would finance goods
consisting of (i) books and professional journals; (ii) software and on-line services subscription; and (iii)
computer hardware and software. The characteristics and specifications of part of the latter items will be
defined upon completion of the various diagnostics and studies in each of the components of the Project. In the
case of the Central Bank, procurement of software and IT hardware in an amount of US$3,000,000 was
identified in the procurement plan; similar items, in individual packages estimated to cost less than
US$250,000, in an aggregate amount not to exceed US$950,000 are likely to be identified during the
diagnostics studies and will be procured through NCB procedures. In the case of CVM, the procurement plan
identified items in individual packages estimated to cost less than US$100,000, in an aggregate amount not to
exceed US$200,000, will be procured through shopping procedures. The procurement method pregdo (Dutch
shopping) can be used as an alternative to shopping'. Journals, magazines and on-line services subscriptions,
obtainable only from  one source,  will be procured directly, in an aggregate amount not to exceed
US$200,000. Other operational expenses, including travel expenses of staff participating in training activities,
will be paid using administrative procedures of UNDP and CVM, reviewed and found acceptable to the Bank,
in an amount not to exceed US$200,000, in accordance with annual plans approved by the Bank. Upon
completion of the diagnostics studies in CVM, it is likely that similar items, in individual packages estimated
to cost less than US$250,000, in an aggregate amount not to exceed US$500,000 will be procured through
NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank.
6.    Bank-Financed Consultant Services and Associated Procedures. The proposed project would finance
consultant services and training for an estimated total cost of about US$9.3 million and consisting of (i)
technical strengthening; (ii) institutional strengthening; (iii) public information; and (iv) coordination and
monitoring; and (v) specific project related training and advisory support.
' The pregdo is a simplified procurement method established by law for the procurement of small off-the-shelf items, in
which the lowest priced bidders are given the opportunity to improve their offers in a public ceremony.



Page 36
Annex 6, Table Al: Consultant Selection and Training Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Consultanid07                 ;f;; ; t-t;       ;; and  i; ;fg0X00;:;;:g QSEJ;ECTION MEht : S,
A. Firms            2.84   2.35   0.3    0.96   0.58                                      3.72   3.31
B. Individuals2                                              1.29   0.97                  1.29   0.97
Total                                                                              5.01   4.28
This table does not include training expenses paid when using administrative procedures: travel, per-diem, and rental of space, for
training.
QCBS: Quality-and Cost-Based Selection
QBS: Quality-Based Selection: under the CVM component, QBS will be used for hiring High Level Advisory Services under the
Diagnostics Studies component. Under the BC component QBS will be used in four contracts: (1) hiring of the IT upgrading
services (2) hiring the Best practices in money laundering services, both under the Improvement Banking and Supervision
Regulations component; (3) hiring the studies on collateralization and (4) services for training of IT staff. Both under the Economic
Policy Studies component.
SFB: Selection under a Fixed Budget: under the CVM component SFB will be used for three contracts: (I) for hiring the Manual
preparation services under the Investor Protection and Public Information Component; (2) for hiring the Software Design services
under the Collective Investments component; and (3) for hiring the Training on Updating services under the Strengthening
Compliance component
LCS: Least-Cost Selection; CQ: Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications will not be used in the Project
Other: Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), NBF: Not Bank-financed.
7.    The project's selection and employment of consultants will be carried out under arrangements
acceptable to the Bank (Table Al), using the Bank's Standard Forms and Contracts. Most of the project's
studies, implementation supervision, financial and procurement audits would be carried out following Quality
and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) methods, individual consultants, and other exceptional methods as detailed
in Table Al.
8.    Procurement Review  and Methods.  The Bank's procurement review will be in accordance with
Appendix 1 of the Guidelines for Procurement and the provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement.
Procurement documents for all ICB will be subject to Bank's prior review, irrespective of the estimated
amount of contract. For CVM, the Bank will review all NCB and the first three shopping procedures
irrespective of the estimated amount of contract. For the Central Bank, the Bank will review only the first
NCB and the first shopping procedure, if any, irrespective of the estimated amount of contract.
9.    With regard to consultant services, prior to issuance of any requests for proposal, a complete plan for
selection of consultants under the project should be prepared by CVM and Central Bank. The Bank's review
of selection of consultants will be in accordance with Appendix I of the Guidelines for Selection and
Employment of Consultants and the provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement. Consultant firm contracts
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more per contract will be subject to the Bank's prior
review. All consultant firms contracts estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$100,000 per contract
will be subject to post review. For employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$50,000 or more per contract, in the case of the Central Bank, and US$35,000 or more per contract, in the
case of CVM, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants
will be provided to the Bank for its prior review and the contracts will be awarded only after the Bank's
concurrence. Contracts for individual consultants estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$50,000 for
Central bank and US$35,000 for CVM, will be subject to post review. Consultant contract documents to be
reviewed will include TORs, shortlists, evaluation reports, and contract forms. A review process similar to
individual consultants, will apply to training and workshops. Under the CVM component, in addition to
QCBS, QBS and SFB will be used for the assignments listed in the bottom of Table Al, and individual
2 The Loan Agreement will round up the aggregate amounts



Page 37
consultants will also be used in an aggregate amount not to exceed US$1.3 million. Under the Central Bank
component, in addition to QCBS, QBS will be used for the assignments listed in the bottom of Table Al, and
individual consultants will be used in an aggregate amount not to exceed US$1 million.
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expe ture           Contiact Value  .   i uent                 C :   f -   C  lulsc tt 
Caftory              (nreshold)          Metbod  -                  i 
US $ thousands                               US $ thousands
1. Goods                      > 250            ICB         Prior review of any ICB and NCB contracts for
250 <             NCB        CVM irrespective of amount; for Central Bank
all ICB and first NCB irrespective of the
amount
100 <            IS / NS     Prior review of first three shopping procedures
for CVM and first shopping, if any, for Central
Bank irrespective of amount
Post review, random sample, on shopping below
threshold.
Aggregate Prior Review(Goods): S3,750,000
2. Consultant                                              Prior review of consultant selection.
Services and Training        > 100             QCBS and   Subsequently, prior review for all contracts >
(Expected to be Firms)    other methods    Prior Review: $3,500,000
> 50           Individuals   Prior review for all Individual Consultant
(Expected to be Individual           contracts > $35,000 equivalent for CVM and >
Consultants. Trainine and            US$50,000 equivalent for Central Bank
Workshops)                          Aggregate Prior Review: $1,000,000
Post review, random sample, on all contract
service below threshold.
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  $8,250,000 (60% of Loan Amount)
10.   In addition to the regular tasks of prior and ex-post reviews, the Bank may also carry out spot checks of
the quality and consistency of its financed procurement work, with the objective of strengthening the fiduciary
responsibilities.
11.   Advertising. A General Procurement Notice for hiring of consultant services in the CVM component,
and the ICB goods and consultants services under the Banco Central component, should be published in the
United Nations Development Business, no later than May 2001. The Notice will be updated annually for
outstanding consultant services and ICB goods. In addition, detailed consultant services and assignments will
be advertised by CVM and Banco Central, as they become available, in at least one national newspaper of a
large circulation. Furthermore, the implementing agencies may also advertise some of the project's studies in
an intemational newspaper or a technical magazine. The agencies may also seek "expressions of interest" by
contacting embassies, professional organizations, or firms that they know or that are registered in DACON
(paragraph 1.15 of the Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants). In this case, the information
required would be minimum, limited to make a judgement on the firm's suitability. Sufficient time (not less
than 30 days) will be provided for responses, before preparing the short lists.
12.   Methods for Non-Bank Financed Procurement. The Central Bank will continue to hire UJNDP and
ABC, as under the ongoing CBTAL currently under implementation, and CVM will also hire the same
agencies, for procurement administration activities under PRODOC documents based on the Cost Sharing



Page 38
Agreement and Checklist approved by the Bank.
13.   Procurement Records. Detailed procurement records, reflecting the project's supply of goods and
consultant services, including records of time taken to complete key steps in the process and procurement
activities related to supervision, review and audits, will be maintained by CVM in Brasilia and in SEPRO, at
the Central Bank, respectively. These records will be maintained for at least two years after the project's
closing date. The records for goods will include public notices, bidding documents and addenda, bid opening
information, bid evaluation reports, formal appeals by bidders and outcomes, signed contracts with related
addenda and amendments, records on claims and dispute resolution, and any other useful information. The
records for consultant services will include public notices for expression of interest, request for proposals and
addenda, technical and financial reports, formal appeals by consultants and outcomes, signed contracts,
addenda and amendments, records on claims and dispute resolution and any other useful informnation.
14.   Procurement Risk Assessment. There is no Country Procurement Assessment (CPAR) for Brazil. A
key aspect for defining the level of prior review has been the procurement capacity assessment of CVM and
the Central Bank. The assessment involved officials from CVM and Central Bank to complete data collection
questionnaires about laws, regulations and procedures. With regard to CVM, since the unit's staffing is yet to
be completed and its procurement team yet to be organized, the Bank mission worked with the project
manager and his team in Rio de Janeiro, collecting data, analyzing procurement performance and reviewing
how CVM's procurement under the project will be organized. Based on this assessment, a capacity assessment
for each implementing agency was prepared. CVM was rated high risk and the Central Bank was rated average
risk. The Central Bank has an established and experienced project management office that is very familiar
with the procurement procedures financed by the Bank and knows well the relationship with UNDP/ABC.
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
CVM                  Central Bank
High                  X
Average                                        X
Low
15.   Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: For CVM: one every 6 months, including
special procurement supervision for post-review/audits; for Central Bank: one every year.
16.   Procurement Audits. CVM and the Central Bank will provide the Bank, no later than six
months after the end of each year, procurement records audited by independent procurement experts,
acceptable to the Bank. These procurement audits could be performed concurrently with the financial
audits. The term of reference for the procurement reviews will be in accordance with internationally
accepted standards.
Financial Management and Disbursement
Accountability Environment at Banco Central do Brasil and Comissao de Valores Mobiliarios - CVM
17.    The financial management systems of the project management office at the Banco Central do Brasil



Page 39
and Comissao de Valores Mobiliarios - CVM were reviewed by a Bank Financial Management Specialist, for
compliance with OPIBP 10.02 and the Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI) Implementation
Handbook. Based on this review, the project was certified as a "B", indicating that Banco Central do Brasil and
CVM financial management capacity satisfies the Bank's minimum financial management requirements. The
financial management assessment report for Banco Central do Brasil and CVM is in the project files.
18.    Previous experience in financial management with Banco Central do Brasil indicates that generally
acceptable systems are in place. However, the project management unit at the Banco Central do Brasil is
undertaking adjustments of its financial management system in order to generate PMRs to better monitor its
administrative and financial functions and to disburse and certify expenditures, which at the moment are
certified by SOEs. The financial management system is in the process of being tested after the adjustments
proposed, and exercises in the system are being carried out to allow project staff to become more familiar with
project management reports. This system integrates financial, and physical/financial monitoring modules and it
will be able to generate PMRs as agreed with the Central Bank's project management office. On the other
hand, CVM will adopt the financial management system in place at Banco Central to comply with the Bank's
requirements. This implies to disburse and account for the use of the funds.
19.   Action plans to strengthen Central Bank's and CVM's financial management systems in order to
enable them to produce PMRs acceptable to the Bank were agreed with both Banco Central do Brasil and
CVM, and the recommendations to improve the financial management reporting system, including primarily,
the management reports, and accounting balance sheets have been almost accomplished and it will facilitate
timely preparation of the PMRs and submission of audit reports. Action plans will be finalized within 6
months of the date of the Loan Agreement.
Disbursements Procedures
20.    Disbursement will be made under traditional procedures for purposes of justification of expenditures
until both the Central Bank and CVM complete action plans to enable them to produce PMRs satisfactory to
the Bank, and the Government decides to withdraw funds on the basis of PMRs. Disbursement on the basis of
SOEs will be required for all items that are not subject to the Bank's prior review, which are: (a) contracts for
goods costing less than US$250,000 equivalent for the Central Bank, other than the first contract to be
awarded under NCB and shopping procedures; (b) contracts for goods costing less than US$100,000
equivalent for the CVM, other than the first three contracts to be awarded under shopping procedures; (c)
contracts for consulting firms' services costing less than US$100,000 equivalent; (d) contracts for individual
consultants'services costing less than US$50,000 for the Central Bank, and less than US$35,000 for the CVM;
and (e) training activities. Once the Bank (TTL, FMS and PS) has approved the Central Bank or CVM
financial management system's capacity to generate PMRs, disbursements may be made from the Loan
Account in respect of the Central Bank or the CVM, as the case may be, on the basis of PMRs. PMRs on the
use of the funds would be submitted to the Bank on a quarterly basis. All applications would be supported by a
cash forecast of projected expenditures corresponding to the period of the application of the funds, as
established by the Borrower and agreed with the Bank. All supporting documentation authenticating the
expenditures reported in the PMRs will be maintained by the project implementation unit and made available
for review by auditors and Bank missions as requested. Because UNDP will be effecting all payments under
the Project, there will not be a Special Account for the Project. Disbursements will be made directly to the
UNDP accounts for the Central Bank and CVM components of the Project.



Page 40
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
.x   diture Ctegr         APIt VS   0                            g ~erpg6#& e
Goods
Support to BCB                                       3,933          100% of foreign expenditu
Support to CVM                                        1,090      100% of local expenditures (en
factory cost) and 80% of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally.
Consultant Services and
Training
Support to BCB                                        4,282            100%
Support to CVM                                      5,010.4
Total Project Costs                                  14,314
Front-end Fee                         144.6
Total                                                14,460
Note: Figures for Front-end fee and Total are based on outputs generated by World Bank
Loan Accounting System formula.
Audit
Following arrangements for Bank-financed projects in Brazil, the annual financial audit of the project accounts
for the period January I to December 31 of the year will be carried out by Secretaria Federal de Controle -
SFC, which is acceptable to the Bank to perform audits under the protocol of understanding terms. The Central
Bank and CVM will submit to the Bank no later than six months after the end of each year the audit report of
the accounts for their respective project components for the preceding year. The Auditor's TOR will include
the issuance of a management letter on internal controls six months after effectiveness.



Page 41
Annex 7: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Brazil: Financial Sector Technical Assistance Project
Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)        7 months              7 months
First Bank mission (identification)               12/04/00              12/04/00
Pre-appraisal mission departure                    1/21/01               1/21/01
Negotiations                                       7/15/01               7/09/01
Planned Date of Effectiveness                     11/15/01
Prepared by: Banco Central do Brasil, Comissao de Valores Mobiliarios
Preparation assistance: None
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Anjali Kumar           Lead Financial Economist - Task Manager
Modibo Khane Camara   Financial Economist - Cost and Financial Tables, links to CBTAL
Jonathan Katz          Consultant on CVM component
- Secretary, US Securities and Exchange Commission
Stefan Alber           Lead Operations Officer - Advisory support on links to PFSECAL and
CBTAL
Efraim Jimenez         Lead Procurement Specialist
Tulio Correa           Financial Management Specialist
Morag N. van Praag     Senior Disbursement Officer
Micky 0. Ananth        Team Assistant



Page 42
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
Brazil: Financial Sector Technical Assistance Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
The implementing agencies' full project implementation plans are under preparation. Procurement
plans have already been prepared by each agency and are on file.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Capacity Assessments of the two agencies involved, the Banco Central do Brasil and the Comissao de
Valores Mobiliarios, for Procurement and for Financial Management. Conducted and on file
C. Other
Consultant notes by Jonathan Katz on CVM's institutional capacity and constraints, as well as on
proposed project components.
*Including electronic files.



-age 4;
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
CAS AnnwxBe . Brsa,l
Stais of Ba," Group Opertions (Opeasoras Portfoioe)
As fGt. 5e&20
Closed Pronets      211
TOM DOeiued tAd)           2,25.20
odF ts be  poid        332.33
TOMd Ohod (Closd)           21,814.70
doehh thesen repead     18.461.20
TO tenaed (Ao. * Coe)       24.38.87
o0d:1 h tbe _peid       18,013.56
Toed Undsned (Adt)          27986.57
TOdr 1k_ouod (Csed)         0.00
ToWd Urdetsed (Ac8". losed)    2,76917
Diffesrence Batwem
AutuY PLojecils Lr2                                             PSR                                                                                                     Expectsd end Acual
Supervision Rating                                       Odtdondi Amount In USS 1411                             Di        t I
Projett D                  Project Name              Obt snt          PW             Fid Yew               ORD              ODA         GRAAT            Cwce.   Undsb.       Odg. Fm ReVd
P006559                    (BF-R)SP.TSP           S                      S             1998                  45               0              0               0      38.5      38.5        0
P043871                    (PIAUI)R.POVERTY       S                      S             1997                  30               0              0               0       2.3       2.3        0
P043873                    AG TECH-DEV.           S                      S             1997                  60               0              0               0      36.8      32.1      11.6
P055388                    ANIMAL&PLANT DES. CO  S                       S             1999                  44               0              0               0        44      22.8        0
P006562                    BAHIA MUN.DV           S                      S             1997                 100               0              0               0      64.1      56.4      -4.6
P035728                    BAHIA WTR RESOURCES S                         U             1998                  51               0              0               0      32.7      27.4      3.7
P006564                    BELO H M.TSP           S                      S             1995                  99               0              0               0      22.5      22.5        0
P037828                    SR (PR)R.POVERTY       S                      S             1996                 175               0              0               0    100.8       93.7      6.4
P044597                    SR BIODIVERSITY FUND S                        S             1996                   0               0             20               0       0.7        -4        0
P058129                    BREMER.FIREPREVENTS                           S             1999                  15               0              0               0      11.6      11.6      4.9
P047309                    BR ENERGYEFFICENCY S                          S             2000                   0               0             15               0        14         1        0
P073294                    BR FiscI & Fin. Mgmt. TALS                    S             2001                 8.9               0              0               0       8.9       0.5        0
P006474                    BRLANDMGT3(SAOPA(HS                           S             1998                  55               0              0               0      52.8      29.5      15.3
P006524                    BR MINAS MNC.DEVELOPS                         S             1994                 150               0              0              9.7     20.8      30.5     25.5
P048870                    BR MT STATE PRIV.      S                      S             1997                  45               0              0               0         5         5        5
P057910                    BR PENSION REFORM LILHS                       S             1998                   5               0              0               0       3.3       3.3      -1.3
P006541                    BRWTRQIPLN(SPIPRIFEIS                         S             1993                 245               0              0              5.2        6      11.2       1.1
P054120                    BR- AIDS&STDCoratb 11 S                       S             1999                 165               0              0              3.5     72.7      48.7        0
P043874                    BR- DISEASESURVEILLAS                         S             1999                 100               0              0               0      82.7      74.3        0
P050763                    BR- Fundnsola 2        S                      S             1999                 202               0              0               0      61.5    -53.5         0
P006554                    BR- HEALTH SECTOR RES                         S             1996                 300               0              0               0     133.7    133.7         0
P006543                    BR- MINASGERAISBASItS                         S             1994                 150               0              0               0      10.7      10.7        0
P006558                    BR- PARANA BASIC EDUtS                        S             1994                  96               0              0               0       3.4       3.4        0
P038947                    BR- SC.& TECH3         S                      S             1998                 155               0              0               0      127.1    127.1        0
P059565                    BR-BABASICEDUPROJES                           S             2001                 69.6              0              0               0        67       2.3        0
P059566                    BR- CEARA BASIC EDUCA S                       S             2001                  90               0              0               0        90         0        0
P046052                    CEARA WATER PILOT   S                         5             1997                  9.6              0              0               0       4.5       4.5       1.7
P006449                    CEARAWTRMGT(PROGIS                            S             2000                 136               0              0               0      131.6     33.7        0
P048357                    CEN.BANK TAL           S                      S             1998                  20               0              0               0       7.3       7.3        0
P006436                    Ceara Urban Development .S                    S             1995                 140               0              0                0     22.7      22.7       4.9
P039200                    ENERGY EFFICIENCY (EL S                       S             2000                 43.4              0              0               0        43       4.2        0
P006522                    ESP.SANTO WATER        S                      S             1994                 154               0              0              54       18.3     72.3       5.9
P006532                    FED HWY DECENTR        S                      U             1997                 300               0              0               0      156.6    156.6        0
P038895                    FED.WTR MGT            S                      S             1998                 198               0              0                0     122.8    101.1      32.8
a. Intended disbursements to date minus acrtual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.



P062619                    INSS REF LIL           S                      S             2000                   5               0             0                0       2.6       1.3       0
P006475                    LAND RFM PILOT         S                     S              1997                  90               0             0                0      24.2      24.2       0
P050772                    LAND-BASED POVERTY AS                         S             2001               202.1               0             0                0     190.9        0         0
P051701                    MARANHAO R.POVERTY S                          S             1998                  80               0             0                0      15.8      -8.4        0
P006505                    MATO GROSSO NAT RES U                         U             1992                 205               0             0                0      34.4      34.4        0
P006210                    NArL BIODIVERSITY      S                      S             1996                   0               0             10               0       3.6       1.2      1.6
P035741                    NATLENV2               S                     HS             2000                  15               0             0                0      13.4       3.6      2.3
P006453                    NE IRRIG I             S                      U             1990                   0               0             0                0        0         0        0
P050776                    NE Micofrance DevelopmN HS                   S              2000                  50               0             0                0       42        -8         0
P042565                    PARAIBA R.POVERTY    S                        S             1998                  60               0             0                0      32.5       11        0
P039199                    PROSANEAR2             S                     S              2000                30.3               0             0                0       30       -0.3       0
P042566                    R.POVERTY(PE)          S                     S              1997                  39               0             0                0       5.2       5.2       0
P038896                    R.POVERTY(RGN)         S                     S              1997                  24               0             0                0       3.8       3.8       0
P040028                    RAILWAYS RESTRUCTUR S                        S              1996                 350               0             0               50      43.4     93.4      43.4
P038882                    RECIFE M.TSP           S                     S              1995                 102               0             0                0      34.5      34.5       0
P034578                    RGS HWY MGT            S                     U              1997                  70               0             0                0       55      46.6      25.6
P043866                    RGS LAND MGTIPOVERT'S                         S             1997                 100               0             0                0      70.5      41.9        3
P043421                    RJM.TRANSITPRJ.        S                      S             1998                 186               0             0             17.2    146.9    161.5         0
P006454                    RONDONA ANTRLRES.M  S                         S             1992                 167               0             0                0      25.7     25.7        0
P050881                    RURAL POVERTY REDUC 5                         2             2001                22.5               0             0                0      22.5        0        0
P057649                    RualPovertyeduonPn#                           4             2001                54.3               0             0                0      54.3        0        0
PO50875                    Rural Povy Reduction PrM                                    2001                37.5               0             0                0      37.5        0        0
P050880                    RurePovertyRedudctonPnt                       5             2001                30.1               0             0                0      30.1        0        0
P048869                    SALVADOR URBAN TRAN S                         S             1999                 150               0             0                0     127.8       57        0
P043420                    WATER S.MOD.2          U                      U             1998                 150               0             0                0     148.3    128.8      95.4
Overel remit                                                                          Result        .    5676.4               0            45             139.5   2815.2   1790.8    284.1
a
.o
C
co
a. Inbtnded disxusemenft to date nmiu actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.



Page 45
CAS Annex B8 (IFC) for Brazil
Brazil
Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 12/3112000
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                       Disbursed
FY Approval                                            Company           Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic  Loan  Equitv Quasi Partic
1987i96                                                Perdigao            21.8S        0      0      8  21.8S       0      0      a
1989195                                                Politeno Ind.        8.77        0      0      0   8.77      0       0      0
t994/00                                                Portobello            16         0      0      0  15.29      0       0      0
2000 Puras                  5        0       0      0      5      0      0      0o
199S Randon                 7        0      3      0       7      0      3      0
1991 Rhodia-Ster         1.43     5.95      0      0   1.43   5.95       0      0
1995 Rhodiaco/PTA        12.5        0      0       9   12.5      0      0      9
1990 Ripasa                 0        5      0       0      0      5      0      0
1997 Rodovia            31.11        0      0   63.6  31.11       0      0   63.6
1994/9(S.A.l.C.C.             0        0   6.87      0       0      0   6.87      0
1987/97                                                SPAlpargatas          20         0      5      0     20       0      5      0
1994/95/97                                             Sadia                 24         0      8    128     24       0      8    128
1997 Samarco             13.5        0      0   9.33   13.5       0      0   9.33
2000 Samaritano            20        0       0      0      0      0      0      0
199S Saraiva            12.69        3      0      0  12.69       3      0      0
1997 Suconico            10.5        0      0      0   10.5       0      0      0
1996 TIGRE              17.31        0      5  10.68  17.31       0      5  10.68
1992193                                                TRIKEM                 0         0      0      0      0       0      0      0
1998 Tecon Rio Grande     7.5        0    5.5    18   6.65        0    5.5  15.95
1993 Votorantim          5.86        0      0   0.43   5.86       0      0   0.43
1999 Vulcabras             20        0      0      0      20      0      0      0
1997 Wembley                0       10      0      0       0     10      0      0
1999 Wiest                  0        0      8       0      0      0      8      0
1998 Ateb                  20        7      0     20      20      7      0     20
1999 Au2oBAn               35        0      0     31  22.84       0      0  20.23
1993 BACELL                 6      15.7     0   16.2      6   15.7       0   16.2
2000 BBA                   40        0       0      0      0      0      0      0
1998 BSC                11.53        0      0   6.18  11.53       0      0   6.18
1990/91/92                                             Bahia Sul              0         0      0      0      0      0       0      0
1996 Banco Bradesco        13        0      0  16.77      13      0      0  16.77
1997 Bompreco           20.83        0      5      0  20.83       0      5      0
1991 Bradesco-Bahia       1.5        0      0      0    1.5       0      0      0
1991 Bradesco-Eucatex       5        0      0       0      5      0      0      0
1995 Bradesco-Hering      7.5        0      0      0    7.5       0      0      0
1991 Bradesco-Petroll     7.5        0      0      0    7.5       0      0      0
1991 Bradesco-Romi          0      0.4      0      0       0    0.4      0      0
1995 Brahmna-BRA         12.5        0      5   12.3   12.5       0      5   12.3
1993/96                                                CEVAL                  0        10      0      0      0      10      0      0
1994/96                                                CHAPECO                15        0      0      5      15      0      0      5
1973178/83                                             CODEMIN                0       0.4      0      0      0    0,4       0      0
1992 CRP-Caderi             0     0.68      0      0       0   0.68      0      0
1995 Cambuhy/MC         11.25        0      0      0  11.25       0      0      0
1997 Copesul               30        0      0 128.57      30      0      0 128.57
1993/97/00                                             Coteminas              0      0.53      0      0      0   0.53       0      0
19S0/92                                                DENPASA                0      0.12      0      0      0   0.12       0      0
1998 DixieToga              0       15      0      0       0     15      0      0
1987/96197                                             Duratex             19.29        0      0  53.52  19.29       0      0  53.52
1990 ENGEPOL             0.22        0      0      0   0.22       0      0      0
1999 Eliane                32        0     13      0      32      0     13      0
1998 Empesca                5        0     10      0       5      0     10      0
2001 Escol@                 0      3.25      0      0      0   3.25      0      0
2000 Fleury                 9        0       6      0      2      0      6      0
1998 Fosfertil             20        0      0     45  18.15       0      0  40.85
l998 Fras-le               10        .     10      0      10      0    6.7      0
1994 GAVEA                7.5        0    5.5       0    7.5      0    5.5      0
1994 GPCapital              0     9.96      0       0      0   9.96      0      0
1995/96/98                                             Globocabo               0     9.91      0      0       0   9.91      0      0
1997 Guilmama-Amorim    27.75        0      0  71.84  27.75       0      0  71.84
1999 Icatu Equity           0       30      0       0      0   6.94      0      0
1999 Innova SA             20        5      0     60   11.5       5      0   34.5
19S0/17/97                                             Ipiranga            37.33        0      0 111.82  37.33       0      0 111.82
1999 ltaberaba              0        0   5.34       0      0      0   5.34      0
1999 JOSAPAR                8        0      7       0      3      0      7      0
1995 LATASA -Brazil         4        0      5    0,5       4      0      5    0.5
1996/97                                                Lightel                0      8.17      0      0      0   8.17       0      0
1995 Lojas Americana       IS        0      5      6      18      0      5      6



Page 46
1987/92/96                                            MBR                    0        0      0      0      0      0      0      0
1993 Macedo Alirnentos    8.17      0       5     0   8.17      0       5      0
1996 Mallory             5.09       0       0     0   5.09       0     0       0
1975196                                               Oxiteno NE            15        5      0      0     15      0      0      0
1982184/86                                            PISA                   0        0      0      0      0      0      0      0
1994 Para Pigmentos      25.8        0      9  20.53   25.8      0      9  20.53
Total Portfolio:                           763.81   145.07 132.21 852.27 667.74 117.01 128.91  809.8
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity   Quasi Parnic
2000 Sepetiba          27000     6000       0  1000
2001 Tecon Salvador     3500      1000      0   5000
2000 BBA                   0         0      0 50000
1997 CTBC              35000        0       0 150000
1999 Cibrasec              0     7500      0      0
1998 FSA               35000        0  10000 45000
1996 Globocabo ll          0        0      0 38000
1998 Ipiranga-RI 2         0    92.07      0      0
1999 MBR LTDP          20000        0   5000 115000
Total PendingCommitment:                        120500 14592.07  15000 421000



Page 47
Annex 10: Brazil at a Glance
LatIn    upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          America   middle-
Brazil  & Carib.  income      Development diamond
1999
Population, mid-year (m/Ions)                        168.1      509       573                  Lifexpetancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                   4,420     3.840     4.900
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                     742.7     1.955     2,811
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population (%)                                         1.4       1.6       214     GNP                             Gross
Labor force%                                           2.1       2.5       2.1     Gpe                            pGraay
Moat recent *etimate (Istest year available, 1993-99)                              rapit                       enrollment
Poverty (% otpopulation below nationalpoverly line)
Urban population (% of fotahpoputlaton)                81         75        76
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       61         70        70
infant mortality (per 1.000 five births)               33         31       27
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)              6          8         7               Access to safe water
Access to improved water aource (% of population)                 75        78
illiteracy (% of population ge 15*)                    15         12        10
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age populion)   125        113       109              Bmzd
Male                                                                                      Upper-middle-mcome group
Female
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERMt TRENDS
t070     1089      1008      1000 
| Economic ntloa
GDP (USS billions)                          225.0   448.8      787.1     791.4
Gross domestic investment/GOP                22.8    24.o       21.3      21.0                    Trade
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP             7.1      8.2       7.4       9.7
Gross domesic savings/GDP                    20.7     28.0      18.6      21.7
Gross nabonal savings/GDP                    18.0    25.0       16.3      18.8
Current account balance/GDP                  -4.7      0.4       43       -3.1     Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                         21       0.9       1.4       1.5     Sains.                      Investment
Total debUGOP                                27.3     25.5      29.5      28.0       avinga          I
Total debt service/exports                   82.8     38.3      73.5     120.8
Present value of debt/GDP                                       27.9
Present value of debVexports                                   337.5
Indebtedness
197949  1`890        1990      1900   100043
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 2.9       2.6     40.1       1.0       4.0         -Bmz;/
GNP per capita                      0.9       0.7    -1.4       -2.6       2.8               Upper-niddt-income group
Exports of goods and services       8.9       4.2      0.2      46.5       5.6
STRUCTURE of th ECONOIMY
1979    10G98      1998      1990      Grwth of Invetment and GOP (%J
f% of GDP)                                                                         10
Agriculture                                  11.0      8.5       8.4       8.4
Industry                                     40.6    42.7       28.8      31.7      5
Manufacturing                              31.0     29.5      22.7      22.7      o
Services                                    48.3    48.8        62.8      59.9                             ' 7    N    5
Private consumption                          69.5     57.8      63.6      62.8    -o-
General govemment consumption                 9.7    14.3       17.8      15.6 8GDI    o--GP
Imports of goods and services                 9.2      5.0      10.1       9.0
107049  198-9 9      1998       109      Growth of exports and Imports (%
(average annuelgrowth)
Agriculture                                   3.4      2.9       0.0       9.5      d      
Industry                                      2.3      2.1      -1.3      -1.7
Manufacturing                               1.9      1.1      -2.0       -0.7    20
Services                                      3.4      2.7       0.8       1.3
Private consumption                           1.9      5.8      -3.4       9.4            9
General govemment consumption                 6.4    -2.0        2.1      -9.3                             9
Gross domestic investment                    -0.1      2.4       0.1      -6.9   .40
Imports of goods and services                -1.4     12.4       8.9     -17.4               Expor    _Imp s
Gross national product                        2.9      2.2       0.0      -1.3
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamnonds show four key indicatomr In the country (in bold) compared wfth b income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Page 48
Brazil
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Doemstik pices                               1978     1988      1688      1868      Inftionl%)
(% change)                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2,900
Consumer prices                                .,  1,430.7        2.7       8.6    2000
Implicit GDP deflator                        56.5  1,322.5        3.9     11.3    1,500
1.000
GovwnTnent finance                                                                  sW.
(t of GDP, includes current grants)                                                   o         *           ...
Current revenue                                 ..      ..       20.4     21.9              94   95   9oe  7    e    99
Current budget balance                         ..       ..       -4.4     -5.2                "-GDP dellator  _-*"CPI
Overall surpiLus/deficil                                         -S.5     -6.2       ___
TRADE
(USS millions)                               1978    1S88       1998      1999      Export and Import leve(s (USS milI.l
Total exports (fob,'                                34,375     51,140    48,011    75000
Coffee                                        ..   1,803      2,576     2,441
Soybeans                                      ..   3,647      4,755     3,784    _000
Manufactures                                  ..  17,575    31,964    30,251
Total imports (cifn                                 18,264     57,733    49,219
Food                                          ..    1,249     3,057     2,078               L
Fuel and energy                               ..   3,753      1,965     2,169
Capital goods                                ..   4,873    25,283    21,157          o
53  9,4  95s  98  97  99e  05
Export price index (1995= 1C0)                          98        92        86
Import price index (1995=100)                           85        84        89                   SExportCs     Uimports
Termsoftrade(1995-100)                                 115       108        97
BALANCE of PAYNIENTS
(UJS$ milifons)                              1979 1io9          1998      iS"       Current accoUnt balanc to GDP I#J
Exports of goods and services              16,708   36,394    55,473    51,887      0
Imports of goods and services              21,724   21,486    69,650    57,516         9 3                             *
Resource balance                           -5,016   14,908   -14,177    -5,629     n.
Net income                                 -5,479  -13,265   -21,217   -20,786    -2
Net ciarent transfers                           5     249       1,778    2,040
Current account balance                   -10,490    1,892    -33,616   -24,375
Financing items (net)                       7,703   -7,087    16,331    13,634
Changes in net reserves                     2,787    5,195    17,285    10,741     -
wno:                                                                              I
Reserves including gold (USS millions)      9,045    7,672    43,971    35,725
Conversion rate(DEC, localWUS$)          9.79E-12  1.03E-6        1.1       1.3
EXTERNAL DEST and RESOURCE FLOWS
1876     1868      1S88      1S99
(USS millions)                                                                      Composidon of 1999 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       61,327  114,532   232,004   221,792
IBRD                                      1,790    8,311      6,298    6,822                        6822
IDA                                           0        0         0         0                25S41         10282
Total debt service                         11,310   14,122     47,887    73,694                 |804 9s o
IBRD                                        234    1,475      1,373    1,380   |804
IDA                                           0        0         0         0
Compositon of net resource flow|
Official grants                              10       44        97                        (                )
Official creditors                          436     223       4,911    -1,077
Private creditors                         5,236   -3,716    21,930   -15,796
Foreign direct investment                 2,419    1,267    31,913    26,916
Portfolio equity                              0        0       542     3,234                    157433
World Bank program
Comrritments                                674      933      1,290    1,465      A- IBRO                     E -BiMatrs
Disbursements                               302      819      1,240     1,533     B-IDA    D - Other mutilateral   F- Private
Principal repayments                         74      871       995       952      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                   228      -52       245       580   1                ___   _ _              _   I
Interest payments                           160     604        378       428
Net transfers                                67     -656      -133       153
Developmient Economics



