Report No. PID10263
Project Name                     Brazil-Financial Sector Technical...
Assistance Loan
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Economic Management
Project ID                       BRPE73192
Borrower                         Federative Republic of Brazil
Implementing Agencies            Central Bank of Brazil
Comissao de Valores Mobiliarios
(CVM; Brazil's Securities Commission)
Date PID Prepared                August 7, 2001
Projected Board Date             September 4, 2001
1.      Country and Sector Background.
The present technical assistance loan accompanies and supports a series of
proposed programmatic adjustment loans for the financial sector. Programmatic
adjustment lending to the financial sector is embedded within the Bank's
assistance program to Brazil, in its most recent Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) (May 2001). On the basis of its importance for growth and poverty
reduction, and given the evidence of reform progress, the Government and the
Bank have confirmed the financial sector as a priority area for assistance
through programmatic adjustment lending. Specifically, the CAS had
anticipated programmatic lending in the area of the financial sector subject
to the continuation of a quality sector dialogue and agreement on reform
priorities. The CAS had also highlighted the low level and high cost of
financial intermediation in Brazil as a key obstacle to higher growth and
thus faster poverty reduction.
A quality dialogue is continuing and the government's commitment to reform
remains strong. The proposed operation follows an existing technical
assistance loan to the Central Bank (CBTAL) (Loan 4245-BR of 1997), as well
as a major programmatic financial sector adjustment loan (Loan 7053-BR.)
which was presented to the Bank's Board on May 24th, 2001 While the previous
technical assistance loan had a major emphasis on banking regulation and
supervision it also provided a vehicle to support Bank dialogue in the
financial sector, which has expanded and deepened over the past year to
encompass a number of jointly selected new areas. Government follow up to the
intensive discussions of the past year is the next phase, reflected in the
proposed adjustment lending, and the present proposed technical assistance
loan would be the vehicle which would assist the government to determine
options and modalities for implementation of policy findings.
Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Shallow financial intermediation
Brazil's financial system is largely bank dominated. While assets of the
banking system, at about US$500 billion, or 95 percent of GDP, are high,
credit to the private sector accounts for only 35 percent of GDP, or only 33
percent of banking system assets. A large part - about one half - of bank
credit to the private sector is provided by state-owned institutions. Stock



market capitalization amounts to some US$ 230 billion or around 40 percent of
GDP, while debt securities on issue amount to around US$270 billion or 50
percent of GDP. Outside the banking system, the largest holders of financial
assets in Brazil are pension funds, either directly or through their mutual
funds. Total assets of pension and mutual funds are estimated at about
US$120 billion (22 percent of GDP). The expansion of access to financial
sector services is now the subject of bank dialogue with the country, and a
study on the expansion of access has been jointly programmed.
The Banking Sector
Brazil's banking system (total assets of US$500 billion or 95 percent of
GDP) is highly concentrated and still dominated by public (mainly federal)
banks, although foreign bank presence has risen significantly in recent
years. On average, Brazilian private banks appear profitable, liquid, and
well provisioned and capitalized. Risks to systemic stability in the
Brazilian banking sector are considered low. In addition, the unsound major
private banks were already removed in the context of the 1995-96 wave of bank
failures.
A thorough restructuring of the state-owned bank sector has taken place over
the last 5 years in Brazil. The government-established PROES program in 1996
provided federal funds to states whose banks were either restructured,
privatized, converted into a development agency, or liquidated. As regards
federal banks, the government has begun to take significant and unprecedented
steps. These began with a process of diagnosis, public disclosure, and
supervision, initiated with the Central Bank's Global Consolidated Inspection
program of Banco do Brasil and Caixa, the two largest federally owned banks
and a major study on the financial situation of the federal banking group.
These studies have been followed in June and July 2001 by a large scale
program of recapitalization and write off of old losses at the four major
federal bank. Full implications of this ambitious program have yet to be
evaluated.
Upgrading of banking regulation and supervision
The Central Bank has made significant strides towards strengthening bank
supervision. With the recent acceleration of progress, Brazil is now
considered to be near full compliance with the Basle Core Principles for
Effective Banking Supervision. Most visible has been the qualitative jump in
on-site supervision, associated with the introduction of the Global
Consolidated Inspection (GCI) program. About a year ago the GCI was extended
to cover also the federal banks. There has also been a substantial upgrading
of prudential regulations.
Strengthening the safety net - bank failure resolution and contingency
planning
The current bank failure resolution and deposit insurance framework--
established in the mid-1990s--has so far served Brazil adequately well. One
drawback of the Brazilian bank failure resolution framework relates to the
process of extra-judicial liquidation. The government is proposing a review
of the entire framework of bank failure resolution and a re-examination, in
this context, of the role of the guarantee fund.
Financial infrastructure - reducing risks and raising efficiency in Payments
Systems
The Central Bank has devoted considerable resources to redesign the country's
payment infrastructure. As the economy has stabilized, attention has shifted
from speed of payments to problems of risk management, and the lack of a
sound and reliable legal framework for payments. A series of actions underway
-2 -



today aim at eliminating the risks incurred by the Central Bank, and at
transferring residual risks to relevant private participants in the payments
system under new rules and oversight. As part of this structural shift, the
role of the Central Bank is being altered, to strengthen and provide a legal
underpinning to its oversight of the payments system. Risk management
principles for private participants are being enunciated in a new law and
accompanying regulations.
Strengthening Capital Markets
Although the outstanding volume of securities on issue in Brazil is large,
the role of securities markets in mobilizing non-bank finance for private
businesses is limited. The bulk of debt securities outstanding (over 80
percent) are comprised of government bonds. Nevertheless, potential for the
further development of securities markets in Brazil appears substantial,
especially in view of the huge size and rapid pace of growth of institutional
investor funds. Total assets of institutional investors are estimated at
about US$120 billion or 22 percent of GDP--the highest among Latin countries
excepting Chile.
Development of securities markets is constrained by a number of factors -
corporate governance, transactions costs and scattered regulatory
responsibilities. While the CVM has been striving for strengthened disclosure
and investor protection, improved market surveillance and securities
regulation, it has been constrained in terms of its own resources. Human
resources of CVM are stretched. The government is addressing key issues in
capital markets through radical changes in the present corporate law and
securities law, as well as through an agenda of reinforcing regulations and
changes in operating procedures at the CVM.
Institutional structure of financial system regulation
Regulatory policy for the financial system as a whole is mainly the
responsibility of the Consehlo Monetario Nacional (CMN). The Central Bank of
Brazil (BCB is responsible for monetary policy and inflation targeting, in
addition to the regulation and supervision of large segments of the financial
system - banks, a multitude of non-bank financial institutions, debt mutual
funds, broker dealer registrations, money and foreign exchange markets,
interest and exchange rate futures, and the payments system. The Comissao de
Valores Mobiliarios (CVM), is responsible for the regulation of listed
companies, broker dealer activities, and equities trading. Pension fund
regulation is under the purview of the Secretaria de Previdencia Complementar
(SPC) in the case of closed-end corporate pension funds, and of the
Superintendencia de Seguros Privados (SUSEP) in the case of open-ended funds.
SUSEP is also in charge of regulating and supervising insurance companies.
Authorities in Brazil are investigating the restructuring of financial sector
responsibilities, with responsibility for issues of systemic importance, and
for the banking sector, to the Central Bank, and responsibilities for issues
related to financial markets, consumer / investor protection to a
consolidated securities market regulator. A draft law reflecting these broad
principles is under preparation. The present operation reflects support for
the adoption of such a program and is designed to be smoothly integrated
within such a structure.
Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The proposed project encompasses a broad-based agenda of support for
virtually the entire range of issues discussed in the previous section, by
lending support to Brazil's key financial sector regulatory agencies in the
implementation of the government's financial sector reform agenda. It also
aims at the long term enhancement of capacity in the regulatory institutions
themselves. The present financial sector technical assistance loan (FSTAL)
-3 -



builds upon the accomplishments of the previous Central Bank technical
assistance project (CBTAL) of 1997, which focused more specifically on
banking supervision and regulation, and diagnostic work in a number of
financial sector areas. The project provides the underpinning for the Bank's
proposed phased programmatic lending to the financial sector, anchoring
future milestones of achievements in programmatic lending to the program of
technical assistance. The first such Programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment
Loan (PFSECAL) operation was presented to the Bank's Board in May 2001.
2.      Project Objectives.
The central objective of the project is to support the development of
institutional capacity to assist the implementation of Brazil's program of
financial sector reforms. Thus, both capacity building, and support to
programmatic reform, provide the underlying rationale for the project. Brazil
has embarked upon a far-reaching program of financial sector reforms, which
are being supported by the Bank through programmatic adjustment lending. The
proposed Financial Sector Technical Assistance project is being prepared in
parallel to the first phase of programmatic lending, and will facilitate the
achievement of the reforms targeted for the next stages of programmatic
lending. Subsequent phases of programmatic lending will include two to three
loans depending on the pace and depth of future reform implementation.
The broad-based and comprehensive financial sector reform program pursued by
the government and supported by the Bank's programmatic lending includes: (a)
actions to raise efficiency in financial intermediation and broaden access to
financial services, by strengthened credit contract enforcement, improved
debtor information, and reduction of risks in the payments system; (b)
reforms to enhance financial system transparency and the effectiveness of
regulation and supervision for both the banking system and securities markets
through strengthening prudential norms and their enforcement, rationalizing
the division of responsibilities among supervisory agencies, enhancing
institutional capacity of the supervisory agencies, upgrading disclosure and
accounting standards and improving corporate governance for companies; and
(c) steps to bolster defenses against financial crisis through more effective
bank failure resolution and deposit insurance systems and improved
contingency crisis planning. Not included in the Bank's program but also
incorporated in the government's reform agenda are reforms such as
constitutional amendments enabling critical changes to central bank/financial
system laws, as well as deep restructuring of the federal banks.
The proposed project would support these objectives through technical
assistance to the two key financial sector regulatory agencies in Brazil
entrusted with the design and implementation of the reform program; the Banco
Central do Brasil (BCB, Brazil's central bank) and the Commisao de Valores
Mobiliarios (CVM, Brazil's securities commission). Technical assistance is
targeted at a number of areas which are included in the scope of the reform
program, and which would support the overall effectiveness of the supervisory
agencies. Specifically, assistance to the Central Bank would include: support
to the reduction of interest rate spreads and payments system reform,
strengthening of banking supervision, regulation, and failure resolution as
well as enhanced preparedness for banking sector difficulties, and finally,
support to increase the overall efficiency of the Central Bank through a
follow up to Bank-assisted diagnostic work on information technology
systems. Support to the CVM would focus on: strengthening compliance,
supporting greater transparency and better monitoring of corporate financial
accounting and disclosure, improving market surveillance, strengthening
investor protection and public information, and finally, undertaking
diagnostic studies on the present and future roles, resources and
- 4 -



responsibilities of capital market regulatory agencies. A large proportion
of the proposed technical assistance is expected to take the form of
consultancy services.
3.      Project sustainability
As demonstrated by the previous Central Bank Modernization technical
assistance project, changes which strengthen supervisory capacity are
sustainable and have been incorporated into regular practice. It is expected
that this would be the case in the present project as well.
4.      Environmental Aspects. This project is not expected to have environmental
implications.
5.      Program Objective Categories. The Program Objective Category is economic
management.
6.      Lessons Learned.          A first lesson is the importance of institutional
commitment, and appropriate organization of the project management unit. The
strong support for the CBTAL owed much to the high level of institutional
commitment, and to the capable project management unit in charge of project
administration. Within the Central Bank, the same project management unit is
expected to support the proposed new operation. At the CVM, due to its
constrained internal resources, the project itself will support assistance to
the project management unit for project execution
A second lesson to emerge from the previous technical assistance loan to
Brazil's Central Bank, the CBTAL, is that delays in project implementation
can arise due to issues of allocation of funds from the government. In
Brazil, government agencies which are project beneficiaries of IBRD loans are
nevertheless required to request a release of project funds annually from the
government together with the rest of their budget allocation. In years where
compelling fiscal reasons have forced the government to restrain its
spending, there have been difficulties in securing the release of project
funds. In the present loan, it is expected that commitment to the overall
reform program will help secure the provision of funds.
7.      Poverty Category: Not applicable.
8.      Contact Point:   Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington DC 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Anjali Kumar
Task Manager
(202) 458-0004
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
necessarily be included in the final project.
- 5 -



