Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4637 - BR
Central Bank Project Agreement
(Financial Sector Technical Assistance Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCO CENTRAL DO BRASIL
Dated June 19, 2002
LOAN NUMBER 4637 - BR
CENTRAL BANK PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 19, 2002, between the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and BANCO CENTRAL DO 
BRASIL (the Central Bank).
WHEREAS  (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Federative 
Page  2
Republic of Brazil (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make a loan to the 
Borrower in the amount of fourteen million four hundred sixty thousand Dollars ($14,460,000) 
(the Loan), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition, 
inter alia, that the Central Bank agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set 
forth in this Agreement;
(B)
the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Part A of the project described in Schedule 
2
to the Loan Agreement (the Project) will be made available by the Borrower to the Central 
Bank through annual budgetary allocations; and
WHEREAS the Central Bank, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01.
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) 
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of Part A of the Project
Section 2.01.
The Central Bank declares its commitment to the objective of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part A of the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate administrative, 
financial and banking practices, and with the Annual Plans, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for Part A of the Project.
Section 2.02.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and 
consultants' services required for Part A of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.03.
The Central Bank shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and 
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, and maintenance, respectively) in respect of 
Part A of the Project.
Section 2.04.
For purposes of the overall coordination and management of Part A of 
Page  3
the Project, the Central Bank shall maintain, until the completion of Part A of the Project, the 
Central Bank PCU with responsibilities, structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank, and 
managed by a person who shall have at least a rank as provided in the Central Bank’s Board 
Decision No. 13/97, of January 15, 1997, and provided with technical assistance, satisfactory to 
the Bank, for the carrying out of the procurement activities under Part A of the Project.
Section 2.05.
The Central Bank shall, not later than May 31 of each year (beginning in 
2003) during execution of Part A of the Project, furnish to the Bank a plan, satisfactory to the 
Bank (the Annual Plan), for the carrying out of activities under Part A of the Project in the next 
succeeding twelve-month period, including an estimate of the expenditures to be incurred in such 
period.
Section 2.06.
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 of the General 
Conditions, the Central Bank shall, except with respect to matters subject to the Brazilian 
banking secrecy legal provisions:  (a) in the months of June and December of each year 
(beginning in 2002) during execution of Part A of the Project, hold reviews of the progress of 
Part A of the Project with the Bank, such progress to be measured on the basis of the indicators 
agreed between the Bank and the Central Bank for the purposes of monitoring the progress of the 
activities under Part A of the Project; and (b) in the eighteenth month after the date of this 
Agreement, hold with the Bank an in-depth review of the progress in the carrying out of Part A 
of the Project and in the achievement of the objective of the Project, and thereafter take all such 
action which shall have been agreed upon by the Bank and the Central Bank during such review 
as necessary for the efficient execution of Part A of the Project or the achievement of the 
objective thereof, such action to be taken in the manner and within the timetable agreed upon 
during such review.
Section 2.07.
The Central Bank shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part A of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the objectives of the Project, or the performance by the Central Bank of its 
obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01.
(a) The Central Bank shall maintain a financial management system in 
the Central Bank PCU, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a 
format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures of 
the Central Bank related to Part A of the Project.
(b)
The Central Bank shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited in accordance 
with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by 
Page  4
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts (including procurement-related records) and the report of such 
audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the 
Bank may from time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.02.
(a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Central Bank shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank for 
the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 
3.01 in order to enable the Central Bank, not later than six months after the date of this 
Agreement, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project management 
reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which shall:
(i) 
(A) set forth actual sources and applications of funds for Part A of the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
projected sources and applications of funds for Part A of the Project for 
the six-month period following the period covered by said report, and 
(B) show separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan during the period covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describe physical progress in the implementation of Part A of the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
(B) explain variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
set forth the status of procurement under Part A of the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, 
as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Central Bank shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project 
Management Report for such period.
Page  5
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01.
This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date on which 
the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02.
This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of the Central Bank 
hereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify the Central Bank thereof.
Section 4.03.
All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01.
Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made under 
this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be 
in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall 
be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the party to which it is required or 
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other 
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making 
such request.  
Deliveries made by facsimile shall also be confirmed by mail.
 
The addresses 
so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
For the Central Bank:
Banco Central do Brasil
Page  6
SBS - Quadra 3 - Bloco B 
Edifício Sede
70074-900 Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
Facsimile:  (011-55-61) 224-5360
With copies to:
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco “K” - 5º andar
70040-906, Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
Facsimile: (011-55-61) 225-4022
Section 5.02.
Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document required 
or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of the Central Bank, may be taken 
or executed by the President of the Central Bank or such other person or persons as the President 
of the Central Bank shall designate in writing, and the Central Bank shall furnish to the Bank 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
Section 5.03.
This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which 
shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the city of 
Brasília, Brazil, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Luiz Gabriel Azevedo
Authorized Representative
BANCO CENTRAL DO BRASIL
By /s/ Antônio Carlos Monteiro
Page  7
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Procurement
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods
Part A
: General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines), and the following provisions of this Section.
Part B
: International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of 
Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
In the procurement of goods pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Part B, the provisions of 
paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto, regarding preference for 
domestically manufactured goods, shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the 
Borrower.  For purposes of the Guidelines, the term “duties and other related import taxes” 
includes the Borrower's Freight Surcharge for the Renewal of the Merchant Marine (
Adicional ao 
Frete para a Renovação da Marinha Mercante
), established by Decree Law 1.142 of December 
30, 1970, as amended to December 31, 1987, or any other tax, levy or charge that, in the 
reasonable opinion of the Bank, may substitute it, in whole or in part, after January 1, 1988.
Part C
: Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, but not exceeding an 
amount equivalent to $950,000 in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  In the procurement 
of goods under this Part C.1, bidding documents in a standardized form for Part A of the Project 
shall be used.
Without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this Schedule or the Guidelines, 
the following shall apply to the procurement of goods to be undertaken pursuant to this Part C.1:
(a)
contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been determined to be the 
Page  8
lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price and, whenever appropriate, to also 
take into account factors similar to those referred to in paragraph 2.51 of the Guidelines, 
provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall always be based on factors that can be quantified 
objectively, and the procedure for such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid;
(b)
whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be advertised for at 
least three consecutive days in a newspaper of wide circulation in Brazil;
(c)
the arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for joint-ventures (
consórcios
)
of
Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance by the Bank in each case;
(d)
the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of bids, 
minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices; and
(e)
the Central Bank shall not, without the Bank's prior approval, issue any change 
order under a contract which would increase or decrease by more than 15% the quantity of goods 
(and related services) without any change in the unit prices or other terms and conditions of sale.
2.
Shopping or 
Pregão
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of: (a) either national or international shopping procedures 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines, and a standard 
request for quotations acceptable to the Bank; or (b) the procedures known as “pregão”, set forth 
in the Borrower’s 
Decreto
 No. 3555, of August 8, 2000, as amended by 
Decreto
 No. 3693, of 
December 20, 2000.
Part D
: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitation to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan 
for Part A of the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Such plan shall be updated 
every six months during the execution of Part A of the Project, and each such updating shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval.  Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan (as updated from time to time) as shall have been 
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply to any contract for goods to be awarded pursuant to the provisions of Part B above, 
Page  9
and to the first contract to be awarded pursuant to the provisions of Part C.1 above.
(b)
The following procedures shall apply to the first contract to be awarded pursuant 
to the provisions of Part C.2 above:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier, the Central Bank shall provide to 
the Bank a report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations 
received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract, the Central Bank shall provide to 
the Bank a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
The procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply to 
the review by the Bank of any contract not governed by the provisions of paragraph 2 above.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
: General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 
and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines), and the following provisions of this Section.
Part B
: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
Part C
: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-based Selection
The services of consulting firms shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines for 
Page  10
the following activities: (a) information technology upgrading; (b) advice on best practices in 
money laundering control; (c) studies on credit collateralization; and (d) training of information 
technology staff.
2.
Individual Consultants
Consultants' services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of 
the Consultant Guidelines, which shall not cost in the aggregate more than $1,000,000 
equivalent, shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines, and the 
provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereof.
Part D
: Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under Part A of the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines.  Such plan shall be updated every six months during the execution of Part 
A
of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Page  11
