Page  1
\08
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4637 – BR
Loan Agreement
(Financial Sector Technical Assistance Project)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 19, 2002
LOAN NUMBER 4637 - BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 19, 2002, between the FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF 
BRAZIL (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS  (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
Page  2
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
Part A of the Project will be carried out by Banco Central do Brasil, the 
Borrower’s central bank (the Central Bank);
(C)
Part B of the Project will be carried out by Comissão de Valores Mobiliários, the 
Borrower’s securities and exchange commission (CVM); and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend the 
loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement, and in the agreements of even date herewith between the Bank and the 
Central Bank (the Central Bank Project Agreement), and between the Bank and CVM (the CVM 
Project Agreement);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01.
The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended through October 6, 
1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02.
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Annual Plan” means any of the plans referred to in Section 2.05 of each of the 
Central Bank Project Agreement and CVM Project Agreement;
(b)
“Central Bank PCU” means 
Secretaria de Projetos 
(SEPRO), the unit in the 
Central Bank established pursuant to 
Voto 
(Decision) No. 013/97, of January 15, 1997, of the 
Central Bank’s Board of Directors, and referred to in Section 2.04 of the Central Bank Project 
Agreement;
(c)
“CVM Law” means the Borrower’s 
Lei 
No. 6385, of December 7, 1976, which 
created CVM;
(d)
“CVM PCU” means the unit referred to in Section 2.04 of the CVM Project 
Agreement; and
Page  3
(e)
"Project Management Report" means any of the reports prepared in accordance 
with Section 3.02 of the Central Bank Project Agreement or the CVM Project Agreement.
Section 1.03.
Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project implementation 
entity shall be deemed as a reference to either the Central Bank or CVM.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01.
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to fourteen million four hundred sixty 
thousand Dollars ($14,460,000).
Section 2.02.
The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, consultants' services 
and training activities required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, 
and in respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
Section 2.03.
The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005 or such later date as the Bank 
shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower, the Central Bank and CVM of 
such later date.
Section 2.04.
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount equal 
to one per cent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the 
amount of said fee.
Section 2.05.
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not 
withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06.
(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR 
Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and 
including an Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the next following 
Page  4
Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in single currency for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest 
Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on or next 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined 
by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted average 
margin, for such Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank 
offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect 
of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by 
the Bank to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it 
that include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of the LIBOR Base Rate and the LIBOR 
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of 
its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to 
the Borrower of the new basis.  The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which 
case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07.
Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears on 
March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08.
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09.
For the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken 
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions:  
(a) the President of the Central Bank, and the person or persons he or she may designate in 
writing, are designated as representatives of the Borrower with respect to any such action under 
Part A of the Project; and (b) the President of CVM, and the person or persons he or she may 
designate in writing, are designated as representatives of the Borrower with respect to any such 
Page  5
action under Part B of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.
(a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without limitation or restriction 
upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause the Central 
Bank and CVM to perform all their respective obligations set forth in the Central Bank Project 
Agreement and the CVM Project Agreement, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including 
the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable 
the Central Bank and CVM to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken 
any action which would prevent or interfere with the carrying out of the Project as provided in 
this Agreement, the Central Bank Project Agreement and the CVM Project Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower, through its Ministry of Finance, shall make the proceeds of the 
Loan available to the Central Bank and CVM, through annual budgetary allocations, as required 
to ensure the timely execution of Parts A and B of the Project, respectively.
Section 3.02.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of goods and 
consultants’ services required for Parts A and B of the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the Central Bank 
Project Agreement and to the CVM Project Agreement, as the case may be.
Section 3.03.
The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of 
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, and maintenance, respectively) 
shall be carried out by:  (a) the Central Bank, pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Central Bank 
Project Agreement, with respect to Part A of the Project; and (b) CVM, pursuant to Section 2.03 
of the CVM Project Agreement, with respect to Part B of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01.
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of Section 
3.01 of each of the Central Bank Project Agreement and CVM Project Agreement, records and 
separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
Page  6
(b)
retain or cause to be retained, until at least one year after the Bank has received 
the audit reports (referred to in Section 3.01 (a) of each of the Central Bank Project Agreement 
and CVM Project Agreement) for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(c)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(d)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audits referred 
to in paragraph (b) of Section 3.01 of each of the Central Bank Project Agreement and CVM 
Project Agreement and that the reports of such audits contain a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure submitted during 
such year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be 
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01.
Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that the Central Bank or CVM shall have failed to perform 
any of their respective obligations under the Central Bank Project Agreement or the CVM 
Project Agreement. 
Section 5.02.
Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given 
by the Bank to the Borrower, the Central Bank and CVM.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 6.01.
The following are specified as additional matters, within the meaning of 
Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be 
furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that this Agreement has been validly registered with the Central Bank; and
(b)
that the Central Bank Project Agreement and the CVM Project Agreement have 
been duly authorized, and are legally binding upon the Central Bank and CVM, as the case may 
be, in accordance with their terms.
Section 6.02.
The date September 19, 2002 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Page  7
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01.
Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister of 
Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02.
The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 
of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministério da Fazenda
Procuradoria Geral da Fazenda Nacional
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco “P” - 8° andar
70048-900 Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
Facsimile: (011-55-61) 412-1740
With copies to:
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco "K" - 5 andar
70040-906 Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
Facsimile: (011-55-61) 225-4022
Banco Central do Brasil
SBS - Quadra 3 - Bloco B 
Edifício Sede
70074-900 Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
Facsimile:  (011-55-61) 224-5360
Comissão de Valores Mobiliários
Rua Sete de Setembro, 111-32 andar
20159-900 Rio de Janeiro, RJ
Page  8
Brazil
Facsimile:  (011-55-21) 2212-0398 or 2212-0573
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the city of 
Brasília, Brazil, as of the day and year first above written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ Ana Lúcia Gatto de Oliveira
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Luiz Gabriel Azevedo
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of 
Page  9
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods:
100% of foreign
expenditures, 
(a)
under Part A of the
100% of local
Project
3,933,000
expenditures
(ex-factory-cost) 
(b) under Part B of the
and 80% of local
Project
1,090,000
expenditures for
other items 
procured locally
(2)
Consultant’s services
100%
(excluding services
for the carrying out of
procurement activities) 
and training:
(a)
under Part A of the
Project
4,282,000
(b)
under Part B of the
Project
5,010,400
(3)
Front-end fee
144,600
Amount due
pursuant to 
Section 2.04 of 
this Agreement
                                TOTAL
14,460,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term:
(a)
“foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any country other 
than that of the Borrower for goods supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower;
(b)
“local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for 
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
"training" includes travel costs and per diems of trainees, and costs of course 
Page  10
materials.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)
payments for expenditures under Categories (1) (b) and (2) (b) of the table in 
paragraph 1 above, unless the CVM PCU has been established as provided in Section 2.04 of the 
CVM Project Agreement, and the Bank has been provided with evidence that the CVM PCU has 
obtained technical assistance, satisfactory to the Bank, for the carrying out of the procurement 
activities under Part B of the Project.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditures for training, and for expenditures under contracts for the purchase of 
goods and consultants' services that are not subject to prior review by the Bank pursuant to 
Section I, Part D.2, and Section II, Part D.2, of the Schedule to the Central Bank Project 
Agreement and of the Schedule to the CVM Project Agreement, as the case may be, all under 
such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower, the Central Bank 
and CVM.
5.
Once any of the action plans referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of the Central Bank Project 
Agreement and of the CVM Project Agreement has been completed in a manner satisfactory to 
the Bank, the Borrower will have the option to request withdrawals from the Loan Account for 
the corresponding Part of the Project on the basis of Project Management Reports, such 
withdrawals to be made under terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower, and the Central Bank or CVM, as the case may be.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in developing the institutional 
capacity required for the implementation of the Borrower’s financial sector reform program 
referred to in the Loan Agreement, dated June 22, 2001, between the Borrower and the Bank for 
the Programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment Loan.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
: Central Bank
Provision of technical assistance to the Central Bank to address systemic financial sector 
Page  11
issues, and reinforce banking supervision, including:
(1)
support for: (a) bank payments system reform, through policy advice on risk 
control management at clearing houses and upgrading of operations desks for the implementation 
of the new payments system; and (b) development of a more efficient market in government 
securities;
(2)
strengthening of banking supervision, through a combination of studies, 
information technology upgrading, formalization of written policies and procedures, provision of 
training for banking supervision staff, and enhancement of off-site banking supervision; 
(3)
improvements to the banking system safety net, through a revision of bank 
failure resolution rules, initiation of a contingency plan for financial sector crises, and 
improvement in the monitoring of bank interventions;
(4)
(a) improvements in financial intermediation, through studies on interest rate 
spreads, financial sector competition, financial sector taxation, bankruptcy, and credit 
collateralization; and (b) enhancement of the Central Bank’s credit risk center; and
(5)
strengthening of the Central Bank’s information technology capabilities, 
including training of staff.
Part B
: CVM
Provision of technical assistance to CVM for strengthening securities market regulation 
and compliance, and CVM’s enforcement capacity, and for increasing transparency and investor 
protection in securities markets practices, including:
(1)
the carrying out of a diagnostic study on the role, responsibilities and resources 
of CVM, of an investigation of measures to strengthen CVM’s enforcement capacity, and of an 
investigation of the overall allocation of regulatory responsibilities among capital market entities;
(2)
the upgrading of the securities regulatory framework to help CVM achieve its 
agenda in terms of strengthened corporate governance;
(3)
support to new accounting techniques which would be required under the 
amendments to the Borrower’s Corporate Law (
Lei
 No. 6404, of December 15, 1976) and the 
CVM Law, currently being discussed in the Borrower’s Congress;
(4)
the improvement of securities market surveillance, including training of staff; 
and
(5)
the strengthening of information disclosure and investor protection policies and 
Page  12
practices, including with respect to collective investments, particularly mutual funds.
***
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
(Expressed in
Date Payment Due
Dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning March 15, 2007
through March 15, 2016
725,000
on September 15, 2016
     685,000
__________________
*  The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except as provided in Section 
4.04 (d) of 
the General Conditions.
