Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8892
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
THE OLKARIA GEOTHERMAL ENGINEERING PROJECT,
THE OLKARIA GEOTHERMAL POWER PROJECT AND
THE OLKARIA GEOTHERMAL POWER EXPANSION PROJECT
(LOANS S-12-KE, 1799-KE AND 2237-KE)
JUNE 29, 1990
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department II
Eastern Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Name of Currency:   - Kenya Shilling (Sh)
US$1.00             - Sh 8.0 (March 1978)
- Sh 7.5 (December 1979)
- Sh 10.6 (March 1982)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CDC                 Commonwealth Development Corporation
CIDA                Canadian International Development Agency
EAP&L               The East African Power and Lighting Company, Limited
GENZL               Geothermal Energy of New Zealand
KPC                 Kenya Power and Company
KPLC                Kenya Power and Lighting Company
MOE                 Ministry of Energy
OGDP                Olkaria Geothermal Development Program
ODA                 Overseas Development Administration
TRDC                Tana River Development Authority
FISCAL YEAR
Government: July 1 - June 30
KPC       : January 1 - December 31



THE WORLI BANK                    OIC     US ONLY
Washington. DrC 20433
USA
Ofti Ci Ov.ct1W.Ceflai
Op#gma-s Ivhsitvin
June 29, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Kenya
The Olkaria Geothermal Engineering Project,
The Olkaria Geothermal Power Project and
The Olkaria Geothermal Power Expansion Project
(Loans S-12-KE, 1799-KE and 2237-KE)
Attached,  for  information,  is  a  copy  of  a  report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Kenya - The Olkaria Geothermal Engineeriag
Project, The Olkaria Geothermal  Power  Project  and The Olkaria Geothermal
Power Expansion Project" prepared  by  the  Eastern Africa Regional Office
with Part II of the report contributed  by  the Borrower.  No audit of this
project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without World Dank authorization.



FOR oFFciAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
THE OLKARIA GEOTHERMAL ENGINEERING PROJECT,
THE OLKARIA GEOTHERMAL POWER PROJECT
AND THE OLKARIA GEOTHERMAL POWER EXPANSION PROJECT
(Loans S-12-KE, 1799-KE. and 2237 KE)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface                            ...... i
Evaluation Sutmary ................................- ii
PART I. BACKGROUND
1. Power Sector Development Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1
2. Linkages between the Project. Sector, and Macro Policy Objectives  1
3. Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
4. Project Preparation, Appraisal and Negotiations . . . . . . . . .  3
A. Preparation.. ... 3
B.  Appraisal   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    4
C. Negotiations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
5. Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . .    . .. . . . .  6
A. Financial Performance..  .... . 6
B. Procurement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
C. Project Costs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
D. Consultants . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
E. Training.9. ...  g
F. Moi South Lake Road..  ...                           . 9
G. Technology  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
H. Environmental Impact. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
I. Extension of the Closing Date . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
6. Project Results .12
7. World Bank Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
8. Lessons Learned .13
PART II. BORROWER'S SUMMARY
1. Introduction .......                                              15
2. General .......                                                   15
3.  Engineering   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  16
4.  Contractual  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  19
PART III. STATISTICAL ANNEXES       ..... .21
MAP IBRD 16389R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
THE OLKARIA GEOTHERMAL ENGINEERING PROJECT,
THE OLKARIA GEOTHERMAL POWER PROJECT
AND THE OLKARIA GEOTHERMAL POWER EXPANSION PROJECT
(Loans S-12-KE, 1799-KE, and 2237-KE)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for three loans. The
Olkaria Geothermal Engineering (Loan S-12-KE), the Olkaria Geothermal Power
(Loan 1799-KE) and the Olkaria Geothermal Power Erpansion (Loan 2237-KE)
Projects in Kenya for which World Bank loans of US$9.0 million, US$40.0
million and US$12.0 million were approved respectively in March 1978,
January 1980 and February 1983 respectively. These loans were closed on
June 30, 1981, January 31, 1987 and March 31, 1986 respectively. The
closing date for the second operation (Loan 1799) was extended by 3 years
from the appraisal estimate and by one year in the case of the third
operation (Loan 2237).
The PCR was prepared on the basis of discussions with appropriate
Bank staff and a review of several reports. These included: the PCR
submitted by the Kenya Power Company (KPC), of which a condensed version of
the highlights, from the Borrower's perspective, is presented in Part II;
the Bank's Staff Appraisal and Supervision Reports for the three projects;
and relevant files from the Africa Region Services Information Center.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
THE OLKARIA GEOTHERMAL ENGINEERING PROJECT,
THE OLKARIA GEOTHERMAL POWER PROJECT
AND THE OLKARIA GEOTHERMAL POWER EXPANSiON PROJECT
(Loans S-12-KE, 1799-KE, and 2237 KE)
Evaluation Summary
1.      The Olkaria Geothermal Engineering Loan (Loan S-12-KE), the
Olkaria Geothermal Power Project (Loan 1799 KE) and the follow up Olkaria
Geothermal Power Expansion Project (Loan 2237-KE) were the first
geothermal projects operating on a commercial basis in Africa. Although
the potential for geothermal power development in Kenya had been
recognized for some time, it was not until 1978 that the comparative cost
of imported oil and hydropower development and the growth in demand made
it attractive enough to warrant development as part of Kenya's least cost
power development program.
2.      The primary objective of the first phase of the Olkaria Geothermal
Development Program (OGDP) under (Loan S-12-KE)) was to gauge the
productivity of the Olkaria steam field and ensure there was sufficient
steam for generation under the proposed project. The aim under the
second phase of the project (Loan 1799-KE) was to provide, at least cost,
a firm source of power and energy within the country to meet the growth
in demand expected from 1981 to 1985 and to assist in reducing the
country's heavy dependence on impotzed oil. The third phase of the
project, (Loan 2237-KE) aimed to assure the availability of domestic
power and energy resources to meet the growth in demand projected to
exceed the capacity of the existing facilities in 1984.
3.      The Olkaria Geothermal Engineering Project was financed with a
Bank loan of US$9.0 million and provided for the drilling of additional
wells north and south of existing producers in order to try to delineate
the shape and size of the productive area of the Olkaria steam field.
The Olkaria Geothermal Power Project was financed with a Bank loan of
US$40 million and provided for the construction of an electric generating
station comprising two 15 MW units with associated auxiliaries and other
necessary civil works.   The Olkaria Geothermal Power Expansion Project
added a 15 MW turbine and generator to the existing powerhouse; expanded
the system to bring steam from the wells generated under the second phase
of the OGDP; provided technical assistance for project design and
construction supervision and provided for a detailed study of the
geothermal potential of the site. Phase III of the OGDP was financed
with a Bank loan of US$12.0 million.
4.      Geothermal reserve estimation continues to be a relatively new
field characterized by a level of unreliability including risks related
to the sustained volume of steam output, temperature and pressure
variations and the success rate in the drilling of production wells. As
expected, the Olkaria geothermal projects did encounter some 'teething,
problems but these were relatively minor considering the enormity of the
potential risks. Under the three projects, drilling for steam production
wells produced satisfactory results and the construction works proceeded



- iii -
substantially according :o schedule and within cost estimates. By 1982,
the physical components of the first and second phase of the OGDP were in
normal operation generating almost 32 MW continuously. Erection of the
third unit under phase III of the OGDP was successfully completed on May
17, 1985 fairly close to the SAR estimate of March 1985.
5.      The projects' financial performance was mixed.  Kenya Power
Company's (KPC) rate of return was below the levels required under the
Loan Agreement for the years 1983, 1984, and 1985. The company's
billings and collection, however, were efficient with average accounts
receivable equal to under 2 and 112 months.
6.      The training component of the OGDP after getting off to a slow
start, picked tp momentum and met its objectives in terms of numbe-s
trained. Over the program period, over 1,500 staff of the KPC were
enrolled in short-term courses (two weeks to six months) locally and
abroad in geothermal, hydro power systems, electronics and computers.
Over 90 staff were enrolled in university programs.
7.      The environmental impact of the three projects was considered
acceptable given the nature of emissions and the actual small size of the
geothermal field at Olkaria. An environmental impact study of
countrywide geothermal development is currently being undertaken under
the Geothermal Development and Energy Pre-Investment Project (Credit 1973-
KE).
8.      Three main lessons were learned under the three projects.  First,
given the uncertainties and risks associated with geothermal reserve
estimation, it was particularly important under the OGDP to find an
appropriate way of sequencing the Bank's investment. The Bank's three-
step approach, implemented on time and without cost overruns supports the
wisdom of this approach. Second, the Bank learned to temper the
discipline imposed by the projects' financial covenants with sensitivity
to the hard political realities faced by the borrower. Finally, the Bank
learned (and is still learning) to balance the borrower's strong desire
to acquire new technology as rapidly as possible against the implicit
financial risks of doing so.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
THE OLKARIA GEOTHERMAL ENGINEERING PROJECT,
THE OLKARIA GEOTHERMAL POWER PROJECT
AND THE OLKARIA GEOTHERMAL POWER EXPANSION PROJECT
(Loans S-12-KE, 1799-KE, and 2237 KE)
PART I.  THE BANK'S SUMMARY
1. Power Sector Development Obiectives
1.1           Imported crude oil and petroleum products have accounted for
over 852 of Kenya's commercially traded energy. Following the steep rise
in petroleum prices in 1973 and again in 1980, the requirements of crude
oil imports severely taxed the resources of the Kenyan Government. By
1981, Kenyan imports of petroleum products represented about 30 percent
of all imports compared to 13 percent between 1973-77.   As long as oil
remained the major source of primary energy and substantial amounts of
foreign exchange were expended in paying for crude oil imports, Kenya's
economy was vulnerable to sudden increases in petroleum prices. The
Government's strategy in the power sector (as stated in the Development
Plan of 1979-1983) was thus to rationalize the use of imported petroleum
and to find viable alternatives for domestic power generation. In the
absence of indigenous fossil fuel, the Government has sought to harness
its own hydroelectric and geothermal resources to meet steadily growing
demand at least cost.
2. Linkages between the Project, Sector, and Macro Policy Objectives
2.1           As noted, the rising costs of petroleum had an adverse
effect on Kenya's foreign exchange resources with concomitant effects on
economic growth. Kenya's annual average economic growth rate of 6.5
percent achieved over the period 1964-72 was almost halved to 3.4 percent
for the period 1973-75 and recovered somewhat to 4 percent between 1979
and 1981 partly because the international oil crisis had resulted in
higher import prices which contributed to the enactment of restrictive
economic policies.
2.2           To reduce Kenya's dependence on crude oil imports, the
Government began to search for domestic power resources.   Gas, turbine
and diesel fuel were unattractive because of their high cost. Hydro-
power development also had only limited prospects and was becoming
increasingly expensive. Although the hydropower potential of Kenya was
estimated to be about 6,000 MW, half of this was in small rivers and was
uneconomic to develop. Most of the remaining potential was on the Tana
River and of this, only 800 MW was economically justifiable.
2.3           The potential for geothermal power had been recognized for
some time, but it was not until 1978 that the comparative cost of
imported oil and the growth in demand made it attractive enough to
warrant development in the context of a least cost power development
program. The most attractive geothermal area was at Olkaria in the Rift
Valley near Lake Naivasha, about 100 km north of Nairobi. The Olkaria



site had been systematically investigated and explored and, according to
estimates, was capable of supporting power generation of several hundred
MW. Other potential geothermal sites along the Rift Valley like Eburru
and Meneugai, had not been explored, but were expected potentially to
make a significant contribution to meeting Kenya's power needs.
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.1           In 1979, there were very few geothermal projects in
developing countries and even in the developed world, geothermal
developments were limited. Prior to the oil crises in the early and mid-
1970's, development of geothermal energy was considered uneconomic.
Before then, geothermal energy was used mainly in Italy, Iceland and New
Zealand. In fact, the Olkaria geothermal power projects in Kenya were
the first such projects operating on a commercial basis in Africa. The
Olkaria Geothermal Engineering Loan (LN S-12 KE), followed by the Olkaria
Geothermal Power Project (Loan 1799 KE) and the Olkaria Geothermal Power
Expansion Project (Loan 2237 RE) four years later are reviewed together
here because, in many respects, they are part of the same story.
3.2           The primary objectives of the Olkaria Geothermal Engineering
Loon (phase I of the OGDP)were to gauge the productivity of the Olkaria
stea'-' field and to ensure that there was sufficient steam for each
generating unit proposed under the follow up project. The Olkaria
Geothermal Power Project (phase II of the OGDP) aimed to provide a firm
source of power and energy withir. the country to meet the growth of
demand expected from 1981 to 1985 and to assist in reducing the country's
heavy dependence on imported oil. The Olkaria Geothermal Power Expansion
Project (phase III of the OGDP) aimed to assure the availability of
domestic power and energy resources to meet the growth in demand
projected to exceed the capacity of the existing facilities in 1984. The
Olkaria Geothermal and Expansion Projects were the least cost means of
adding to the existing generating plant to achieve these objectives. A
further objective of phase II of the OGDP was to strengthen the power
industry in Kenya through provision of funds for the training of staff at
all levels. The 1987 Power Sector Master Plan further demonstrated that
geothermal power would continue to play an important and growing role in
meeting Kenya s long-term power demand at least cost.
3.3           Phase I of the OGDP provided for drilling of additional
wells both north and south of the existing producers in order to try and
delineate the shape and size of the productive area of the Olkaria steam
field to a greater extent than was possible with the well spacing pattern
existing at the time. A Bank loan of US$9.0 million (which included
about US$5.0 million in monies saved from the Gitaru Hydroelectric Power
Project, LN-1147-KE) was used to finance the purchase of an additional
drill rig, related accessories and ancillary equipment and supplies
necessary to drill production wells and for consultants for the drilling.
3.4           Phase II of the OGDP consisted of the construction of an
electric generating station comprising two 15 MW units with associated
auxiliaries and other necessary civil works, together with deep wells
driven into a geothermal reservoir, some 1300 to 2500 meters below



- 3 -
ground, to provide the source of steam for the turbine generators in the
powerhouse. The project also provided for construction of housing
facilitiea for operating and maintenance staff, staff training and future
power development planning.
3.5           Phase  III of the geothermal program (the Olkaria Geothermal
Power Expansion Project) added a 15-MW turbine and generator to the
existing powerhouse; expanded the system to bring steam from the wells
generated under Phase I; extended the cooling tower and other associated
works; provided technical assistance for project design and construction
supervision and provided for a detailed study of the geothermal potential
of the site, as well as a study of the least cost development investment
program and a feasibility study for the next recommended project.
3.6           A Bank loan in the amount of US$40.0 million (for twenty
years with a grace period of 5 years) together with a Commonwealth
Development Corporation, (UK) loan of US$17 million (for 15 years
including a grace period of three years) was provided under phase II of
the project to the East Africa Power and Lighting Company (EAP&L) the
implementing agency, and was guaranteed by t1 Republic of Kenya. Phase
III of the project was financed with a Bank loan in the amount of US$12.0
million equivalent (for 17 years including four years of grace).
4. Project Preparation, Appraisal and Negotiations
A. Preparation
4.1           The Gitaru Hydroelectric Power Project (LN-1147-KE)
completed in 1978, included studies showing the potential of electricity
generation from the use of geothermal energy. These studies financed by
the Bank and UNDP provided the basis for project preparation. Tlhi
Olkaria Geothermal Power project was proposed to the Bank in January 1978
after the studies undertaken by the Bank/UNDP demonstrated that the
Olkaria geothermal field had significant potential for development.
4.2           The Bank helped finance the preparatory drilling under the
Olkaria Geothermal Engineering Loan (LN-S-12-KE). The need for the
engineering loan arose because wells capable of producing the steam
required for the generating capacity needed to have been drilled before
the Bank could proceed with the appraisal of the project.  Given the
uncertainties in geothermal well reservoir engineering, drilling and
testing of the wells was considered the only reliable way to gauge the
extent and productivity of the Olkaria steam field.
4.3           Drilling geothermal wells posed a certain number of risks
and problems in applied engineering. Geothermal reserve estimation as a
relatively new field was characterized by a level of unreliability
including risks related to the sustained volume of steam output,
temperature and pressure variations and the success rate in the drilling
of production wells. While application of existing oilfield techniques
and equipment was routine, special attention had to be paid to the
d:stinctive characteristics of geothermal fields or drilling costs and
the number of lost and abandoned holes could arise alarmingly, and
prejudice the economics of the project.



-4-
4.4           Under the engineering loan, drilling at Olkaria to develop
steam production capability commenced in March 1978 with the assistance
of consultants from New Zealand (GENZL). The contract with GENZL
stipulated that the company would provide specialized technical
assistance in a supervisory capacity. This stipulation was consistent
with EAP&L's strongly held view that it purchase its own rigs and develop
in house drilling expertise using its own staff. Self-sufficiency in
drilling was considered a logical and necessary step in the process of
technical development.
4.5           Drilling operations under the engineering loan encountered
some problems, but as of July 1979, produced enough steam from completed
wells to justify purchase of the first 15 MW unit.
B. Appraisal
4.6           At the appraisal stage (September 1978), the major issue was
whether to include the second power unit for which financing would be
required in mid-1980. There was some concern about the prudence of
committing financing for the second power unit so far ahead of ts
possible utilization given the uncertainties associated with geothermal
drilling.
4.7           There was agreement that if the 'bulk' of the steam required
for the second power unit was verified before the project was presented
to the Board (around September 1979), then the project would include both
power units. There was considerable debate, however, over what *bulk'
meant -- that is, what petcentage of the project's steam requirements
would actually have to be proven before the generating equipment could be
purchased.
4.8           The Loan Committee queried a project disbursement condition
which required 802 of the steam for the two generating units to be proven
before the second 15 MW unit could be purchased. In essence this meant
going ahead with the financing of the second unit when effectively lOOZ
of the first unit's steam requirements were proven but only 6O0 of the
steam required for the second unit. It was agreed (after consultations
with the Energy Department) that commitment of funds for the second unit
would be conditional upon proof that it met 70Z of the steam
requirements. Since almost 2-1/2 years would elapse between the time of
placing the order and commissioning of the unit, it was considered
reasonable to expect that continued drilling of production wells would
provide for the additional 6 MW of steam needed for the second unit.
4.9           Not all Bank energy specialists, however, agreed with the
'70? go ahead' with at least one calling for proof of at least 1252 of
the steam requirement at full load, in order to allow for well repairs
and workovers, production declines etc.
4.10          The Olkaria Geothermal Expansion Project was appraised in
February 1982. Progress on phase II (Loan 1799 KE) of the OGDP had
proceeded satisfactorily and with cast savings. EAP&L had requested Bank
assistance for the supply and installation of a third 15 MW steam driven
generation unit at the Olkaria site. Since further drilling was required
for such an expansion to prove steam availability for the third unit and
provide a reserve capacity, EAP&L requested utilization of the cost



savings (about US$4.0 million) under Loan 1799 KE to continue its
drilling program uninterrupted. The Bank viewed continuation of the
drilling of production wells as a longer-term objective of the Olkaria
geothermal development program. The continued drilling also allowed for
the most cost effective use of the existing equipment.
C. Negotiations
4.11          Negotiations were held in Washington from September 4-10,
1979 for the Olkaria Geothermal Power Project, but were suspended on
September 10 when agreement could not be reached on the financial
covenant related to the rate of return for the combined operations of the
three power companies in Kenva and the Kenyan delegation withdrew from
negotiations. (The three companies, KPC, the East A'rican Power and
Lighting Company, (!'kP&L) and the Tana River Development Company, (TRDC)
were bound together by common management and majority ownership).
4.12          The Bank's proposal in the documents presented to the Loan
Committee was that a minimum annual rate of return of 6.52 on average
revalued net fixed assets in operation should be earned by the companies
on a combined basis. During negotiations, the Kenyan delegation proposed
instead a phased and reduced rate of return covenant.
4.13          During internal negotiations, the Kenyan delegation
indicated that the Government was in the process of undertaking a study
of the impact of the fuel price increases on the Kenyan economy and
analyzing the methods by which the effects of such increases could be
absorbed. They felt that Government should complete this study before
passing on the recent fuel price increases to the consumer. In addition,
the Chairman of EAP&L explained that the most recent tariff increases
implemented in January 1, 1979, on the recommendation of the Bank,
changed the entire tariff structure and the tariff increases ranged
between 5-852. The largest increases of up to 852, were imposed on
household users of electricity in the medium and upper income levels.
The delegation explained that they would face serious problems in getting
a newly elected Government (October 1979) to pass on an additional fuel
surcharge so soon after assuming power.
4.14          After the departure of the Kenyan delegation, further
detailed analyses were undertaken by the Bank to determine the
implications of the Kenyans' proposal. On the basis of these analyses,
and after further negotiations in Nairobi, it was agreed that the
companies should achieve a 62 rate of return for the 1980 financial year.
Further, the Kenyan delegation's proposal for a rate of return of 72 in
1981 and 1982 and 82 thereafter was accepted. It was noted that on the
basis of the delegation's revised projections of fuel requirements, the
achievement of the 6? rate of return did not require the imposition of
any tariffs or fuel surcharge in 1980.
4.15          On January 22, 1980, the Executive Directors of the Bank
approved a loan of US$40.0 million for the Olkaria Geothermal Power
Project.
4.16          The tariff issue, although ultimately agreed, strained
relations on both sides. The Bank's insistence on the desirability of
applying the fuel cost surcharge was perceived by the Kenyans as a lack



-6-
of trust on the Bank's part on the Government's determination to maintain
sound financial policy for the power sector. The policy statements made
by high ranking Kenyan officials were intended to reassure the Bank of
their it .xtions. The Bank, for its part, was concerned that the Kenya
Governm.   was not committed to the principle that increases in the cost
of fuel hould be passed on to the consumers by the power companies.
This skepticism was based, at least in part, on the fact that in 1979,
despite the high increase in fuel costs, the Kenyan Government failed to
take timely action to pass these increases on to the consumers.
4.17          The Olkaria Geothermal Expansion Loan was negotiated without
major issues in September 1982.
5. Project Implementation
5.1           At the end of phase II, the Olkaria Geothermal Power Project
was in compliance with all project loan covenants though there was
intermittent non-compliance during the course of project implementation
(see below). By 1982, the physical components of the project (the two
15-MW units) were in normal operation generating almost 32MW
continuously.
5.2           With the completion of the 2nd 15 MW geothermal unit in 1982
and the continued drilling program at Olkaria, sufficient steam was
available to install a third 15 MW unit at Olkaria. The justification for
an additional generation plant arose from the need to provide security
against power and energy shortfalls towards the end of 1985 given delays
in completing the Kiambere Hydroelectric Power Project (LN 2359-KE)
before 1986. Although the Olkaria Geothermal Power Expansion Project was
signed September 1983, it did not become effective until April 1984. The
delay was due to certain tax exemption requirements of the European
Investment Bank and the need for approval of the Guarantee Agreement by
Government. Erection of the third unit under the expansion project was
successfully completed on May 17, 1985 fairly close to the SAR estimate
of March 1985.
A. Financial Performance
5.3           The tariff issue quickly resurfaced under the Olkaria
Geothermal Power Project and it appeared in early July 1980 that there
would be non-compliance with the rate of return covenant. In the period
January - April 1980, Kenya underwent a severe drought which resulted in
reduced output from the hydroelectric generating plants. During this
period, EAP&L's operating cost increased not only because of greater fuel
consumption, but because of the higher fuel cost, since oil prices had
also increased.   EAP&L considered a general tariff increase necessary,
both to maintain the financial viability of the power companies and to
meet the rate of return covenant agreed with the Bank. On June 18, 1980,
however, the Cabinet reviewed and rejected the proposal for a surcharge.
5.4           On July 7, the Bank was advised that the GOK had approved
for EAP&L to apply the oil cost adjustment formula with immediate effect,
to achieve the desired minimum 6? rate of return for 1980. However, by
August 18, (one day before the cutoff date of effectiveness) the Bank
still had not received from Kenya satisfactory evidence to establish that



EAP&L had adjusted its tariff to a level sufficient to ensure that the
three power companies could reasonably be expected to earn a rate of
return of 6Z in 1980 on their consolidated average revalued net fixed
assets in operations as required by the project. Accordingly, the
terminal date of effectiveness was postponed to November 19, 1980.
5.5           On September 16, 1980 KPC advised the Bank that the
Government would exempt KPC from income taxes. With this reduction in
operating expense, together with a fuel oil surcharge of KSh. 0.139 per
KWh applied to billings after August 1, 1980, KPC forecasted achieving a
rate of return of 62 on the combined assets of the three power companies.
A review of the financial forecast by the Bank, however, showed that in
arriving at net operating income, the annual depreciation charged was on
a historical cost basis rather than on a revalued basis as required by
the Olkaria Geothermal Power project agreement. When the appropriate
adjustment was made, the rate of return for 1980 was about 5.3Z. The
Bank accepted this ROR, but stipulated that the method of computation of
the ROR prescribed by the project agreement be applied in future years.
5.6           EAP&L earned rates or return of 112 and 7.8% on revalued
assets in 1981 and 1982 respectively which were above the 7x required
under the Loan Agreement. This satisfactory position was achieved by
timely adjus.ments of tariffs which averaged 0.578 and 0.626 shillings
per kWh in 1981 and 1982 - well above the appraisal estimates of 0.536
and 0.583.
5.7           EAP&L's billing and collections were efficient with average
outstanding accounts receivable equal to 66 days of sales at the end of
1982 and 82 days at the end of 1983. The higher figure for 1983 was
partly due to the timing of the June 1, 1983 tariff increase which caused
the year-end accounts receivable to increase proportionately at a higher
rate than the total sales revenue for the year.
5.8           The proj3ct was in non-compliance with the rite of return
covenant in 1983 and 1984. The GOK rejected an average tariff increase of
8 Kenya cents per kWh which would have resulted in ROR on the average
consolidated net plant in operations of the three power companies of at
least 8Z.
5.9           In 1985, the GOK implemented a 12 Kenyan cent tariff
increase (with no objection from the Bank). This tariff revision
generated sufficient funds to cover operational, capital expenditure and
debt service requirements for the years 1985 and 1986. However, the
revisions resulted in lower than covenanted rates of return on fixed
assets (about 6Z vs. covenanted 8% for 1985, and about 5% vs. covenanted
10% for 1986). The lower ratee were mainly due to higher depreciation
charges and asset base compared to the appraisal estimate since no
allowance for exchange fluctuation wes provided for in the revaluation
index applied at the time of appraisal. EAP&L's billing and collection
of sales continued to be satisfactory.
5.10          A study of the power industry's future financial
requirements and tariff levels, was being undertaken as part of the Kenya
Power Sector Master Plan. This financial study together with the Master
Plan was expected to establish the economic cost of supplying electricity



- 8 -
in Kenya and would provide a basis for determining future tariff levels.
A decision was taken by the Bank not to push for further tariff increases
until the Master Plan was completed.
B. Procurement
5.11          One of the issues which arose under the Olkaria geothermal
projects was the prudence of requiring KPC to do worldwide advertising in
accordance with World Bank guidelines for well-head equipment, steam
pipes, final separators etc.. Geothermal equipment is at the cutting
edge of technology and the number of reliable equipment suppliers with
proven track records is very limited (probably no more than three or four
companies worldwide). KPC maintained that adjudicating bids from a
number of unproven companies was time consuming and unproductive. It was
felt that whatever cost savings might be obtained by using equipment from
a lesser known company (one not on the American Petroleum Institute
schedule, for example) would be more than offset if the equipment failed
in the well hole and had to be drilled out at a drilling cost of about
US$10,001 per day. Accordingly, under the follow up Bank financed
geothermal development project, the Geothermal Development and Energy
Preinvestment Preject (CR KE-1973), provision was made for scientific
equipment, workshop tools and equipment and drill equipment to be
procured under contracts awarded through limited international bidding
procedures.
5.12          As in other projects in Kenya, the three Olkaria geothermal
development projects suffered from lengthy and complicated procurement
procedures. Delays of 9-12 months to obtain import permits and licenses
for materials were not unknown. Slow clearance of spare parts and
supplies through customs and subsequent delays in delivery of the same to
the drilling site resulted in drilling equipment and crew left
unnecessarily idle.
C. Project Costs
5.13          Actual project costs for the Olkaria Geothermal Engineering
Loan totaled US$21.3 million equivalent compared with the appraisal
estimate of US$15.5 million. The foreign exchange cost of the project at
US$8.4 million was below the appraisal estimate of US$S'.0 million.
5.14          Actual project costs for the Olkaria Geothermal Power
Project totaled US$76.5 million equivalent compared with the appraisal
estimate of US$89.0 million equivalent. Expressed in Kenyan currency,
these costs are above the appraisal estimate, but expressed in US$ they
are about 14Z lower. This was because the mid-1983 rate of exchange (at
Ksh 13 = US$1) was about 73% higher than the rate at appraisal (Ks 7.5 =
US$1). The foreign exchange cost of the project at US$44.4 million was
below the appraisal estimate of US$48.6 million.
5.15          Actual project costs for the Olkaria Geothermal Power
Expansion Project tallied with the appraisal estimate of US$12.0 million.



-9-
D. Consultants and Contractors
5.16          Very early in the Olkaria Geothermal Project (September
1980) KPC had become less satisfied with the performance of the main
consultant on the project. A number of oversights and omissions had
occurred, and while, not major, design errors had caused extra work for
all parties. For example, the houses in the operator's colony were
virtually complete, and although a road had been built, it was discovered
that the water supply, sewerage, walkways, and general landscaping around
the community were not included in the contract. Also, several of the
tender analyses submitted were incomplete such that further information
had to be requested in order to obtain an accurate assessment.
5.17          There were also problems of a more technical nature.  The
cooling water-loop had been designed to run between pH 3 and 4, (closer
to 4), but since start up, the pH had oscillated between 2.5 and 3 with
most of the values around 2.7, causing corrosion which no one thought of
estimating much less controlling. The pH problem festered for 2 years
with Olkaria reporting it to KPC Nairobi which in turn reported it to the
consultant who responded after some delay.
5.18          The most serious engineering problem encountered during the
course of the three projects was leakage from the seal pit of Unit I. In
September of 1981 after only two months of operation, Unit I was taken
out of service to investigate this leak. Between September 1981 and
December 1982, the loss of generation because of the seal pit problem was
considerable, reducing the load factor over the period from 82 to 522.
Although the cause of the leak was eventually determined (displacement of
the water-bar during the pouring of the concrete) and repaired, KPC
attributed the origin of the problem to lack of construction supervision
by the contractor. While there may well be disagreement over this
assessment, it is important to note that the contractor did make the
repairs substantially at its own costs.
E. Training
5.19          After getting off to a slow start, the projects' training
component picked up momentum and met its objectives in terms of numbers
trained. In 1980, apart from training of 480 technicians at local
polytechnic and training schools, 19 KPC staff received short-term (2
weeks to 6 months) training abroad by attending courses in geothermal,
hydro, power system, electronics and computers. During 1981, 1982 and
1983, 490, 553 and 460 staff respectively were trained, the majority in
technical and craft apprenticeships, but over 90 were enrolled in
university programs and 70 participated in local management courses.
F. Moi South Lake Road
5.20          Funding of improvements for the Moi South Lake Road was
discussed for several years between KPC and the Bank. The road is a
private KPC owned spur from the public road system to the Olkaria
geothermal field running along the south side of Lake Naivasha and
serving [PC as well as a hotel and some agricultural properties. [PC, in
the course of developing Olkaria, improved the road so that heavy
vehicles could pass, but the road was never brought up to modern



- 10 -
standards with a continuous tarmac. KPC through mid-1987 repeatedly
asked the Bank to reallocate funds under the geothermal projects for road
improvements. Twice the request was formally rejected by Bank management
on the grounds that Kenya had at its disposal undisbursed and uncommitted
funds under existing highway projects, i.e. that the Moi South Lake Road
should be funded out of highway loan funds. KPC viewed the Bank's
position as inflexible bordering on dogmatic, arguing that while the road
was of utmost importance to KPC and geothermal development, it would be
afforded a much lower priority by Kenya's roads department who would take
a countrywide view. From the Bank's point of view the issue was settled
in late 1987 when the Bank agreed to fund the road under the Geothermal
Development and Energy Preinvestment Project (Cr. 1973 KE) then under
preparation and now under implementation. In Kenya, it has taken the
better part of two years to settle the various engineering, supervision
and maintenance responsibilities between KPC and the Ministry of Public
Works. Currently the roads contract is in the bidding stage, with
implementation expected to begin later in 1990.
G. Technology Transfer
5.21          One question which emerged under the projects (and remains
to some extent unanswered) is what is the best way to transfer technology
in the highly technical area of geothermal development. The Olkaria
geothermal development projects succeeded in focusing attention and
debate on this question without yielding a conclusive answer.
5.22           Although there are many approaches to geothermal
development, the debate centered on essentially three models. Under the
first model, the power company buys its own drilling rigs (as KPC did
under phase II of OGDP) and uses contractors to supervise drilling
activity until such time that local personnel have developed the
technical expertise to undertake it themselves. Under the second model,
the power company would contract out for drilling in which case the
contracting firm would use its own rigs and technicians.   In the third
model, the development of the steam fields would be left altogether to
private investors who, owning the steam, would sell it to the power
company. In the United States, for example, site of the world's largest
geothermal development program, steam field development, maintenance of
wells etc. is generally left to investors (usually oil companies). The
power companies focus on electricity generation and let investors assume
the risks associated with drilling wells. Under the OGDP, the question
of which of these development models (or their variations) to use was the
subject of considerable debate between the Bank and KPC.
5.23          KPC has always been very keen to purchase its own rigs and
develop in house drilling expertise as part of a technology transfer
associated with geothermal development. By contrast, geothermal (and
petroleum related) drilling is routinely subcontracted to specialized
drilling companies. Over the years and up to mid-1987 numerous,
sometimes controversial and even antagonistic discussions have taken
place between KPC and the Bank. The Bank, citing poor drilling
performance by KPC through mid-1987 and industry practice elsewhere, --
strongly recommended contract drilling. KPC, citing legitimate
objectives of technology transfer and the build-up of local expertise,
insisted on force account drilling. As a result of this discussion, KPC
in 1987/88 completely reorganized its line management for drilling



- 11 -
operations. A drilling manager, three drill rig supervisors and
specialized materials handling, engineering, and mechanical experts were
subcontracted with a foreign petroleum firm. Within a few months KPC's
drilling performance improved dramatically and has since compared very
favorably with international performance standards. In its latest
geothermal operation in Kenya, the Bank has acknowledged the now proven
viability of KPC's geothermal drilling operation, funding both a second
drill rig as well as drilling materials for KPC. This is appropriate
given the size of Kenya's geothermal program i.e. about 10 wells per year
for the next 20 reservoirs. However, significant levels of contract
drilling will continue to supplement KPC's capacity, particularly with
respect to exploration drilling in new areas, where cutting edge
expertise and equipment are necessary for risk containment.
H. Environmental Impacts, Occupational Safety and Health
5.24          Due to the nature of emissions and the actual small size of
the geothermal field, the condition of the environment was generally
considered acceptable. Care was taken to design the facilities to
minimize the danger from the hydrogen sulphide gas which escaped from the
wells. There were no pits or basements in the powerhouse which could
allow the heavier-than-air H2S to collect and create a hazardous
situation. These gases were vented from a stack 50 feet high, at an
elevation sufficient to provide adequate dilution of noxious gases at
ground level.
5.25          Erosion was not a problem under the project given the
undulating terrain and there was no trace of erosion visible around the
wells and around the plant.
5.26          Drilling with mud and drilling with air were both practiced
at Olkaria. Final disposal of drilling wastes produced no problems and
had not contaminated the aquifer.
5.27          Information and/or statistics were not available on the
severity and frequency of accidents in the project area.
5.28          Living conditions for workers left much to desired.  The
workers compound was just upgraded huts with only one source of water
for the whole village and no sewer collection whatsoever. Although this
was not part of the project, a reasonable argument could be made for
having included Bank financing to improve the quality of life for at
least part of the workforce.
5.29          Allegations have been made by some local horticulture
farmers that geothermal development was responsible for their lower crop
yields, but this has been denied by KPC. An environmental impact study
of all aspects of countrywide geothermal development is currently being
undertaken under the Geothermal Development and Energy Preinvestment
Project, CR KE-1973.



- 12 -
I. Extension of the Closing Date
5.30          At the close of the Olkaria Geothermal Power Project, US$7.5
million remained undisbursed. Of this balance, EAP&L (or the Kenya Power
and Lighting Company as it was renamed) had committed about US$3.0
million. KPC requested and was granted approval by the Bank to extend
the project closing date for one year to December 1984 in order to use
the uncommitted loan funds (US$4.5 million) to import additional drilling
supplies, services and equipment.
5.31          A second extension of t};e project closing date to December
1985 was approved by the Bank so that KPC could complete commitments
associated with $3.5 million in unused funds. The remaining funds were
used for additional works connected with drilling, purchase of spare
parts, training equipment and mobile labs.
5.32          A third extension was approved by the Bank because a number
of final payments had not been made. These were payments for connecting
well 26, the retention money for road construction and final payments for
spare parts on order that had yet to cleared by customs. The loan was
closed in January of 1987; the undisbursed amount of US$1,295,039.48 was
cancelled as of the same date.
5.33          The Olkaria Geothermal Power Expansion Project was extended
by one year to March 1986 to utilize residual funds of about US$3 million
for the construction of a road extension for the project.
6. Project Results
6.1           Under the projects, drilling for steam production wells
produced satisfactory results and the construction works proceeded
substantially according to schedule and within cost estimates.
6.2     In March 1981, the Bank accepted reservoir development data
ensuring steam supply for at least 80Z of the plant capacity (consistent
with an earlier stipulation) and gave the go ahead for proceeding with
procurement of the second 15 MW unit which was a loan condition. The
second 15 MW unit was commissioned on November 30, 1982 about 3 months
ahead of appraisal schedule and with savings in cost. Overall inspection
of units 1 and 2 in 1984 found the main equipment in generally good
condition. The turbine rotors were found in almost new condition after
two years of intensive operation. Output data on steam production wells
showed adequate steam production for the two units in operation and also
enough steam for the third unit under the subsequent expansion project
completed in March 1985.
6.3           By December 1985, all three units at Olkaria were performing
well. The availability and reliability of the plant was very high. The
plant load factor was 94.25Z and availability 93.71Z. The plant was in
good condition and the maintenance program had been properly planned and
executed. The remaining works in the expansion project, (connection of
well OG-26 to the main steam system and road connection from camp to
site) were completed in September 1986.



- 13 -
7. Bank Performance
7.1           The Olkaria Geothermal Power Project and its follow up
Expansion Project comprised the first geothermal program operating on a
commercial basis in Africa. As has been noted, geothermal reservoir
capacity estimation was a relatively new field characterized by a number
of risks requiring careful management. The Bank took precautionary steps
to minimize these risks. For example, the engineering loan was financed
in order to identify wells capable of producing the steam required for
the plant's generating capacity before proceeding with project appraisal.
Only when the drilling operations proved satisfactory was advance
contracting permitted and then encouraged to avoid delays in the
construction of the power station and to allow sufficient time for the
manufacture, shipping and installation of the projects' highly
specialized equipment. The Bank in its dialogue with KPC played a
constructive yet firm role in encouraging sound tariff policy and
financial performance. It also periodically monitored the environmental
impact of the Olkaria geothermal projects and assisted KPC in defining
the scope of various engineering and economic feasibility studies and
monitored their progress. Overall, the Bank played a positive role in
the implementation of the two geothermal projects particularly
considering the highly technical nature of the projects and the fact that
the Olkaria intervention represented the Bank's first venture into
geothermal exploration, drilling and development in Africa.
8. Lessons Learned
8.1           Given the uncertainties and risks associated with geothermal
reserve estimation, it was particularly important under the Olkaria
geothermal development program to find an appropriate way of sequencing
the Bank's investment. The Bank's three step approach (beginning with
the preparatory drilling under the Olkaria Geothermal Engineering Loan
and followed by the construction of two power units under the Olkaria
Geothermal Power Project and a third power unit under the follow up
expansion project) implemented on time and without cost overruns supports
the wisdom of this approach. (paras. 3.3 - 3.6)
8.2           To be sure, financial covenants serve a useful purpose as
they provide the only leverage for introducing financial discipline. The
Bank has long been committed to the principle that increases in the cost
of fuel should be passed on to the consumers. While maintaining this
position under the Olkaria geothermal projects, the Bank also had to
learn balance - that is to be firm in its insistence on sound financial
policy while at the same time being sensitive to the hard political
realities that confronted KPC particularly around the tariff issue.
(paras. 5.3 - 5.10)
8.3           The Bank learned (and is still learning) to balance the
borrower's strong desire to acquire new technology as rapidly as possible
against the implicit financial risks of doing so. (paras. 5.21 - 5.23)
8.4           The National Power Development Plan, prepared under the
joint BanklUNDP ESMAP program has shown that geothermal generation is the
least cost form of energy available in Kenya by a significant margin.
Based on operating and investment data from the existing geothermal units
at Olkaria as well as the geothermal industry elsewhere, the unit cost in



- 14 -
Kenya for energy generated by geothermal steam is estimated at about
US$0.036/kWh. This is 20-40 percent lower than electrical energy from
other sourcesl. The Olkaria geothermal development projects have
demonstrated that geothermal power can have a role in least cost power
development under certain conditions (as is the case in Kenya) wher.
electrical energy from other sources is expensive, the wells yield
reasonable and sustained levels of power, and the field is reasonably
close to the national grid and center of demand.
1  Unit costs are estimated at US$0.043/kWh for the lowest cost hydro
project and at US$0.06/kWh for coal-fired steam projects, the lowest cost
conventional thermal energy.



- 15 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
THE OLKARIA GEOTHERMAL ENGINEERING PROJECT,
THE OLKARIA GEOTHERMAL POWER PROJECT
AND THE OLKARIA GEOTHERMAL POWER EXPANSION PROJECT
(Loans S-12-KE, 1799-KE, and 2237 XE)
PART II. BORROWER'S SUMMARY
1. Introduction
1.1           Topics in this summary are grouped under the headings
general, contractual and engineering although some necessarily overlap.
The thought behind this summary is that it is most important that the
experiences encountered during the engineering of Olkaria East should be
used to the advantage of other geothermal projects at Olkaria or
elsewhere in Kenya.
1.2     Before detailing what may be contentious topics when considered in
isolation it is perhaps worth mentioning that the challenge of
constructing and commissioning the first geothermal power plant in Africa
was met by all participants with enthusiasm and excellent cooperation was
maintained between the client, contractors and consultants throughout the
project period albeit there were many "healthy* arguments and differences
of opinion.
2. General
2.1           Drilling.  It is perhaps invidious to mention well-drilling
performance in this report as the authors. Merz and McLellan in
association with Virkir Consulting Group took no direct part in drilling
(although they advised on geoscientific matters and administered the
drill supplies contracts). The poor rate of drilling and consequent
slowness in proving steam production was the predominant reason for the
delays in placing the main engineering contracts for the successive
phases of the development of Olkaria East.
2.2           Site Access.  It is impossible to quantify the effect on the
project of the appalling state of the access road to the site but it must
have been considerable. The South Lake road east of the Safariland Lodge
1  Part II is a condensed version of the summary chapter of KPC's
Project Completion Report submitted to the Bank. It highlights from KPC's
perspective many of the technical issues that arose under the Olkaria
geothermal development projects.



- 16 -
turn off was (and still is) basically a murram road with sections of
broken tarmac and outcrops of rock; depending on the season the road is
dusty, pot-holed, muddy or flooded.
2.3           Several lorries lost their loads; turbine components and
switchgear panels were damaged ai.d a consignment of cooling tower
material fell into a ravine. Vehicle breakdowns attributable to the
conditions of the road were frequent and caused high maintenance costs
for contractors. Severe discomfit and loss of time was experienced by
many personnel on many journeys.
2.4           Contractors were aware of conditions when they tendered for
work and they coped as best they could, to the extent of effecting road
repairs themselves and even plating the road for heavy loads such as the
75 ton generator transformer; on the other hand they always thought that
the provision of a better road must be imminent.
2.5           The benefit to be gained by ensuring good access as a first
project priority can not be overemphasized.
3. Engineering
3.1           Problems encountered with the seal pit were the only really
significant failure on the project, from a construction engineering point
of view.
3.2           In September 1981 after only two months running it was
necessary to take No. 1 Unit out of service to investigate a leak from
the seal pit which was causing movement of the seal pit; there was
concern that continued leakage could undermine the foundation.
3.3           The cause of the leakage was eventually found to be due to
the displacement of water-bar during pouring of the concrete.
3.4           The loss of generation because of the seal pit was
considerable, reducing the Load Factor over the period September 1981 to
December 1982 to 52?.
3.5           Summarizing, the problems with No. 1 Seal Pit were due to
poor construction implying inadequate supervision by the contractor who
was contractually responsible (and who effected the under-pinning and
repairs substantially at his own costs). The supervision problem also
reflects on the consultants' starf and it is important to ensure that the
consultants' supervision is sufficiently extensive to meet the
requirements of sensitive operations such as placing water-bars; to
ensure such supervision could increase substantially the cost of
supervisory services.
3.6           Before the specifications for No. 3 unit were issued a great
deal of attention was given to the cooling arrangements to be adopted
and, particularly, whether or not the principle of the barometric leg
should be abandoned in favor of the more straightforward condenser
extraction pump. It was finally generally accepted that the barometric
leg principle was, in fact, the best arrangement and, further, that the
design of No. 1 seal pit was perfectly satisfactory but perhaps demanded
too much skill or care from the workmen placing concrete.



- 17 -
3.7           For No. 3 unit, therefore, a concrete pit was designed that
had more straightforward construction requirements and a facility to
observe leaks quickly and easily and rectify them and to prevent any such
leaks from having detrimental effects on the load bearing capacity of the
foundations.
3.8           These construction modifications were achieved and the No. 3
seal pit has been proved to be totally satisfactory.
3.9           Cooling Water Acidity.  An unusual, though not unique.
feature of the geothermal steam from the Olkaria field is that ammonia
gas is almost absent.  The circulating cooling water, which is condensed
geothermal steam, is therefore acidic (due to sulfuric acid resulting
from the oxidation of hydrogen sulfuric gas) with the pH settling at 2.9.
The water is of course, highly corrosive especially to mild steel and
concrete.
3.10          Therefore to withstand the water acidity stainless steel has
been used for the cooling water pipework and pumps and for lining the
condenser. The concrete cooling tower basis and seal pits are protected
by epoxy paint. The present condition of the plant appears to vindicate
this decision.
3.11          There was some concern regarding discoloration and apparent
pitting on the outside of the stainless steel cooling water pipes; these
apparent defects became noticeable a few months after erection of the
pipes. After investigating several possible causes it was concluded that
the faults were due to scuffing by or embedding of iron other than
stainless steel; in several cases the marks of wire slings could be
identified. The pits were ground out and buffed and carefully monitored
until it was concluded that the faults were non-malignant.
3.12          Environment.  The three possible nuisances of noise,
hydrogen sulphide gas and waste water are all adequately dealt with at
Olkaria East.
3.13          The wellhead and main silencers are very effective; hydrogen
sulphide ground level concentration are well within the internationally
recommended maximum level; and natural filtration waste water into the
ground is easily achieved.
3.14          Prior to engineering the third unit consideration was given
to erecting a large single chimney to accommodate the gaseous discharges
from the ejectors of all three units but measurements showed that this
was completely unnecessary though recent comments have been made by
operating staff about the occasional smell of H2S.
3.15          Wellhead Equipment.  During the design stages of Unit 1
there was some acrimonious discussion regarding the wellhead equipment
design and more recently comparisons have been made with plant at
Wa!rakie on the grounds that the New Zealand equipment is cheaper.
3.16          The Wairakei plant was also engineered by Merz and McLellan,
but that was in the nineteen fifties and many lessons have been learnt
since.



- 18 -
3.17          The primary object of the wellhead equipment and pipelines
is to discard water and to convey steam from the wellhead to arrive at
the turbine stop valve with a minimum content of solids and moisture; the
performance of the machines at Olkaria for long periods without fouling
of the turbines compares very favorably with other geothermal field
machines and is evidence that the primary object was achieved.
3.18          Cooling Tower Grid Failures.  After about a year of
operation of No. 2 unit several sections of the fill of the cooling tower
became adrift and fell into the cooling tower basin; the incident did not
materially affect the operation of the unit but was disconcertirg. The
cause was attributed to the blockage of water distribution nozzles in the
top "basin" of the tower; water then streamed over the side of the basin
subjecting the fill to much higher impingement forces than they could
stand.
3.19          KPC fitted replacement grids and instituted a more frequent
nozzle cleaning routine.
3.20          The end sheets and draught guide baffles of No. 1 tower are
also showing some signs of "wear" and corrosion type attach and it is
apparent that improvements could be made to tower designs for future
projects.
3.21          Corrosion of Outdoor Equipment.  Corrosion of some isolator
contacts occurred shortly after commission unit 1 and it was established
that the contacts in question had been plated with wrong material. The
contractor replaced them and no further incidents have occurred.
3.22          Also on the outdoor switchgear, stranded earthing cables
were attacked; these were satisfactorily replaced by links.
3.23          For Unit 1 the wellhead fencing was galvanized which proved
to be unsatisfactory. For Units 2 and 3 the specification was changed to
plastic coating.
3.24          Silencer Erosion.  Most silencers have suffered some damage
from erosion of internal surfaces of concrete. This does not impair the
efficiency of the silencer but produces unsightly leakage marks on the
outside and requires periodic repair work.
3.25          It is clear that future designs should incorporate fairly
extensive additional stainless steel sheet shielding.
3.26          Pipe Tracks and Slope Protection.  During the last six years
several short sharp storms have caused wash-outs, particularly around
pipe supports, in spite of the precautions taken to provide what was
thought to be adequate water run-off drainage.
3.27          It would be uneconomic to provide complete protection
against very rare occurrences, such as the rainfall of 76 mm in 45
minutes on 17 January 1987, when it is necessary to rely on being able to
repair quickly any damage caused. On the other hand, it is clear that
the optimum degree of protection was not provided at Olkaria East and the
subject warrants more attention on future developments.



- 19 -
3.28          Similarly, further attention is required to protect field
instruments from the effects of lightening strikes which have occurred
with a frequency that was not envisaged.
3.29          Circulating Water Pump 'B'.  Of the eight cooling water
pumps positioned on the seal pit roofs only one has given any trouble but
the alarm it created was considerable, it being suggested that the pit
roof resonant frequency was that of the pump running speed.
3.30          In fact the pump had been damaged by taking in a lump of
wood; a first attempt to repair the damage did not succeed but this was
not generally accepted until the pump had been tried in a different
position and a replacement pump ran smoothly iin the position formerly
occupied by the faulty pump.
4. Contractual
4.1           Scope of Main Plant Contracts.  The principle thought behind
the decision for the main plant for Phases One and Two to be provided in
two packages was that a package should be large enough to attract strong
international competition. An alternative would have been to have had
several small supply contracts with a separate erection ccntract.
4.2           The alternative was not adopted mainly because it was
recognized that the predominant part of the plant required specialized
knowledge not only for its design and manufacture but also for its
erection and commissioning; any attempt to divide responsibility for the
ultimate success of the plant would be liable to lead to difficulties.
4.3           On the other hand, the principle behind not adopting the
alternative did not appear to be fully accepted. If it had been fully
accepted the authorities concerned, particularly IBRD, would have
acknowledged that what the plant required could have been supplied by
only a very limited number of contractors throughout the world.
4.4           Particularly for Contract OG-01 (for well-head equipment,
steam pipes and final separator) worldwide advertising in accordance with
IBRD Guidelines was an unnecessary expense and the adjudication of
tenders, also in accordance with the Guidelines, was almost certainly not
the best way to obtain the most favorable terms for KPC.
4.5           It might be better to invite tenders from the few capable
contractors and, having selected a contractor, then negotiate further
with him to refine his design nearer to optimum conditions.
4.6           This is a topic that might be considered to deserve a
thorough airing before embarkation on a further similar project.
4.7           Finally, the drilling supplies contract invitations have not
received an enthusiastic response and this subject also deserves a re-
appraisal. For the future, we recommend that KPC goods be delivered to
the site in order to avoid the problems of customs clearance and inland
transportation.  Further, it should be noted that contractors too are
unwilling to accept anything other than CIF because they also wish to
avoid the problems.



- 21 -
PART III
STATISTICAL ANNEXES
KENYA PONER III OLKARIA GEOTHERMAL
Lasn 17?9-4E
Actual as I
Appraisal                            Appraial
Basie Date Shoet                    Estimate             Actuel            Estimate
Total project cost (USS million)        89.0               76.5                86.0X
Loan amount (USI ml lion)               40.0              J8.6                 96.X1
Projoct Datest                        Eti mato                     Actual
Id.ntlfication                      Jan. 17, 1978               Jan. 17, 1978
Appraisal                           Jun. 1978                   Nov. 1978
N.gotlations                        Jul.  2, 1979               Sep. 10, 1979
Board Approval                      Sep. 6, 1979                Jan. 22, 1980
Loan/Guarantee Agr_ment                                         Sep. 23, 1980
Effoctiven es                       Apr. 1980                   Nov. 18, 1980
Loan Closing Date                   Doc. 31, 1983               Jan. 31, 1987
Cumulativo Disbursemnts                 190      1961      1982    1m8         1984     1986
Appraisal estimates (USS million)        7.0     24.0      81.0     38.0       40.0     40.0
Actual (USS million)                     2.5     23.6      29.9    82.5        37.7    3886
Actual as X of appraisal                  8SX      98X       97n      86         94X      97X
Date of final disbursemnt           Jan. 17, 1986



-- 22 -
KENYA POWER  IV OLKARIA EXPANSION
Loan 2237-KE
--------------_----------------------__-__-----------___-_------__---___-----__----
Actual as X
Appralsal                                           Appraio1l
Basic Data Sheot                                  Estimate                     Actual                   Estimate
-------------------------------------.-----------------------__--------------__----
Total  project cost  (US$ million)                      41.6                                                   0.03
Loan amount  (US3 million)                              12.0                       7.6                        62.6X
______________________..____________________________________________________________
Project Dotes:                                                                 Actual
---------------------------------------------------------------__------------__----
First mentioned  In file                                                    Apr. 16, 1982
Identification                                                              Nov. 1982
Appraisal                                                                   Jan.  198a
Negotiations                                                                Sep. 20-23, 1982
Board Approval                                                              Feb. 22, 1983
Loan Agreement date                                                         Sep. 22,  1983
Effecti-eness                                                               Apr. 27, 1984
Closing Date                                                                Mar. 31, 1986
Cumulative DIsbursements                                1983         1984         1985        1986            1987
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__----
Appraisal estimatos  (USS million)                       0.5          7.0         10.5        12.0            12.0
Actual  (USS million)                                       -         4.6          6.0          7.6            0.0
Actual as X of appraisal                                    OX          e6s         48X          62x              OX
Date of final disbursement                         Oct. 4, 1987
Amount Cancelled                                   USS 4.6 million



- 23 -
KENYA POWER III OLKARIA GEOTHERMAL (Loan 1799-KE)
KENYA POWER IV OLKARIA EXPANSION (Loan 2237-KE)
Financial Indicators:
-------------------------------------------------------__--------------------
1984               1984
Estimate            Actual
_____________________________________________________________________________
Debt Service Coverage                          2.3                 1.8
Debt/Equity Ratio                            42/58              41/69
Accounts Receivables (days)                     se                  69
Financial Rate of Return  1/                   7.9X               4.61
--------------------------------------__-------------------------------------
Performance Indicators: 1/
_____________________________________________________________________________
1984               1984
Estimate            Actual
-------------------------------------------------------------__--------------
Productlon (GWh)
Hydro - Masinga                              166                168
Hydro - Other Hydro                         1394               1306
Uganda Imports                               252                216
Sub-total                                 1612               l666
eothermal                                    200                233
Other Thermal                                162                176
2194               2094
Units used on works                                              28
Total Production                           2194               2068
System Losses (GWh)                            329                 291
i of Produetion                               15.0X               14.1X
Sale  (GWh)                                   1866               1776
Annual Growth Rate of Sales (X)                6.0%                6.9X
System Maximum Demand (MW)                     368                 360
System Load Factor                              66                 68
No. of consumers (000)                                             196
No. of staff                                                     5668
No. of consumers per staff                                          33
Average Tariff (KSh/KWh)                     0.703              0.700
1/ Kenya Power III Project (Loan 1799-KE)
Project Results:
_______________
The project has been successful since output data on steam production wells showed
adequate steam production of the two unite In operstion and also enough steam for
the third unit under the subsequent *xpenslon project completed in March 1985. The
availability and reliability of the plant was very high with a load factor of
94.26X and availability of 93.711.
Note: The above Information is not available for the Engineering Loan.



- 24 -
KENYA POWER III OLKARIA GEOTHERMAL (Loan 1799-KE)
KENYA POWER IV OLKARIA EXPANSON (Loan 2237-E
Use of Bank Resource.
Staff Inputs (Staffw-eks)
Stage of Project Cycle   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1986   1986   1987    Total
Through Appraisal          0.7    2.3   13.9                                                                       16.9
Appraisal through Board
Approval                                        61.2   49.1            7.6 2/                                     117.9
Board Aporoval Through
Effectiveness                                           4.3                                                         4.3
Supervision  1/                                                 8.1    3.s    1.7    4.3    3.0    2.7    0.3      23.6
Total Staffweeks         0.7    2.3  13.9  61.2   53.4    8.1   11.1    1.7    4.3    3.0    2.7    0.3   162.7
1/ Project supervised in conjunction with other parallel projects.
2/ Power IV Olkaris Expansion (Ln 2237-KE)
Note:  No time recording information Is available for the Engineering Project (Loan S-12-KE).



- 25 -
MISSIONS
Days                                      Performance
Month/ No. of   in                                           Rating       Types of
Stage of Project Cycle   Year   Persons Field        Spec4ilization Represented         Status      Problems
Power III Olkeria Geothermal (Loan 1799-KE)
-------------------------------------------------- - ----------__    -------------__ ---------------------------
- Preappraisal           Aug 78*      2           Power Engineer
- Preappraisal           Oct 78*      1       6   Drilling Operations
- Appraisal              Nov 78       3      22   Power Engr/Fin. Analyst
Appraisal through Board
Approval                  Feb 79       1       2   Power Engineer
Board Approval Through
Effectiveness             Apr 80       1       6   Power Engineer
Jul 80      1       5   Power Engineer                          1
Supervision               Mar 81       1       9   Financial Analyst                       1
Sep 81      1       S   Power Engineer                          1
Feb 82      2       6   Power Engr/Fin. Analyst                 1
* Also supervising Engineering Loan (S-12-KE).
____________  ___________  ___________ ___________                               ---  - ------------ - ----------___ ___  _ ___ ___ __
Power IV Olkeria Expansion (Loan 2237-KE)
--------------------------------------------------------------___-------------__---------------------------
- Preappraisal           Nov 82       2      10   Fin Anal/Drilling Engr           }  In conjunction with
} supervision of Loan 1799-KE.
- Appraisal              Jan 83       3       6   Fin Anal/Geologits               }
-- - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - - -  - -  - ____ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ____ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ____ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___
Power III Olkaria Geothermal (Loan 1799-KE)/Power IV Olkaria Expansion (Loan 2237-KE)
Supervision               Jun 83       2       6   Power Engr/Fin. Analyst                 1
Feb 84      2       6   Power Engr/Fin. Analyst                 1
Nov 84      3       5   Power Engr/Fin. Analyst/Econ.           1
Jun 85      2       6   Power Engr/Fin. Analyst                 1
Nov 85      2       6   Power Engr/Fin. Analyst                 1
Feb 86      2       6   Power Engr/Fin. Analyst                 1
Jun 86      2       4   Power Engr/Fin. Analyst                 1     Tariff increase
implemented in
in Feb 88 was
revoked for
legal reasons
in July 88
Dec 86      2       4   Power Engr/Economist                    1
.__________________-_--___-_---------- ---____-------------- -------------_ -- --______---------------



- 26 -
KENYA POWER III OLKARIA EXPANSION
Loan 2237-KE
---------------------------------------------------------------__
Estimate
_________________________________________________________________
Project Costs  (USS millions)                       Local       Foreign         Total
---------------------------------------------------------------__
UMchanical  A Elect. Equipment                        8.1           11.8          19.9
Substation                                            0.3            0.7           1.0
Civil  Works                                          1.4            1.6           3.0
Road                                                  0.9            0.9           1.8
Water Supply                                          0.3            0.3           0.6
Housing                                               0.4            0.4           0.8
Engineering                                           0.8            1.8           2.8
Studies                                               0.7            1.9           2.6
Contingencies                                         2.3            3.1           5.4
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Total  Project Cost                                  16.2           22.6          37.7
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Interest during Construction                             -           3.8           3,6
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Front End Fees on Bank & CDC Loans                       -           0.3           0.3
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Total  F;napncing Required                           15.2           26.4         41.6
---------.-------------------------------------------------------
-----------__----------------------------------------------------
Estimate
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Financing Plan                                     Local        Foreign         Total
---------------------------------------------------------------__
Kenya Power Co. Ltd.                                  9.0            2.8          11.8
Commonwealth Dev. Corp.                               2.8            6.2           9.0
European Investment Bank                              3.4            6.4           8.8
IaRD                                                     -          12.0         12.0
Total  Financing                                     15.2           26.4          41.6
_________________________________________________________________



- 27 -
KENYA POWER III OLKARIA GEOTHERMAL
Loan 1799-KE
-----------------------------------__---_____----------_____--
Estimate
---------------------------------------------------------------
Project  Costs  (USS  millions)                        Local        Foreign            Total
---------------------------------------------------------------
Preparatory Works
(including  Loan  S-12-KE)                            6.S              9.0           15.6
Unit  1                                                 15.7             17.2           32.9
Unit  2                                                 16.9             16.7           33.8
Training                                                  0.3             0.4             0.8
Studies                                                   0.8              1.1            1.7
------------------------------------_----____------------------
Total Project  Costs                                    40.0             44.3           84.3
Interest  during  Construction                           0.4              4.3            4.7
------------------------------------------------------.--------
Total Financing  Required                               40.4             48.8           89.0
---------------------------------------------------------------
-------------__---------------------__---____------------------
Estimate
---------------------------------------------------------------
Financing  Plan                                        Local        Foreign           Total
---------------------------------------------------------------
Government of Kenya                                       8.0                             8.0
Kenya Power  Co. Ltd.                                   21.0                  -         21.0
Commonwealth  D-v. Corp.                                11.4              8.8           20.0
IBRD  1/                                                     -           40.0           40.0
Total Financing                                         40.4             48.8           89.0
-----------------------------------------_-_--_----------------
1/ Includes the amount required to refinance disbursements
under the USS 9.0 million Olkarla Geothermal Engineering Project
Loan (5-12-KE).



- 28 -
KENYA OLKARIA GEOTHERMAL ENGINEERING PROJECT
Loan S-12-KE
Estimate                         Actual           Actual as
______________ -__---------------------------------_________--___----     ------------------- Percent
Project Costs (US3 millions)        Local    Foreign     Total        Local  Foreign    Total  of Apr.
Drill Rigg A Compressor                 -        1.0       1.0           1.1      2.8      3.9       390X
Rig Accessories                       0.6        1.0       1.6          0.4       0.6      1.0        67X
Equipment & Supplies                  2.8        6.0       7.6           6.4      2.6      9.0       118X
Civil Works                           0.4          -       0.4          3.3       0.6      3.9       976X
Local Transportation                  0.6          -       0.5            -         -        -         ox
Consultants A Drill Operators         0.6        0.8       1.8          0.7       1.8      2.6       200%
KPC Staff                             0.6          -       0.6           1.0        -      1.0       200X
Sub-total                           5.0        7.8      12.8         12.9       8.4    21.3        167W
Price & Physical Contingencies        1.5        1.3       2.8             -        -        -         0%
Total Financing Required              8.6        9.0      165.          12.9      8.4     21.3       137S
Estimte                          Actual           Actual as
---------------------------------------------  ----------------   --------------------------- Percent
Financing Plan                      Local    Foreign     Total        Local  Foreign    Total  of Apr.
Government of Kenya                  68.           -       6.'          12.9        -     12.9       198X
IBRD  1/                                -        9.0       9.0            -       8.4      8.4        93S
Total Financing                       6.5        9.0      15.5         12.9       8.4     21.3       137X
1/ This loan amount was used primarily for drilling activities.



- 29 -
KENYA POWER III OLKARIA GEOTHERMAL
Loan 1799-KE
Estimate                        Actual           Actual as
---------------------------------------------------------------   --------------------------- Percent
I8RD Financing                     Local    Foreign    Total        Local  Foreign   Total  of Apr.
Preparatory Works                      -        9.0       9.0            -     11.2    11.2       124%
Unit 1                                 -       14.2      14.2            -     11.8    11.8        83%
Unit 2                                 -       14.4      14.4            -    14.4      14.4      100X
Training                               -        1.4       1.4            -      1.2      1.2       86%
Unallocated                            -        1.0       1.0            -              0.0         0%
-      40.0      40.0            -    38.6    38.6          97%
KENYA POWER III OLKARIA EXPANSION
Loan 2237-KE
Estimate                        Actual           Actual as
P_____________c________ __                                                              ____-------------  Percent
IBRD Financing                     Local    Foreign    Total         Local  Foreign   Total  of Apr.
Mechanical A Elect. Equipment          -        8.8       8.8            -     6.0       8.0       88%
Road                                   -        1.1       1.1            -      1.0      1.0       9S%
Studios                                -        1.9       1.9            -      0.2     0.2        11%
Front End Fee                          -        0.2       0.2            -     0.2      0.2        88X
Total I8RD Financing                   -       12.0      12.0            -      7.5     7.5        62%
---------------------------------------------------------------   -------------------------------------



- 30 -
STATUS OF COVENANTS
_______________.___
KENYA POWER III OLKARIA COETHERMAL (Loan 1799-KE)
KENYA POWER IV OLKARIA EXPANSION (Loan 2237-KE)
Reference                Description                 Compliance            Comments
Loan Agreement - 1799-KE - KPC Requirement:
3.01 (c) Use development surcharge for 1979-82           Yes
to finance the local currency costs
3.02 (a) Continue to employ engineerlng                  Yes
consultants
3.02 (b) Continue to employ engineering experts          Yes
3.04 (c) Prepar- a completion report within six          Yes
months after the closing date
5.01 (c) Prepare financial statements for each           Yes    Statements up to date
fiscal year and a proforma consolidated
statement for KPC and TROC
6.01 (d) Have accounts and statements audited and        Yes    Superseded by Section 6.01 (c)
provide to Bank within 5 months after                  Loan Agreement 2237-KE
close of fiscal year
5.02     Not incur debt unless consolidated net          Yes    Identical to 5.02 Loan
revenues are less than 1.6 times debt                  Agreement 2237-KE
service
5.04     Not place orders, award contracts or            Yes
incur debt relative to the second 16 MW
generators until evidence has been
furnished to the Bank that steam
required for generation of 24 MW of
power is available.
Guarantee Agreement - 1799-KE Government Requirements
-----------------------------------------------------
2.01 (a) Pay by July 1, 1980 remaining                   Yes
installments of KSh 20 million to
complete KSh 60 million share capital
3.03     Take action for issuance of station             Yes
license by December 31, 19e0
Project Agreement - 1799-KE - KPLC Requirement
----------------------------------------------
2.02     Employ engineering, management and other        Yes
experts to train staff
2.03 (b) Provide Bank with report on geothermal          Yes
development
2.03 (c) Prepare a completion report within six          Yes
months after the closing date
2.04     Exchange views with the Bank on training        Yes
and geothermai development
4.01     Earn a consolidated net operating income        Yes    Earned 7.2X in FY82.
yielding a rate of return of not less                  Superseded by Section 5.01
than 6% in FY80, 7% in FY81 and FY82 and               Project Agreement 227 ' E
8% thereafter
4.02 (a) Pay a development surcharge of Kc2 per KWh      Ye
4.02 (b) Provide additional funds If needed.             Yes
Obligation to provide additional funds
continues as long as consolidated KPC and
TRDC earns less than 8-1/2X rate of return



- 31 -
STATUS OF COVENANTS
KENYA POWER III OLKARIA COETHERMAL (Loan 1799-KE)
KENYA POWER IV OLKARIA EXPANSION (Loan 2237-KE)
Referenco                 Description                 Compliance              Comments
4.03 (c) Prepare proforma statements for                   Yes
consolidated operation
4.03 (d) Have accounts and financial statements           Yes    Identical to Section 4.03 (d)
audited and provide to Bank no later than               Project Agreement 2237-KE
six months after end of fiscal yoer
4.04     Not incur debt unless consolidated               Yes    Identical to Section 4.04
revenues are loss than 1.6 tims debt                    Project Agreement 2237-KE
service
KENYA ENGINEERING LOAN (S-12-KE)
The major covenant of this loan is the requirement for Beneficiary to ensure that no other
external debt shall have priority over the loans in the allocation, realization or
distribution of foreign exchange held under their control or for their benefit. This was
complied with.



I BR D  16389E
T   --   1 36                                                             400                         JULY 1982
S U D A N                                                                                          K E N YA
--  t                                   OLKARIA GEOTHERMAL POWER
/                                 - -_                                                  EXPANSION PROJECT
Qj              t  ~~~~"'  __p                                                      //
ssl odv.a'                                                  
^El Molo Camp                                                                 !
0 Marsabit
PROPOSE
)         PJtWECT
C4         /                                                                                                                      _
A                                                           0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Habaswein
0 Kitale
h0Id,                                      Olstl
Kakanega                 A  L  L E  Y                       olsiso 
Oe Maenoo.       ff                                              04-M.vti. 2n.j0
/  ~   ~      ,Nv~urUni ~~Aayuk.                                                                         0
r Moio )jT O  I KENYA p1i  0
cS cho       Nakuru                        Grand   Kin
Son                      ~~~~~~~NVer                POOE  KfAAMBERE              OGarissa
Ho ayB                     ri;.m0                 2          -   PROJEcT 
A'o   ~~~~    Litn         "'Gis                            Krindanuma
Kisii  _.i .           IA            Wanjii     a
N.,                        ~~~~~~~~~Kiamb
N iX S r   E   a            N %
NgongO      NAIROBI    KitUi0
NA I ROBI                                                           0 Hola
*                 1~~~~~~4 AO,~
La_wmu
Jv  -4     X                                                                                  o0   Manda Is.-,
Olkarno Geothermal Field                                                                C*
A        Diesel Power Slalions                                               \
*        SteOm  Power Stalions                                  Tsavo
*       Hydro Power Stations                             j             Voi                            Malindi
o        Hydro  Power Stotions (Future)
e 220 kV Transmission line(UnderConstruction1    rh.,4W 1-  t
o.------- e 132 kV Transmission line(Under Construction)                                                                            '
_o-------   132 KV Transmission line(Existing)    oto             "      0sdtd        Mariakani \                           AFRICA          4
_  .-o  o    66 kV Transmission ond distribution lines       Kd  waleO -                                        *          \ f
W.0d 00~ U. loEtft Mff
c           @  33 kV Distribution lines
20   0   20   40   60  80  100 Ul.                                                      *'             400
_ 4   _                     ; ~~~~~~~360                             



