Document of         E                  ,  
The World Bank                         J. -
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P -3 4 4 9 -KE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$12.0 MILLION
TO THE
KENYA POWER COMPANY LIMITED
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR THE
OLKARIA GEOTHERMAL POWER EXPANSION PROJECT
January 19, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Units        -       Kenya Shillings (KSh)
KSh 1.00              -       US$0.09 a/
US$1.00               -       KSh 10.60
US$1.00               -        SDR 1.1
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
kV .      Kilovolt          =   1,000 Volts
kW ..     Kilowatt          =   1,000 Watts
kWh ..   Kilowatt hour           1,000 Watt hours
GWh ..   Gigawatt hour   =   1,000,000 Kilowatt hours
MW ..     Megawatt          =   1,000 Kilowatts
CIDA       =     Canadian International Development Agency
CDC              Commonwealth Development Corporation
EAC        =     East African Community
EAP&L            The East African Power and Lighting Company, Limited
EIB        =     European Investment Bank
GENZL      =     Geothermal Energy of New Zealand
KPC        =     The Kenya Power Company Limited
SIDA       =     Swedish International Development Authority
TRDC       =     The Tana River Development Company Limited
TARDA            The Tana and Athi Rivers Development Authority
UEB        =     The Uganda Electricity Board
FISCAL YEAR
Government: July 1 - June 30
KPC           January 1 - December 31
a/ Since December 1982, the Kenya Shilling has been pegged to the SDR at a
rate of SDR = KSh 13.74. The rate vis-a-vis the dollar has fluctuated
since that time. A rate of US$1.00 = KSh 10.6 has been used in
evaluating this Project.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KENYA
OLKARIA GEOTHERMAL POWER EXPANSION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                Kenya Power Company Limited (KPC)
Guarantor:                Republic of Kenya
Amount:                   US$12.0 million equivalent, including capitalized
front-end fee.
Terms:                   Amortization in 17 years, including 4 years' of
grace, at the standard variable interest rate. KPC
to bear foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
Project Description:    The primary objectives of this follow-up expansion
project to the first Olkaria Geothermal Power
Project (US$40 million, Loan No. 1799-KE of April
25, 1980) are to assure the availability of a firm
source of power and energy within the country to
meet the growth in demand which could exceed the
capacity of the existing facilities in 1984 and, as
stated in the Government's Fourth Development Plan
1979-1983, to reduce the country's heavy dependence
on imported oil. The proposed project is the least
costly means of adding to the existing generating
facilities to achieve this objective. A further
objective is to strengthen the power industry in
Kenya by maintaining the power industry's viability
through sound institutions and management, and
financial policies.
The main project components are: the construction
of an extension to the existing powerhouse, com-
prising the addition of one 15-MW turbine and
generator; expansion of the system to bring steam
from the wells now being drilled under Loan No.
1799-KE; an extension of the cooling tower, and
other associated works; engineering for design and
construction supervision in regard to the proposed
project; and a detailed study of the geothermal
potential of the site, as well as a study of the
least cost development investment program and a
feasibility study for the next recommended
project. In light of KPC's performance under the
first Olkaria Geothermal Power Project, the
technical, implementational, financial and institu-
tional risks are limited.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
theirofficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. 



- ii -
Estimated Project Costs:
Local   Foreign       Total
------US$ millions…------
Mechanical & Electrical Equipment                  8.1       11.8       19.9
Substation                                         0.3        0.7        1.0
Civil Works                                        1.4        1.6        3.0
Road                                               0.9        0.9        1.8
Water Supply                                       0.3        0.3        0.6
Housing                                            0.4        0.4        0.8
Engineering                                        0.8        1.8        2.6
Studies:
Geothermal                                    0.2        0.4         0.6
Future Projects                               0.5         1.5        2.0
Base Cost (mid-1982 prices)               12.9       19.4       32.3
Contingencies: a/
Physical                                           0.8        1.5        2.3
Price                                              1.5        1.6        3.1
Total Project Cost b/                     15.2       22.5       37.7
Interest During Construction                           -         3.6        3.6
(Financed by CDC and KPC)
Front-End Fees on
Bank and CDC Loans c/                                -         0.3        0.3
Total Financing Required                  15.2       26.4       41.6
a/ Total physical contingenices are about 7% of base cost; local price
contingencies are about 11% p.a. and foreign price contingencies are
about 8% p.a. of the respective base costs plus physical contingencies.
b/ Indentifiable taxes and duties are about US$6.4 million equivalent and
the total project cost, net of taxes, is US$31.3 million equivalent.
c/ Bank loan assumed as US$12 million equivalent and CDC loan as US$9.0
million equivalent.



- iii. -
Financing Plan:
----US$ Million Equivalent--       % of Total
Sources                        Local       Foreign      Total      Financing
IBRD                           -           12.0        12.0         29
CDC                           2.8           6.2         9.0         22
EIB                           3.4           5.4         8.8         21
KPC                           9.0           2.8        11.8         28
Total Project
Financial Requirements       15.2          26.4        41.6        100
Estimated Disbursements:         Bank FY       FY83      FY84      FY85     FY86
Annual                                     0.5       6.5       3.5      1.5
Cumulative                                 0.5       7.0      10.5     12.0
Economic Rate of Return:        About 15.5%
Appraisal Report:               Report No. 3974-KE    Date:  January 14, 1983
Map:                            IBRD 16389R






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE KENYA POWER COMPANY LIMITED
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR THE OLKARIA GEOTHERMAL POWER EXPANSION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Loan to the Kenya Power Company Limited (KPC), with the guarantee of the
Republic of Kenya, for the equivalent of US$12 million to help finance a
geothermal power expansion project at Olkaria. The loan would have a term
of 17 years, including four years' grace, at the standard variable interest
rate. In addition, a loan from the European Investment Bank (EIB) for 9
million u.o.a. (approximately equivalent to US$8.8 million) for 15 years,
including four years' grace at 8% per annum and a proposed loan from the
Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) for US$9.0 million equivalent
for 15 years, including five years' grace at 10.5% per annum would be used
to finance part of the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Basic Economic Report entitled "Growth and Structural Change in
Kenya" (Report No. 3350-KE), dated August 31, 1982 and a report entitled
"Kenya - Country Economic Memorandum and Annex on Agricultural Issues"
(Report No. 3456-KE), dated June 1981 have been distributed to the
Executive Directors. A summary of social and economic data is in Annex I.
Long-Term Economic Growth and Structural Problems
3.        Kenya became an independent nation in 1963.  During the entire
period since then the country has experienced remarkable continuity in both
political leadership and development strategy. That strategy has been to
promote rapid economic growth by means of public investment, encouragement
of both smallholder and large-scale farming, and promotion of accelerated
industrialization, by providing incentives for private, including foreign,
investment in modern industry. The Kenyan development model can be charac-
terized as "mixed", in the sense that it incorporates a diversity of orga-
nizational forms and incentives and combines private enterprise with a
significant amount of Government participation and guidance. The country
has made a smooth transition to new leadership following President
Kenyatta's death in 1978.
4.        Kenya's first decade as an independent nation was one of remark-
able growth and structural transformation. Total GDP grew at an annual
average rate of 6.6% during 1964-73. Both agriculture and manufacturing
grew rapidly, at 4.7% and 8.4% per annum respectively. The expansion of
agriculture was stimulated by redistribution of large estates to small-
holders, rapid diffusion of hybrid maize, and growth of smallholder
output. Growth of manufacturing was made possible very largely by the
expansion of domestic demand due to rising agricultural incomes, while



- 2 -
investment for domestic production was being encouraged by high levels of
protection, a liberal attitude towards foreign investment, and active
Government promotion of and participation in manufacturing ventures.
5.         Following this period of rapid growth, the rate of growth of per
capita income declined substantially after 1974. Kenya remains a poor
country, still heavily rural and dependent upon agricuLture.  Average GNP
per capita in 1981 was US$430. Agriculture accounted for more than a third
of GDP and about two-thirds of exports (other than refined petroleum pro-
ducts) in 1978-81. Since the growth of the industrial sector has been
largely confined to the major urban areas, agriculture remains the prin-
cipal source of income in the rural areas where over 80% of the population
live and work. Kenya still has significant problems of poverty and under-
employment. It is estimated that about one-fourth of the population have
incomes which place them below the absolute poverty line.
6.         The most fundamental problem Kenya faces is posed by the rapid
growth rate of population, currently estimated by the Government to be 3.9%
per year, which is among the highest in the world.. This is, ironically,
partly the result of Kenya's past success in raising health and general
living standards, which has resulted in a steady decline in mortality and
has probably resulted in an increase in the country's already high ferti-
lity rate.
7.        With rapidly increasing population, pressure is beginning to
mount on Kenya's limited arable land. Of Kenya's total land area of about
575,000 sq km, about 520.,000 sq km are categorized as potentially produc-
tive. However, on the basis of annual rainfall and fertility, only 9% can
be regarded as high potential land, with 9% of medium potential and 81% low
potential arid- and semi-arid areas. Thus, less than 20% of the land area
has good arable potential, and much of it is now densely settled.
8.         Rapid population growth has created other problems as well.
First, there is the strong likelihood that, unless growth slows dramati-
cally or ways are found to increase the rate at which income earning oppor-
tunities in agriculture expand, excess rural labor will be pushed into
urban areas. Even if the non-agricultural sector were to grow very
rapidly, it probably will be unable to absorb all the new urban labor force
entrants, resulting in rising urban unemployment and underemployment.
Second, considerable budgetary pressure has already been created by the
growing demand for social services, especially education. Finally, efforts
to improve the distribution of income and alleviate poverty will be impeded
by the relative lack of access to land and education for the children of
the poorest section of the population.
9.        A second problem area has developed in the manufacturing sector.
The rapid growth of industry in the past was based largely on investments
in simple import-substitution industries by multinational companies. To a
lesser extent, manufacturing production has also catered to the export
market in neighboring countries, particularly in the protected markets of
the former East African Community (EAC). The scope for further indus-
trialization along these lines is limited, as most of the easy import-
substitution possibilities have been exhausted and the EAC preference for
Kenyan goods has been abolished. The past pattern of industrialization has



left the sector increasingly dependent on imported raw materials,
components and spare parts, and therefore it is vulnerable in case of a
shortage of foreign exchange.  To maintain growth it will be necessary to
reorient industry toward increased use of domestic inputs and increased
production for export.
10.       A third major problem has been the slow growth in agricultural
output, which has averaged only about 2.9% per year over 1972-79. This
reflects generally less favorable climatic conditions, a weakening of the
structural factors fueling earlier growth and problems of policy and
institutional support. The latter, which has been one of the most serious
impediments to sectoral performance, includes inconsistencies in pricing
policy and inadequacies in marketing and input supply. In addition, the
concentration of land holdings, insecure land tenure issues and problems in
planning, and execution of agricultural projects and programs are
inhibiting agricultural growth. Measures to deal with these problems are
essential to revitalize the agricultural sector.
11.        Other problems are the slow growth and lack of diversification of
exports which have consistently grown at a slower pace than GDP, and the
rising cost of oil imports which has had an adverse effect on the balance
of payments. From 1964-74, the volume of exports expanded at an average
annual rate of 4.6%, but over the past five years, export volume has grown
more slowly. In 1981, export volume was 3% below the 1976 level. To some
extent, this is a reflection of production problems in agriculture and
industry, but it is also an indicator of the need to direct more resources
toward export-oriented activities.
Economic Performance 1974-1981
12.        Kenya's growth performance since 1974 has been especially
vulnerable to swings in the country's international terms of trade. The
GDP growth rate fell sharply during 1974-75 when the dramatic increase in
petroleum and other import prices required restrictive economic policies,
accelerated rapidly in 1976-77 as the impact of the "coffee boom" following
frost damage in Brazil worked its way through the economy, but began to
decelerate in mid-1977 with the rapid decline in coffee prices.
13.        During 1978-81, Kenya again experienced strong external shocks as
a result of the latest round of petroleum price increases and declining
coffee prices. The effects of these external shocks on balance-of-payments
and incomes were compounded by poor weather affecting coffee and maize
production. As a result, GDP growtih slowed to 3.2% in 1980, recovered
somewhat in 1981 to 4.8% and slowed down again in 1982 to an estimated 3%.
The trade deficit rose sharply in 1978, and foreign exchange reserves were
rapidly depleted. The balance on current account deteriorated from an
exceptional surplus of US$60 million in 1977 to a deficit of over US$650
million in 1978, while reserves fell by US$200 million. In order to
prevent further depletion of the country's foreign exchange reserves, the
Government introduced a program of import restrictions in late 1978,
effecting a sharp decline in imports and reductions in Kenya's revenue gap
and current account deficit in 1979. This, together with increased
external borrowing, resulted in a recuperation of about US$179 million in



- 4 -
gross reserves in the same year. The improvement in the balance-of-
payments proved to be short-lived. The increase in petroleum prices,
combined with the need for additional food imports, resulted in a 39% rise
in the value of imports in 1980. While exports rose by 22%, this was not
sufficient to prevent a rise in the current account deficit to almost
US$900 million and, despite increased external borrowing, a decline of
US$195 million in foreign exchange reserves. However, due to improved
agricultural output and the Government's restrictive Lmport policy, the
value of imports declined by 16% in 1981. Although the current account
deficit declined by 17% in 1981, foreign exchange reserves had to be drawn
down by US$118 million due to a slowdown in official aid flows.
Preliminary estimates for 1982 indicate no sign of improvement. 1/
Fourth Five-Year Development Plan, 1979-83
14.       The emphasis of the Fourth Five-Year Development Plan is on
restoring growth to the levels that prevailed before 1974, while alleviat-
ing poverty through creation of income earning opportunities and provision
of social services to meet the basic needs of the population. The Plan
correctly identifies the key problems that KenyaL faces and sets forth a
development strategy appropriate to their solutions. It is sharply
focussed, explicit in its recommendations, and shows a sound awareness of
constraints on development.
15.       The Fourth Plan recognizes the strong link between agricultural
growth and poverty alleviation. One of the most significiant changes
proposed in the Plan is increased access to land through legalizing sub-
division of high-potential large farms. In addition, the Plan proposes
that a National Land Commission be established to review ways of encourag-
ing land use intensification and labor absorption. The Plan also proposes
that marketing and pricing policies pay closer attention to the structure
of domestic and international prices and that the marketing system be made
more competitive and efficient to improve prices to farmers. Research and
extension services are to be more closely linked to the needs of small
farmers. Finally, in addition to projects to increase larger scale commer-
cial and smallholder production, a series of integrated rural development
projects in semi-arid areas is proposed to redress the neglect in these
areas.
16.       The major thrust of industrial policy will be to effect a transi-
tion from import substitution to a strategy emphasizing industrial effici-
ency and export diversification. This will involve further rationalization
of tariffs and elimination of quantitative restrictions on imports over a
five-year period. This policy will be very difficult to carry forward over
the next few years when, because of balance of payments problems, there is
likely to be considerable pressure to increase, rather than reduce, protec-
tion. The Plan proposes no fundamental change in Kenya-s traditionally
liberal policy on foreign investment with the important exception that
review and approval of projects for which special concessions or Government
participation are being sought will rely more on economic criteria and will
be centralized in the Ministry of Finance. On the whole, the Plan calls
for a more limited role for Government in terms of direct participation and
intervention. However, efforts will be made to restructure industrial
investment incentives to encourage employment and decentralization.
Finally, while there are doubts in Kenya about how dynamic a role the
l/ The figures in this paragraph may differ from Annex I due to more
updated information.



- 5 -
informal sector can play in the development process, the Plan is more
specific in its recommendations for aid to small firms (provision of finan-
cial and technical support and ending of unnecessary licensing and other
restrictions) than the previous Plan.
17.       The Fourth Plan acknowledges the heavy burden rapid population
growth places on the economy and places high priority on the promotion of
family planning. The target for new acceptors during 1979-83 is 700,000,
compared to 280,000 recruited during 1974-78. In order to achieve this,
the number of field educators will be more than tripled (from 430 to over
1,300) and the number of fixed delivery points doubled (from 315 to 630).
Although Kenya is doing more to promote family planning than most other
African countries, the rate of population growth is projected to remain
extremely high (3.9%) because of strong cultural and traditional factors,
and even greater efforts will be required to bring about a significant
decline in fertility.
18.       Due to Kenya's worsening financial and budgetary constraints,
which had not been anticipated when the Plan was written, implementation of
the Fourth Plan has been very slow so far. As a result, the Government has
had to reassess the Plan targets and has already introduced two revised
shortrun economic programs incorporated in Sessional Papers of 1980 and
1982, while maintaining the overall development strategy set out in the
original Plan document. The Sessional Papers identify and deal with
Kenya's short- and medium-term problems in a frank and consistent manner.
They offer, among other things, a revised set of policy initiatives
designed to overcome the country's urgent financial problems resulting from
continuing budgetary and balance-of-payments pressures.
Structural Adjustment and Economic Prospects
19.       The Government is determined to carry ouL the strategy outlined
in the Plan despite adverse international and domestic circumstances and
administrative adjustments. In order to do so, it has devised and is exe-
cuting a program of structural adjustment.
20.        The Government's first program, which was supported by the Bank
Group and an EEC Special Action Credit, involves: (a) revising of the
Government's investment program to make it more consistent with the
country's new economic circumstances; (b) ensuring the country's credit-
worthiness by improving external debt management and introducing better
planning and control of external borrowing; (c) beginning the process of
rationalization of the trade regime; (d) improving the incentives for
exports and ensuring that exports are competitive; and (e) reviewing and
revising interest rate policy to ensure that it is consistent with develop-
ment objectives. The program has, on the whole, been carried out satisfac-
torily. However, actions have been slower than anticipated in some areas
and more rapid in others. While the general thrust of the program has been
maintained, attempts to execute the policy measures have revealed some
weaknesses in planning and administration that need to be remedied.



-6-
21.        A second structural adjustment lending operation was approved by
the Bank Group on July 1, 1982, which in addition to supporting continua-
tion of the process of rationalization of the system of industrial protec-
tion and improvement of incentives for export, includes measures aimed at
revitalizing the agricultural sector, increasing domestic supplies of
energy and encouraging conservation and policy initiatives in population.
22.        While the structural adjustment program should have a favorable
impact on the balance-of-payments over the longer term, the first years of
the 1980's are going to be difficult ones for Kenyan policymakers and for
the Kenyan economy. The prospect is for an unfavorable world environment
in which the country's international terms of trade are likely to continue
to deteriorate. In addition, debt service obligations will be high because
of high borrowing associated with the large current account deficits of the
past three years. At the same time, the Government's fiscal operations are
likely to be subjected to extreme pressure because of slower growing reve-
nues and demands for increased expenditures. It is within this context
that critical policy decisions must be made involving a fundamental
restructuring of the pattern of development. Kenya's easy options have
been exhausted and the Government must now come to grips with the country's
basic structural problems.
23.        Given the adverse external circumstances, it is unlikely that
positive growth of GDP per capita can be maintained during 1981-83.
However, growth prospects appear somewhat better from about 1983 onward
provided the Government's structural adjustment program is continued and
there is adequate external assistance to enable its successful implemen-
tation.  The country's terms of trade should also stabilize, the growth of
external debt should decelerate, and current account deficits should remain
stable over the next few years. It should, therefore, be possible to
follow gradually more expansionary policies and a growth rate of GDP around
5% per year should be attainable during the second half of the decade.
External Debt
24.       The expansion of government and government-guaranteed commercial
borrowing in recent years has adversely affected the debt service ratio,
which has risen from 3.9% in 1977 to about 18.7% in 1981. This includes
service payments on a notional 50% share of the debt of EAC corporations.
The debt service ratio is expected to increase steadily from about 21.9% in
1982 to a peak of about 28% in 1991. However, if the average terms on
commercial borrowing are softened, the debt service ratio would stabilize
around 22.5% between 1986 and 1991, before declining to about 20% in 1995.
Debt service payments to the Bank in 1981 accounted for 16.8% of total debt
service payments; the IDA share was 0.7%. The Bank's share of total debt
service payments is expected to rise to about 18.8% by 1986, while IDA's
share would rise to 0.9%. The Bank is currently holding 16.0% of Kenya's
total outstanding and disbursed external debt, and IDA 8.5%. The Bank's
share is expected to rise to 19.3% and IDA's to about 12.5% by 1986. The
expected rise in Bank exposure is attributable largely to anticipated
repayments of loans with short maturities. An additional factor, however,
is the gradual switch by other donors from loans to straight grants
(including conversion of some loans to grants). Because of the long-term
balance-of-payments constraint, Kenya's development program will require



- 7 -
substantial financing in excess of public savings and available non-Bank
Group external capital combined, and we therefore expect to continue our
practice of financing a substantial portion of total project costs,
including some local costs when necessary.
East African Community (EAC)
25.       The developments affecting the East Africa Community (EAC) were
outlined to the Executive Directors in a memorandum dated December 29, 1977
(R77-312) and in a statement made on May 6, 1980 (SecM80-364). One of the
positive results of the ongoing mediation effort has been the Partner
States' decision, taken upon the Mediator's recommendation, that the East
African Development Bank -- one of the former Community's institutions --
should continue, and a revised charter to this effect has been enacted.
The three Governments commented on the mediator's proposals for the three
Partner States during their meeting in Nairobi in July 1981, and decided to
commence negotiations based on the mediator's proposals. The negotiations
started in December 1981 in Arusha and continued in April 1982 in Jinja and
September 1982 in Nairobi. The discussions have passed the fact finding
stage and are now focussing on details of a division formula for assets
and debts. While it is generally accepted that both location of assets and
the principle of equal rights of all former EAC partners should be taken
into account, the weight to be given to these principles from case to case
remains the major issue in the continuing negotiations.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
26.       To date, Kenya has received 40 Bank loans, including three on
Third Window terms, and 38 IDA credits amounting to US$1,560.7 million,
which supported 69 operations. In addition, Kenya has been one of the
beneficiaries of 10 loans totalling US$244.8 million which have been exten-
ded for the development of common services (railways, ports, telecommunica-
tions, and finance for industry), operated regionally for the three partner
states of the EAC. Annex II contains summary statements of Bank loans and
IDA credits to Kenya and to the EAC corporations, and notes on the execu-
tion of ongoing projects.
27.       The Bank Group has begun to reorient its lending program to
assist the Government in its efforts to restructure the economy. This has
meant the inclusion in the program of non-project assistance, and a first
credit in support of the Government's structural adjustment program was
approved in 1980 and a second structural adjustment operation was approved
by the Bank Group on July 1, 1982 (paras. 20 and 21). Recent economic work
has also focused on the structural problems in specific sectors, including
the energy sector, and the Basic Economic Report addresses comprehensively
the issues of income distribution, population growth and appropriate
long-term agricultural and industrial policies (para. 2).
28.        Support of the structural adjustment efforts is, however, not
limited to non-project assistance. The selection of projects for financing
and their design have been influenced by the need to complement policy
actions under the structural adjustment program. Continuing priority has
thus been given to the agricultural sector, but increasing emphasis also
has been placed on sectors such as population and energy. Projects
approved in FY82 included a Petroleum Exploration Project, a Third Forestry
Project, a Cotton Processing and Marketing Project, an Integrated Rural



- 8 -
Health and Family Planning Project and a Second Telecommunications
Project. So far in FY83, the Second Structural Adjustment Operation and an
Agricultural Technical Assistance Project have been approved. Projects
under preparation include a fifth power project, a research and extension
project and an urban project.
29.     Project implementation has deteriorated in recent years, in
contrast to the successful implementation performance in the past. Factors
accounting for implementation delays have varied widely, but some of the
more pervasive factors have been institutional/management constraints,
procurement problems, and budgetary constraints leading to a lack of local
financing. These factors, together with delays in preparing and submitting
reimbursement claims have led to a deteriorating disbursement record. A
comparison with the disbursement rate for the total of other loans/credits
in the East Africa region indicates that in 1976, Kenya's disbursement rate
was 38.6% as against 20.7% for the region; while in 1981, Kenya's disburse-
ment rate had decreased to 7.0% as against 20% for the region. An in-depth
review of the causes of the poor project implementation performance and
poor disbursements has been undertaken by the Bank Group and the problems
and possible solutions were discussed with the Government in March and
September 1982 at country implementation review meetings (CIR). The
discussions were frank and constructive, and the Government informed the
Bank Group of several new initiatives to improve performance. These
included:
(a) A Task Force on Reimbursement has been established in the
Ministry of Finance (Treasury) to monitor disbursement claims
for Bank Group-financed projects. The use of Procedure III
(direct payment to suppliers) has resulted in significantly
improved disbursement rates for selected projects (e.g.
Highway Sector Loan), and thus the Government intends to
extend its use to other projects.
(b) The Treasury has issued a Circular requiring operating
ministries to keep reimbursement claims up-to-date, under
penalty of freezing of releases from the Development
Exchequer.
(c) In accordance with its paper on "The Implementation of
Development Projects and the Rate of Claiming Donor
Reimbursement", approved by Cabinet in April 1982, the
monitoring and coordination of projects is being carried out
in two exercises, (i) physical schedules and performance
targets, and (ii) financial monitoring.  The Ministry of
Economic Planning and Development (MEPD) has completed a
report covering the physical progress of development projects
for about two-thirds of the ministries.  A second such report
will be prepared in conjunction with the forthcoming Forward
Budget exercise. The Ministry of Finance (MOF) is
implementing an improved system of financial monitoring. The
overall coordination of these two monitoring exercises is done
by the Project Implementation Committee, composed of the
Permanent Secretaries for Development Coordination and Cabinet
Affairs, MEPD and MOF. A Secretariat for the Committee is
being established, and an Operations Room is being set up in
the Office of the President.



- 9 -
(d) The Government has prepared a report which includes proposals
for containing Government expenditures within the limited
revenue and identifies ways and means for improving efficiency
in resource use. The Bank, through the Second Structural
Adjustment Project, will be reviewing the public investment
program and the implications for the lending program.
International Finance Corporation (IFC)
30.       IFC has committed a total of US$60.5 million for eight operations
in Kenya. These include loans for five companies: Pan African Paper
Mills, Ltd.; Kenya Hotel Properties, Ltd.; Tourism Promotion Services
(Kenya) Ltd.; Rift Valley Textiles (Ltd.); and Bamburi Portland Cement
Company, Ltd. Also included are a US$2.0 million credit line to the
Commercial Bank of Kenya, a US$5.0 million credit line to the Commercial
Finance Company of Kenya and US$1.3 million in equity to the Development
Finance Company of Kenya, as well as equity investments in Diamond Trust of
Kenya, Ltd. and Industrial Promotion Services Kenya, Ltd. As of September
30, 1982, IFC held for its own account UJS$43.3 million comprising US$32.4
million of loans and US$10.9 million of equity. A Summary of IFC
Investments in Kenya is included in Annex II.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
Energy Sector Supply
31.       Kenya has a modest energy resource base which includes wood,
hydro-power, geothermal and solar energy. Wood is by far the most impor-
tant energy source, supplying close to 70% of total requirements and all of
the non-commercial energy used. Forests cover about 4% of the country's
total area, regenerating at a rate of about 9 million mi3 annually. Annual
consumption is about 37.5 million m3, however, resulting in severe and
rapid depletion of the forests. The Government has undertaken intensive
reafforestation with fast-growing softwoods and has received Bank assis-
tance in this effort through three forestry projects that include fuelwood
development.
32.       The principal source of commercial energy for Kenya is from
imported oil and petroleum products.  Small amounts of coal and electricity
are also imported. The consumption of imported energy as a percentage of
total commercial energy has varied during the past decade as follows: 1973
- 94%; 1977 - 90%; 1979 - 83%. Except for minor amounts of specialty oils
and greases, most of the imported crude oil is processed at the refinery at
Mombasa. In 1979, about 3.0 million tons of crude oil were refined; of
this total about 1.5 million tons were used domestically, while the remain-
der was exported to neighboring countries. During the period 1973-77, the
value of net imports of crude oil and petroleum products averaged about 13%
of the value of Kenya's imports, whereas in 1981, mainly as a result of the
steep rise in petroleum prices, imports of petroleum products represented
about 30% of all imports. Oil consumption decreased after the commis-
sioning of the Gitaru Hydroelectric Project in 1978 and has declined
further upon the commissioning of the unit at the Olkaria Geothermal Power
Project.



- 10 -
33.        The greatest known indigenous resource of commercial energy in
Kenya is the hydroelectric potential of its rivers and, although the poten-
tial for geothermal power has been recognized for some time, it was not
until 1978 that the comparative cost of imported oil and the growth in
demand made it attractive eniough to warrant development. In spite of con-
tinuing search, there has been no success in locating reserves of oil in
Kenya, although relatively small amounts of gas have been found. A
Petroleum Exploration Project (Loan No. 2065-KE of December 8, 1981)
currently under implementation is designed to provide technical assistance
to accelerate petroleum exploration in Kenya. In rural areas particularly,
firewood and charcoal are used extensively for energy needs while bagasse
is used as a source of fuel in the sugar industry. There are no known coal
reserves although coal deposits have been found in neighboring Tanzania.
34.        The hydro power potential of Kenya has been estimated to be about
6,000 MW (30,000 GWh per year), although half of this lies in small rivers
and is uneconomic to develop. Most of the remaining potential is on the
Tana River and of this, it is only economically feasible to develop about
800 MW or 4,000 to 5,000 GWh per year (1,500,000 tons of oil equivalent per
annum), about 350 MW of which is already developed.
35.        Geothermal areas in Kenya are located in the Rift Valley which
runs from the Kenya - Tanzania border in the south to Ethiopia in the
north. There are three major areas of geothermal activity: Olkaria, which
is under development, and Eburru and Lake Bogoria, which are currently
being explored. The most attractive potential is at Olkaria, in the Rift
Valley near Lake Naivasha, about 100 km from Nairobi. Exploration began
over 20 years ago, and investigations funded since then by UNDP and the
East African Power and Lighting Company Limited (EAP&L) indicated that the
site should be capable of supporting power generation of at least 100 MW
and possibly more than 200 MW. Under the proposed project's forerunner,
the Olkaria Geothermal Power Project (Loan No. 1799-KE; Report No.
P-2677-KE of December 20, 1979) 30 MW will be produced (para. 49). More-
over, UNDP is assisting investigation of geothermal power at Eburru and
Lake Bogoria and it is expected that with further search, geothermal power
could contribute significantly toward meeting Kenya's electric power
needs. To this end and in order to assist in the provision and
coordination of technical assistance for Kenya's overall geothermal
exploration and development, the Bank is preparing a proposed engineering
project.
Energy Sector Consumption
36.        Total energy consumption approached 7 million tons of oil equiva-
lent in 1980. Per capita annual consumption is estimated at 1,650 kg of
oil equivalent in urban areas and 315 kg in rural areas, a significant dis-
parity reflecting the existence of a large, higher income population in
Nairobi. Even the level of rural consumption, however, is higher than the
average for Africa (300 kg) or the subsistence level (designated at 250
kg). As mentioned above, domestically-produced wood and charcoal account
for about 70% of consumption and virtually all non-commercial consumption.
Oil products, largely processed domestically from imported crude, supply
about a quarter of total energy used; hydro-electricity supplies close to
5%. Coal provides less than one percent of energy used, being used



- 11 -
principally in cement-making. About three-quarters of energy demand is
accounted for by residential users (mostly non-commercial), about 13% by
transport and the rest by industrial, agricultural and commercial users.
Energy Pricing
37.       The Government has followed a consistent policy of keeping petro-
leum product prices in line with or above international prices. Taxes are
levied on petroleum products with the exception of fuel oil and industrial
diesel oil. Regarding electricity prices, a tariff structure based on
long-term marginal costs, formulated with Bank assistance, was introduced
in 1979. In the interests of equity the electricity tariff structure does
not take into account differences in costs of supply to consumers in all
parts of the country even though certain isolated areas are supplied with
expensive diesel-generated electricity.
Energy Sector Institutions
38.       In line with the increased attention being given to energy
issues, the Government consolidated responsibility for the energy sector in
the Ministry of Energy (MOE), which was created in December 1979. The MOE
oversees (i) energy policy formulation; (ii) electric power development;
(iii) development of oil and other fossil fuels; and (iv) research on non-
conventional energy sources -- wind, biogas, solar, geothermal, wood fuel,
etc. The Ministry has an authorized staff of about 150 but has filled only
about 100 of these positions and, consequently, has not been able to
address all of the important issues in the energy sector. The European
Economic Community is financing a study on the structure of MOE and its
relationship with other institutions in the sector. Responsibility for
mining as well as the forests, lies with the Ministry of Environment and
Natural Resources. The Ministry of Agriculture also shares some
jurisdiction over the forests. The Ministry of Finance establishes prices
and tax rates for all energy resources. Although the creation of the MOE
is an important step in organizing sector activities, there is still a need
to define overall priorities in sector development and to coordinate
activities of bilateral and multilateral aid agencies to reflect such
priorities and it is expected that the Government's review of energy sector
policy (para. 39) will bring improvement in this regard.
Energy Assessment
39.       In May 1982, the Bank published Report No. 3800-KE, entitled
"Kenya: Issues and Options in the Energy Sector", which contains the find-
ings of a mission to Kenya, and a number of recommendations to improve
Kenya's energy sector. Kenya has, in general, followed appropriate energy
sector policies. It has, for example, consistently passed energy price
increases along to consumers, and maintained appropriate levels of taxa-
tion. The two major energy problems which the Bank report identified are
the cost of imported petroleum which is becoming a significant drain on the
foreign exchange resources of Kenya, and the deforestation, which while not
serious in some areas, is deteriorating because wood fuel is being consumed
at about four times the annual rate of replenishment. The recommendations
include the encouragement of a more economic mix of petroleum product
imports and exports, a more realistic and less ambitious fuel alcohol
investment program, replacement of oil-fired thermal plant power generation



- 12 -
through the further development of hydroelectric and geothermal resources,
and in the longer term, the development of inter-regional hydroelectric
power projects. Other recommendations include the change-over of oil-fired
heating equipment in industries to coal, ensuring that energy is used more
efficiently, a more vigorous search for possible petroleum within the
country, and improvement in the reforestation programs. The final recom-
mendation was that the Government develop an overall long term strategy for
the energy sector. Under the Second Structural Adjustment Operation (Loan
No. 2190-KE/Credit No. 1276-KE; Report No. P-3322-KE) the Government has
undertaken inter alia, to develop, with the assistance of external consul-
tants, comprehensive energy sector policies and an investment program pro-
viding for both production and conservation in the modern and traditional
sectors to be prepared on the basis of studies now underway and to be dis-
cussed with Bank staff.
The Power Sub-Sector
40.       The availability of power to consumers in Kenya is, in general,
limited to the more densely populated narrow strip running across the
southern part of the country from Mombasa through Nairobi to Lake Victoria
(Map IBRD 16389R) in parallel with the railway, and along the coast. Of
the estimated 15 million inhabitants in Kenya, 90% live in rural areas.
Only 6% of the total population has access to electricity, and the average
estimated per capita consumption of electrical energy of this small percen-
tage of the population was about 1800 KWh in 1981. The rates of growth in
the five main electricity consuming areas in Kenya over the period 1976-81
averaged 7.9%. Most of the demand is from industry and it is the expected
growth area.
The Power Supply Entities
41.       Public electricity in Kenya is now produced by four companies:
the East African Power & Lighting Company Limited (EAP&L), the Kenya Power
Company Limited (KPC), the Tana River Development Company Limited (TRDC)
and the Tana and Athi Rivers Development Authority (TARDA). EAP&L coor-
dinates all sources of power, purchases in bulk from the other three compa-
nies, and is the sole distributor.  The Government owns about 60% of the
equity of EAP&L while the balance is privately owned. KPC and TRDC were
established by EAP&L with Government participation. KPC was set up in
1955, primarily to finance the interconnection with Uganda and to sell the
imported power to EAP&L. TRDC was formed in 1964 to develop the potential
of the Upper Tana River. In 1971, however, to enable Government to
increase its participation in the electricity supply industry, the Govern-
ment acquired all the shares of KPC and TRDC, although their staffing and
management are integrated into EAP&L under a management agreement.
Further, EAP&L purchases the entire output of KPC and TRDC, and is the only
company with surplus revenue earning capacity. KPC was selected to
implement the first geothermal power project, as well as the proposed
expansion project, to enable full Government ownership of the proposed
investment. The Government realizes that rationalization of the structure
of the power industry could be better achieved by integrating all three
companies, which already operate for all practical purposes as one
company. Therefore, it has been agreed that as a first step, a program for
the merger of KPC and TRDC will be drawn up (Loan Agreement, Section
4.07).



- 13 -
42.        EAP&L is a well-managed utility and is operated in accordance
with sound commercial principles.  The staff of EAP&L at December 31, 1981,
inclusive of staff attached to KPC and TRDC, numbered 5,004. EAP&L will
have to rely on expatriates for some years but the number is decreasing as
increasing numbers of Kenyans are trained to replace them. Under Loan
1799-KE EAP&L's existing training programs were expanded to meet the
specialized needs of a geothermal project.
Existing Facilities
43.        The existing interconnected generating capacity consists of hydro
(347.5 MW), steam (113 MW), diesel (31.5 MW) and gas turbine (30 MW) for a
total capacity of 522 MW. This is augmented by a 30 MW bulk supply from
the Uganda Electricity Board (UEB) under a long term agreement extending to
the year 2005. Gross output in 1981 was 1,879 GWh mostly generated from
hydro (1,556 GWh). The major generating stations are interconnected by 132
kV transmission and sub-transmission lines with distribution voltages at 11
kV and 415/240 kV. The system is linked to Uganda by a 132 kV double-
circuit transmission line for the transfer of the 30 MW bulk power. The
supply of power is reasonably reliable. The losses in the system
amount to about 15%, which appear reasonable, when age and the condition of
the equipment is taken into account. The completion of the Mombasa-Kamburu
220 kV transmission line (see para. 44 below) should reduce these losses.
44.        Two factors - the major load centers of Mombasa and Nlairobi sepa-
rated by 500 km, and the diverse types of power generation (hydro, steam
turbine, diesel, gas turbine)- -ade it prudent to construct a new 220-kV
transmission line from Mombasa to the Kamburu hydroelectric generating
station in order to augment the existing transmission capabilities. The
Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) has provided C$79 million
(US$63 million) for this important link which is estimated to cost KSh 864
million (US$81.5 million) and to be completed by mid-1983.
Supply of Power and Energy
45.       The demand for power has been met by the existing generating
plant, and by importation from Uganda, and the firm capacity in 1982 is
estimated to be about 60 MW above the expected peak demand.  The energy
situation, however, is quite different. In 1980, although UEB provided
about 60 GWh above the contracted amount, it was necessary to shed about 40
GWh from the system. There could have been an energy shortfall of about
300 GWh if there had been both a severe drought and a lack of supplies from
Uganda. The addition of 15 MW (about 100 GWh) at Olkaria in 1981 and again
in 1982 will alleviate the dry year shortfall to some extent. However, the
actual and forecast sales of electricity from 1976 to 1990 show that Kenya
requires the installation of additional firm generating facilities.
46.       Funds for a feasibility study to determine whether a hydro, geo-
thermal, or other conventional thermal project should be undertaken were
included as part of the Olkaria Geothermal Power Project (Loan No. 1799-KE
in 1980). The study recommended construction of the Kiambere hydroelectric
power project to be completed in 1985. However, this has been delayed
while new engineering studies are being completed. The processing of the
financial and other arrangements is expected to start within the next few
months, and the commissioning of that station could take place in 1987.
The Olkaria Geothermal Power Expansion Project has been proposed as a
result of the delay. Kenya's future electric energy needs will be met by



- 14 -
further development of geothermal and hydro resources, or by thermal
stations using imported fossil fuels. In the long term, some of Kenya's
electrical energy may be provided from neighboring countries. The Bank
Group encourages such links between neighboring countries which benefit all
participants.
Rural Electrification
47.       While less than 1% of the rural population is supplied with elec-
tricity, the Government has a Rural Electrification Fund which is admini-
stered by the Electricity Development Committee. EAP&L manages and oper-
ates rural electrification schemes, receives revenue from the consumers,
and presents statements of revenue and cost to the committee. Funds pro-
vided from the interest differential between the soft terms of a Swedish
International Development Agency (SIDA) credit to the Government for the
Kamburu project and the Government's harder onlending terms to TRDC are
used to finance the rural electrification program. In 1980 and 1981 the
Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) made grants totalling
US$2.7 million to the rural electrification program. EAP&L normally appor-
tions 1% of its gross sales revenue (about US$900,000 in 1981) to develop
additional schemes, but in recent years the funds serve mainly to cover the
losses of the earlier schemes. Although the rural electrification programs
appear to be uneconomic, the Government has continued to encourage the
expansion of the programs by providing funds through interest differen-
tials, in the belief that improvement of the social, commercial and indus-
trial activities in small communities will tend to reduce migration to the
larger urban centers. Although none of the schemes undertaken to date are
financially viable, most could become remunerative in time. Meanwhile, the
social and economic well-being of the rural community is gradually being
improved.
Previous Bank Lend'ng in the Power Sector
48.       The proposed loan would be the fifth bank lending operation for
power in Kenya. Two previous loans - US$23 million for the Kamburu Hydro-
electric Project (Ln 745-KE of 1971) and US$63 million for the Gitaru
Hydroelectric Project (Ln 1147-KE of 1975) - were made to TRDC; KPC was
loaned US$9 million for the Olkaria Geothermal Engineering Project (Loan
S-12-KE of 1978), which was absorbed into a US$40 million Loan 1799-KE in
1980 for the Olkaria Geothermal Power Project. The Kamburu project was
completed in 1974 about five months behind schedule with a cost overrun of
about 7%. The delays were not unusual for a construction program of this
nature, and the cost overrun was unavoidable as it was largely due to
currency fluctuations. The Project Performance Audit Report No. 1230,
dated July 14, 1976, stated that the construction of the dam, powerhouse
and transmission lines posed no unusual problems, and that the project was
completed as planned with only minor start-up problems. It was noted that
EAP&L would have to rely on the technical expertise of expatriates for some
years to come, and that an appropriate training program was available for
all levels of personnel. The sales and maximum demand forecasts were
exceeded to such an extent that with a tariff increase in 1974, the rate of
return for the project was 21% as compared with the appraisal estimate of
16%. The Gitaru project was the last phase of the development of the hydro
potential at the Seven Forks of the Tana River. It is situated between the
Kamburu and Kindaruma power stations, and the three stations operate in



- 15 -
cascade. The Project Performance Audit Report No. 3505 notes that the
Gitaru project was completed within the dates established by the contracts,
attributing this to good supervision by the consultants.
49.       The Olkaria Geothermal Power Project (para. 35) consists of: a
powerhouse with two 15-MW steam turbines and generators, and auxiliaries; a
system to bring steam from the wells to the powerhouse; roads; housing;
switchyard; a transmission line to join the existing Uganda - Nairobi
transmission line; a training component; detailed studies of the geothermal
field; and a feasibility study of the proposed Kiambere hydroelectric pro-
ject. The first unit went into commercial service in August 1981, and the
second in December 1982, some three months ahead of schedule.
Bank Strategy in the Power Sub-Sector
50.       The Bankts continued lending in the sector would assist in
funding Kenya's requirements for energy, for technical assistance, for the
development of Kenyan institutions and personnel to fill middle and senior
management positions now held by expatriate staff, and for studies on the
justification and manner that existing resources may be developed to meet
the needs of the country. In previous loans the Bank has included funds
for continued updating of the needs for the development of new electrical
generating facilities, and this proposed project contains a component to
cover continued studies.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
51.       The project was proposed to the Bank on July 30, 1981 when it
became clear that the Kiambere hydropower project which was to have been
completed in 1985 could not be commissioned before December 1986.  The
steam requirements had been proven as part of the first project before the
proposed project was appraised in February and March 1982. Negotiations
were held in September in Washington. The Kenyan delegation was led by
Mr. Kihara, Deputy Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Energy. A Loan and
Project Summary is given at the beginning of this report, and a Staff
Appraisal Report entitled "Olkaria Geothermal Power Expansion Project"
(No. 3974-KE of January 14, 1983) is being distributed separately. A
Supplementary Project Data Sheet is attached as Annex III.
Background
52.       The Olkaria geothermal field is located south of Lake Naivasha
and is about 100 km northwest of Nairobi. Initial exploration indicated
that Olkaria had excellent potential for development. Thus, in 1970 with
UNDP assistance, extensive investigations and surveys were initiated in
order to determine the feasibility of developing power from the available
steam. As a result of the studies, UNDP provided more funds to cover part
of the costs of a further drilling program for six deep wells between 1973
and 1976. Following this, the Bank financed additional feasibility studies
for this geothermal project from proceeds of the Gitaru Hydroelectric
Project (Loan No. 1147-KE). The studies were completed in October 1977 and
indicated that the generation of electric power using geothermal steam as a
primary source was feasible. KPC thus reactivated drilling operations in
March 1978, and sought Bank assistance for the power project. An engineer-
ing loan (S-12-KE) for US$9 million which provided foreign funds for part



- 16 -
of the cost of the preparatory works estimated to total US$15.5 million,
became effective on April 30, 1979. The need for the engineering loan
arose because the volume of steam output, temperature, and pressure from
each well could vary considerably at different locations in the geothermal
field. Thus, the funds were used to drill production wells for the pro-
posed generating station, and 80% of the steam requirements for the first
unit were proven before the Bank proceeded with appraisal.  The Olkaria
Geothermal Power Project was approved on January 21, 1980.  The first unit
was placed in service in August 1981 and the second unit was commissioned
in December 1982. The proposed project would constitute construction of a
third 15-MW generating unit at the Olkaria site.
Project Objectives and Description
53.       The primary objectives of the project are to assure the avail-
ability of a firm source of power and energy within the country to meet the
growth in demand vwhich could exceed the capacity of the existing facilities
in 1984 and, as stated in the Government's Fourth Development Plan 1979-
1983, to reduce the country's heavy dependence on imported oil. The
proposed project is the least costly means of adding to the existing gener-
ating facilities to achieve this objective. A further objective is to
strengthen the power industry in Kenya by maintaining the power industry's
viability through sound institutions, management and financial policies.
54.       The project consists of:
(a) the construction of an extension to the existing powerhouse,
comprising the addition of one 15-MW turbine and generator;
(b) expansion of the system to bring steam from the wells now
being drilled under Loan No. 1799-KE;
(c) an extension to the cooling tower, and other works
associated with the cooling water system;
(d) an extension to the existing switchyard;
(e) a new hard-surfaced road;
(f) augmentation of the water supply to the site and to the
drilling operations;
(g) additional housing for an increase in operating staff;
(h) engineering for the design and construction supervision of
the project; and
(i) a detailed study of the geothermal potential of the site, as
well as a study of the least cost development investment
program and feasibility study for the next recommended
project.



- 17 -
55.        As under the previous loan, the proposed loan would be made to
KPC (Loan Agreement), while the major responsibility for implementation of
the project would rest with EAP&L (Project Agreement) which manages and
staffs KPC under an existing management agreement (para. 41). EAP&L would
be responsible for monitoring the implementation of the project, as well as
other specific requirements related to the proposed project described
below.
Project Implementation
56.        The construction schedule is based on full commercial operation
of the proposed third unit by March 31, 1985. KPC is anxious that this
schedule be maintained because of the power shortages which occur whenever
the output of the hydro plants is reduced during dry years. As under the
first project, this proposed expansion project has been designed by Merz &
McLellan (M&M) of the UK in association with Virkir of Iceland. Geothermal
Energy of New Zealand (GENZL) has been contracted to continue to provide
key staff for the operation and maintenance of the drilling equipment and
to train local staff in its operation. Since the drilling program was
re-activated in early 1978, three of the six wells drilled in 1973-76 have
been successfully rehabilitated. Subsequently, 15 more wells have been
drilled. KPC would continue to employ suitably qualified and experienced
consultants (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02).
57.        The production wells, drilled to a depth of 900 to 2,500 meters,
require two to three months for completion, including moving and setup
times as well as delays due to equipment failures. The first drill was
purchased for the 1973-76 program and frequently has been out of service
for maintenance. The second drill (funded under Loan S-12-KE) was put into
operation in August 1981. The steam from the 21 wells completed to date is
estimated to be capable of generating about 42 MW. The original drill will
continue to sink wells around the powerhouse until completion of well No.
26, at which time it is expected that there would be a proven supply of
about 52 MW (i.e. a 15% surplus) for the 45 MW installation. The new drill
rig has been moved to a location about 4 km away to begin exploration for
the development of further power production facilities.
58.        In addition, the project would include two studies to be carried
out by suitably qualified and experienced consultants selected on the basis
of terms of reference agreed with the Bank: (a) A study covering an indepth
review of the present Olkaria site and the potential for further geothermal
electric power generation would be included as part of the project. KPC
would hire consultants by June 1, 1983 and their report would be completed
by December 31, 1983 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02). (b) Funds have also
been included for a second study, which would be prepared in two phases.
The first phase would be the preparation of a revised least cost medium to
long term generating plant and transmission line program to meet the grow-
ing electric power needs of Kenya. The various alternative prime sources
of power (hydro, geothermal, imported coal and oil, and bagasse) would be
considered, as well as the possibility of developing inter-regional needs
for the benefit of Kenya. The second phase would be a detailed feasibility
study of the recommended subsequent power project. EAP&L would hire
consultants by September 1, 1983 and their report would be completed by



- 18 -
October 31, 1984 and thereafter reviewed by the Bank (Project Agreement,
Sections 2.02 and 2.03). An intergovernmental steering committee is
expected to be appointed to review the results of the study.
Project Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
59.        The ectimated total project cost, including physical and price
contingencies but excluding interest during construction, is $37.7 million
with an estimated foreign exchange component of US$22.5 million or 60%.
The cost estimates include import duties and taxes estimated to be US$6.4
million. Total physical contingencies of about 7% of base cost (no contin-
gencies were applied to the lump sum costs of the two studies) have been
provided and local price contingencies of about 11% p.a. and foreign price
contingencies of about 8% p.a. of the respective base costs plus physical
contingencies, have been included to meet expected inflation in local and
foreign costs during the project implementation period of 2-1/2 years.
Interest during construction on the loans to be provided by the Bank, the
Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) and the European Investment Bank
(EIB) together with the capitalized front-end fee on the Bank and CDC loans
(para. 60) would add an additional US$3.9 million to the foreign exchange
financial requirements of the project. Details of the cost estimates are
shown in the Loan and Project Summary. It is estimated that a total of
about 500 man-months will have been expended by the consultants for design
and supervision of the project at an average cost per man-month of US$6,600
(including personnel cost, travel cost and subsistence expenses). For the
two studies to be undertaken, it is estimated that about 190 consultant
man-monthis would be required an at average cost per man-month of about
US$10,000.
60.        The proposed Bank loan of US$12.0 million (including US$0.2
million capitalized front-end fee) would finance 38% of the estimated net
project cost (US$31.3 million) and 53% of the estimated foreign exchange
component of the project (US$22.5 million), in both cases excluding inter-
est during construction. A loan from EIB of US$8.8 million equivalent (9
million u.o.a.) and a proposed loan from CDC of US$9.0 million equivalent
would finance most of the remaining foreign costs and part of the local
costs. External financing woul(d amount to US$29.8 million or about 70% of
KPC's total financial requirements (including interest during construction)
for the project. The Bank loan would have a term of 17 years, including
four years' grace, at the standard variable interest rate. KPC would bear
both the foreign exchange and interest rate risks on the Bank loan. The
EIB loan would have a term of 15 years, including four years' grace at 8%
per annum and the proposed loan from CDC would have a term of 15 years,
including five years' grace at 10.5% per annum.
61.       The remaining costs of the project (US$11.8 million) would be
financed through a development surcharge (para. 66) on electric power
(internal cash generation) sold by KPC and TRDC to EAP&L. The loan between
KPC and EIB has been signed and the arrangements for the CDC loan to KPC
have been substantially completed. Effectiveness of the EIB and CDC loans
would be a condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan (Loan Agreement,
Section 7.01). If additional funds are required to complete the project
because of cost overruns, the Government would provide the additional
financing in accordance with arrangements satisfactory to the Bank
(Guarantee Agreement, Section 2.02).



- 19 -
Financial Structure and Performance
62.       The activities of the three companies comprising the public power
supply in Kenya are closely connected through common management and staff
(para. 41). The financial position of the borrower, KPC, should not there-
fore be evaluated in isolation but jointly with that of TRDC and EAP&L.
The consolidated balance sheet of the three companies shows that at the end
of 1981 the total net assets were US$408 million and the debt/equity ratio
43/57. On a combined basis the three companies are conservatively capita-
lized. The three companies also have adequate working capital and satis-
factory cash positions. There has been good control of debtors; accounts
receivable amounted to only a little more than two months' billing at the
end of 1981. The combined rates of return earned by them for the years
1979, 1980 and 1981 was 7.9%, 6.4% and 11.6% respectively. The financial
covenants of Bank Loan 1147-KE to TRDC and Loan 1799-KE to KPC required a
minimum combined rate of return of 8.5%, 6% and 7% respectively on average
net fixed assets revalued annually. The rate of return earned in 1979,
therefore, was lower than required by loan covenants but higher in 1980 and
1981. Net income of the three companies for the years 1979, 1980 and 1981
was US$10.8, US$14.0 and US$13.7 million respectively.
63.       It is appropriate to consider the future investment program on
the basis of the combined sources and requirements of the three companies,
eliminating inter-company transactions as though they were merged into one
company. The forecast of the consolidated requirements and resources of
funds, for the period 1983-85 shows that of the total construction require-
ments of the three companies for 1983-1985, 48% would be financed by net
internal cash generation after providing for debt service and dividends and
the balance by borrowings: 7% by the proposed IBRD loan, 5% by a loan from
EIB and 4% by a loan from CDC, 35% by other loans which are available to
KPC, EAP&L and TRDC as well as still unidentified loans which are likely to
be obtained for the development program of the power companies. The inter-
nal cash generation covers the annual debt service requirements by an ample
margin, ranging from an estimated 2.1 times in 1983 to about 1.8 times in
1985, which is adequate.
64.       Debt Limitation.   Debt service coverage is relevant only in
relation to the combined position of the three companies, particularly
because the rate of return requirements for KPC/TRDC and EAP&L are
interlinked and the debt service of the bulk supply companies, KPC/TRDC,
is payable by EAP&L as a part of ascertained cost. In line with the
requirements of Loan No.1799-KE for the Geothermal Project, no long-term
indebtedness may be incurred by EAP&L, KPC and TRDC (or any similar company
which may be established in the future as a bulk licensee selling power to
EAP&L) without prior Bank approval, unless cash earnings before provision
for depreciation are at least 1.5 times the maximum debt service for any
succeeding fiscal year, on all debt including the debt to be incurred.
This test is made on the basis of combined revenue accounts and debt
service after eliminating inter-company payments. The debt service
coverage of the three companies is expected to be well above 1.5 and a
similar covenant would be repeated for the proposed loan (Project
Agreement, Section 4.04).



- 20 -
65.        Tariffs.  On the basis of a power tariff study completed by the
Bank in 1977, a tariff structure, taking into consideration long--term mar-
ginal costs, was introduced throughout the country in January 1979. A fuel
oil surcharge is added to the tariff to allow EAP&L to recover from its
consumers the bulk of any increase in the cost of fuel used in power gener-
ation. The present tariff is estimated to produce an average revenue of 62
Kenya cents or 6 US cents per KWh. EAP&L has, in the past, made timely
adjustments to its tariffs through fuel cost adjustments in an effort to
meet previously agreed rate of return requirements and has agreed under
this proposed loan to a similar requirement to make adjustments to its
tariffs to maintain, together with KPC and TRDC, a minimum rate of return
on the value of their combined average revalued net fixed assets in
operation of not less than 8% (Project Agreement, Section 4.01(a)).
Financial projections for the years 1983 to 1986 indicate that with
relatively modest tariff increases, the rate of return at a minimum 8%
would be maintained.
66.       Development Surcharge.  To meet KPC's cash requirements during
the construction period of the project, EAP&L would pay to KPC a develop-
ment surcharge at a rate of 2 Kenya cents per KWh of energy supplied to it
by KPC and TRDC. However, the requirement of funds would vary from year to
year depending on the pattern of disbursements and other factors. Thus, if
this rate were inadequate to provide the funds needed for the proposed
project in any year, EAP&L would continue to provide additional funds
required up to an amount which would make the rate of return on the two
bulk supply companies in respect of any year equal to 8% of their average
revalued net fixed assets in operation (Project Agreement, Section 4.02(a),
(b) and (c)). Net fixed assets would also continue to be revalued annually
on the basis of a price index system satisfactory to the Bank, which will
take into account the replacement value of their assets as well as fluctua-
tions in the value of the Kenyan currency (Project Agreement, Section 4.01
(b)(ii)). The Government would guarantee that it would take all actions
necessary to permit EAP&L to obtain revenues sufficient to achieve the
agreed rates of return (Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.02).
67.       Accounts and Audit.  KPC, TRDC and EAP&L prepare their accounts
in accordance with sound commercial and public utility accounting prac-
tices. The accounts of the three companies are currently audited by Gill
and Johnson, whose performance has been satisfactory, and they are accept-
able to the Bank. EAP&L also prepares combined annual accounts of KPC and
TRDC as well as combined annual accounts of KPC, TRDC and EAP&L. It was
agreed that the requirements under the earlier Bank loans (745-KE, 1147-KE
and 1799-KE) relating to submission of annual accounts of the three compa-
nies within six months of the end of financial year, certified by indepen-
dent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and submission of consolidated
accounts of the two bulk supply companies and all three companies would be
repeated for the proposed loan (Project Agreement, Section 4.03(d) and
(e)).
Procurement
68.       Procurement for work and material to be financed under the pro-
posed Bank loan, including the approximately US$17.6 million equivalent of
mechanical and electrical equipment to be jointly financed with CDC and
EIB, would be in accordance with Bank guidelines for international competi-



- 21 -
tive bidding. In bid comparison of equipment to be procured through inter-
national competitive bidding, qualifying domestic manufacturers would
receive a 15% margin of preference or the actual level of import duty,
whichever is less in bid comparisons. KPC has invited bids for most of the
civil works and equipment and offers have been received for the equipment
to be jointly financed under the Bank EIB and CDC loans. Because of the
very specialized nature of the generating and substation equipment and
associated control facilities only foreign bids were received. However,
for the civil works, water supply, roads and housing contracts local con-
tractors bids have been or are expected to be received. Contracts of less
than about US$100,000 for miscellaneous equipment and supplies, would be
awarded on the basis of limited international or local competitive bidding
or price solicitation from at least three potential suppliers. Maximum
expenditure that would be incurred under these procedures would not exceed
US$500,000.
Disbursements
69.       The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed over three years on
the following basis: 50% of the c.i.f. total cost of the mechanical and
electrical contracts (the other 50% to be financed with EIB, CDC, and KPC
funds), 50% of the total cost of the road, and 100% of the foreign cost of
the studies for further geothermal development and power sector investment
program. An estimated disbursement schedule is given in the Loan and
Project Summary. The remaining foreign and local costs would be disbursed
from CDC, EIB and KPC funds.
Environmental Considerations
70.       There are no inhabitants in the immediate area of the power
station, the vegetation is sparse, and except for a few zebra, there is
little wildlife. Thus, the disposal of gases in the air, particularly the
hydrogen sulphide, has little effect on human or animal life. Periodi-
cally, it would be necessary to blow off steam for pressure stabilization
and well maintenance, but suitable silencers reduce the noise to acceptable
limits for the operators. Housing for the operating staff is 9 km away, so
that objectionable gases would never reach the area and there would be no
noise problem. Waste water, containing quantities of salts, is piped to
nearby depressions, where the water seeps into the ground. The underground
flow in this area is away from Lake Naivasha, so there is no possibility of
contaminating the lake. There has been no problem at the existing instal-
lation but, if this effluent were to reappear on the surface, proper mea-
sures would be taken to dispose of it.
Justification and Risks
71.       The project would help meet Kenya's anticipated increase in power
demand in 1985-86, and form a part of the Government's longer term program
to reduce the country's dependence on imported fuel. Electricity is
supplied to consumers from several hydro and thermal generating stations,
and although the installed capacity is sufficient to meet the instantaneous
peak demand, based on 30 years of record of the Tana River flows, there is
a possibility that the existing facilities will not meet the demand in four
of the 30 years, when the river flows are below average.    The instal-
lation of a third generating unit at Olkaria will add the equivalent of



- 22 -
less than one year-s expected growth in demand for energy, so that even
after the unit is commissioned there is a strong possibility that the gen-
erating facilities would not be capable of meeting the energy demand from
1984 onwards, if the supply from Uganda becomes unavailable. During
periods of the year when the river flows are average or above average, the
third unit is not needed to meet the demand. Nevertheless, it would be
operated at full capacity so as to reduce the need to generate electricity
with expensive fuel oil at the Kipevu generating station in Mombasa.
72.       When the best alternative of providing the power i.e a diesel
plant, was compared to the geothermal project, the least-cost solution was
found to be the geothermal project. Sensitivity tests have been carried
out to determine the effect of a 10% increase in estimated capital costs
for the geothermal project together with a 10% reduction in capital and
operating costs for the diesel alternative, and the geothermal alternative
remains the least-cost solution. The economic rate of return relating the
economic project capital and operating costs to the savings and revenues
expected from it, is about 15.5%. When the sensitivity of the rate of
return was tested, it was found that an increase in the capital cost of the
project by 10% and a decrease in benefits of 10% reduces the economic rate
of return to about 14.0%.
73.       The institutional risk relating to EAP&L's and KPCGs capabilities
to properly administer the contracts under this project and the other
projects in their development program is minimal. The Bank's previous four
loans to the power sector have all been successful, and the projects have
been completed virtually on schedule, and without significant cost over-
runs. There is little doubt, therefore, as to EAP&L's and KPC-s capabili-
ties in this regard.
74.       One physical risk, however, lies in the assessment of the geo-
thermal reservoir and in the volume and characteristics of the steam which
may be recovered to drive the steam turbines. The loan for the first two
units included a covenant that at least 80% of the steam requirements
should be proven before the generating equipment could be ordered. In this
project, the existence of steam capable of generating 37 MW (82%) has
already been proven, and three wells, as yet untested, have an additional
estimated output of 5 MW. There remains, therefore, the risk that the
total 45 MW may not be found, or that a decline in the output from the
wells may occur after a period of time. In so far as it can, the risk of
failure of the system supply has been minimized by the employment of GENZL
and Virkir who have had extensive experience in the development of similar
geothermal projects in New Zealand and Iceland. Over one year-s experience
has been gained so far in the operation of the first unit, and to date the
equipment has performed efficiently and as expected.
75.       The financial risk of the proposed project and the ability of KPC
to repay the borrowed funds is considered negligible. The electric power
industry in Kenya has successfully provided electrical energy to its con-
sumers for many years. In the past, the Government has allowed EAP&L to



- 23 -
adjust its tariffs so that the company has remained in a sound financial
position. The rate of return covenant proposed for this project would help
to ensure that EAP&L and KPC would continue to be in a sound financial
position in the future.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
76.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Kenya Power
Company Limited, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the East
African Power and Lighting Company, Limited, the draft Guarantee Agreement
between the Republic of Kenya and the Bank and the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of
the Bank, are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
77.        Provisions in the Loan, Project, and Guarantee Agreements of par-
ticular importance are noted in paras. 41 through 67 of this Report and
those of a special nature are also listed in Section III of Annex III.  A
special condition of effectiveness for this proposed loan (Loan Agreement,
Section 7.01) is that the conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
CDC and EIB loan agreements with KPC have been fulfilled (referred to in
para. 61 of this Report).
78.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
79.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
by M. Qureshi
Attachments
January 19, 1983
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
TABLE 3A
KENYA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
KENYA                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                  - MIOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL             582.6                                   MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL       60.4                1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  NORTH AFRICA & MIDDLE EAST
GNP PER CAPITA (0S$)                    110.0        170.0      420.0                 1053.2                    L253.6
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       143.8         116.2     172.1                  610.1                      713.5
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  8189.0         11253.0   15865.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  7.4            10.2       14.2                  28.3                       47.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                          36.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                           128.5
YEAR STATIONARY POPLLATION 15 REACHED                     2100
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                          14.1         19.3      26.2                   54.7                       35.8
PER SQ. EK. AGRICULTURAL LAND    145.2           190.5     252.9                  129.9                     420.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           47.7          48.9      50.0                   46.0                      44.3
15-64 YRS.                           49.8         48.6       47.6                   51.1                      52.4
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                      2.6          2.5       2.4                    2.8                       3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 2.4          3.2        3.4                   2.8                       2.8
URBAN                                 5.2          6.4       6.8                    5.2                       4.6
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        51.8         52.7      51.4                   47.2                       41.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        23.6         17.8       13.3                  15.7                       12.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.5          3.8        3.8                   3.2                        2.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..         30.9      61.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             1.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)            99.0        100.0       81.0                   90.7                     100.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     98.6         95.1       95.6/c                 93.9                     108.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            67.7         65.1       63.47T                 54.8                      71.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         27.3         26.5       20.07W                 17.0                      18.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        29.1         21.9       15.1                  23.9                      15.1
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    41.3            48.7      54.9                   51.0                      56.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            137.5         112.0      86.8                  118.5                     104.3
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..        15.0       17.0/d                                           59.1
URBAN                                 ..        100.0      100.07                    ..                      83.1
RURAL                                  ..          2.0       4.0/d                   ..                      39.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..         50.0      55.0/d
URBAN                                 ..         85.0       98.07                    ..
RURAL                                  ..        45.0       48.07C
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           10690.6       7830.9/f 11625.2/f               14185.2                    4015.5
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       2265.1/e,f  1474.1/f  1085.7/f                 2213.2                    1802.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              786.0        774.1      770.8/g               1036.4                     641.7
URBAN                                 ..           ..      601.6/g                430.8                     538.3
RURAL                                  ..           ..     802.97j               3678.6                    2403.3
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..           ..        9.7/g                  ..                      25.5
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                  ..          4.7
URBAN                                4.9/e        4.7
RURAL                                  ..         4.7
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                  ..           ..
URBAN                                2.5/e         ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..         ..
URBAN                                  ..           ..         ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..         ..



- 25 -                                                   ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                                     Page  2  of  6
KENYA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
KENYA                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEWGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT         MIDDLE INCOXMEK MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  NORTH AFRICA & MIDDLE EAST
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRLMARYi     TOTAL                47.0        60.0      99.0                  83.3                    88.7
MALE                 64.0        70.0     105.0                  96.1                   104.5
FEMALE               30.0        49.0      94.0                 80.4                     72.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 2.0         8.0      18.0                  15.3                    39.7
MALE                  3.0        12.0      22.0                  19.4                    49.3
FEMALE                2.0         5.0      14.0                 11.3                     29.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)  12.2         1.8       2.3/d                4.7                     10.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           42.0        34.4      33.1/c                38.6                    34.1
SECONDARY                         15.0        20.6      24.671               23.4                     23.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       19.5/r      30.0      49.6                  35.6                    43.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         7.9         8.5       8.0/c               31.9                     17.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         7.0        44.4      34.8                 71.8                    131.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.3/e       1.4       3.9                  17.9                    44.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 11.2        13.8      10.2                  19.1                    31.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  1.0          ..       0.4/c                0.6                      1.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    3296.5       4314.2    5671.5
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  34.6        34.4      33.6                 36.5                     10.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             86.0        82.0      78.0                  56.5                    42.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 5.0         7.0      10.0                 17.7                     27.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               40.3        38.3      35.7                  37.0                    26.0
MALE                                53.3        50.9      48.0                  46.9                    46.2
FEMALE                              27.5        26.1      23.8                 27.2                      5.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.2         1.3       1.5                   1.3                     1.9
INCOHE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..        20.2/h
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..        52.6Th    60.4/i
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..         3.97h     2.67.
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..        it.7Th     8.9/i
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    150.0                 507.0                    279.2
RURAL                               ..          ..    112.0                 200.6                    178.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    179.0                 523.9                    403.6
RURAL                               ..          ..    106.0                 203.6                    285.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      10.0                    ..                    22.1
RURAL                               ..          ..      55.0                    ..                    30.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c  1977; /d 1975; /e 1962; /f Registered, not all practicing in the country; Ig 1976; /h Urban only; /i 1974.
may, 1982



-  6-                                                                                     ANNAX 1
DEFINIICUS  F SOCU    INDIATORSPage    3   of    6
Notes:  Although the dare are draw   f.. sorcs         -eoraly judged the.cs  auholctoetdei:1,bl. it should cis  he, toted chttl                            Yta  heiter
s.tieall  comarabe beaus  of  he lack of otcdardieod deuntf.            sdcocet  ceed by diffrn  cttila .t  olctigtwdaa.h  date sew                                 sa
thsi..ss.. usful to d.eiril  ordero of   agnItude, hodibae ltr-dian    brctr       etj  maJor difftereoe  b-etwe    outis
The reeec-      gop   ce(   o  oIec.or   r.pu  the ca-ec   -ccycd (2) a country group with so-nht hightr acergc i-co     sh.a  the coutry grop
ofthe tu -no     -ouiy (roceyc fo.        "og  Income          E. cor t  goP shore "Middle Incoam  North Africa atd teicdle fate  it cha-  leco..e of stronger
saoiooaltral  ffoonire.  Inthe,c  rorgopdaatenrgr  oc   opltinwighted arinhmrg soefor eah Iundi-ato  und  h-e  coiy when
std is Oct anfr..cuinsa.               rnor  adi   catiog  aerago  cf.e one io _cto  no anothe. Tleae. ao..w .a nyueulI   optngteol o
oeindicatr at a time swug ti e_cutry andre frne grop.
AREA )nhea...dsq.ke.)                                                                                   asinre   oetl td -ttl  aru,an   ua  - Poaltto   (toal
Tsl- To ta1 tar fac  on .. es  pr lotog l-od  _eta tod inland  -ae-; 1979 dote,                  ura,adrrc)dnddbyterrsetieete   f  opeibd
for croPs, psst-ee.  eronodkinchec gardeo or to  l  flen 199dat.                                  dailttiheoes. Hsptlier  sabihmns   emaetl  tsfd
GNP PFR CAPITA (US$) - GNP per -Pile e  ~~by  t laioepyscs.Itblishlents pro-iding princpal   .us..-
liP PfR  APITA (fy) - AM  per capta eon  ea eo   caren kma to pei-et  cal-                 diai care ar-e cot included.  t_aI bopittle., h-.ee  include health
olted by osa   canes o  mehod  at Worid conk Atlas (1978-80 btsis(; l9hd,                         cd mdiilcntrsoa   eruoslp  onefed hy a  btoa    htb
1970, sod 1980 data.                                                                                   diuceteat,trendie,po-uic   ffr i-patIent byaa
dation, ad p-onde    Iaitd.  rSce of ond,IFe sclite.   o  statL
tINERGY ClISUhirTeIOt PE  1aPr16 - A,noo  ccooto    to-rlleeg    cc                                    tialpros   bchopcoinld Aeoroty/gerl asto,
wd lignite, Per-1-o    --Iufa  gen  and hydro-, nuol-u  and gohom l.o-                              cod rurc  boyln l,lcal- or rurl ho-lolal aod medical ecd   ste-nity
tri i     L. inkilograo of coal eqojl-aet per capit;19811971,  and1979                              cenera   iyciliaed h-syital  art 1 IncldedolIod nth
dwta.                                                                                             Ad.isthona err tosital Med -Total noto r of adisiao-  to or dlcbarges
POFULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS ~~~~~~~f-a  basPitais dinided by the n-ter of beds.
Tors1 Poralatiot, Mid-Tear (th ......d.) - cc of July 1; 1980, 1970,  od 191                    ltN
Urbaw Papuitioc (Peoent of tonal) -  -Inc of urh...to total Popul"io;                               A hoaaehol   onit  ofIgopo    dlnidaalaZ   w               hn shre livisg quarter
diffren  defi,i..loot o  ucbtn areao sup offeon  ocrabhllty of dta                               tod the ir  _s    el. A  ordro  lodgrr nay or map no .h  ioladed in
..o cacio   19h0, 1970. and 1980 dote,                                                        the hb.o.ebcld for              paicialyrpO o.
Paneario  in  nsr2000 - Torrent pypulcoic- projertoo   one hated 00 1980                    he fpretPer root it all bra-  cod rur,I o.oaPld  .o.netis
total populotino by age and  en cod thntr ocr-aity  andfrtlIy -aet.                            dellingo, reep-t inehy.    nellinrgs  noldao -yermtetrcuesd
yrjrioParamte-e for marrlity roo        pctyise ot cheer ieistl tot-                     u..-rPled poets.
iglife enpecinc   ahltOiroagrth 00cy'peoai-   nor                                         AettofctIr it   rrcn   fawelint  I. tonial, urban, tedrural -
lerel. sod tamae lift t-peccoo-   anbil.i.eing     77.0 pearo.  The yara-                       o--en  ..oaI dam Ilne ait  electr icity i   iigqatr   spreg
wate-  for fernilIty tote alto  h-n  rh... Iee   aol..elirt                                    ofctch,l urban, scd rural delitgo  r-p-ctinely.
fetltyacrdigtno Income 'Inel and ps  fnippanIg petoef or
itch countrry in then totiged ant ofthes  tine co.hin_tins of  _art.llt                    ODUCATIot
aod fertilitY Itreds for pooj-tlco purpoarn                                                  Adj-ted inro1iment hanics
itanioosry eoalaclcn-Inananiooary  popiutl   the re in no growt  aince               Primayscol          atl  male and female - Gr-   .tota, male co  femle
the birt  rateoeulto cthe deat  .rat, sdalt  the age  tutr   n                                    roel Pco    ofa1 ateatot the primary 1oe1 at pereo.tagee of respe-tine
mains co.ota-t.  Thin it -htwod only  fter f-tilirY r--t  decline no                              primay school-age populaticos;  -orl  Inludwa children aged 6-1i
the replacemet 1-e  of tto corn  rprd....... rune, ne  "ach geeaion                               peer  Ion  dj-otd for diff.eren   leoythyo ofpimary educationa; for
of  -re  rrylacei inoolf cnactly.  The otti.n.ry  .PoplaIonMe         0eo                         c ntieith u_ine...h edu...tlco e..oimnt oay  ....rd 100 Percent
estimatd  an the baels of the projentod ohoract erilni-co  at cn  p.pla--o                        ohot tour pupils are hele or  h_e the officialaco a,_            ge.
to nb  Ytar 2000,..sd the nare of decline nf fertiliuty rate to rep lac-hoduyscol-  total, maiw erA  female - Computed at abo-; se-andeeY
scot irool.                                                                                       eduositooeiran least foo yea'o of appro...d primary hsrci
Tear sttionarY populatico ia reached - The pera  whec tt-n ...ary population                        pranides          ge .o, .octho...l, or teacher teaicig i-onrutions foe pupils
tier  illib -eehybd.                                                                               ...sily of 12 to 17 y.ars of age; cyrr-pondeor. ouse   re geeer.Ilp
Perulti-n Deriity                                                                                     _nclded
Pee tq'A.   -  id-yrar  oPulation per tq-ae Ailosaner fill h--tres) of                          hoainlerlmt(ecn   f t-eoodary) - Vocatla...l i-sitcti..e
taa   rea; 1980  1970an  1979 dao                                                            cid    ehia, ld-etrial. or other porm   diho aeidPod
Per so.  km. cori_ctuAl land - cnocda  aho-  C- agricultura  food                                 entlyoratdea          osofaecod-ryIn istn.
coOpI; l1960,Sr197  and  9197  dan.tPrltabrrso-eia.  P                                                                            and socndar-Te           stdet   ne d to
Paatico    g AceOnrctre  (percet-     Children  10-14 yearn ),- s    ...ig-ag   ...-             priay  .n   eod arylen..   dinddbnueroftshsinth
64yas.sd retired(ll years and o-er)o  percnae  csid-pe-r poPu-                              --rspending lerem..
Islr;160,  90   r  1900  ona.                                                              Idi   ttru   ae          ercentc) - Li--eara&uto  labie to read tod  -ite)
Pepulatien  Gr-mni fate )pecrt)- tota   -  oA,-1 grcwoh raten of totl eld-                          as -a ertonge ef total adult ppulotit aged (0 yeara and over.
yesr populatio  for 19500-, 1960-70, end 1970-to.
Peuate   roth fate (portent) - urban - oeoua  growth  -ar  of urban ypp-                 CONSUM0PTION
latione far 1951-hi. 1960-70, and 1970-hO.                              .                      foetgor fart (per thactord pepalanlon) - Pao...eger crs rorapris-mae
CrudeBrhfc   (per thoutand) -                 IAca   iar birtbs per thoctand of old-pear            cart  ..atiog~ lts ho  eight persons ;,icue    eblne,here   n
pepul t  19g.190   and 1990 dat,tlltr  nhie.
Crude  etl     ae(e  chautand) -acald-tcho per th.uasr.dof old-year                               fadic ge-eh.e. (per th-useod  -oelation           _ -All types of rreei-wre fr radic
popois1tiln; 1960. 1970, and 190dt,bodcnot   eea   uli   e   huado   eoahn    cldson
Croo  Rayodatinofan- Anergentb rr f da-ghtero a tma  nill hea  In                             I eed  tternensIn_         ctromadhrYeart thee  ehart o   f radio
her ro.-I -ep-du-i-e period ,If  he eperleocen yreaeot eg-uptlefic  for-                          onto ta    . effect; data for r...rt yrare my not b.e.rqrarble  since
lility ratee; ut..ully fic-e-pe   -neraget noding in 1860, 1970. ard 1y8y.                        stc otrieo  abolished li-esing.
faiyPioig -icAwptor. A,rnoa1.l (oho-ando) -Arnnualnmer of aep-o-n                          70h             ...er  Ie  thousan d p-tlacico)  -hreenrafr hroadccst to
of hlth-cetrol dlen-t cdrcupcn  fnaInl                        lYp p-oing prngre.                  geerra  l pblic per thIot-d popn,iato;rtldsnlitadT   een
PFmoly %p~heolc-le        (percent of-nyhd oao  -~ frentge of -taried                               inouti  e ad toYears  bnreltattnofT ets ea   oefet
aee fcild-bearing age ( fi-Au   eart) nh.n  brhcotc    drceonto                          N-ropoper Circulation  (per thb...aed ponlain)- lh..etheanesgelr-
sli marriednsc  in   o-age group.                                                                 cltnof "daily gesers1 in terest  -ecpeer". defined aspe h-adOct
publication  dente  prima rilpyneydn    eea   se   It is  ...oid-ed
FOOD ANDO NUTRITION                                                                                   to be  dal"if Itappeare at lea  for tamoanet
Indee offood frouction pr farlca19by-7t100( - lden of per topita annual            CInema Annual ttrdat  rer Capita per lrBuerd orthe cabro
prodmonho  of all  ond ccmaoditoeo.Production nycloden sed cd-  fred a,nd              ticket  o.d'dtduing teya,i-cludloy  odaotinan  to drioe-)oinsa
ha no ctlen     Y Cee  -uit    oaditietconer Primarygos(eg nSugarae                               and ambile oite..
-toahed yf sagar) ohih are edible ond  -ooain   urloc(e.g. .off.n cod
tea ar  m  lu,dld)   Aggregate production  of eac  contry in hated on                        LASOO  FORCE
nat iocal aerage  ryducr  prIe nigt; 1881-65. 1970, and 1980 data.                             Tona  Labor Force )nheusaodo) - hoonoial lyEatn    eaco   nhd
Per -prita tupplo ofclre.            ectto   eurcno   - Tcrputed fros                               are  fo1,P.rces end uweoplrdbut etcludioghuel.stdwo    t.
energy eqir-lent of net food ouppllenao-ilable locono-y per capita                                coehg   auatto  of all age.  hefirlocons Ic narioc   -ctriro  ore
Per day.  An-ilahie~ opplilea  do-rio          - doeol  p-yd-cico, ispornt Iboo                   non  -p-blune; 196i0  1971an  1910dona
etfarga, and  hbaogeo in n koi.Net o-pplinoet lod1e-acal fee1d,ne-dn.                             Female frerc...n) - Peahe lahor forc  cc  rrentnagn  cf cotat labor farce.
q_nr itie  uawd in food P_ocetio, adican r conihunto. t                  Oqou~rm-                agrl-ulrure (percent) -   b.chr force in o,       hg  foretry. hunting ond
scone  erre estimated by FAO baird cc phyti.ingi-al nede ifr nrmal con-                             tiobeca  penntagrobf to~tal labor  ..r.c;1960, 1970 and 1989 data.,
niny aed health  ..nIeeidrig r-nromentcl teoperau,_ bodyoight_, age                               Induet,y fpercro-) - L.hr forc  in eling.  nctcc to                nmtf acnorl
sr  sndierihotloc ofpopulation  and     tocog1  percent for _eaooat                             and rl-crtciny- or cod gao as per--atey  of tonal labor foror;
.ocoebldiee;18-h.1(   n   977data                                                                 1960, 1)70 and 1990tdana
Per caita tprip  f proein (reno  rr day) - Pr-tin-ntrot of par catna                   PerticipatengaeJ       erc         tonal, tale   , co  female -fart iipa icc or
net sPpip o,ffod pnday.  Ne  tup~ply cf fcn.d in drfioed ca abate.  Or-                                            .. ..y.eenar   coputed at- toal  malt  and female labor forte an
quiremene forcl  oaunrle               IItallhedb I SDI procte  Inc  nOttnc                       peroe.tte  ni tota, ma   r ad femaepo1          cto    f all  glet   pciey
aloane  of ho grama ef'   _1o prate r, per day cod 20 grma of ontol and                           19h0, 197f, and 1980 data.  Theo  are honed no I1,o participation ~ratetll
poise protin, of ehih 10 groma th-ld be anmlpotI,.tetad.rf tn    age-ca    ..ru..... ofthe populut Inc  and long 11am  nrnd A
ards are loaer  hac tho-e of 75 grma of no-   prtein and 23 grate of                              fet o -     e  are froo manioa) t-rcn
animal protric as  an  -er-gr for tr  -nrid,propoord by yAl In. thc Third                       RcoecDpnrc   at      acto of popolti- under 15 end 65 and ae
Oo-hd Food Ocroty; 191-l, 0970 and 0977 rdta                                                     to she total labor torte.
P     er apita   __ocin copy fren anima  cod puite  - Pronli  -opp(y of food do-
rin-d fr.. animalt mad pcloet I  graos per day; 1961-65. 1970 cod 1977 data.                 INCOME OlilTIlfUION
Child lagrn 1 -   hat  fat  (pe  thoucad) - Anouci deatht per th-utd to                           prr-eotar.eof frhate I-tt  (both to cb and kiod) - teR-ln-d by richont
agegrupl-4peers.nothlldrr-inhly grgop               -coednlpingrou-                         Ipreo,inenlpro,yn-a-  00 peren, andpore  40 pr-tec
trien  dare dwrirsd from  life tablet  196i. 1900 and 1980 dato.                                 of ho_nnildo.
HEAL,TH                                                                                           POVERT  TAROnGROPS
Li!,fe  cr-cnoca tlirth put    I- h age  _uIer of ye.cre of loft  raoo                            The fo11lirhg erttmate  are  -ry appr"o.ioe   macaes of Pavntn  re-lt`
atbrt;190  170 cod 1980 dut-.                                                              ad ohould be interprrted with ....mideralr. caainn.
Ifmac Motlity fate (per thonand) - Annual deaoho a  tot act.  -odrr nor pear                     Intimated Ahnaiutr  oet  Iooa ee   1.~ltpenat) - orbs, omd  ..r. I
ci0wpr thacaaed tIne birnhm; 1980. 1970  n  193  doa.                                          byuepnyytom    erliaItlca   ee   eo  which a miolmo
A....a to Sfa    Otter (        .rn  of popular Ion) --too1, u-bal, and rural - Not-                tar       "nIll  adequat  dhet plus... werntia1.. n-flendreue met             a
her of people (e-ta. urhn, cod  -rora) wit hl .....o hi~  - c  met  mutt                          affordable.
w_teracPppy    (olue  treated our fate  eaers or unltrotd hot aootatctd                          tti_sadheat    Ponrlyp ItIn   Lnn  ('00 nec repita) - urbso aod reral 
maer serb as that fre  protected horeholee. tpringa.  aed saitary.malls) at                       gRa-  relati- povrtytao    eniu nrnbdofaegePer r-pi,o
Perccges of the irrepcne pouaiet.Ioorbcreaapbti                                                   Pe rseta.  hoca   of the -omtry.  Urban le-  is derived (rum  the  -e1a
f-aetat  or -ssmldpoat located no  mar  chun 20 macer  Prom a hous  may be                       le-n  w,tb adjonemeo  for higher cos  at lining toob.a.res
eIderdamhint wotbhn reas-ut. .cea.o.                tenhooe    nrural a-ea                   fati-atd Pplticoheow           1bs    e P-nrcy  Ior,m   ed(ooet      r
reasoabie oces   aid        'pY ta   h  bo wfe or ammhrt  fsehotbl                               cod  res -P ecw    fpplte    cbn  o   as)sh   r   aal
doeo  hovt-      smdadisproporionat  Partofthe day  it (etc hing the                              Pe"
ffshr of peopie(ttlura,adrrlsevdhenesdiptlt
p rcetages of the ir tpea~e    poPuaions   trta dtapasol -Ytoad
t _ee1lethossA -disoa        i1ih o r wimt   _ -tea, of hatemcrt
aod  wse-aery ester-hoper ays-  or fh, tr  of pit prinia andsi-
Pt1=   ea   e  NrtgPrn   Poptlatiee dimided by  ambar of praci~sto                                                                                    Mty 1982
male asd fEmale graduate  ass.         sit      nsrmea  prscleal  - ts e ad
_ostg amaitipri-a



2 7   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~kAnve  I
Populatinu:   15.865 million (19)                                   -R 27  -                                                  p      ox4f 6
GNP Per Capita:  UiS420 (1987)
KEWA - FEXNNiIC IDICGAOES
1930
IndLicator                                AmDnt                   Annual Growth Rate (%)
(milLion US$ at                ktud l/a
turrent prices)   1976   1977   1978    1979   1980        1981/b
National Accouts
Gross drtestic prodtuc at m.p.             6992.2          2.1    9.5    7.4    4.2    2.4           3.1
Agriculture                            1948.3           1.9   10.0    4.2   -1.0   -1.2          2.0
Industry                               1304.8         -0.4   13.1   10.9    6.8    3.8           4.0
Services                               2732.9          4.1    5.8    7.0    7.5    4.7          4.0
ConrsrsPtir.                               5962.4         -3.5    7.9   15.3    6.6    2.3          6.7
Gross Investeent                           1882.0          12.0   35.9   23.9  -24.8   17.3    -14.8
Exports of G9PS                            1980.5          6.3    5.6   -4.3   -8.3    5.2    -13.4
Imports of GIIFS                          2832.8          -2.7    18.3   26.6  -19.8    8.9    -13.4
Gross National Savings                      985.1          17.0   64.6  -27.4  -27.1   64.4    -18.9
Prices
G[P deflator                              100.0         71.2   83.6   85.7   91.9  100.0    103.0
Ex,chn   rate (ivh./tAS)                 7.4202       8.3671  8.2766  7.72e4  7.4753  7.4202    9.0496
Share of GOM at Market Prices (2)                   Avrae Annual Incree (X)
(at current prices) (b)                          (at cttant price.)
1974      1979     1987      1985      1990      1995     1974-79   1981-86   1986-91     1993-95
Grcss owestic proouct (a)              [03.0    100.0    [03.0    100.0    100.0    100.0           4.7       4.3       4.9         5.1
AgricuLture                           35.4      34.3     32.5      27.1      25.9      24.5        4.5      3.6       3.9         4.0
Industry                              20.7     26.1      21.8      19.3      20.0      20.9       6.2       4.8       5.7         6.0
Services                              43.9      39.6     45.7      39.8      40.3     40.8         5.4      4.6       5.1         5.4
Consumption                             81.5     84.2      85.3      83.5      79.1     75.2        6.3       3.2       3.7         4.0
Gress investuent                        25.8     22.7      26.9      21.9      21.9     22.0        2.6       3.6       4.9         5.2
Exports CSM                             33.7      25.5     28.3      24.2      25.6      26.9       2.7       4.6       6.2         6.2
Orports (SIFi                          40.9      32.4      40.5      29.5      26.6     24.1        -         1.2       2.7         3.0
Gross national savings                  14.5      13.0     12.1      15.0      18.9      23.3        0.6      9.7      10.0        10.2
As 2 of GDP
1974     1979      1980
PUBLIC FINANCE /c
Current revenues                                              L6.0      24.7      24.8
Current expenditures                                          14.3      22.5      23.0
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                     1.8       2.2       1.8
Capital expenditure                                            6.1       9.7      10.1
Foreign financing                                              2.0       4.2       5.4
1974-79    1981-86  1986-91   1990-95
OTHER INDICATORS
GIIP growth rate (X)                              4.9        4.1        4.8        5.3
GNP per capita growth rate (X)                    1.0        0.2        1.1        1.6
Energy consuaption growth rate  (%)              4.9         2.6        2.9        3.1
ICOR                                              7.8        5.2        4.5        4.3
Marginal savings rate                             0.26       0.24       0.32       0.36
Import elasticity                               -0.4         0.3        0.6        0.59
Sbstre of Trade with                   Share of Trade vith                share of Trade with
Indmtrial COratriss (Z)                nloping C-ntries (2)            Capitalt 8mplr  OiL  parts (%)
1970        1975       1980               1970    1975    1983            1970       1975        1987
DINatItItti_ 975 19808
DI(nN OF lW
Exports                       62.7         52.7      44.8               23.5    27.8    34.9             0.4         0.8         1.3
Prdisry                     16.6         11.5       -                 74.7    72.5       -             0.8         3.0         -
Mantufactures               69.4         59.0       -                 16.1    20.9       -             0.4         0.4         -
Ixporra                       75.4        64.2       57.6               14.9    23.8    11.8             2.8         8.1        29.6
(a)  At market prices; components are expressed  at factor cost and will not
add due to eclusion  of net indirect taxes and subsidies.
(b) Preliminary.
(c) Central Government only.
August 1982
FA IDA



Population: 15.865 million (1980)                                 - 28  -                                               Armx I
aNP Per Capita: LB$420 (1980)                                                                                            o of 6
IEY  - QIAL TALE
Amomt                                       Armal Growth Rate (%)/a
Indicator                        (mU1ion IS$ at                       Actual                                  Projected
current prices)
1980                1976   1977   1978   1979   1980    1981(i) 192   1983   1984   1985   1986   1991
E    1  TRADE
herchandise exports                  1247.2                6.4    4.0   -7.7   -2.1    3.2   -13.2    4.6    4.6    4.8    4.8    4.8    6.4
Primary/b                           963.4               12.4    9.0   -3.7    4.8   -7.3   -18.3    4.8    4,8    4.8    4.9    4.9    6.2
Manufactres/c                       283.8                0.4   -5.4  -18.6   -3.1   29.6         3.9    4.0    4.0    4.7    4.7    4.7    6.8
-erchandise imports                  2612.2               -3.8   22.0   16.4  -18.3   14.7   -11.4   -6.4    3.1    2.5    2.3    2.3    3.0
Food/d                              111.2                5.3    3.0   70.0  -19.2   57.6   -23.0   -9.1    1.2    1.2    1.2    1.2    0.0
PetroJeum/e                         778.6               -8.3    4.0    2.9    0.9   16.7    -9.1   -5.2    2.7    2.7    2.7    2.7    3.0
4achinery adi equipnent/f           706.4              -16.7   36.0   29.4  -28.4   19.0    -9.5   -2.9    5.5    3.4    3.4    3.4    4.0
others                             1016.0                 ..      ..     ..      ..      ..   -13.1   -9.6    1.8    1.8    1.2    1.0    2.5
Export price irdex                                      73.2  102.8   81.2   83.7  100.0    93.2   98.5  106.4  114.8  124.0  132.7  186.1
Import price index                                      65.2   69.6   68.7   76.8  100.0    99.1  104.3  115.1  127.0  140.0  150.5  216.7
Terms of trade index                                   112.3  147.8  118.2  108.9  100.0    94.1   94.5   92.4   90.4   88.6   88.2   85.9
Ca2position of Mercbandise Trade (x)          Average Anmal Increase (%)/a
(at constant 1980 prices)
1974  1979  1981  1986  1991  1995          1974-79  1981-86  1986-91   1990-95
Ixorts
Primary                                  71.0  83.0  72.9  73.1  73.1  72.6             2.1      4.8       6.2      6.3
Manufactures/h                           29.0  17.0  27.1  26.9  26.9  27.4           -11.3      4.4       6.3      7.0
muports
Food                                     6.6   5.3   3.7   3.4   2.9   2.1            -10.4      -0.3        -      -
PetroleLn                                21.2  23.7  30.6  31.1  31.2  38.9            -2.8       1.5       3.0    3.0
Machinery and equipment                  22.8  35.5  27.6  30.2  31.5  25.6             1.7       2.9       3.9    3.9
Others                                   49.4  35.5  38.1  35.3  34.3  33.4             ..       -0.1       2.4    2.6
/a historical. growth rates are based in 191t prices; projected grawth rates in 1980 prices
!  Based on weighted quantum indices (base year = 1976) of food, live animals, and cride materials
!  Excludes petroleum products. Value of manufactured exports are deflated ty international inflation index to arrive  t constant price
series.
ed Based on quantum index (base year = 1976) for SITC 0.
e Based an quantum index (base year = 1976) for SITC 3.
Based on quantum index (base year - 1976) for SITC 7.
Indices for historical years (1976-80) are based in 1976; those for projection years are based In 1980.
r  Excludes petroleum products.
Preliminary.                                                                                             August  1982
EA1DA



- 2 9 -                                                       Azmex I
Population: 15.865 mtllion (1980)                                                                                   Page 6 of 6
(C  per capita: [B$420 (1980)
YA - BAE1 OF PAYMS, EC14AL CAPITAL .  IEPT
(million IB$ at current prices)
Actual                                   Projected
1976    1977    1978    1979    198D       1981    1982    1986    1991    1995
BALANC OF PAY24S
Exports of goods arnd services        1184.6  1614.9  1581.0  1629.6  2032.8    1651.7  1821.5  2933.0  5447.0  9033.5
of which. Merchandise f.o.b.         743.9  1130.9   955.8  1017.5  1242.5    1008.3  1114.7  18D9.3  3423.4  5758.4
Imports of goods and services         1300.3  1653.9  2332.6  2206.8  3G69.4    2639.9  2650.1  4221.9  7091.7 10547.5
of whidch: Merchandise c.i.f.        975.0  1279.0  1875.7  1779.2  2632.8    2294.4  2260.8  3610.0  6008.9  9086.3
Net transfers                           32.3    66.5    91.1   100.1   139.6      153.6   168.9   247.3   398.3   583.1
Current Account BElance                -83.4    27.5  -660.6  -477.0  -897.0   -834.6  -659.7  -1041.6  -1246.5  -930.8
Private direct investimt                37.7    54.5    32.1    66.4    61.2       66.4    73.1   107.0   172.3   252.3
M&LT loans (net)                       111.9   145.6   410.1   412.5   515.3      460.2   552.6   866.3  1066.9   654.1
Official                                ..      ..      ..      ..       ..    (304.4) (546.4) (401.3) (568.1) (829.4)
Private                                 ..      ..      ,,      ..       ..    (155.7)   (6.2)  (464.9) (498.9) (-175.3)
Other Capital                           19.1    44.7    17.6   187.0   125.9      108.0    99.0   118.1    93.8   147.3
Change in reserves                     -85.3  -272.3   200.8  -188.9   194.6      200.0   -65.0  -49.7   -86.6  -122.9
International Reserves                 425.9   698.2   497.4   686.3   491.7      291.7   356.7   546.4   905.2  1337.1
Reserves as montlhs imports              4.3     5.2     3.8     5.1      2.9       1.5     1.5     1.5     1.5      1.5
EXIEAL CAPITAL AND IEEB
Gross Disbursements                    180.9   231.6   285.1   376.8   420.8      566.0
Official grants/a                       ..      ..      ..
Concessional loans                    63.3    64.7   104.5   149.9   179.6      215.8
DAC                                 46.1    33.7    54.0    94.0    81.2      133.0
OPEC                                 -       -       -        -       -        19.5
IDA                                 13.6    17.7    16.3    21.5    71.6       30.5
Other                                3.6    13.3    34.2    34.4    26.8       32.8
Nonocc,eessional loans               117.6   166.8   180.6   226.8   241.2      350.2
Offical export credits              18.8    11.0    17.6      8.5    10.1      26.5
IRlD                                66.7    34.7    42.3    36.7    40.0       77.2
Other official                       2.1    11.5     7.6      4.8    21.0      11.1
Private                             30.0   109.6   113.1   176.8   170.0      235.4
External Debt
Debt outstanirg ard disbursed        700.8   917.2  1083.7  1433.2  1743.8    2336.3/b
Official                           605.2   709.6   792.8   977.6  1179.6    1593.3
Private                             95.6   207.6   290.9   455.6   564.2      743.0
Undisbursed debt                     629.1   780.7  1056.6  1252.8  1304.5    1383.7
Debt Service/a
Total service payments                65.3    74.6   121.6   120.2   183.0      201.8
Interest                            31.8    39.6    52.4    70.6   104.5       96.0
Payments as % of exports               5.7     4.8     7.9     7.6      9.2      12.2
Averge interest rate on new loans (%)
Official                               4.5     4.0     4.0      3.8     3.0       3.0
Private                                7.7     7.7     7.7    12.0      8.0       9.0
Average maturity of new loans (years)
Official                              26.0    30.0    28.0    32.0    32.0       28.0
Private                                9.5    11.9    13.0    11.9      5.9      10.0
As % of Debt Outstariing
at End of 1980
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years
Maturities due within 10 years                                8.0
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                              100.0
/a Official grants are icluded in transfers in the balance of payuents current account. Transfers are projected to grow at an
arual rate of 10%.
/b Includes Kenya's notional share of 45% of EAC debt.
August 1982
EAlDA



_ 30 -                                 ANNEX II
Page 1 of 16
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as of September 30, 1982
US$ Million
Loan or                                                              Amount (Less Cancellations)
Credit #    Year   Borrower    Purpose                              Bank1   TW   IDA l Undisbursed
Seventeen (17) Loans and Twenty (20) Credits and one (1)
Third Window Loan Fully Disbursed                                  301.68  5.00 208.37
477        1974    Kenya        Livestock                                         17.50      6.58
537        1975    Kenya        Group Farm Rehabilitation                          7.50      3.67
1105        1975    Kenya        Sites and Services                  8.00                     1.88
1184        1976    Kenya       Third Education                     10.00                    6.64
( 650       (1977   (Kenya       (Integrated Agric. Development                     10.00   ( 3.33
(1303-T    (1977   (Kenya        (Integrated Agric. Development             10.00            (10.00
1304-T      1977    Kenya       Wildlife and Tourism                       17.00             7.02
1305        1977    Kenya       Rural Access Roads                   4.00                    3.16
1389        1977    Kenya        South Nyanza Sugar                 25.00                    3.63
1438        1977    IDB         Third Industrial Dev. Bank          20.00                     3.08
1449        1977    Kenya       Bura Irrigation Settlement          34.00                   30.72
750        1978    Kenya        Small Scale Industry                              10.00     7.83
1520        1978    NCC          Second Urban Water Supply          30.00                   12.48
791       (1978   (Kenya      (Second Urban                                      25.00   (19.22
(1550       (1978   (Kenya       (Second Urban                       25.00                  (25.00
797        1978    Kenya       Fourth Education                                  23.00    17.19
1636        1979    Kenya        Sugar Rehabilitation               72.00                   65.99
1637        1979    Kenya       Rural Water Supply                  20.00                   19.89
858        1979    Kenya        Narok Agricultural Development                    13.00    12.38
1680        1979    Kenya       Telecommunications                  20.00                    7.81
1684        1979    Kenya       Highway Sector                      90.00                   74.16
914        1979    Kenya        Smallholder Coffee Improvement                   27.00    25.69
959        1980    Kenya        Second Integrated Agric. Dev.                    46.00    44.14
962        1980    Kenya       Baringo Pilot                                      6.50      5.74
1799        1980    Kenya       Third Power (Olkaria Geothermal)40.002                      10.89
1817        1980    IDB          Fourth Industrial Dev. Bank        30.00                   25.52
1045        1980    Kenya       Export Promotion Technical Asst.                   4.50      4.49
1051        1980    Kenya       Fisheries                                          10.00     9.99
1107        1981    Kenya       Fifth Education                                   35.90    33.61
1976        1981    Kenya       Railway                             58.00                   55.67
(1143       (1981   (Kenya       (Fourth Agriculture3                                9.40      8.53
(1995       (1981   (Kenya       (Fourth Agriculture                 25.00                   25.00
2065        1982    Kenya        Petroleum Exploration               4.00                    2.99
(2098       (1982   (Kenya       (Forestry III                       21.50                    21.50
(1213       (1982   (Kenya       (Forestry III                                       13.60   13.60
1237        1982    Kenya       Cotton Proc. & Marketing                            18.70   18.70
1238        1982    Kenya        Integrated Rural Health &
Family Planning3 4                                 20.50   20.50
2155        1982    Kenya        Second Telecommunications          44.70                   44.70
(2190       (1983   (Kenya        Second Struc. Adjustment           60.90                   60.90
(1276       (1983   (Kenya       (Second Struc. Adjustment4                          62.90   62.90
1277        1983    Kenya       Agric. Technical Assistance4                         5.40    5.40
Total                             943.78 32.00  574.77   842.12
of which has been repaid          57.16   -        3.35
Total now outstanding             886.62 32.00  571.42
Amount sold                  11.81
of which has been repaid 11.81   .00
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA                886.62 32.00  571.42
TOTAL undisbursed                             501.61 17.02  313.46   842.12
1/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
2/ Includes Loan S-12 ($9.0 million).
3/ Not yet effective.
4/ IDA-6 Credit amounts expressed in dollar equivalents of SDR's.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 16
- 31 -
B. Summary Statement of Bank Loans for Common Services Involving
Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda as of September 30, 1982
Amount (less cancellations)
Loan No.   Year   Borrower   Purpose                   Bankl    Undisbursed
----US$ million----
Seven loans fully disbursed                           135.80
638-EA    1969    EAHC        Second Harbours         35.00         0.52
865-EA    1972    EAHC        Third Harbours          26.50         0.35
914-EA    1972    EAPTC       Third Telecom.          32.50         0.28
1204-EA    1976    EADB        Second Dev. Finance   15.00           1.30
Total                                              244.80         2.45
of which has been repaid                           78.19
Total now outstanding                              166.61
Amount sold                             24.36
of which has been repaid               24.36        0.00
Total now held by Bank                             166.61
Total undisbursed                                    2.45         2.45
1/ Net of exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 16
- 32 -
C. Status of Projects in Execution'
(As of September 30, 1982)
There are currently 32 projects under execution in Kenya.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Credit No. 477-KE - Second Livestock Project: US$17.52 million Credit
of April 5, 1974; Effective Date: December 2, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The implementation of this project has been hampered by a number of
policy and institutional issues. Consequently, disbursements have been
exceedingly slow and the outstanding balance as of December 31, 1980, the
original closing date, was US$14.3 million. Agreement was reached with the
Government that the credit would be extended for a period of two years to
December 31, 1982, if a number of conditions necessary to resolve the above
issues were implemented by November 1980. These conditions implied a more
realistic and modified project with decreased project costs. Agreement was
reached between the Government and the Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC)
and the Association that since the total amount of the credit could not be
utilized even with the proposed new closing date, US$4.0 million would be
cancelled. A joint Bank/GOK evaluation report was concluded in June 1982 to
evaluate in particular the water development activities and to set up the
framework for the PCR. The findings indicated a significant shortfall in the
Ministry of Water Development's (MWD) accomplishments compared to the work
program agreed between MWD and IDA at the time of the closing date
extension. The Association has initiated a dialogue with the Government on
policy, institutional and administrative issues as well as on the
recommendations made in the joint evaluation report. Government would have
to act on key issues before a third phase could be included in the lending
program.
1/  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress on projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.
2/ Net of cancellations, an amount of US$4.0 million was cancelled on
December 30, 1980, since the total amount of the credit could not be
utilized.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 16
- 33 -
Credit No. 537-KE3 - Group Farm Rehabilitation Project: US$7.5 million
Credit of March 26, 1975; Effective Date: September 30, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
The progress of rehabilitation of existing project farms has
encountered a variety of legal, social, political and financial problems.
Despite Droject efforts to recruit qualified farm managers, most of the farms
continue to suffer from inadequate financial and operational management.
Rehabilitation of a few farms, particularly coffee estates, seems to be
proceeding satisfactorily as the majority of project farm group owners would
like to subdivide. To date they have been constrained by large debts for
common assets and by the absence of a clear Government policy and guidelines
on legal subdivision of group farms.   As part of the Second Structural
Adjustment Program (Loan 2190-KE/Credit 1276-KE), the Government intends to
review thie implications of sub-division for the areas concerned, and prepare
a project to rationalize existing subdivision and provide agricultural
services. In the interim, recruitment of additional farms has stopped, and
the total loan amount (US$7.5 million) has been cancelled at the Government's
request.
Loan No. 1389-KE - South Nyanza Sugar Project: US$25.0 million Loan
of April 15, 1977; Effective Date: November 3, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
The sugar factory is in operation, agricultural development has
advanced well and nucleus estate development is complete including drainage.
1981 production of cane, particularly from outgrowers, was well below
management estimates, due to lower cane yields, and a smaller area available
for harvest. A research program is being drawn up to identify reasons for
low yields. All civil works are virtually completed, work on minor roads is
improving and major road works are proceeding satisfactorily. Certain
weaknesses in project management, particularly cane handling and transport,
have become apparent, and consultants are being employed to rectify this
problem. Although statutory sugar prices were changed for the second time in
a year in December 1981, SONY (the Project entity) is experiencing serious
financial difficulties. These are attributable to unrealistic pricing
policies, lower throughput, and SONY's high fixed costs and debt service
obligations. SONY has requested an immediate cash injection from Government,
who is presently considering a special financial rescue program.
Loan No. 1449-KE/Credit No. 722-KE - Bura Irrigation Settlement Project:
US$34.0 million Loan and US$6.0 million Credit of June 22, 1978;
Effective Date: June 27, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Despite a slow start-up, project implementation is proceeding
adequately. Irrigation works and field development are being implemented
satisfactorily. Over 1,000 settlers are on the scheme and some 700 ha was
planted to cotton in 1982. Accounting is poor and audit reports much
delayed. Bids for management technical assistance are being evaluated and
the management team should be on site within a few months. Settler housing
3/  Loan No. 1093-KE, US$7.5 million, was cancelled on May 11, 1981,
retroactive to November 30, 1980, at Government request.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 16
- 34 -
has been of poor quality and behind schedule, which is being rectified by a
switch to contract from force account construction. The settlement program
is being handled adequately, but provision of health and social services
requires urgent attention. Likely poor financial returns to project
production will create problems for NIB in determining appropriate levels of
cost recovery. The major constraint to implementation is now likely to be
finance, with a financing gap that is very large and inadequate Government
investment budget allocation. Government proposals on choice of cotton
variety threaten to reduce project benefits drastically. At bank request
Government is undertaking a review of the whole project in the light of the
financial constraint and is re-examining the cotton variety issue.
Loan No. 1636-KE - Sugar Rehabilitation Project: U$72.0 million
Loan of December 20, 1978; Effective Date: September 20, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Implementation of this Project is facing a serious problem. The
Government has indicated reluctance to sign the Subsidiary Financing
Agreements for two of the three factories to be rehabilitated under the
Project. Following the Government's request, the Bank is awaiting agreement
by the Associated Sugar Company, Limited (owner of the Ramisi factory) before
cancelling the US$23.0 million of the loan. Developments in these project
areas are in suspense since the companies have not given evidence that they
have a viable financing plan and since the Government has not provided
detailed plans for the complementary field and infrastructural development.
Rehabilitation of the third factory has been held up by delays in the
recruitment of consultants; serious cost over-runs are expected. Low prices
have led to a drop in cane supply.  In spite of the economic difficulties
facing the sugar production sector, investments in new factories are being
projected.  A study to review sugar marketing prospects has recently been
completed, and will form the basis for Government policy in the sugar
sector. Appropriate changes in project scope and design are being discussed
with the Bank.
Credit No. 858-KE - Narok Agricultural Development Project: US$13.0
million Credit of December 20, 1978; Effective Date: June 28, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
In late 1980 it became obvious that the original project concept of
extending credit to resident Masai to finance purchases of farm machinery for
wheat production, could not be substantially met in the remaining years of
the project. The Masai continue to prefer to hire tractor and combine
services, or to contract all production activities. Government and the Bank
discussed means of achieving the production objectives of the project without
detriment to the social objectives of developing Masai lands, and concluded
that expansion of the feeder road component of the project would satisfy
these objectives. Project funds have been reallocated from the credit
component to the feeder road component. The project has experienced delays
in recruiting consultants to carry out studies Tonitoring project
performance, and has also suffered from poor budgetary management.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 16
- 35 -
Credit No. 914-KE -- Smalilolder Coffee Improvement Project:  US$27.0
million Credit of June 1i, 1979; Effective Date: April 3, 1980;
Ciosing Date:  March 31, 1984
Progress in obtainirng principal project activities has further
decelerated and is now constrained by serious financial and management
problems. The provision of technical assistance to enable the Cooperative
Bank of Kenya (CBK) to review factory appraisal reports and to improve the
technical appraisals of che field staff of the Ministry of Agriculture
appears to be of crucial importance.  Discussions are being held with the
Treasurv for the appropriate amendments in the Loan Agreements to include a
category of Technical Assistance. CBK recognizes that the project's
managerial arrangements should be recast and plans are being prepared. The
major project problems are under active review by the involved agencies, but
financial and technical difficulties are expected to prevail in the near
future. It was agreed at the CIR in late September that every possible
effort should be made to accelerate the implementation of the project and
that the project would be reviewed again prior to the next CIR in about six
months.  A decision on whether or not to e-xtend the Closing Date will be made
at that time.
Credit No. 962-KE - Baringo Semi-Arid Areas Project: US$6.5 million
Credit of March 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 10, 1980; Closing
Date:  October 31, 1984
Project implementation started out favorably. The project team of
expatriate and local technicians launched a number of experiments in dry-land
and irrgated farming, soil conservation and water harvesting, and range
management. Project demonstrations attracted local interest, and
participation of area residents in project activities has increased. In the
last year, however, there has been a deterioration  in the project's
performance resulting from financing constraints, political pressures and
lack of direction in the livestock component, which have in turn adversely
affected staff performance and morale. Government allocations have
consistently been significantly below appraisal estimates. The situation has
improved somewhat in the last six months as a result of increased support
from  participating  ministries, new proposals for flows of funds to the
districts and the provision of a livestock specialist by the Australian
Government.
Credit 959-lBE - Second Integrated Agricultural Development Project:
US$46.0 million Credit of April 23, 1980; Effective Date: July 2, 1980;
Closing Date: April 30, 1986
The impact of the project on production and farmer incomes has fallen
short of expectations: the number of participants is less than expected and
drop-out rates are high.  This generally poor performance has resulted
primarily from the failure of the crop production component of the project
supported by credit. Farmer training and livestock components have
progressed adequately, as have some infrastructural components, although all
have been affected by suvere budtyet cuts.  Project problercs include late
delivery of credit, inadequate management of cooperatives, the inefficiencies
of the farm input delivery sysLem and inadequate crop marketing
arrangements. The Droject has also suffered from the inability to



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 16
- 36 -
effectively coordinate the many ministries and agencies involved in project
implementation. In September 1982 the Government and the Bank discussed a
proposal to disaggregate the IADP project into several projects along
ministerial lines. The Government and the Bank will jointly review on-going
activities in order to wind-down the project in an orderly manner;
uncommitted funds will be cancelled. The first project to emerge from the
restructured IADP is the National Extension Project, for which a follow-up
appraisal mission is scheduled in February 1982.
Credit No. 1051-KE - Fisheries Development Project: US$10.0 million
Credit of July 14, 1980; Effective Date: October 9, 1980; Closing
Date: September 30, 1987
Project implementation has fallen behind the appraised schedule.
Delays and difficulties are related mainly to two factors: under-staffing
and Project complexity relative to Project management capabilities and
resources. In light of these delays and changes in the fishing industry
since appraisal in 1979, supervision missions have recommended certain
modifications in Project scope, phasing and staffing. A simplification and
scaling down of the ice-production and fish marketing component of the
Project has been agreed. This will require a reassessment of the minimum
economic ice-making/transport capacity required for a pilot effort; the
Government has agreed to engage consultants to carry out this study. The
Government has been urged to complete the essential staffing positions and
consider further reductions in Project scope if staffing constraints
persist. Several additional technical assistants have been recommended in
the areas of reproduction and marketing and boat building.
Loan No. 1995-KE/Credit No. 1143-KE: Fourth Agricultural Credit
Project of May 19, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
important steps have already been taken by AFC management to
strengthen financial management and branch credit operations. The present
institutional and financial weaknesses of AFC will require a commitment to
staff development of AFC, greater financial control, and enforcement of loan
repayment. These problem areas are the express focus of the Project's
institution-building assistance. The first Annual Plan has been submitted
for World Bank review and approval in September 1982, and it was agreed
between Bank staff and AFC management that the requirements for the first
Annual Plan should be simplified in view of the expected limitations of the
newly-established Corporate Planning Department during the first year. A
technical assistance contract was signed in late June with the SGC-Group to
provide four specialists in areas of corporate planning, accounting, data
processing and personnel management. Local Project staffing is proceeding
rapidly: the AFC branches, 14 new Loan Officers have been recruited along
with 30 Assistant Accountants; both groups of recruits have been given
special training.
Loan No. 2098-KE/Credit No. 1213-KE: Third Forestry Project:
US$21.5 million Loan and US$16.0 million Credit of March 2, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
Loan/Credit not yet effective.



ANNEX Il
Page 8 of 16
- 37 -
Credit No, 1277-KE: Agricultural Technical Assistance Project;
US$6.0 Million Credit of July 21, 1982; Closing Date: December 31,
1985:
This project supports the Second Structural Adjustment Program for
the agricultural sector through provision of technical assistance. An
advisor on budget and financial management has been recruited for the
Ministries of Agricultural and Livestock Development. The on-going Budget
Task Force has been effective in addressing budgeting problems, and a pilot
microprocessor program in the ministry has contributed to more effective
budgeting. Recruitment of consultants for a major grain marketing and
pricing study, which will form the basis for policy reforms, has been
delayed, but is underway. The Kenya Rangeland Ecological Monitoring Unit
(KREMU) has recently begun a land-use mapping exercise under the Project.
EDUCATION SECTOR
Loan No. 1184-KE - Third Education Project: US$10.0 million Loan
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 17, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The Closing Date of the project has been postponed by 18 months
from June 1982. Overall complbtion of the project has reached about 70%.
Revised estimates of total project cost amount to KSh 169.1 million, an
increase of 24% in terms of local currency. A revised financial plan for the
extended implementation period indicates a shortfall of the Government's
counterpart funds. Discussions on the subject are underway. Credit funds
for technical assistance and fellowships have been utilized only about 20%.
The needs for continued expert services (at EMS and KNEC) and additional
fellowships (at EMS) are being reviewed in relation to the revised financial
plan. The strengthening of the staffing of the PIU, provided under the fifth
education project, was reviewed and agreed upon by both the Government and a
an EAPED supervision mission in May 1982. This is expected to inprove
management of implementation activities.
Credit No. 797-KE - Fourth Education Project: U$23.0 million Credit of
June 7, 1978; Effective Date: August 25, 1978; Closing Date: December
31, 1984
The Closing Date of the project has been postponed by two years to
December 31, 1984. To offset cost over-runs which reached about 28% in civil
works in terms of local currency, the Government and the Bank have agreed to
delete 7 of the 13 Nomadic Primary Schools and requested a postponement of
the Closing Date by two years to complete the project in its reduced scope.
The Technical Assistance program as well as the pursuance of educational
objectives under the Credit are proceeding satisfactorily. Management of the
project implementation is expected to improve following the appointments of
key personnel in the PIU provided under the fifth education project.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 16
- 38S -
Credit No. 1107-KE - Fifth Education Project:  US$40.04 million Credit
of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 30, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1986
Start-up activities which began with funding under a Project
Preparation Facility are progressing with designs completed for all civil
works components. Procurement of equipment and furniture has not commenced
except one vehicle for KESI, and no technical assistance has been utilized
yet. The fellowship program, started with funding under the PPF, is underway
with six staff members of the Kenya Education Staff Institute having
completed short courses in the United Kingdom. One other long-term
fellowship has been awarded and selection procedures are well underway for
others. DANIDA has re-evaluated their role as a cofinancier and is now
prepared to assist in expediting curriculum development for the ITCs (Mombasa
and Kisumu). The work program and budget on pre-investment study on business
education have been approved and the work started. In order to facilitate
coordination of the project, representatives of the ministries participating
in the project have been appointed. To strengthen the PIU the Government
agreed to appoint a Deputy Director, a Senior Project Accountant, a Senior
Procurement Officer, and a Project Architect. All officers have been
appointed to this date. The PIU, thus strengthened, is expected to be able
to obtain the maximum utilization of the inter-ministerial representatives
for improved coordination of the projects.
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1520-KE - Second Nairobi Water Supply Project: US$30.0
million Loan of March 27, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
All major project components should be completed by about March
1984 (27 months behind schedule) while construction of some secondary
distribution pipelines may continue to the end of 1984. A major cause of the
delays has been weak project administration by the City Council of Nairobi
(NCC), the Borrower, and steps are being taken to strengthen NCC's capacity
for managing the project. Most supply contracts financed by other donors and
the construction contracts being financed by the Bank now have been awarded.
Good progress is being made on detailed design and tendering for the
remaining contracts. Bid prices to date have been favorable, but due largely
to the delays there is an estimated increase of 40% in local currency costs
and 12% in total costs. The financial performance of the water supply and
sewerage operations has been good. However, NCC's overall financial
condition has seriously deteriorated over the past two years and it has been
necessary to use funds generated from water supply and sewerage operations to
finance NCC's other expenditures. If these funds are not repaid, the
Government may have to provide finances to complete the project.  The Bank
has taken up this problem with the Government.
4/ IDA Credit US$40 Million equivalent SDR 31.4 million at time of
negotiations.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 16
- 39 -
Loan No. 1637-KE - Rural Water Supply Project: US$20.0 million
Loan of December 20, 1978; Effective Date: January 24, 1980;
Closing Date: July 1, 1985
The Ministry of Water Development (MWD) proposes to reduce the
scope of the project to 24 sub-projects from the originally proposed 33.
Some sub-projects have been combined with others, some areas are to be served
from existing systems and some sub-projects have been deferred to later
programs in order to accomplish this reduction in scope and to maintain the
project cost within the appraisal estimate. The project is about two years
behind schedule but the preparatory studies and designs are now well
underway. Training is progressing, procurement of vehicles is proceeding and
an acceptable water tariff structure has been reestablished.
TRANSPORT SECTOR
Loan No. 1305-KE/Credit No. 651-KE - Rural Access Roads Projects:
US$4.0 million Loan and US$4.0 million Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective
Date: October 7, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project is about two years behind schedule due to
administration and procurement problems which initially delayed establishment
of construction units. All eight Bank-financed construction units are fully
equipped, satisfactorily staffed and are now operational since these problems
were resolved in 1978. By August 15, 1982, 1,298 KM of access roads had been
constructed or 298 KM more than originally planned. The gravelling
operation was slow in starting because of delays in delivery of tractors and
trailers, the output was low due to the labor shortage until 1980, inadequate
planning, organization and supervision. As a result only 424 km of roads had
been gravelled by August 15, 1982, and present gravelling backlog of 874 km
is considered as the major problem. The Government has taken several steps
to improve gravelling and is considering further action to clear the
backlog. The road construction cost is within appraisal estimates. The
project completion depends on gravelling output, which will require about two
more years to complete on the roads already constructed.
Loan No. 1684-KE - Highway Sector Project: US$90.0 million Loan
of April 30, 1979; Effective Date:  June 18, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
Implementation of the Covernment's 5-year Highway Sector Plan
(1979-83) has been delayed by about one year because a critical shortage of
funds has caused a reduction by about 28% in the highway work program during
FY1979-82. This reduction has affected the project implementation which is
presently about 18 months behind schedule. The four contracts for
construction of the Uplands-Limuru (11 km), Naivasha-Nakuru (56 km), MLau
Summit-Kisutmu (136 km) and Nakuru-Timboroa (81 kr.i) roads were signed.  The
Uplands-Limuru Road has been completed and is currently under contractor
maintenance, while construction works on the remaining three roads are in
progress. The tenders for two subprojects, Thika-Nairobi (39 km) and
Longonot-Uplands (27 km) have been received and evaluated, and the contract
award is expected by end-1982. With these commitments, project completion is
expected by mid-1985 as originally scheduled. Implementation of the road
maintenance program is also slower than originally anticipated due to the



ANNEX II
Page  11 of 16
- 40 -
financial constraints. Road maintenance budgetary allocations for FY83 are
about 40% below actual requirements, therefore resealing and regravelling
operations are slower than projected. Routine maintenance is generally poor
due to the lack of funds, inadequate planning, programming and supervision
resulting in low utilization of existing resources, particularly equipment
and manpower.
Loan 1976-KE - Railways Project: US$58.0 million Loan of May 7, 1981;
Effective Date: September 3, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This Loan became effective on Septemb r 3, 1981, following the
receipt of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and Kenya
Railway. Crown Agents have been appointed as agents for the Kenya Railways
Corporation (KRC) and procurement is now underway. From an operations point
of view, KRC is slightly above the targets set at appraisal. From a
financial viewpoint the operating surplus, before provision for depreciation
and interest, showed an increase in 1981 of approximately 50% over the prior
year. The case flow was positive during FY81 resulting in an improvement in
the cash position from KSh 7.0 million to KSh 76.0 million.  While this is a
great improvement further gains must be made to insure KR's ability to cover
its future debt service.
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 1799-KF - Olkaria Geothermal Power Project: US$40.0 million
Loan of April 25, 1980; Effective Date: November 18, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
This Loan includes the US$9.0 million for the Olkaria Geothermal
Engineering Loan (S-12-KE), refinanced under this project. Progress under
the loan has been satisfactory. The first 15-MW unit was placed into
commercial service in August 1981, one month later than scheduled, and the
second 15-MW unit in December 1982, 3 months ahead of schedule.
ENERGY SECTOR
Loan No. 2065-KE - Petroleum Exploration Project: UD$4.0 million
Loan of December 8, 1981; Effective Date: January 27, 1982; Closing
Date: August 31, 1985
The Loan became effective January 27, 1982. The aeromagnetic
survey, i.e. the most important project component, was completed August 16,
1982. The promotion report prepared by the exploration consultants for the
Eastern part of Kenya has been sold to 17 companies. Bids for blocks in this
area were opened October 1, 1982, and exploration offers for two blocks were
submitted by two companies, while a further two oil companies have indicated
their intention to submit bids shortly.



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 16
- 41 -
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Credit No. 750-KE - Small Scale Industry Project: US$10.0 million
Credit of November 28, 1977; Effective Date: June 26, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The Closing Date of the project has been postponed by 12 months
from December 1982. Implementation of this project is behind appraisal
schedule. KIE has recruited a new finance manager, but it needs to (a)
revise and adopt a realistic operational plan; (b) continue to improve the
arrears collection program; and (c) tighten the project selection and
approval criteria to improve the quality of projects it finances.  As of
September 30, 1982, US$6.1 million had been committed for 127 subloans and
some technical assistance, but only US$2.2 million had been disbursed. About
40% of the commitments were for eleven subprojects above the free limit, with
the remainder allcoated to small free-limit subprojects.
Loan No. 1817-KE - Fourth Industrial Development Bank Project: US$30.0
million Loan of June 16, 1980; Effective Date:   August 21, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Fourteen subprojects have been approved under the Loan to date. As
at September 30, 1982, US$15.2 million had been committed and US$4.5 million
had been disbursed. Project implementation suffered because of management
problems, deterioration in quality of appraisal and supervision, local
currency resource constraints and problems in the industrial sector. Recent
financial performance has deteriorated sharply. These inadequacies were
conveyed to IDB and IDB has recently taken a number of positive decisions
which may result in improvements.
TECHINICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 1045-KE - Export Promotion Technical Assistance Project:
US$4.5 million Credit of July 14, 1980; Effective Date: October 15,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The Project Approval Committee established under this project has
now approved three proposals to study fluorspar, diatomite and chinchona
bark processing. These submissions are now being reviewed by Bank staff.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
Loan No. 1680-KE - First Telecommunications Project: US$20.0 million
Loan of April 11, 1979; Effective Date: August 16, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
The Project is now progressing satisfactorily. Contracts for all
Bank-financed goods have been signed. Total loan disbursements as of
September 30, 1982, amount to about US$12.2 million. Initial delays in
procurement of goods are likely to cause about a year's delay in project
completion. Kenya Posts and Telecommunications Corporation (KPTC) has
completed the installation of a total of 1,050 lines of extension equipment
in eight manual



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 16
- 42 -
exchanges using its own funds.  The balance of a total of 480 lines in four
exchanges is expected to be inservice in 1982. KPTC has also installed
17,500 (out of about 62,000) lines of automatic exchange lines, and has
commissioned microwave radio equipment to complete the Pan African
Telecommunications Network (Phase III).
Loan 2155-KE - Second Telecommuncations Project: US$44.7 million
Loan of August 27, 1982: Effective Date: October 13, 1982; Closing
Date: September 30, 1987.
Kenya Posts and Telecommunications Corporation (KPTC) bid award
recommendations for a total of about US$19.9 million have been reviewed by
the Bank and KPTC is now engaged in the finalization of the contracts. The
closing date of the only bid pending for Bank financed goods was end October
1982.
URBAN SECTOR
Loan No. 1105-KE/Credit No. 543-KE - Sites and Services Project:
US$8.0 million Loan and US$8.0 million Credit of May 6, 1975;
Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The closing date of the loan has been formally extended from June
30, 1982. The project is essentially complete, construction of
infrastructure for 6,013 plots have been finalized in all areas and with the
maintenance period for Area 4, the last area, due to expire in December
1982. Disbursements to September 30, 1982 were US$14.1 miillion. The Housing
Development Department has recommended changes in the administration of
materials loans to improve speed of take-up by the remaining allottees. The
Board has approved these changes, and its it felt that disbursements for this
project should now be essentially completed in early 1983.
Loan No. 1550-KE/Credit No. 791-KE - Second Urban Project: US$25.0
million Loan and US$25.0 million Credit of May 75, 1978; Effective Date:
October 3, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project is over two years behind schedule and this is reflected
in slow disbursements. However, most of the civil works contracts have now
been tendered. As a result, disbursements have already picked up somewhat.
Total disbursements to September 30, 1982 were US$5.8 million. Shortage of
technical staff remains a problem which does not appear to have any easy
solution. Both Nairobi and Mombasa have introduced new valuation rolls which
are expected to improve their long-term financial viability significantly.
Nevertheless, Nairobi is facing a short-term liquidity problem of a
potentially serious nature, and this is being monitored carefully by Bank
staff.  The project is proposed to be restructured as a result of a mission
scheduled for January/February 1983.



- 43 -                      ANNEX II
Page 14 of 16
WILDLIFE AND TOURISM
Loan No. 1304-T-KE - Wildlife and Tourism Project: US$17.0 million
Loan of July 9, 1976; Effective Date: November 10, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984
After initial delays, project implementation is accelerating.
Officers for the Project Management Unit have been appointed, and six key
Wildlife Planning Unit positions have been filled. All physical components
of the project are under construction and nearing completion with the
exception of the Naivasha Training Institute, which is not expected to be
completed before approximately October 1983. The delay is due mainly to the
late appointment of consulting architects and slow performance by the
contractors. The Tourism Pricing Study and the Very Large Herbivores Study
have been completed, and recommendations contained in these two studies are
under review by the Government. The anti-poaching units are fully staffed
and deployed, and initial effectiveness of the units appears satisfactory.
while satisfactory arrangements have been made for payments of returns from
wildlife to ranchers in project areas, Government has been unable so far to
complete negotiations with County Councils regarding management of national
reserves as foreseen under the loan. Alternative proposals have been worked
out by Government and will be submitted to the Bank shortly. A postponement
of the closing date by about two years will be required in order to allow the
completion of the construction of the Naivasha Institute and for the further
financing of the operations of road construction units established under the
project, which commenced only recently. The Closing Date of the project was
extended by 18 months from December 31, 1982.
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT
Loan 2190-KE/Credit No. 1276-KE - Second Structural Adjustment
Program: US$60.9 million Loan and US$70.0 million Credit of
July 1, 1982; Date of Effectiveness: August 27, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983.
The first tranche of US$80 million equivalent has been disbursed.
Disbursement of the second tranche scheduled for March 1983, contingent upon
a number of actions to be taken by the Government, is likely to be
postponed. The grain marketing study was not completed by December 31, 1982,
as agreed, due to delays in hiring consultants.
EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY
There are currently two projects in execution in the East African
Community.5
5/ Since October 1, 1977, the East African Community loans (excluding the
East African Development Bank) have been disbursed on the basis of
separate national guarantees. The agreed allocation of the undisbursed
balances for each loan, as proposed in a report to the Executive
Directors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and approved on January 12,
1978, is given in this Annex. The Closing Dates for Loans 638-EA,
865-EA, 914-EA and 1204-EA have passed. However, since the amount
allocated to and guaranteed by each Partner State is clearly identified
under the terms of the agreement signed on January 25, 1978, as proposed
in the above report (R77-312), we are continuing disbursements.



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 16
- 44 -
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Project: US$35.0 million Loan
of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness: December 26, 1969;
Closing Date: November 10, 1982
Loan No. 865-EA - Third Harbours Project: US$26.5 million Loan of
December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness:  April 16, 1973;
Closing Date: November 10, 1982
Since there were no eligible withdrawal applications outstanding
and since the works to be carried out under the projects were essentially
completed about four years ago, a telex dated November 10, 1982, was sent to
the Ministry of Finance in Kenya, and to the appropriate officials in
Tanzania and Uganda informing them that the loan accounts for the two
projects have been closed and that the remaining balances (US$516,897.23 in
Loan 638-EA and US$349,884.28 in Loan 865-EA) have been cancelled.
Loan No. 914-EA - Third Telecommunications Project: US$32.5 million
Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness: September 19, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project included provision for procurement of local telephone
exchange equipment, cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and UHF/VHF
systems and multiplex equipment, interurban cables and wires, automatic
switching and signalling equipment, telegraph, telex and data equipment, and
training. The slippage in the project's completion was due to initial delays
in procurement caused by staffing and other problems associated with the
relocation of headquarters. About US$32.5 million of the loan has now been
disbursed.
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: US$15.0 million
Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: June 7, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
The Loan is fully committed and disbursements were completed by the
Closing Date of June 30, 1982. The economic difficulties of the three
countries in which EADB operates has had a negative impact on EADB's
portfolio. Helping clients to service their debts, therefore, continues to
be EADB's priority.



ANNEX II
Page 16 of 16
- 45 -
D. Statement of IFC Investment in Kenya as at
September 30, 1982
Fiscal Year       Obligor               Type of Business   Amount in US$ Million
Loan   Equity   Total
1967, 1968,
and 1973       Kenya Hotel Properties   Hotels                 5.2     0.7       5.9
1970, 1974,
1977, 1979
and 1981       Pan African Paper Mills  Pulp and Paper   22.2          6.3      28.5
1972           Tourism Promotion
Services                  Hotels              2.4       -        2.4
1976           Rift Valley Textiles
Ltd.                      Textiles            6.3      2.8       9.1
1977           Kenya Commercial Bank
Ltd.                      Capital Market    2.0         -        2.0
1980           Development Finance        Development
Company of Kenya Ltd.    Finance               -       1.3       1.3
1981           Kenya Commercial           Money & Capital
Finance                    Market             5.0       -        5.0
1982           Bamburi Portland           Cement &            4.4       -        4.4
Cement Co., Ltd.           Construction
Material
1982           Diamond Trust of           Money & Capital
Kenya Limited              Market              -       1.0       1.0
1982           Industrial Promotion       Money & Capital
Services (Kenya) Ltd.    Market                -       0.7       0.7
Total Gross Commitments                    47.5    12.8      60.3
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                     15.1     1.9      17.0
Total Commitments now held by IFC          32.4    10.9      43.3
Total Undisbursed                           8.9      1.6      10.5



- 46 -                          Annex III
KENYA:  OLKARIA GEOTHERMAL POWER EXPANSION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)   Time taken by the country to
prepare the project:                  8 months.
(b)   Agency which prepared project:        KPC with assistance from external
consultants.
(c)   Project first presented to Bank:   July, 1981.
(d)   First Bank mission to review
project:                             November, 1981.
(e)   Departure of appraisal mission:    February, 1982.
(f)   Completion of negotiations:           December, 1982.
(g)   Planned date of effectiveness:        May, 1983.
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)   As a condition of effectiveness, the conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the CDC and EIB loan agreements with KPC to be
fulfilled (Loan Agreement, Section 7.01; paras. 61 and 77 of this
Report).
(b)   KPC would engage qualified and experienced consultants to prepare by
December 31, 1983, a study covering the potential for further
geothermal power generation at the Olkaria site and EAP&L would
engage qualified and experienced consultants to prepare by October
30, 1984, a revised medium to long term least-cost power investment
program and follow-up detailed feasibility study for the recommended
subsequent power project (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02; Project
Agreement, Section 2.02; para. 58 of this Report).
(c)   A program for the merger of KPC and TRDC would be drawn up (Loan
Agreement, Section 4.07; para. 41 of this Report).



P B R D  16389 R
I 36°                                                                          40°                           JULY  1982
S U D A N                                                                                               K E N YA
OLKARIA GEOTHERMAL POWER
/  '-   -<                                              EXPANSION PROJECT
\   Lod,,ar o                                                                                                       /
\                     /> ~~~~~~O El Mo- Cam
'I~~~~~~~~~N 10 ':                                                                                          ~
° Marsabit|
\PRO0POSED
Z       j      ru~~~RKWEL
/ ~ ~~~~~~ /ROE/
EKitale                                 oCHabasweinamp
Too                           R  I F  Ti
r          ~     ~~~~~ oE Idoret     ,                                 -
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
T    009usta   w9, ~~~V  A  l  L  E  Y                          o Isiolo'                                                
.J   -   i;   ivK ek~~~~~~Ny huur                            Nahuuu
Mase.00',,,                        A 9          0~~~~~~~~~~~ Mrsbi
Kr Masnoo                 Mol __IrNS anyuki   _°Meru                                  _IO
>    Ksuur  )       olooW             MOUtT  KENYAi--j 
Sond                                     Nyri Fu  'PROSED  KiMBR                                    Garissa
z                                R HoOS ED                , Z          MasEC
o Kitaeg0Habemei
A                  iteinoG\ itak Mru  Kin dar0m
-"~~~~~~~~01<isii~POPSDKIMER                                                     Gais
~~Homa Bay                                     Embu~~~~~~Wnr  a  PurOu C 
Nlaivasha                 a Msic
s  Kiambu               u a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lm
-   -  \  N A I R 0 B I                                                 0 r    Hola              a
/V ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~  
~~~~/   \   <                 \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LBr u
-  ,   \.   -   X           \                            <            *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A o  s Vlanda Is.,
Olkoria Oeothermol Field                                                                         a            -
A        Diesel  Power Stations                         \                                                                         ,
*        Steom  Power Stations                              \                    R                          - '
*         lHydro Power Stations                                           Voi                               Malindi
*        Hydro Power Stations lFuture)
*O--------- * 220 kV Transmission line(LnderConstruction)        b'                b,
*.---------- / 132 kV Trcnsmission line(Under Construction)     Wod IaStsstaff eStSt,f fS,              /
_   -..-----    '32 kV  Transmission line(Existing)                            -d -eSeOtaoSoSatd he  Mariakani pevu                 I   I C A 
j~ |-    @   o      66 kV  Transmission ond dlstribut on ines          do WotP,C on tfho otf hw               Mombasa    \4-
,oogrtonr on the Cegat Sf0tOO of
e          - e   33 kV DistriLbulon rines                        d.'th"'ttt'hottfttettdOSe,ttfof "'N
20    0    20   40   60   8O  100 Mi.                                           /          ;OS               40 
36°                                                                         I



