jILOAN NUMBER 2237 KE
Project Agreement
(Olkaria Geothermal Power Expansion Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
THE EAST AFRICAN POWER
AND LIGHTING COMPANY, LIMITED
Dated                  2-1983


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2237 KE
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  >22-                        , 1983, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and THE EAST AFRICAN POWER AND LIGHTING
COMPANY, LIMITED (hereinafter called EAP&L).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
The Kenya Power Company Limited (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to twelve
million dollars ($12,000,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that EAP&L
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are here-
inafter set forth;
WHEREAS EAP&L, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. EAP&L shall carry out Part B.2 of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and public utility practices.
Section 2.02. (a) In order to assist EAP&L in the execution
of the study under Part B.2 of the Project, EAP&L shall employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, such con-


﻿- 2 -
sultants to be selected in accordance with principles and proce-
dures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981.
(b) The consultants referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section shall be employed by September 1, 1983 at the latest. The
study to be carried out by said consultants shall be completed by
October 31, 1984.
Section 2.03. (a) EAP&L shall furnish to the Bank for its
review and comment, promptly upon its preparation, the study
carried out under Part B.2 of the Project and any documents per-
taining thereto, and any material modifications thereof or addi-
tions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) EAP&L: (i) shall maintain records and procedures ade-
quate to record and monitor the progress of Part B.2 of the Proj-
ect (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it);
and (ii) shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the
Bank shall reasonably request concerning Part B.2 of the Project,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan allocated thereto and
the services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by EAP&L of any contract for services to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank may publish
a description thereof, the name and nationality of the party to
whom the contract was awarded and the contract price.
Section 2.04. (a) EAP&L shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Part
B.2 of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) EAP&L shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
Part B.2 of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Loan, or the performance by EAP&L of its obligations under
this Agreement.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of EAP&L
Section 3.01. EAP&L shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial and public utility practices under the supervision
of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent
staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. EAP&L shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time
to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and public utility practices.
Section 3.03. EAP&L shall take out and maintain with re-
sponsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate public utility practices.
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
EAP&L shall not sell or otherwise dispose of any of its property
or assets other than in the ordinary course of business.
Section 3.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
EAP&L shall not take or concur in any action which would have the
effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Manage-
ment Agreement or any provision thereof, and shall maintain the
Management Agreement in force at least until the completion of
the Project.
Section 3.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree: (i)
EAP&L shall not amend its Memorandum and Articles of Association
in any material respect; and (ii) EAP&L shall at all times maint-
ain its corporate existence and right to conduct its operations
and shall take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew
all rights, powers, privileges, licenses, concessions and fran-
chises which are necessary in the conduct of such operations.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
EAP&L shall take all necessary steps within its power (including


﻿but not limited to adjustments to its tariffs for electrical
energy) as shall be required to provide EAP&L, together with the
Borrower and TRDC, with consolidated net operating income to
yield a rate of return on the value of their combined net fixed
assets in operation of not less than 8% per year.
(b) For the purposes of this Section 4.01:
(i) The annual rate of return shall be calculated by
relating the consolidated net operating income of
EAP&L, the Borrower and TRDC for the year in ques-
tion to the average of the value of the net fixed
assets in operation of EAP&L, the Borrower and
TRDC at the beginning and at the end of that year.
(ii) The term "value of the net fixed assets in opera-
tion" shall mean the gross book value of fixed
assets used for electric utility operations, in-
cluding any buildings primarily used as offices
for electric utility operations, less the amount
of accumulated depreciation thereon computed under
Section 47 (1) (d) (ii) of the Electric Power Act
and any amount contributed by customers for assets
in operation, such gross book value of fixed
assets used for electric utility operations and
accumulated depreciation applicable thereto, to be
revalued annually on the basis of a price index
system satisfactory to the Bank and EAP&L, which
shall take into account the fluctuations in the
replacement values of those assets as well as the
fluctuations in the value of Kenya Shillings.
(iii) The term "net operating income" shall mean the
difference between:
(A) gross revenues from electric utility opera-
tions, including rents from buildings pri-
marily used as offices for electric utility
operations excluding interest on investment
and other income applicable to operation or
activities which are not electric utility in
character; and
(B) the expenses related to electric utility
operations including:


﻿-5-
(1) operation, maintenance, purchased power
and administration expenses;
(2)  the costs of experimental and general
research work for the electric utility
industry and of preliminary surveys,
plans and investigations of utility
projects which do not prove to be feasi-
ble and are abandoned;
(3)  taxes, including income taxes related to
net operating income; and
(4)  the allowance for depreciation, at rates
prescribed or approved under Section 47
(1) (d) (ii) of the Electric Power Act,
applied to the gross book value of fixed
assets as revalued pursuant to paragraph
(b) (ii) of this Section 4.01.
Intercompany transactions among EAP&L, the Bor-
rower and TRDC shall not be taken into account in
calculating   the  amount   of  consolidated   "net
operating income".
(iv) Interest and other charges on debt are not to be
deducted as expenses under paragraph (b) (iii) (B)
of this Section 4.01, but the amount of such
charges related to electric utility operations
shall be taken into account in calculating the
amount of "income taxes related to net operating
income" under such paragraph.
(v) If the Guarantor makes payment to EAP&L for rural
electrification projects, then any such payments
to:
(A) cover all or part of the capital cost of such
projects shall be considered "amounts contri-
buted by customers" under paragraph (b) (ii)
of this Section 4.01; and
(B) indemnify   operating  losses   shall  be  con-
sidered part of "gross revenues" under para-
graph (b) (iii) (A) of this Section 4.01. For
the purposes of this subparagraph, the term


﻿-6-
"operating losses" means amounts by which the
expenses of operating such projects, includ-
ing the allocable costs of generation, trans-
mission and administration as well as direct
costs of operation, and excluding deprecia-
tion which is not charged on amounts contri-
buted by customers, exceed the revenues
collected from customers served by such proj-
ects.
Section 4.02. (a) In order to assist in the financing of the
Project, EAP&L shall pay to the Borrower, as part of the cost at
which EAP&L purchases electrical energy from the Borrower during
the construction period of the Project, a development surcharge
at a rate of two Kenya cents per kilowatt hour, which shall be
used to finance the Project.
(b) Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions
of paragraph (a) hereof, EAP&L shall, whenever there is reason-
able cause to believe that the total amount of the development
surcharge and other local currency resources available to the
Borrower will be inadequate to meet the local currency cost of
the Project, provide additional funds to meet such costs up to an
amount which, when added to the combined net operating income of
the Borrower and TRDC, would yield an annual rate of return of 8%
on the net fixed assets of the Borrower and TRDC taken together.
(c)  For purposes of this Section 4.02, the annual rate of
return for the Borrower and TRDC shall be calculated by relating
the combined net operating income of the Borrower and TRDC for
the year in question to the average of the value of the combined
net fixed assets in operation of the Borrower and TRDC at the
beginning and the end of that year. Subparagraphs (ii), (iii),
(iv) and (v) of Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement shall be
applicable for the purposes of this Section.
Section 4.03. (a) EAP&L shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound account-
ing practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)   Without limitation or restriction of its obligations
under paragraph (a) of this Section, EAP&L shall prepare and
maintain its accounts on a depreciation'accounting basis.
(c)   EAP&L shall prepare pro forma statements combining
EAP&L's financial statements with those of the Borrower and TRDC,


﻿- 7 -
which pro forma statements shall: (i) exclude inter-company pay-
ments or items not affecting the consolidated net income or
equity capital of EAP&L, the Borrower and TRDC; and (ii) identify
the portion of said net income and equity capital allocable to
EAP&L, the Borrower and TRDC.
(d)   EAP&L shall: (i) have its individual accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses, statements of sources and application of funds and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by indepen-
dent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as
soon as available, but in any case not later than six months
after the end of such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such
other information concerning the said accounts and financial
statements and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(e) EAP&L shall furnish to the Bank, contemporaneously with
the submission of its audited individual accounts and financial
statements, the combined financial statements of EAP&L, the Bor-
rower and TRDC referred to in subparagraph (c) of this Section
and such other information concerning such statements as the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
EAP&L shall not incur any debt unless the consolidated net reve-
nue of the Power Companies for the twelve-month period ended
prior to the date of such incurrence, shall not be less than 1.5
times the maximum consolidated debt service requirements for any
succeeding fiscal year on all the debt of the Power Companies
including the debt to be incurred; provided, however, that if
this requirement is not met for a debt proposed to be incurred
for a project which has a construction period of four years or
longer from the date of incurrence of the debt to the expected
completion date, then EAP&L will consult the Bank before incurr-
ing any such debt and if a reasonable forecast shows that when
the project is completed and in operation the consolidated net
revenue of the Power Companies would be sufficient to meet this
requirement, then the Bank will agree to the incurrence of such
debt. For the purpose of this Section:


﻿-8-
(a)  the term "debt" means all debt, including debt assumed
or guaranteed by the Power Companies, jointly or individually,
except intercompany debt and debt incurred in the ordinary course
of business and maturing by its terms on demand or less than one
year after the incurrence thereof;
(b) the term "incur" with reference to any debt includes
any modification of the terms of payment of such debt. Debt shall
be deemed to be incurred on the date on which a contract or loan
agreement or guarantee is executed;
(c)  the term "consolidated net revenue" means the consoli-
dated gross revenue adjusted to take account of tariffs in effect
at the time of the incurrence of debt even though they were not
in effect during the entire financial year or twelve-month period
to which such revenue relates, less consolidated operating, main-
tenance and administration expenses and taxes, if any, but before
provision for depreciation and interest and other charges on debt
and excluding for the purposes of this paragraph intercompany
revenue and expenses; and
(d)  the term "debt service requirements" means the aggre-
gate amount of amortization (including sinking fund payments, if
any), interest and other charges on debt.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effec-
tive.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of EAP&L hereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify EAP&L thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For EAP&L:
The Secretary
The East African Power and
Lighting Company, Limited
P.O. Box 30099
Nairobi, Kenya
Cable Address:                     Telex:
ELECTRIC                          22253
Nairobi
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of EAP&L may be taken or executed by the


﻿- 10 -
Chief Executive of EAP&L or such other person or persons as EAP&L
shall designate in writing, and EAP&L shall furnish to the Bank
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first abovc written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By ljVV'111    A.     Vs
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
THE EAST AFRICAN POWER AND LIGHTING
COMPANY, LIMITED
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of         198 3.
FOR SECRETARY


