LOAN NUMBER 2237 KE
Loan Agreement
(Olkaria Geothermal Power Expansion Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
THE KENYA POWER COMPANY LIMITED
Dated    p      U                     , 1983


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2237 KE
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated         eL      22          , 1983, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and THE KENYA POWER COMPANY LIMITED, a
limited liability company incorporated and operating under the
laws of the Republic of Kenya (hereinafter called the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) by a loan agreement (Olkaria Geothermal Power
Project) dated April 23, 1980 between the Borrower and the Bank,
the Bank made a loan in various currencies equivalent to
US$40,000,000 to assist in financing, inter alia, the drilling of
production wells for geothermal steam and the construction and
equipment of an electric power station at Olkaria;
(B) proven steam reserves at Olkaria warrant expansion of
the generating capacity from 30 MW to 45 MW;
(C) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of Parts A.1, A.3, B.1 and B.2 of the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter
provided;
(D) by a Guarantee Agreement of even date herewith between
the Republic of Kenya (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and the
Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the Loan on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Guarantee Agreement;
(E) the day-to-day management and operations of the Bor-
rower are carried out by The East African Power and Lighting
Company, Limited (hereinafter called EAP&L) pursuant to the terms
of the Management Agreement (as such term is defined in Section
1.02 of this Agreement) and by a Project Agreement of even date
herewith between EAP&L and the Bank, EAP&L has agreed to carry
out Part B.2 of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth
in the Project Agreement;
(F) the Borrower intends to contract from the Commonwealth
Development Corporation (hereinafter called CDC) a loan (herein-
after called the CDC Loan) in an amount equivalent to approxi-
mately US$9,000,000 to assist in the financing of the Project on
the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter
called the CDC Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the
Borrower and CDC;


﻿- 2 -
(G) the Borrower intends to contract from the European
Investment Bank (hereinafter called EIB) a loan (hereinafter
called the EIB Loan) in an amount of 9,000,000 ECUs (equivalent
to approximately US$8,800,000) to assist in the financing of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in a Finance Con-
tract (hereinafter called the EIB Loan Agreement) to be entered
into between the Borrower and EIB; and
WHEREAS, the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the Project
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and EAP&L of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the Project
Agreement;
(b) "TRDC" means Tana River Development Company Limited, a
limited liability company established and operating under the
laws of the Guarantor;
(c)  "Management Agreement" means the Agreement for Manage-
ment and Mutual Cooperation, dated November 18, 1980 between the
Borrower and EAP&L, as such agreement may be amended from time to
time;


﻿-3-
(d)  "Electric Power Act" means     the Electric Power Act
(Cap. 314 Laws of Kenya), as the same may be amended from time to
time;
(e)  "Power Companies" means the Borrower, EAP&L, TRDC and
any other entity engaged in the generation, importation, supply,
transmission or distribution of electric energy for sale to
consumers in Kenya excluding any such entity whose engagement as
aforesaid is only incidental to its principal activities;
(f)  "Kenya Shillings" and "KSh" means the currency of the
Guarantor;
(g)  "MW" means Megawatt; and
(h)  "Fiscal Year" means the period from January 1 through
December 31.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twelve
million dollars ($12,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in res-
pect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of tile goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1986 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish.       The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.


﻿Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee
equivalent to one hundred seventy-seven thousand three hundred
forty dollars ($177,340).
(b) On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Agree-
ment and pay to itself the amount of the said fee in such curren-
cy or currencies as the Bank shall determine.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for
the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such In-
terest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
(c) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this Section, the
interest rate for all Interest Periods commencing in 1982 shall
be 11.43% per annum.
(d) For purposes of this Section:
(i)  "Interest Period" means the six-month period com-
mencing on each date specified in Section 2.08 of
this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
which this Agreement is signed;
(ii)  "Cost" of Qualified Borrowings means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B) here-
under shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93% per
annum;


﻿- 5 -
(iii)  "Qualified   Borrowings"  means   (A)  outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985;
and
(iv)  "Semester" means   the first   six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrowe' shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts A and
B.1 of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineer-
ing and public utility practices and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b) Without any limitation upon the provisions of subpara-
graph (a) above, the Borrower shall: (i) make such part of the
proceeds of the Loan available to EAP&L as a grant as is neces-
sary for the purposes of carrying out Part B.2 of the Project;
and (ii) use the annual development surcharge paid to it by EAP&L
to finance the Project.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in the
prepara- on of plans, specifications and bidding documents for
the equipment and works included in Part A of the Project and in
the supervision of the construction or installation thereof, and
to assist the Borrower in carrying out the study described in
Part B.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, such consultants to
be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satis-
factory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use


﻿-6-
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
(b) The Borrower shall employ the consUltants to assist it
in carrying out the study under Part B.1 of the Project by
June 1, 1983 at the latest. Said study shall be completed by
December 31, 1983.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indem-
nity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower
to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out
of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name
and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.


﻿- 7 -
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower, EAP&L and the Bank of their
respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the Project
Agreement and the accomplishmenf of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Bank, at its request, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such
land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial, engineering and public utility practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and
maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and other property, and
from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and public utility practices.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate public utility practices.
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not take or concur in any action which would have
the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the
Management Agreement or any provision thereof.


﻿- 8 -
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall not without the prior
agreement of the Bank amend its Memorandum and Articles of Asso-
ciation in any material respect and the Borrower shall at all
times maintain its corporate existence and right to conduct its
operations and shall take all steps necessary to acquire, main-
tain and renew all rights, powers, privileges, licences, conces-
sions and franchises which are necessary or desirable in the con-
duct of such operations.
Section 4.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not sell or otherwise dispose of any of its
property or assets other than in the ordinary course of business.
Section 4.07. With a view to streamlining the structure of
the power industry, the Borrower shall prepare a program of
action to effectuate a merger between the Borrower and TRDC.
Promptly upon the formulation of such program, the Borrower shall
furnish a written description thereof to the Bank for its review
and comment.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records ade-
quate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices its operations and financial
condition.
(b) Without limitation upon its obligations under subpara-
graph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall continue to prepare
and maintain a set of accounts on a depreciation accounting basis
which shall provide for the allowance for depreciation prescribed
or approved under Section 47 (1) (d) (ii) of the Electric Power
Act.
(c) The Borrower shall prepare financial statements (ba-
lance sheets, statements of income and expenses, statements of
sources and application of funds and related statements) for each
fiscal year on the depreciation accounting basis referred to in
subparagraph (b) of this Section, and the Borrower shall prepare
pro forma statements combining financial statements of the Bor-
rower and TRDC on that basis and shall make such pro forma state-
ments available to EAP&L for the purposes set forth in Section
4.03 (c) of the Project Agreement.


﻿-9-
(d) The Borrower shall: (i) have its individual accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and statements of sources and application of funds
and related statements) as prepared and maintained under the
foregoing provisions of this Section for each fiscal year au-
dited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consis-
tently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
(e) The Borrower shall furnish the Bank, simultaneously
with its submission of its audited individual accounts and finan-
cial statements, the combined financial statements of the Bor-
rower and TRDC referred to in subparagraph (c) of this Section
and such other information concerning such statements as the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 5.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not incur any debt unless the consolidated net
revenue of the Power Companies for the twelve-month period ended
prior to the date of such incurrence shall not be less than 1.5
times the maximum consolidated debt service requirements for any
succeeding fiscal year on all the debt of EAP&L and the Power
Companies managed by EAP&L including the debt to be incurred;
provided, however, that if this requirement is not met for a debt
proposed to be incurred for a project which has a construction
period of four years or longer from the date of incurrence of the
debt to the expected completion date, then the Borrower will
consult the Bank before incurring any such debt and if a reason-
able forecast shows that when the project is completed and in
operation the consolidated net revenue of the Power Companies
would be sufficient to meet this requirement, then the Bank will
agree to the incurrence of such debt. For the purpose of this
Section:
(a) the term "debt" means all debt, including debt assumed
or guaranteed by the Power Companies, jointly or individually,
except intercompany debt and debt incurred in the ordinary course


﻿- 10 -
of business and maturing by its terms on demand or less than one
year after the incurrence thereof;
(b) the term "incur" with reference to any debt includes
any modification of the terms of payment of such debt. Debt shall
be deemed to be incurred on the date on which a contract or loan
agreement or guarantee agreement is executed;
(c)  the term "consolidated net revenue" means the consoli-
dated gross revenue adjusted to take account of tariffs in effect
at the time of the incurrence of debt even though they were not
in effect during the entire twelve-month period to which such
revenue relates, less consolidated operating, maintenance and
administration expenses and taxes, if any, but before provision
for depreciation and interest and other charges on debt and
excluding for the purposes of this paragraph intercompany revenue
and expenses; and
(d)  the term "debt service requirements" means the aggre-
gate amount of amortization (including sinking fund payments, if
any), interest and other charges on debt.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt except as otherwise currently reported to the Bank
or stated in writing.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, if any lien shall be created on any assets of
the Borrower as security for any debt, such lien will ipso facto
equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of
any such lien express provisions will be made to that effect, at
no cost to the Bank; provided, however, that the foregoing provi-
sions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien created
on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security
for the payment of the purchase price of such property or as
security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of
financing the purchase of such property; or (B) any lien arising
in the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a
debt maturing not more than one year after the date on which it
is originally incurred.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gene-
ral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) The Electric Power Act or the Management Agreement, as
the case may be, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed, waived or assigned so as to materially and adversely
affect the carrying out of the Project or the obligations of the
parties under this Agreement or the Project Agreement;
(b) EAP&L shall have failed to perform any covenant, agree-
ment or obligation of EAP&L under the Project Agreement;
(c) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that EAP&L will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement;
(d) the Guarantor or any other authority having jurisdic-
tion shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestab-
lishment of EAP&L or for the suspension of its operations; and
(e) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the CDC Loan or the EIB Loan, as
the case may be, made to the Borrower for the
financing of the Project shall have been sus-
pended, cancelled or terminated in whole or
in part, pursuant to the terms of the CDC
Loan Agreement or the EIB Loan Agreement, or
(B) the CDC Loan or the EIB Loan shall have
become due and payable prior to the agreed
maturity thereof.
(ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establis-es to the satisfaction of
the Bank that: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate


﻿- 12 -
funds for the Project are available to the Bor-
rower from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to
the Borrower; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (a), (d) and (e) (i)
(B) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Condi-
tions, namely, that the CDC Loan Agreement and the EIB Loan
Agreement have been executed on behalf of the Borrower and, res-
pectively, CDC and EIB, and that the conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the CDC Loan Agreement and the EIB Loan Agree-
ment have been fulfilled subject only to the effectiveness of
this Agreement.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by EAP&L and is legally binding upon EAP&L in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) that the Borrower is a company duly incorporated under
the laws of the Guarantor with full power and authority to carry
out the Project and to operate the facilities included in the
Project and has all necessary rights and powers in connection
therewith.


﻿- 13 -
Section 7.03. The dat          24 I9g4- , is hereby specified
for the purpose of Section 2.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
The Kenya Power Company Limited
P.O. Box 30099
Nairobi
Kenya
Cable address:                      Telex:
ELECTRIC                           22253 ELECTRIC
Nairobi                            Nairobi
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this


﻿- 14 -
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By/14) VVJ      4. W ,,f'-t4eLLsb
egional Vice President
Eastern Africa
THE KENYA POWER COMPANY LIMITED
By                   U-.4.thR        e
I             Authorized Representative


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Mechanical and              8,000,000          50%
electrical
equipment for
Part A.1 of the
Project
(2) Civil works for               900,000          50%
Part A.3 of the
Project
(3) Consultants'                2,000,000          100% of for-
services for                                  eign expendi-
Part B of the                                 tures
Project
(4) Fee                           177,340          Amount due
(5) Unallocated                   922,660
TOTAL           12,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or


﻿- 16 -
in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services, or on
the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan de-
creases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph I above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be in-
suffioient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Bank are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such
reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce
the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures
in order that further withdrawals under such Category may conti-
nue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been elig-
ible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to help meet the growing demand for
electric power and to lay the groundwork for the orderly develop-
ment of the power sector.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:   Expansion of the generating station at Olkaria
1.   Installation of a third 15 MW steam turbine-driven
generator at the Olkaria geothermal plant, together
with all auxiliaries and ancillary electrical and
mechanical equipment, installation of an extension to
the cooling tower and ancillary works, and expansion of
the switching station and of the wellhead steam gather-
ing system.
2.   Construction of additional housing and expansion of the
water supply to the generating station and the drilling
sites.
3.   Construction of a hard-surfaced road from the opera-
tors' houses to the generating station.
Part B:   Studies
1.   Review of all existing data on the geothermal field at
Olkaria in order to reassess the potential for further
geothermal development and to provide guidance for the
location of additional production wells.
2.   Carrying out of a study to define the least cost medium
to long-term development program for the power sector
and of a detailed feasibility study of the most urgent
power project in said development program.
*          * i
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1985.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each February I and August 1
beginning August 1, 1987
through   August 1, 1999                 460,000
On February 1, 2000                            500,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 19 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                          Premium
The interest rate (expressed
as a percentage per annum)
applicable to the balance
outstanding on the Loan on
the day of prepayment multi-
plied by:
Not more than three years
before maturity                               0.18
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                      0.35
More than six years but not
more than 11 years
before maturity                               0.65
More than 11 years but not
more than 15 years
before maturity                              0.88
More than 15 years                                 1.00


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with pro-
cedures consistent with those set forth in tae current edition of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bid-
ding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification to
prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question.    The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
or works remain to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port-of-entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and simi-
lar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery, pur-
suant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account in
the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 21 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Kenya may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly iidicate any preference which would be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Kenya if
the bidder shall have   established to the satisfaction
of EAP&L and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of
such goods includes a value added in Kenya equal to at
least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above,
the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be
further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A after
adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported goods offered
in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison
only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs duties and
other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay
for the importation of the goods offered in such group C bid; or
(ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs


﻿- 22 -
duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. if the group A bid in
such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for
the award; if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the
comparison under paragraph 3 is the lowest evaluated bid shall be
selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for equipment and supplies estimated to cost less
than $100,000 equivalent may be procured on the basis of any one
of the following methods: limited international competitive bid-
ding, local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the
Bank, or the solicitation of price quotations from at least three
qualified suppliers, provided, howevei, that the aggregate cost
of such contracts shall not exceed $500,000 equivalent.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a desuription of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bid-
ders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time
for its review, a detailed report and such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it deter-
mines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 23 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonabby request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issu-
ing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of       ,1s1- 983
FOR SECRETARY


