                                      Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                           Report No: 36370




                       IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                      (IDA-37100)

                                         ON A

                                 LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ MILLION

                                        TO THE

                                       BURUNDI

                                        FOR A

                                    BURUNDI- ERC




                                      June 29, 2006




Poverty Reduction Economic Management 3
Africa Region

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                  (Exchange Rate Effective )

                                  Currency Unit = FBu (Burundi Franc
                                         SDR 1 = US$ 1.43
                                      US$ 1.00 = FBu 1,100

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                   January 1-December 31

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFD      : Agence Française de Développement
AfDB     : African Development Bank
BURSAP   : Burundi - Social Action Program
CAS      : Country Assistance Strategy
COMESA   : Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa
CPPR     : Country Portfolio Performance Review
CRP      : Community Rehabilitation Project
DDR      : Demobilization Disarmament and Reintegration
EERC     : Emergency Economic Recovery Credit
ERC      : Economic Rehabilitation Credit
ESW      : Economic and Sector Work
EU       : European Union
HIV/AIDS : Human Immunodeficiency Virus/ Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome
HIPC     : Highly Indebted Poor Countries
IDA      : International Development Association
IDF      : Institutional Development Fund
IFAD     : International Fund for Agricultural Development
IFC      : International Finance Corporation
IMF      : International Monetary Fund
MDTF     : Multilateral Donor Trust Fund
NCRR     : National Commission on Reintegration of Refugees
NGO      : Non-Governmental Organization
PER      : Public Expenditure Review
PRSP     : Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
TGOB     : Transitional Government of Burundi
TSS      : Transitional Support Strategy
UNHCR    : United Nations High Commission for Refugees
UNDP     : United Nations Development Program



                                Vice President:     Gobind T. Nankani
                              Country Director      Pedro Alba
                               Sector Manager       Yvonne Tsikata
             Task Team Leader/Task Manager          Jean-Pascal Nganou

                                           BURUNDI
                                       BURUNDI- ERC


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            8
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            14
6. Sustainability                                                                15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 16
8. Lessons Learned                                                               18
9. Partner Comments                                                              19
10. Additional Information                                                       20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            29
Annex 8.Borrower's Contribution

Project ID: P074602                                                  Project Name: BURUNDI- ERC
Team Leader: Jean-Pascal Nguessa Nganou                              TL Unit: AFTP3
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 29, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: BURUNDI- ERC                                             L/C/TF Number: IDA-37100
   Country/Department: BURUNDI                                                             Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (40%); Other social services (35%); General industry and
                            trade sector (10%); General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (10%); Micro- and SME
                            finance (5%)
                  Theme: Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (P); Social safety nets (P);
                            Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction (P); Legal institutions for a market
                            economy (S); Rural policies and institutions (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 02/08/2002                                     Effective: 09/30/2002                10/23/2002
     Appraisal: 05/02/2002                                         MTR:
      Approval: 08/29/2002                                      Closing: 12/31/2004                 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI/MINISTRY OF FINANCE
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind Nankhani                                Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Pedro Alba                                     Emmanuel Mbi
Sector Manager:                 Yvonne M. Tsikata                              Cadman Atta-Mills
Team Leader at ICR:             Jean-Pascal Nganou                             Hippolyte L. Fofack
ICR Primary Author:             Jerome Chevallier


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The objectives of the Economic Rehabilitation Credit (ERC), approved by the Board in August
2002, were to support (i) the transition process in Burundi following the peace accord of August
2000, and (ii) the implementation of the Government's reform program. It was expected to build
the foundation for (i) the improvement of public service delivery and basic social services through
promotion of accountability and transparency in the use of public funds; including external
assistance; (ii) the deepening of institutional and structural reforms for sustained economic
recovery and poverty reduction; and (iii) the establishment of a track record for early access to
debt relief under the Highly Indebted and Poor Countries (HIPC) initiative.

Country context

In the early post-conflict context of the Interim Strategy endorsed by the Board in 1999, the Bank
provided emergency assistance through an Emergency Economic Recovery Credit (EERC),
approved in April 2000, to help support the peace process through the (i) stabilization of the
economy and the recovery of the private sector, and (ii) financing of public expenditures for
rehabilitation in critical sectors (health, education and infrastructure) and reinsertion of
households stricken by the conflict. The outcome of that operation was rated as satisfactory, the
institutional development as modest, and the sustainability as likely. Analysts and observers agree
that, in the absence of EERC, the economy would have collapsed. The credit provided much
needed foreign exchange and supported the rehabilitation of social infrastructure. After a decline
in 1999 and 2000, GDP increased by about 3 percent in 2001. Inflation declined from 24.3
percent in 2000 to 9.5 percent in 2001.

In December 2000, a donors' conference, convened by President Mandela in Paris, pledged a total
amount of US$440 million to support Burundi's transition to peace, and agreed to the
establishment of a multilateral donor trust fund (MDTF) to service the country's debt to a number
of creditors during the interim period leading to its access to the HIPC decision point. In March
2002 the Board endorsed the Transitional Support Strategy (TSS), which provided for an
exceptional IDA allocation to Burundi of US$187 million during the period FY02-03 to assist the
Government to address the formidable transitional and development challenges it faced.

The TSS focused on four themes as follows: (i) disarmament, demobilization and reintegration of
ex-combatants; (ii) investment in human resource development, including capacity building and
HIV/AIDS; (iii) economic policy and reforms to revitalize the economy and bring about
continuous improvements in good governance and transparency in public resource management;
and (iv) donor coordination and resource mobilization. A US$54 million ERC was proposed.
Operations in support of the four themes of the TSS were approved during the two-year period.

The civil war, which started in 1993, created an unprecedented humanitarian catastrophe, with
more than 250,000 people killed and 1.2 million people displaced, or about 18 percent of the total
population. A large number of facilities in the social sectors were destroyed. The war had also a
devastating impact on Burundi's economy, which was compounded by an economic embargo
imposed on the land-locked country by neighboring countries, and several episodes of drought. It



                                                  - 2 -

is estimated that real GDP per capita (constant 2000 $US) has fallen by about 18 percent, from
US$127 in 1994 to US$105 in 2004. Coffee production, which generated about 90 percent of
total exports, declined from over 45,000 tons in 1994 to 18,000 tons in 2001. During the
conflict, international assistance dried out.

Following the 2000 peace accord, a new constitution was approved in October 2001, and a
transition Government based on power sharing among the country's two main ethnic groups was
sworn in November 2001. The transition period was to last for 36 months, leading to general
elections. It was divided into two phases, during which the Presidency would be held in turn by a
representative of each of the main ethnic groups. Two rebel factions did not sign the peace
accord, however. One of them agreed to a cease fire in December 2002, and the other a year
later, in November 2003.       However, insecurity lingered, as a splinter faction continued its
activities.

The transition Government faced formidable challenges.         It was expected to (i) re-establish
security and promote national reconciliation; (ii) resettle the refugees and reintegrate them into
productive employment; (iii) resume growth and reduce poverty; (iv) develop human resources;
and (v) improve governance, transparency and accountability.

With EERC support, progress was made in a number of areas, including public expenditure
management and rehabilitation of social infrastructure. A foreign exchange auction was
introduced to allocate credit proceeds to the private sector for the import of essential goods. The
counterpart funds generated through the system were used to finance priority government
programs for the rehabilitation of health centers, schools and community housing.

Program design

The follow-up operation was designed to help the Government implement its interim poverty
reduction strategy paper (I-PRSP) through the provision of essential social services to the poor
and vulnerable groups, and enhanced conditions for growth resumption.             Improved growth
prospects were to be achieved by helping the Government clear its arrears to the private suppliers,
financing key imports for economic recovery, enhancing the participation of women in the
production process, and promoting private sector development. It was expected that progress
towards a sustainable peace and improved delivery of basic social services would facilitate the
reintegration of refugees and their engagement into productive activities.

The objectives of the follow-up operation were in keeping with the Interim PRSP, which was
discussed with donors in April 2002 and with the TSS.               They were responsive to the
circumstances prevailing in Burundi at the time, and to the challenges faced by the Government.
The operation was designed to build upon progress made under the EERC, which helped the
Government initiate implementation of its post conflict program

The ERC was considered as an essential instrument to help Burundi and its transitional
Government in consolidating peace, and overcoming an acute shortage of foreign exchange. Its
was focused on the revival of the economy, the provision of basic social services, and a reform



                                                - 3 -

program intended to address some of the root causes of the conflict ­ the control of state
resources by a tiny minority. Before the civil war, the economy was tightly regulated and public
enterprises were present in all sectors.

The ERC was designed as a three-tranche operation. The first tranche of US$20 million was to
be made available upon fulfillment of the conditions for credit effectiveness.          Besides the
maintenance of a satisfactory macroeconomic framework, the second tranche of US$20 million
was to be made available following implementation of specific conditions pertaining to the
privatization of public enterprises and the improvement of the budget process. The specific
conditions for third tranche of US$14 million concerned gender issues, the revival of the coffee
and tea sub-sectors, the reform of public procurement, and the establishment of an Office of the
Auditor General. Conditions for tranche release were mostly framed in terms of adoption of
action plans or operational programs.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised during program implementation.

3.3 Original Components:
The ERC was designed to support institutional and policy reforms in four broad areas: (i) public
expenditure management and governance; (ii) private sector development; (iii) agriculture and
rural development; and (iv) gender and poverty reduction. The Government identified priority
programs, which would receive incremental budget allocations made possible by the sale of
resources provided by the credit.

Public expenditure management and governance. Public expenditure management suffered
from major shortcomings at the end of the civil war. Initial reforms supported by the EERC
included the adoption of (i) a functional and economic classification of expenditures to better
assess the links between inputs and outputs; and (ii) of a double-entry accounting system to
facilitate budget analysis. Under the ERC, the reform program included (i) the preparation of a
medium-term expenditure framework (MTEF); (ii) the introduction of a system to better monitor
use of public resources; (iii) the creation of an Office of the Auditor General, and (iv) the reform
of the public procurement system. Institutional capacity for macroeconomic management and
procurement was also to be strengthened.

Private sector development.         The program included: (i) the revision of the commerce,
bankruptcy and labor codes; and (ii) the privatization of public enterprises. The commercial
arbitration system was to be improved.

Agriculture and rural development. The reform program supported (i) the liberalization of
pricing and marketing arrangements in the coffee and tea industry and in the distribution of
agricultural inputs; and (ii) the privatization of state-owned enterprises in the coffee, tea and
cotton sub-sectors.

Gender and poverty reduction.           The reform program supported the reduction of gender
disparities, through (i) adoption of a law allowing women to inherit land and other properties; (ii)
preparation and adoption of a gender action plan to eliminate gender discrimination; and (iii)


                                                 - 4 -

monitoring the directive requiring that female participation in public offices be at least 30 percent,
the objective set in the Arusha Peace Accord.

The Memorandum of the President (MoP) did not provide an assessment of major issues in the
areas covered by the reform program, nor a rationale for the policy measures selected. It is
difficult therefore to pass a judgment on whether they were a first priority among so many
changes required to achieve the objectives of the operation, as stated in the MoP. Administrative
capacity was weak, and it is not clear from the documentation available whether the
implementation of these measures was feasible within the timeframe of the operation. It was
nevertheless unrealistic to expect that some measures, such as the revision of commercial laws
and the labor code, would be completed during the ERC period. Some of the proposals, such as
strengthening the procurement administration, had to do with capacity building, which is better
achieved through a technical assistance project.

Most of the conditions for second or third tranche release consisted in the adoption by the Cabinet
of a strategy, an operational program or an action plan. This was the case for instance of the
conditions related to the privatization of public enterprises, the reform of the coffee and tea
industry, the reform of the public procurement administration, the improvement of public finance
management or promoting gender equality.             It was clear from the outset that actual
implementation of the reforms would take a long time. Under these conditions, the description of
the reform program in the MoP went beyond what was actually expected. This is the case for
instance of the statements made under the private sector development component.

Board presentation conditions included (i) the initiation of a diagnostic assessment of Burundi's
public finance management issues using the HIPC tracking benchmarks to improve the budget
process and the impact of public expenditure on poverty reduction; (ii) the definition of a
minimum package of essential social services to be provided by the Government to the poor and
vulnerable groups during the transition period; and (iii) the establishment of a special fund for the
reinsertion and reintegration of displaced persons and other victims of conflict.

The reform program emphasized capacity building and institutional development in several areas,
particularly macroeconomic management and public expenditure management. While this was not
mentioned in the Board documents, a modest amount of counterpart funds generated by the sale
of credit proceeds was earmarked for that purpose.          It became clear, however, that these
resources were not sufficient to achieve the expected results. Eventually, a technical assistance
project was approved in January 2004 to help Burundi improve its economic and financial
management and enhance accountability and transparency.             The TA project included four
components: (i) strengthening macroeconomic data collection and analysis for informed policy
formulation; (ii) increasing transparency and governance in public financial and administrative
management; (iii) reforming the public procurement system and modernizing the private sector
legal and regulatory framework; and (iv) defining a strategy for legal and judicial reform and
strengthening oversight capacity

3.4 Revised Components:
The design of the operation was not changed during implementation.



                                                - 5 -

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The objectives of the operation were fully aligned with the TSS and the Interim PRSP. The
I-PRSP stressed the need for social inclusion and a participatory approach to development. It
emphasized (i) diversification of sources of growth and rural income; (ii) macroeconomic stability
and economic growth; (iii) private sector development; (iv) peace, security and good governance;
(v) rehabilitation and reintegration of victims and internally displaced persons; and (vi)
strengthening human resource and combating HIV/AIDS.

Successful implementation of the program supported by ERC would consolidate the economic
recovery process, and facilitate Burundi's access to assistance under the HIPC initiative. Beyond
these expected benefits, which were clear-cut, the MoP provided a long list of benefits, well
beyond what could be expected from the reform program. For instance, mention was made of
increased production and employment which would result from the privatization program. Given
that not a single enterprise would be privatized during the implementation period of the operation,
this benefit could not materialize.

The EERC was not a typical adjustment operation, since the counterpart funds generated by the
proceeds of the credit were earmarked for specific public expenditures programs in health,
education and housing. The same system was used for the ERC, but this was not discussed in the
MoP,. Under that system, a program of public expenditure was identified. A project unit was in
charge of implementing these projects. Procurement followed specific procedures, not the usual
government procedures. Payments were made from a special account in the Central Bank.

Risks were substantial. Two risks were related to possible internal or regional conflicts. The
ERC was prepared during a period of continued rebel incursions launched by two factions, who
had not signed the Arusha Peace Accord of 2000. Continued instability in the Great Lakes
region, despite the Lusaka Accord of January 2001 to end the conflict in the countries concerned,
was also a major risk. It could derail the transition process in Burundi. Support from the
international community to the peace process across the region was seen as essential to mitigate
these risks.

Implementation of the reform program required a strong commitment from a Government in
transition. A new President was expected to take over in May 2003. Uncertainties as to what
this change could usher were huge. The small minority, who had controlled the State and its
resources since independence, might strongly resist the political and economic changes required to
rebuild the country.     Open and coordinated dialogue by the Burundian authorities and the
development partners was considered as essential for mitigating this risk.

Key components of the recovery program could be delayed by insufficient resources. Despite the
positive donor response at the Paris conference in December 2000 and the Geneva Round table
Meeting in December 2001, uncertainties remained as to the amounts and timing of external
assistance inflows. The establishment of the multilateral donor trust fund (MDTF) to clear
Burundi's external arrears and service its debt was considered as a means to ensure a steady flow
of resources to Burundi.




                                                - 6 -

The risk of weak administrative capacity for carrying the reforms was not mentioned. It was
recognized later on, however, which led to the preparation of a technical assistance project, which
was eventually approved in January 2004. External factors, such as a decline in the price of
coffee or bad climatic conditions, were not discussed as risks for the successful implementation of
the reform program.        Both risks materialized, however, during the implementation of the
operation.

Lessons from the preceding EERC were taken into account in two areas, donor coordination and
foreign exchange shortages. Insufficient coordination among donors led to confusion in the
rehabilitation of destroyed or damaged infrastructure. Extended consultations were held during
preparation of the ERC with all donors concerned. Mechanisms for improved coordination
among line ministries and their development partners were set up under ERC.

The EERC supported the efforts to liberalize foreign exchange markets through the establishment
of a foreign exchange auction system. This contributed to reducing the spread between the
official and parallel exchange rates. With the exhaustion of EERC funds, however, the spread
widened, however. Under ERC, the support from other donors was carefully nurtured to ensure a
steady inflow of foreign resources.

Other lessons from the EERC experience included the need, in post-conflict situations, for (i)
flexibility in designing projects in post-crisis situations where a government is restarting basic
programs, (ii) intensive supervision combined with devolution of responsibilities where feasible
and efficient; and (iii) focusing as much as possible on poverty-alleviation activities.

The quality at entry is rated as unsatisfactory. On the one hand, the operation was fully aligned
with the Bank's assistance strategy and the Borrower's I-PRSP. Considerable efforts were made
to help the Borrower develop its reform program. Lessons from experience were taken into
account.

On the other hand, however, the risk analysis ignored major risks, such as weak administrative
capacity and external factors. The description of expected benefits was less than candid. There
was a lack of realism in the definition of the program, as some of the promised outputs, such as
new codes, could not be delivered during the timeframe of the operation. Some reforms, which
were proposed, such as the adoption of legislation to allow women to inherit land and other
properties, were not sufficiently analyzed.

Finally, the MoP indicated that measures implemented by the Government to strengthen financial
management should ensure financial safeguards on the proper use of IDA resources provided
under the credit.      Yet, arrangements were agreed upon, without any trace in the Board
documents, to use counterpart funds generated from the proceeds of the credit through a typical
project approach with special implementation, procurement and disbursement procedures. These
arrangements were made because of the substantial fiduciary risks at that time.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:



                                                 - 7 -

The outcome of the operation is rated as satisfactory. The political transition process was
successfully completed with the adoption of a new constitution in February 2005, communal and
parliamentary elections in June and July 2005 and the election of a new President by the
Parliament in August 2005. Good progress was made in the stabilization of the economy and the
resumption of growth, despite exogenous shocks. Inflation has been broadly contained under 10
percent in 2003 and 2004, and real GDP growth has picked up despite a slowdown in 2003, due
to bad climatic conditions. Overall however, the objective of achieving a real GDP growth rate of
5 percent on average over the period 2002-2004 has not been met. Table 1 below shows basic
economic indicators.

In 2004, exports rose by 28 percent following a good coffee harvest and improved world prices.
With the resumption of external assistance, the overall balance of payments moved from a deficit
of about 4 percent of GDP in 2000 to a surplus of 2 percent. Most restrictions on foreign
exchange transactions and holdings were eliminated. By the end of 2004, Burundi reached
agreements to cancel or reschedule all arrears owed to multilateral creditors and obtained debt
relief on concessional terms from Paris Club creditors. Moreover, Burundi reached the HIPC
decision point in August 2005.

In January 2004, the IMF approved a three-year Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF)
arrangement. The second review under the program was successfully completed in September
2005.

No data are available on the recent evolution of all social indicators. However, it is worth noting
that the decision to eliminate school fees in September 2005 has led to a large increase in first
grade enrollment. As a result, the primary school enrollment rate has significantly surpassed the
pre-crisis, long-term level, with a gross enrollment of 80 percent in 2003/04 and close to 100
percent in 2005/06. The lack of data on other social indicators makes it, therefore, impossible to
assess the impact of the operation on poverty reduction. Notwithstanding this,

Table 1: Basic economic and fiscal indicators
                                                   1999-2000     2001-03  2004   2005
GDP (US$, billion)                                      0.8        0.6    0.7     0.8
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                      115        93      90     100
Real GDP growth (percent)                               -0.9       1.8     4.8     0.9
Inflation (CPI, average, percent)                      13.8        6.2     8.0    13.4
Terms of Trade (percent change)                        -10.8      -6.6    28.1    11.0
Gross investment (percent of GDP)                       6.2        7.2    13.3    10.8
Gross private investment (percent of GDP)               1.1        1.8     3.0     4.2
Fiscal balance (primary balance, percent of GDP)        0.7        0.2    -3.5    -1.7
Current account balance (percent of GDP)                -8.0      -5.3    -8.1    -10.5
Overall balance of payments (percent of GDP)            -3.8      -3.9     1.7     2.8
Export growth (volume, percent)                         -5.2       5.6    -10.9   -1.6
Share of coffee in exports (percent of exports)        72.8       55.4    61.4    70.8
          Source: Burundi authorities and IMF estimates.

4.2 Outputs by components:
A set of outputs was agreed upon with the Government and was included in Annex 10 of the



                                                           - 8 -

MoP. The list of expected outputs is reviewed under each of the four components of the
operation.

Public finance management. Building upon the public expenditure review (PER) financed by
the EERC, an amount of US$1 million was allocated from the ERC to the PER unit in the
Ministry of Finance.     This unit carried out diagnostic work on budget preparation, budget
implementation and national accounting.        The unit prepared a reform strategy, which was
validated during a workshop in August 2003.          The diagnostic assessment of public finance
management issues using the 15 HIPC tracking benchmarks related to budget management,
initiated as a condition of Board presentation, was completed in March 2003. The report included
a program to restructure and modernize the management of public finance and civil service, thus
meeting a second tranche release condition.

Measures taken to enhance revenue mobilization, including modernization of the tax and customs
administration, reduction of fraud and elimination of exemptions, initiated under the EERC, were
expected to increase tax receipts by 2 percent of GDP to 17 percent in 2003. The tax receipts
ratio to GDP reached 18.7 percent in 2003 and 18.3 percent in 2004.

In its Letter of Development Policy the Government indicated that public spending would be
stabilized at around 18.5 percent of GDP, and that allocations to education and health sectors
would be increased.      Agreement with IDA on the 2003 budget allocations to the priority
programs in the I-PRSP and on the system for monitoring budget releases to priority programs
was a condition of second tranche release. IDA found that the 2003 budget was satisfactory.

The ratio of current expenditure to GDP increased to 22 percent in 2003 and 22.3 percent in
2004. This increase reflected the reclassification of spending for the new police force of 2.4
percent of GDP from special projects to current expenditures. In keeping with the I-PRSP
objectives, the share of pro-poor expenditure increased from 33.9 percent of primary expenditures
in 2002 to 42.5 percent in 2004. The share of education and health in public spending increased
from 21 percent in 2002 to 25 percent in 2003.

The institutional development and capacity building aspects of the ERC, including the preparation
of a Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF), the strengthening of institutional capacity
for macroeconomic management and the improvement in the public procurement process, became
part of the technical assistance project after its approval in January 2004. These activities are
underway.

The counterpart funds generated from the sale of ERC proceeds, and subsequently the TA
project, have financed the computerization of expenditure management. This will enable the
Government to produce a quaterly report on budget execution starting in mid-2006.

As part of its reform program under ERC, the Government agreed to prepare an action plan for
improvement in Treasury operations. This was a second tranche release condition. An audit of
the Treasury was conducted, showing the need for extensive capacity enhancement and
restructuring of financial management systems (through an interim financial management



                                                - 9 -

information system, i-FMIS).        An action plan was prepared, and found satisfactory. Its
implementation is supported by the TA project.

As part of its reform program under ERC, the Government agreed to adopt an action plan for the
reform of its procurement administration. This was a third tranche release condition. In June
2003, the Government established a steering committee including representatives from the public
and private sectors. In August 2004, the Government adopted an action plan for procurement
reform. This plan was reviewed and updated by the steering committee in June 2005, taking
account of the conclusions of the Country Procurement Issue Paper (CPIP) prepared by the Bank
in 2004. Preparation of a new procurement code, which would decentralize responsibility to line
ministries, is about to be initiated, with support from an IDF grant. The code is expected to be
approved in late 2006.

To improve governance, the Government was to submit draft legislation to Parliament for the
creation of an Office of the Auditor General (OAG), as a condition of third tranche release. The
OAG was created in 2003, but initial legislation required modification, as the status of magistrates
was not included in it. In October 2004, the Cabinet approved an action plan for making the
OAG effective.      The OAG became operational in 2005 and audited the 2004 government
accounts. The report was delivered to Parliament in early December 2005, when the draft 2006
budget was being debated. The report was well prepared and comprehensive. It pointed out a
number of deficiencies and made a long list of recommendations.             Deficiencies included
discrepancies between figures provided by some directorates and those provided in the Ministry's
report to OAG. They included also the lack of discipline in the management of 15 special
autonomous funds, which receive earmarked taxes on consumer goods to deliver special services
to specific constituencies.

List of expected outputs: agreement on 2003 budget allocations (done); budget memorandum
based on national accounts estimates (not done); completion of diagnostic assessment of public
finance management (done); systematic monthly reporting of budget execution (about to be
completed); completion of public procurement reform (underway with IDF support);
strengthening capacities in public procurement (ongoing); submission of draft public procurement
law to Parliament (not done); completion of the audit of the Treasury (done); and establishment of
the Office of the General Auditor (done).

The output under this component is rated as satisfactory, because the government objectives
concerning resource mobilization and expenditure allocations have been met, solid progress has
been achieved in improving public finance management, and a culture of accountability is being
introduced through the creation and operation of the OAG. While there were some delays in
delivering expected outputs, substantial progress was made overall. The monitoring of budget
execution is expected to be fully automated in June 2006. After some delays, due to the lack of
technical assistance, procurement reform is now well underway.

Private sector development. Under EERC, foreign exchange was made available to the private
sector through the auction market. The credit also enabled the Government to reduce its arrears
to the private sector. This support to private sector continued under the ERC.



                                                - 10 -

Under the private sector development component of ERC, the corporate and commercial laws
and the labor code were to be overhauled. This was not done, however, and could not have been
done within the timeframe of the operation. Measures were to be adopted to strengthen the legal
and the judiciary framework for commerce and enforcement of contracts. These measures will be
prepared, once a strategy for legal and judicial reform is defined with support from the TA
project.

The reform program included steps for the privatization of public enterprises. The adoption of an
operational program for the privatization of public enterprises, including the establishment of a
unit to implement the privatization, was a condition for second tranche release. A Ministry of
Good Governance and Privatization was created, with a unit specifically in charge of public
enterprises (SCEP). In March 2003, the Cabinet approved a privatization program concerning 12
enterprises in the areas of potable water and electricity, pharmaceuticals, telecommunications,
textiles, tea marketing, sugar, livestock feed, printing, coffee marketing, coffee washing, brewing
and banking. The program included specific actions for each enterprise and a calendar.

The privatization program was not implemented, however. In 2005 the privatization of two
coffee washing stations was launched, but failed to attract bidders. The privatization process was
interrupted by the post-transition government, who decided to review the strategy. An agreement
has been reached under the follow-up operation to (i) streamline the institutional framework and
privatization processes; (ii) implement a differentiated approach and proceed with simple
privatization transactions, while extensive preparation work is carried out for more complex ones.

The ERC was expected to clear government arrears to the private sector.              No plan was
formulated for arrears clearance during program implementation, however.              An audit of
government arrears was prepared in January 2006. It concluded that arrears amounted to FBU 35
billion.   During program implementation, counterpart funds generated by the sale of credit
proceeds were used to clear arrears in an amount of about FBU 15 billion, including FBU11.5
billion to commercial banks for the financing of the coffee crop.

During the ERC implementation period, private investment increased, but it remains at an
extremely low level for generating a steady growth of the economy (3 percent in 2004.

List of expected outputs: adoption of measures to strengthen the legal and judiciary framework
for commerce and enforcement of contracts (not done); revision of corporate and commercial
laws (not done); revision of labor code and civil code (not done); update of the 1996 privatization
decree (not done); adoption of measures to strengthen privatization agency (ongoing).

The output of the private sector development component of the ERC is rated as unsatisfactory.
Given the circumstances prevailing in Burundi, expectations from this component were
unrealistic. The design of the component was inadequate and it failed to deliver the results
promised. There was no need to prepare and enact new codes. The commerce code had been
approved in 1993 and was considered appropriate. Implementing decrees were required to make
it effective. As for the labor code, the business community had no difficulty with the existing one.



                                                 - 11 -

The privatization program was un-realistic under conditions prevailing in Burundi.

Agriculture and rural development. The ERC supported liberalization and privatization in the
coffee, tea and cotton sub-sectors. As indicated above, the privatization agenda did not move
during ERC implementation. As condition of third tranche release, the Government agreed to
provide a comprehensive strategy, developed in consultation with the stakeholders, to revive the
coffee and tea sub-sectors. The strategy was expected to promote increased participation of
private sector operators.

The coffee and tea sub-sectors suffered from extensive government intervention and inefficiencies.
Farm gate prices set by the Government were much lower than what could be fetched from illegal
traders, yet large subsidies were required to cover the guarantees made to the banks for them to
lend to the parastatals in charge of processing and marketing the products.

An action plan was approved by the Cabinet in October 2004. The plan called for (i) immediate
liberalization of entry into the sector at all stages, including purchasing, marketing, processing and
exporting; (ii) liberalization of prices for the 2005-06 crop season; (iii) abolition of government
guarantees to commercial banks extending crop financing to OCIBU, the parastatal in charge of
marketing, and SOGESTALs, the washing stations; (iv) the privatization of these SOGESTALs
and of SODECO, the processing company; and (v) reform of key public institutions in the sector.

In January 2005, the Government enacted a decree liberalizing entry at all levels in the sector. In
March 2005, the Government held a workshop with all stakeholders to discuss its reform strategy.
In June 2005, the Government enacted a decree to liberalize prices and another one to transform
OCIBU from a direct player in marketing into a regulatory agency. Government guarantees to
commercial banks were abolished. In August 2005, the Government launched the bidding process
for the sale of two washing stations.

The decisions made were a major step forward.                 An immediate result was to stop the
unsustainable subsidization of the coffee sub-sector, through guarantees to commercial banks.
These changes were crucial, but were only a first step in the reform of the sector, which is to be
supported under the follow-up operation.

List of expected outputs: completion of a study to identify the sources of growth and income
generating activities in rural areas (ongoing under a different operation); adoption of a strategy to
revive the coffee and tea sub-sectors (done); and implementation of institutional measures to
promote increased participation of private sector operators (as these measures were not specified,
it is impossible to assess whether they were implemented).

The output of the agriculture and rural development is rated as satisfactory because of the major
changes brought about by the initial steps taken for the long overdue reform of the coffee sector.

Gender and poverty reduction. Under the reform program the Government adopted a gender
action plan in September 2003, as a condition of third tranche release. The plan called for actions
in a number of areas. A law allowing women to inherit land and other properties was expected to



                                                   - 12 -

be adopted. This was not done, however, as it would have created more problems for women
than the status quo, according to officials met during the completion mission. Under common
law, a married woman inherits from her husband. It she were to claim inheritance from her
parents, she would have to leave her existing family and go back to live with her siblings. This is
an example of a look-good proposal, which was not properly analyzed, however. On the other
hand, representation or women in public office has been increased to more than 30 percent, which
was the objective the authorities had set forth.

List of expected outputs: adoption of a gender action plan(done); implementation of institutional
reforms to eliminate any sources of gender discrimination and to in crease access to ownership
and inheritance by women(partly done); preparation of an institutional framework to underpin
implementation of cost recovery policies and mechanisms (not done); establishment of an
institutional framework to underpin the creation of a micro-credit fund (in progress);
implementation of a participatory process for the preparation of the full PRSP (done). ). It should
be noted, however, that expecting that any sources of gender discrimination would be eliminated
through implementation of the action plan during the ERC period was highly unrealistic.

The output of this component is rated as marginally satisfactory.

Investment program. As agreed in the minutes of negotiations, the counterpart funds generated
from the proceeds of the credit were allocated to 11 programs in the following areas: health
(rehabilitation, construction and equipment of health facilities and provision of medicines),
education (construction and equipment of primary schools and provision of school supplies),
agriculture (provision of agricultural inputs and rehabilitation of facilities in the export
sub-sector), reinsertion of the victims of the conflict (provision of tin sheets for roofing),
communal development (rehabilitation of water and electricity supply systems and rural roads),
environment (mostly reforestation), transport and communications (rehabilitation of postal
offices), energy and mines, economic planning, social action, commerce and industry, arrears to
the private sector, public expenditure review, institutional support and audits and project unit.
Investments financed through these programs constituted the bulk of public investment during
program implementation. Payment of 43 percent of government total arrears to the private sector
absorbed about 24 percent of ERC resources. A large part of this amount (77 percent) was used
to pay government arrears to commercial banks resulting from the guarantees extended for the
financing of the coffee crop

Implementation of the rehabilitation program is rated as satisfactory, because care was taken to
make facilities built or rehabilitated under the previous credit and the one under review
operational. Procurement and payment procedures were highly efficient, which demonstrates that
public administration systems can deliver results on time, when the staff of the implementation
agency is motivated and competent.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.


                                                - 13 -

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional set up established for the implementation of the EERC was extended for the
ERC. The Minister of Finance was responsible for program implementation under the supervision
of a steering committee chaired by the Vice-President of the Republic, and composed of ministers
in charge of the sectors concerned by the operation. A technical committee with representatives
of line ministries concerned was responsible for day-to-day coordination of the investment
program.      A project implementation unit was responsible for implementing the investment
program.      It included specialists in procurement, financial management, and monitoring and
evaluation.

This unit, responsible for implementing the rehabilitation program, has demonstrated its
effectiveness in implementing priority rehabilitation projects across the country, using normal
procurement procedures, with minor adjustments, and special payment procedures through a
special account opened at the Central Bank. Procurement and payment delays were considerably
reduced. As part of the IMF-supported program, emphasizing the return to normal budgetary
procedures, line ministries are taking over responsibility for the implementation of their
investment programs, and the unit is being phased out. Its capacity will disappear.

The operation reinforced capacity in the Ministry of Finance. The directorates in charge of
resource mobilization strengthened their performance. Budget preparation was improved and
better aligned with the priorities of the I-PRSP. Budget execution was also improved. However,
despite indications in the MoP that the operation would contribute to strengthening public
institutions, it was not designed for that purpose. A technical assistance project was developed to
address major institutional shortcomings in the management of the economy and of public finance.
It was approved 17 months after the ERC, however.

The reform of the coffee and tea sector represents a major step in improving the institutional
arrangements for the economy. The role of Government in the sector has been radically changed
from direct intervention to a regulatory function.

The operation helped create the Office of the Auditor's General (OAG).               Its report on
implementation of the 2004 budget is comprehensive and provides a detailed assessment of
problems in the management of public finance. It is important now for the Government to follow
up on the recommendations made in the report.

The institutional development impact of the operation is rated as modest.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The formulation of a comprehensive strategy to revive the coffee and tea sub-sectors was delayed
in part by differences of opinion among donors. Eventually, a consensus was reached, and the
relevant condition for third tranche release was met in October 2004

Technical assistance was needed to help the Government implement its reform agenda. The Bank



                                                     - 14 -

recognized that this was indeed necessary, but preparation and approval of the TA project took
longer than expected, which contributed to delays in program implementation.

In 2003, a drought had a negative impact on the production of both food and export crops. The
price of coffee has declined in recent years, and because of lower quality due to years of neglect,
the value of Burundi's coffee exports has dropped from US$33.9 million in 2000 to US$22.9
million in 2003. With improved weather conditions in 2004, however, coffee exports increased to
US$29.4 million.

Insecurity continued in the country, despite the two cease-fires signed with the two rebel groups
in 2002 and 2003, which had refused to sign the 2000 Arusha Peace Accord This insecurity was
a constraint to the resumption of economic activities in parts of the country.

The Arusha Peace Accord called for building up a national army and security forces with a more
equal representation of ethnic groups and for the reintegration of ex-combatants. This resulted in
increases in outlays for security. Eventually, a demobilization and reintegration project was
approved in March 2004. Its objective was to demobilize 55,000 ex-combatants from the army
and rebel groups and facilitate the social reinsertion of 30,000 members of militia groups. The
project was also designed to help the Government reallocate expenditures from defense to
poverty reduction activities.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The steering committee did not meet on a quarterly basis, as its chairperson, the Vice President of
the Republic, was often not available. An acting chairperson should have been appointed, so as to
ensure that the committee would hold its meetings on a quarterly basis as envisaged.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The implementation unit established under EERC to implement the emergency program financed
out of counterpart funds generated by the sale of credit proceeds was overstaffed. A new
management took over in January 2004. It greatly improved the efficiency of the unit, but did not
address the issue of overstaffing. Following the decision of the Government to phase out the unit,
underachievers among the staff have left the unit.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total cost of the ERC was US$57.4 million. The cost of the investment program financed out
of the counterpart funds generated by the sale of credit proceeds amounted to about FBU 63
billion. As of March 31, 2006, this amount has been entirely committed. The disbursement rate
was 92 percent. Information on the breakdown of the cost by sector is provided in Section J:
additional information.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the operation hinges on the capacity of the post-transition Government to
continue the implementation of the peace and reconciliation program, and on stability in the
region. Considerable progress has been made in overcoming long held animosities between ethnic
groups.    Regional instability with spillover effects on Burundi could jeopardize the results



                                                    - 15 -

achieved with support from the ERC, however. The economic reforms initiated under ERC need
to be pursued and amplified to bring about a more robust recovery and improve the living
conditions of all segments of the Burundian population.

The reform of the coffee and tea sector is essential for improved fiscal sustainability. The
Government is no longer subsidizing the sector through guarantees to commercial banks. The
new Government has confirmed its commitment to sector liberalization.

Burundi's external debt is unsustainable, even after the full use of traditional debt relief
mechanisms. The HIPC decision point was reached in August 2005. The new Government is
strongly committed to reaching the completion point through good performance in
macroeconomic management and substantial progress in the reform agenda

The transition process supported by the ERC has been successfully completed. The most difficult
steps have been taken. The country continues to face extraordinary challenges, however.

Taking account of all these aspects, the sustainability of the operation is rated as likely.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Burundi requires continued support from the donor community to implement its post-conflict
reform program. A follow-up operation is being prepared. Arrangements, whereby a project
implementation unit was used for the execution of a rehabilitation program financed by
counterpart funds generated by the credit, will be discontinued. The regular budget process is
expected to be strengthened. The project implementation unit is winding down. All activities
financed under the program are expected to be completed in July 2006.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The operation amplified the program financed by EERC, its predecessor. The reform program
was more ambitious and the investment program was broader, including additional sectors.

The Government was consistent in its request for a follow up operation, which would consolidate
progress under EERC, particularly in the area of foreign exchange liberalization.             The
Government insisted also on combining emergency assistance with productive investment. In
addition to continued rehabilitation of destroyed economic and social infrastructure, new areas of
assistance would include transport, post and telecommunications, energy and mining, trade
promotion, rural development and promotion of SMEs.

The operation took into account the priorities of the Government. It was fully aligned with the
Transitional Support Strategy (TSS).          Building upon the results achieved under EERC, the
operation was critical for consolidating the peace and transition process.

As was indicated above in the Section on Quality at Entry, the design of the reform program was
inadequate. The conditionality was too complex and without much substance. The monitoring
tools were not appropriate.         Some major risks were neglected, among others, the weak


                                                  - 16 -

administrative capacity for carrying the reform program, and uncertainties over economic
outcomes due to fluctuating coffee prices and climatic conditions. The investment program was
not mentioned in the Board documents.

Relations with the IMF and other donors were close. The credit became effective in October
2002, after the IMF reached an agreement with the Government on a post-conflict emergency
assistance program.

The Bank performance during the lending phase is rated as unsatisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:
Supervision missions regularly conducted in Burundi were led by the country economist and
included staff from the country office. This Bank staff was also involved in other activities, such
as coordination with IMF missions, monitoring of PRSP preparation, or macroeconomic
reporting. There was continuity in the supervision of the operation, as the same team leader was
in charge of the project during the two-year period 2003-04, during which the two last tranches
were released. Supervision missions were mostly concerned with progress in meeting tranche
release conditionality. They also monitored the sale of credit proceeds by the Central Bank. They
approved the reallocation of funds for the financing of the priority investment program. On the
other hand, they had little interest in the outputs of the investment program, and they paid only lip
service to the output matrix included in Annex 10 of the Memorandum of the President. Audit
reports prepared regularly by independent auditors on program implementation by the special unit
were not mentioned in aide-memoires or in supervision reports.

The missions helped the Government take the required steps for meeting the conditions of tranche
release. In particular, the missions facilitated reaching a consensus on the reform of the coffee
sub-sector. The management expressed its concerns on tranche release conditions and on the
differences of opinion between the Bank and the European Union on the reform of the coffee
sub-sector. The two memoranda on tranche release were well documented. In its completion
report, the Government expressed its satisfaction with the flexibility displayed by the Bank in
meeting Burundi's urgent needs.

Bank performance during supervision is rated as moderately satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall performance of the Bank is rated as moderately unsatisfactory. The operation was
critically needed to consolidate the results of EERC and help Burundi complete its transition
process. The decision to move with ERC was the right one. The two most important features of
the operation, availability of foreign exchange and implementation of a priority investment
program, were essential for a successful transition process. On the other hand, the reform
program was poorly designed; it should have been much simpler and better focused.               The
investment program was not mentioned in the Board documents and was neglected during
supervision, though it was an essential element of the operation for the Government.


Borrower



                                                 - 17 -

7.4 Preparation:
Taking account of the lessons learned during implementation of EERC, the Government and the
implementation unit made major efforts to advance the preparation of sub-projects to be included
in the investment program. They focused on completing the sub-projects initiated under EERC.

The Borrower's performance during the preparation of the operation is rated as satisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
It took more time than initially expected for the Government to meet the conditions for tranche
release, but eventually a number of critical actions were taken, particularly in the area of public
finance management and reform of the coffee industry. The transition process was successfully
completed. Security greatly improved through the inclusion of the two rebel groups, who had not
signed the Arusha peace accord. Foreign exchange is now fully liberalized.

The performance of the Government during implementation of the operation is rated as
satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementation unit in implementing the investment program improved
considerably with the appointment of a new director in 2004. Line ministries were closely
associated to the preparation and implementation of projects in their sectors. Synergies between
sector programs were sought during implementation. Procurement and payment procedures were
highly efficient.

The performance of the project unit is rated as satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the Borrower is rated as satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

In a delicate political transition process, following years of conflict, it is unrealistic to expect a
government to carry out a broad and complex economic reform program. The EERC prevented
the collapse of Burundi's economy in the period leading to the Arusha peace accord. A follow-up
operation was clearly needed to give the transition process a chance to succeed. However, the
reform program supported by that operation was too complex and beyond the capacity of the
government to deliver within the expected timeframe. A series of well focused one-tranche
operations would have been more appropriate to accompany the transition process and address
the root causes of the conflict, namely the control of state resources by a tiny minority of the
population. This approach would have allowed for a better sequencing of the reform program
and giving it more substance.

As had been suggested during the Regional Operations Committee meeting, the operation should
have been sharply focused on improving public finance management.                The private sector
development component was not sufficiently prepared. As designed, it could not be expected to
bring about the changes required for increasing the private investment rate from an extremely low
level. Launching a privatization process while the country was in a delicate transition from civil



                                                 - 18 -

war to peace was not advisable. It was un-realistic to expect that a post transition government
would feel strongly committed to implement a privatization plan adopted by its predecessor.

Before launching a privatization program, it is important to liquidate a number of public
enterprises, which are technically bankrupt, potentially costly to be restructured, and therefore,
are not expected to generate any positive value added under private management. The liquidation
of a small number of well selected public enterprises, as a first step in the dismantling of a
patrimonial public enterprise system, would have given a strong message that old practices were
to stop.

Clearance of government arrears to the private sector is important to help private operators
resume their activities in a post-conflict context. Under EERC, a first attempt was made. It had
an impact, but the resources available were far less than required. A second round of arrears
settlement was supported by ERC. However, these settlements were made without the benefit of
a strategy based on an audit of all government arrears. The audit has been eventually carried out
and a strategy is now being prepared. While there was some urgency to start the process of
clearance of government arrears early on, it would have been much better to define the basic
principles for arrears clearance before engaging the second round of settlements under ERC

The reform of the coffee industry is essential for improving Burundi's exports and the incomes of
a large number of small farmers. A thorough preparation process, including consultations with
stakeholders, was required before adoption by the Government of a comprehensive reform
strategy, and this took time. Implementation of the first steps of this strategy is the single most
important change in the reform program supported by ERC.

Improving public finance management was essential for enabling the transition government and its
successor to finance critical programs aimed at national reconciliation, enhanced security, and
rehabilitation of economic and social infrastructure.         However, a substantial program of
institutional development and capacity building was required to achieve this objective. Some
activities were financed through the counterpart funds generated by ERC, but it was clear that
much more was needed. A technical assistance project was eventually approved, but about a year
and a half after ERC approval. The TA project should have been developed at the same time as
the ERC.

The rehabilitation program was implemented on behalf of line ministries by a special unit under
streamlined procedures. The unit was highly successful in getting results on the ground rapidly.
The unit is being phased out, however, as part of the return to regular budgetary practices.
Performance of these ministries in implementing their investment program should be carefully
monitored. If they prove unable to deliver without much delay, consideration should be given to
delegate their responsibility to a specialized agency, patterned after the ERC unit.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Government has prepared a completion report, which is mostly focused on the rehabilitation
program. The report provides a detailed account of investment implemented with ERC support in



                                                 - 19 -

the various sectors. It indicates that, besides the investment made, the credit's major benefits
include the reduction in government arrears, the improvement in the balance of payments and the
strengthening of the foreign exchange auction system. The credit also helped the Government
improve the structure and quality of public expenditure. The Borrower's assessment (translated
from French) of the implementation of the project is attached as Annex 8. The Government and
the implementing agency did not have comments on the ICR.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

The total cost of the investment program was FBU 63 billion. The table below provides information on
activities financed by the counterpart funds generated by the credit.

                                      Table 2: Use of funds (FBu 63 billion)
Beneficiary sectors                     Use of funds (%) Observation
Social sectors (health, education,      32                   l Health: 33 health centers, 2 hospitals rehabilitated and equipped;
reinsertion and social action)                                 Scanner provided to National Institute of public health; supply of
                                                               medicines (malaria and tuberculosis).

                                                             l Education: 240 classrooms rehabilitated and equipped; school
                                                               books provided; computerization of school planning unit; supply of
                                                               technical equipments to technical schools; many secondary schools
                                                               refurbished; school printshop equipped.

                                                             l Refugees: tin sheets supplied for house construction; school fees
                                                               paid for poor families; food supplies provided; training sessions in
                                                               peace and reconciliation delivered.
Infrastructure and productive sectors   35                   l Agriculture: program provided agriculture inputs and livestock;
(agriculture, communal development,                            rural roads leading to seed centers rehabilitated; coffee nursery
environment, transport and energy)                             trees rehabilitated and treatment kits distributed; equipments
                                                               provided to parastatals for tea and cotton sectors;

                                                             l Communal development: water supply, power systems, and rural
                                                               roads rehabilitated;

                                                             l Post and transport sector: equipment provided to the Bujumbura
                                                               airport; 3 post offices rehabilitated.
Clearance of government arrears to the  24
private sector
Technical support to the Ministry of    6
Finance
Management of the program               3
Total                                   100




                                                       - 20 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                      1
               Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
Macroeconomic stability                                                    Continue to maintain a sustainable
                                                                           macroeconomic framework; done

                                                                           Performance under the Fund program
                                                                           supported by Emergency Post-conflict
                                                                           Assistance Facility continue to be
                                                                           satisfactory; done




Output Indicators:
                                                                      1
               Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
I. Public Expenditure Management


Budget formulation and execution                                           Agreement with ODA on the 2003 budget
                                                                           allocations to the priority programs identified
Adoption of transparent fiscal policy and                                  in the IPRSP and in the system for
budget preparation practices                                               monitoring budget release in the priority
                                                                           programs; done
Budget is based on consolidated
macroeconomic estimates and aggregates                                     A budget Memorandum for the years 2002
                                                                           and onward is based on consolidates
Strengthen system of accounting                                            estimates of national Accounts and reflect
                                                                           the revision to the budget process; not done
Improve commitment control Budget
Inspection/Audit/and public procurement                                    Completion of diagnostic assessment of
                                                                           public finance management issues using the
Increase competition for public contracts                                  15 HIPC tracking benchmarks; done

Enhance comprehensive legal framework for                                  Systematic monthly reporting of budget
public procurement                                                         execution using the flash report and TOFE;
                                                                           not done

                                                                           Completion of reforms of the public
                                                                           procurement administration; not done

                                                                           Strengthening capacities within the public
                                                                           procurement administration including through
                                                                           training and staffing; underway

                                                                           The Transition Government of Burundi to
                                                                           submit law on public procurement based on
                                                                           good international practices to the
                                                                           Transitional Parliament; not done

                                                                           Complete Audit of the Treasury; done

                                                                           Complete establishment of an office of
                                                                           Auditor General; done


II. Poverty Reduction, Reinsertion and
Reintegration of victims of conflict and IDPss


Implementation of growth enhancement                                       Establishment of institutional framework to
measures to increase personal income and                                   underpin the creation of a Micro-credit Fund;
reduce poverty incidence                                                   underway

Provision of targeted assistance to the poor                               Implementation of Consultation and



                                                        - 21 -

and vulnerable groups through establishment                  participatory diagnostic process within the
of safety nets mechanisms                                    context of the full PRSP; done

Implementation of measures to reduce
vulnerability and exposure to exogenous
shocks including through broadening the
sources of growth in rural areas
III. Private Sector Development


Improve efficiency and effectiveness in public               Adoption of measures to strengthen the legal
expenditures allocation and use                              and judiciary framework for commerce and
                                                             enforcement of contracts; not done
Promote and foster economic growth through
increased private ownership and creation of                  Complete revision of corporate and
enabling environment                                         commercial laws; not done

                                                             Complete revision of labor code and civil
                                                             code; not done

                                                             Update of the 1996 privatization decree; not
                                                             done

                                                             Adoption of measures to strengthen
                                                             privatization agencies, including the "Service
                                                             Chargé des Enterprises Publiques (SCEP)"
                                                             within the Ministry of Good Governance and
                                                             Privatization; underway
IV. Agriculture and Rural Development


Increase rural income through revitalization of              Complete a study to identify the sources of
agricultural production, diversification of                  growth and income generating activities in
sources of growth and protection against                     rural areas; underway
adverseshocks
                                                             Adoption by cabinet of a comprehensive
                                                             strategy developed in consultation with the
                                                             stakeholders to revive the coffee and tea
                                                             sub-sectors; done

                                                             Implementation of institutional measures to
                                                             promote increased participation of private
                                                             sector operators; as measures were not
                                                             specified, it is not possible to assess
V. Human Resources Development and
Inclusion


Foster inclusion through strengthening of                    In consultation with all the stakeholders and
human resources and reduction of disparities                 Civil Society, Burundi Authorities will prepare
                                                             a Gender Action Plan to be adopted by
                                                             Cabinet; done

                                                             Implementation of institutional reforms to
                                                             eliminate any sources of gender
                                                             discrimination and to increase access to
                                                             ownership and inheritance by women; not
                                                             done

                                                             Preparation of institutional framework and
                                                             reforms to underpin the implementation of
                                                             cost-recovery policies and mechanism; not
                                                             done

1End of project




                                                   - 22 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Not applicable




                                      - 23 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable




                                      - 24 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               Feb/March 2002            6    2 Sr. Economists
                                              2 Economist
                                              1 Procurement Officer
                                              1 Program Assistant


 Appraisal/Negotiation
               June/July 2002            5    2 Lead Economists
                                              1 Sr. Economist
                                              2 Economists


 Supervision

               March 2003                 3   1 Sr. Economist                       S               S
                                              2 Economists
               January 2004               4    1 Sr. Economsit                      S               S
                                              1 Economist
                                              1 Debt Sustainability
                                              1 Program Assistant
               September 2004             4   1 Sr. Economist                       S               S
                                              2 Economists
                                              1 Program Assistant
               November 2005              4   1 Sr. Economist                       S               S
                                              2 Economists
                                              1 Financial Management
                                              1Program Assistant

 ICR
               Apr-May 2006              3     2 Economists
                                               2 Consultants



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               23.1                       105.735
  Appraisal/Negotiation                   21.21                        70.569
  Supervision                             53.36                       278.425
  ICR                                      3.52                        19.275
  Total                                 101.19                        474.003




                                               - 25 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Program Document on a proposed credit in the amount of SDR 40.8 million (US$54.0 million equivalent)
to the Republic of Burundi for an Economic Recovery Credit - July 29, 2002 (Report No.: 24611-BU).

Completion Report of the Borrower. Ministry of Finance - May, 2005.




                                                - 28 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution


                      REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI




                         MINISTRY OF FINANCE

                     CABINET OF THE MINISTER


                  ECONOMIC REHABILITATION CREDIT

                         ( IDA CREDIT No. 3710-BU )




                                    May 2006




                                        - 29 -

          LIST OF ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS


BRB    :  Bank of the Republic of Burundi

CTB    :  Belgian Technical Cooperation

COTEBU :  Textile Complex of Burundi

DWS    :  Drinking water supply

EERC   :  Emergency Economic Recovery Credit

ERC    :  Economic Rehabilitation Credit

FAO    :  Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations

FBu    :  Burundi francs

IDA    :  International Development Association

ISABU  :  Burundi Institute of Agronomic Sciences

ONAPHA :  National Pharmaceutical Office

PREBU  :  Burundi Rehabilitation Program

PRSP   :  Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper

SMEs   :  Small and Medium Enterprises




                                - 30 -

                             I. CONTEXT AND JUSTIFICATION

Following the almost complete paralysis of social and economic life caused by the destruction
after the political crisis of October 1993, the Government adopted a strategy designed to promote
economic rehabilitation, recovery and reconstruction in the social sectors. In this connection, the
Government of Burundi requested and obtained an Emergency Credit (EERC II) of 26.2 million
special drawing rights (equivalent to $35 million) with a two-year implementation period: June
2000 to June 2002.

The first disbursement, on June 22, 2000, was used to finance the imports of goods and services
needed, firstly, for the revival of private sector activities and the resumption of social services
delivery and, secondly, for balance of payments support.

With this credit, the various economic operators had access to foreign exchange and were able to
import eligible essential products. However, because of the chronic lack of foreign exchange
throughout the crisis, almost all the $35 million credit was sold at the foreign exchange auction on
March 31, 2001.

With the sale of foreign exchange to the private sector, there was some revival of economic
activity and stabilization of prices of imported essential products. However, when the credit
foreign currency was exhausted, there was renewed upward pressure on import prices and on the
exchange rate between the dollar and the FBu.

Rapid and concerted intervention by several donors was essential to provide a lasting solution to
the auction system just set up. In the meantime, however, the Government again applied to the
World Bank for a new phase of emergency and economic recovery credit, particularly as the
pledges made at the Paris meeting in December 2000 were not being fulfilled. In 2002, therefore,
the Transitional Government requested and obtained from the World Bank a new budget support
credit - the Economic Rehabilitation Credit (ERC) - to consolidate the activities commenced
under the EERC and support the transition from emergency to development. In addition to
consolidating the EERC achievements, the ERC was to support the PRSP economic reforms
initiated by the Government and endorsed by donors.

In order to avoid a sudden interruption of the weekly auctions, a credit of $70 million was
requested to cover at least 10 months of imports of essential goods and services, until such time
as the other donors provide the aid or credits pledged to support the national reconciliation policy
established by the Arusha agreements in the United Republic of Tanzania. The World Bank
granted an envelope of only 40.8 million SDRs, or $57,354, 243.

Large amounts of foreign exchange are still needed to generate new counterpart funds and foreign
exchange reserves are very low. There is an urgent need to make every effort to mobilize
resources to support the foreign exchange auction operation, which must have lasting effects.
While the credit has undoubtedly helped somewhat to revive the national economy and to reduce
poverty in households, it is clear that the various sectors still have major needs. These are



                                                - 31 -

reflected in the sizeable requests contained in the programs submitted by the various sectorals for
financing in the next phase of the ERC.

                     II.        DESCRIPTION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES

2.1. Project objectives

The main objectives of the economic rehabilitation credit were:

(i)     To support the balance of payments by financing imports of goods and services needed to
revive private sector activity (make available the necessary foreign exchange to pay for imports) ;
(ii)    To give the Government budgetary support based on the use of counterpart resources
generated by auctioning credit foreign exchange to finance sectoral projects ;
(iii)   To cover certain Government arrears to the private sector.

The budget resources allocated to the priority sectors selected in EERC II (education, health,
agriculture, reinsertion) proved inadequate to finance the necessary rehabilitation of
infrastructure destroyed during the crisis. For example, the projects submitted to the ERC for
these sectors basically remained the same, so that activities already commenced could be
completed and others consolidated. To these were added projects for productive sectors likely to
generate or limit exports of foreign exchange and to boost production for the development of
rural areas, transport, postal services and telecommunications, energy and mining.

The Economic Rehabilitation Credit basically covered the following priority sectors:

Community-driven development

The Government planned to revive the production structure in rural areas so as to increase
revenue in this sector. In order to attain this objective, action focused on:
(i) improved drinking water supply and environmental sanitation; (ii) rural electrification; (iii)
support for the micro-credit system; (iv) promotion of local construction materials. The ERC
allocated an envelope of 9.5 billion Burundi francs, or 15.1 per cent of the total amount of the
credit.

Education

The ERC allocated an amount of 9.1 billion. As for the EERC, the aim was to rehabilitate
damaged primary schools in order initially to restore and then to improve enrolment rates. The
Government's other concern was the rehabilitation of human resources and provision of
textbooks and teaching materials to schools in order to reduce educational disparities, and to
restore and improve teaching quality. In order to achieve these objectives, the following activities
were financed: (i) rehabilitation and refurbishing of school infrastructures ; (ii) provision of
teaching materials and equipment for primary schools and technical schools; (iii) training of
teachers in new communication techniques; (iv) provision of equipment and teaching materials for
technical schools; (v) support in the form of equipment for the school planning office, printing,
and the NDERAGAKURA school radio station; (vi) sanitation in secondary schools.



                                                 - 32 -

Health

The needs to be met in this sector related to : (i) rehabilitation and refurbishing of health
structures; (ii) replenishment of current drug stock; (iii) provision of urgently needed small
medical equipment, laboratory products and reagents for the Blood Bank; (iv) prevention of
endemo-epidemics. The budget allocated to this sector is 7.2 billion FBu.

Agriculture

The crisis in Burundi had very serious adverse effects on agricultural production and caused
sizeable population movements. In order to jump-start the sector and provide new employment
for the displaced populations, the following activities should be undertaken and consolidated: (i)
support for the promotion of agrofood industries by providing the rural population with
agricultural inputs (seeds, fertilizers, plant health products, agricultural implements, equipment
and veterinary products), rehabilitation and irrigation of provincial seed centers and of the
ISABU, strengthening of the community solidarity chain for stock breeding; (ii) promotion and
diversification of export industries. The amount allocated to this sector is 5.7 billion.

Energy and mining

After the crisis affecting Burundi since 1993, some electricity and water supply structures in the
outlying districts of the Mayoralty of Bujumbura were sabotaged and damaged and some 30 KV
lines deteriorated badly because of lack of maintenance. In the micro-power stations constructed
during the 1980s, the civil engineering structures need to be rehabilitated and most of the
equipment needs to be replaced and modernized to increase energy production. It was urgently
necessary to proceed with the rehabilitation of this equipment, especially in districts where
low-income families are without electricity, which is one of the essential factors for poverty
reduction and in rural areas, where it can promote development. The funds allocated to this
sector total 2.5 billion.

Reinsertion

In this sector, the ERC was to continue the activities commenced under the EERC:

(i)   reconstruction of houses for the homeless by providing sheet metal and nails;

(ii)  rehabilitation of sites occupied by the homeless. The cost of these activities was estimated
      at 2.7 billion FBu.

Transport, postal services and telecommunications

In the context of the ERC, the objective in this sector was: (i) to increase airport capacity in order
to improve the quality of services and generate more foreign exchange; (ii) as regards rural
telephone service, to ensure that every Burundian has access to a telephone within 10 km of
home; (iii) to expand and increase the security of mail service and thus generate more foreign
currency in the form of terminal dues paid for mail sent from other postal administrations. The


                                                - 33 -

global envelope allocated was 3.2 billion.

Environment

The rehabilitation of the environment sector in Burundi is part of the overall rehabilitation of all
sectors of the country that were badly affected by the crisis existing since 1993.

The environmental degradation was caused by forest fires, which destroyed a large part of the
forest coverage, by the mass influx of Rwandan refugees in 1994 into the northern provinces of
Burundi, and by the fact that internally displaced persons are scattered all over the country.
Between 1992 and 1997, Burundi lost over 30,000 hectares of artificial forests and 14,000
hectares of natural forests. It is therefore crucial to rehabilitate this heritage, and this is the
purpose of the projects in this sector.      They relate to: (i) environmental rehabilitation; (ii)
organization of the timber industry; (iii) rehabilitation of forest infrastructures; (iv) promotion of
rational use of energy wood; and (v) wetland development. The total amount is 1.3 billion
Burundi francs.

The sector of Government arrears to the private sector

With a view to boosting the private sector, the Government allocated an envelope of 14.8 billion
FBu (24 percent of the global budget) for the settlement of Government arrears owed to the
private sector.

Miscellaneous

In addition to financing these sectoral projects, the ERC funded other types of expenditure,
namely: (i) institutional support for sectorals amounting to 2 billion FBu; (ii) the development
planning sector (0.5 billion); (iii) the social welfare sector (0.8 billion); (iv) support for public
expenditure review (1 billion); and (v) administrative expenses (2.1 billion).

2.2. Reforms supported by the Project

The ERC was to support the economic reforms planned by the Government in the context of
attainment of the objectives of the Transitional Government's interim PRSP. In general, these
reforms concern the following areas: public finance management and governance, private sector
development, agriculture and rural development, gender and poverty reduction.

Public finance management

The initial reforms supported by the EERC consisted of introduction of a functional and economic
classification of expenditure to permit better analysis of the linkage between resources and
revenue, and of a dual-entry accounting system to facilitate budget analysis.             The reforms
supported by the ERC consisted of: (i) preparation of a Medium-term Expenditure Framework
(MTEF); (ii) introduction of a system to improve monitoring of the use of public resources; (iii)
creation of an Audit Office (Cour des Comptes); and (iv) reform of the public procurement
system.


                                                - 34 -

Private sector development

The reforms consisted of revision of the commercial and labor codes and of the bankruptcy laws,
and privatization of public enterprises.

Agriculture and rural development

The program of reforms involved liberalization of prices and marketing in the coffee and tea
sectors and the distribution of inputs. It also involved privatization of public enterprises in the
coffee, tea and cotton sectors.

Gender and poverty reduction

The goal of the reform program was to reduce gender inequalities by adopting a law allowing
women to inherit land and other property, and preparing and adopting a gender action plan to
eliminate discrimination in this area.

As far as reforms are concerned, the ERC represented a transition between the emergency phase
and the economic recovery phase.        For most of the reforms, the initial stage involves the
formulation of strategies and action plans and rehabilitation of institutional frameworks, to be
continued as part of the post-ERC operations.

                                 III.  PROJECT EXECUTION
3.1. ERC management

During the negotiations, which took into account the lessons learned from implementation of the
EERC, it was agreed that management of this credit would be entrusted to the structure and
administrative unit already existing for the purposes of the EERC. The membership and duties of
each committee are given in the project document.

The organic structure for ERC execution consists of: (a) a Steering Committee; (b) the Minister
of Finance; (c) the Technical Implementation Committee; and (d) a Project Management
Coordination Unit.

-      The Steering Committee is the highest body, responsible for providing guidelines for the
execution of projects financed by the Economic Rehabilitation Credit ;
-      The Minister of Finance has overall responsibility for management and follow-up of
project execution;
-      The Technical Implementation Committee is the technical organ responsible for
supervision of the execution of the activities necessary for implementation of the Project;
-      The Project Management Coordination Unit is responsible for day-to-day management of
the project and is the liaison between the Government and the donor.




                                                - 35 -

3.2. Credit disbursement

Under the ERC project, the Transitional Government of the Republic of Burundi obtained a credit
of 40.8 million special drawing rights (equivalent to US$57 million) from the IDA to support the
rehabilitation and economic reform effort. The goal of the planned economic reforms was to lay
the foundations for national reconciliation, poverty reduction, and sustainable economic growth.

The Credit Agreement was signed on September 18, 2002 (No. 3710-BU) and came into force on
October 23, 2002. The Credit was released in three tranches, after the relevant conditions
described in annex 2 of the Agreement had been met.

The three releases took place on the following dates:

·       First tranche of 15,100,000 SDRs (US$19,956,613.00)           :11/04/2002
·       Second tranche of 15,100,000 SDRs (US$20,958,196.00) :05/06/2003
·       Third tranche of 10,600,000 SDRs (US$16,439,434.00)           :12/31/2004

The first two tranches were released on schedule but the third was delayed considerably because
the Government had not met one condition: reform of the coffee sector. The third tranche was
released on December 31, 2004. The delay in releasing the third tranche temporarily halted some
activities because there were no resources to implement them and extended the lifetime of the
project. All the counterpart funds generated by the auction of this foreign exchange in the amount
of 62,969,655,408 Burundi francs were paid into the ERC account. The project closing date,
originally December 31, 2004, was extended to December 31, 2005. The financing helped to
consolidate the achievements of the EERC and to support the economic reforms embodied in the
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper.

3.3. Reallocation of counterpart funds

Provided that the basic principles of resource allocation at the time of project evaluation
(preference for activities that will promote peace, national reconciliation and economic recovery)
are respected, the Bank mission of March 2003 and the Burundian authorities agreed that the
Government may propose changes in the allocation of counterpart resources in mid-stream as new
needs create new priorities.

First reallocation

The first reallocation took place on March 20, 2003. Following the devaluation of August 2002,
the ERC program showed an exchange gain equivalent to eleven billion four hundred and
twenty-nine million francs (11.429 billion FBu), which were divided between the various sectors
funded with the credit by recalculating the costs used and, where necessary, including new
activities that had in the meantime acquired priority in the same sectors.

As regards the proposed restructuring of the uses of these additional resources in Burundi francs,
the priorities set by the Government in the ERC were respected and in general only funded


                                               - 36 -

projects were selected.

In the case of Government arrears to the private sector, the item was revised upwards to take into
account a new priority of the current Government: payment of Government commercial arrears.

Second reallocation

The second reallocation took place on May 7, 2004. In March 2003, the World Bank mission and
the Burundian authorities reviewed the Government's proposals for reallocations of counterpart
funds in order to: (a) respond to the changes and emergencies facing the Government; (b) solve
the problems of implementation of certain activities envisaged under the project; and (c) solve the
budgetary difficulties connected with the coffee sector with a view to encouraging the banking
sector to participate in the funding of the 2004/2005 coffee crop. This reallocation provides an
envelope of FBu 6.429 billion, instead of the 11 billion proposed by the Government, to cover
coffee sector deficits.

Third reallocation

The third reallocation took place in April 2005 and was prompted by the assignment of the
exchange gain of 4.3 billion Burundi francs generated by the change of parity between the dollar
and the Burundi franc at the auctions of the 3rd credit tranche.

Fourth reallocation

This took place on December 20, 2005, following a decision by the donor not to approve the
second phase of the project and to release resources to deal with urgent needs arising from the
Government's decision to introduce free primary education. During the World Bank and IMF
mission, the donor decided that the next operation would be direct budgetary aid, rather than
economic recovery credit (targeted budgetary aid). The Steering Committee decided to redirect
amounts that could not be committed by the project closing date to the priority sectors of
education, health and reinsertion of the homeless.

As at December 31, 2005, all funds were already committed, and 58.6 billion FBu (91 percent of
total ERC resources) had been released. The unreleased amounts were for contracts signed in
December 2005 in accordance with the Steering Committee's recommendations on the occasion
of the 4th and final reallocation.




                                               - 37 -

Following the last reallocation, the fund allocation table was as follows:
Table 1: Summary of Allocations by Sector
                      SECTOR                               Allocation     Percentage
1. Health                                             7,252,289,460          12

2. Education                                             9,187,786,143       15

3. Agriculture                                           5,720,000,000        9

4. Resettlement of repatriated and displaced persons     2,761,060,155        4

5. Community-driven development                          9,548,400,000       15

6. Environment                                           1,304,971,170        2

7. Transport and communications                          3,274,067,988        5

  8. Energy and mining                                   2,587,588,892        4

9. Development planning                                    500,000,000        1

10. Social welfare                                         768,016,790        1

11. Foreign trade                                              -

12. Arrears to private sector                           14,895,474,810       24

13. Support for public expenditure review                 1,000,000,000       2

14. Institutional support for sectorals                  2,070,.000,.000      3

  15. Audits-administration surveys                       2,100,000,000       3

  GRAND TOTAL                                            62,969,655,408      100




                       IV.           ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES

Overall, achievement of project objectives is satisfactory, despite the fact that certain activities
were not implemented because budgets proved insufficient for the execution of the activities
planned. The lack of technical studies also explained the failure to implement some of these
projects. For example, for certain scheduled activities, only the studies were conducted, while
implementation was scheduled for the second phase. Implementation status by sector is given
below.

4.1. Project Objectives

1.       Health sector

As regards this sector, the budget was revised in order to release resources to make the existing
infrastructures operational. For example, the number of health centers to be constructed or
refurbished was reduced in order to equip health centers constructed with the EERC and hospitals
that were non-operational or almost non-operational because of equipment shortages. Studies for



                                                     - 38 -

13 health centers were made but only 5 were implemented; the others were scheduled for the next
phase of the ERC.

Equipment for health centers and hospitals absorbed 5 billion FBu or 70 percent of the budget for
this item. The structures that received ERC support are: Twenty-three (23) health centers, the
Prince Régent Charles Hospital (scanner, hemodialyzers, X-ray machine, and flow cytometer),
and the Mukenke and Musema hospitals.

The ERC also allocated 1 billion to this sector for the purchase of basic pharmaceuticals;
antimalarial medicines; reagents for blood banks; laboratory products for the National Blood
Transfusion Center and health care products.

2.       Education sector

The ERC funds were used for construction and equipment (desks, blackboards, bookcases, tables
and chairs) for 24 primary schools. An additional budget was authorized on the occasion of the
last reallocation operation to take into account the latest Government measure concerning free
primary education. The cost of these activities is estimated at 3.7 billion FBu.

Although the quantities were insufficient, most of the textbooks and teaching materials for
technical schools and secondary schools were purchased and delivered to the authorities.
Distribution to schools has commenced. This cost is estimated at 1.7 billion FBu. In addition, the
sanitary facilities at seven secondary schools, which were in a state of disrepair, were upgraded.

3.      Agricultural sector

With a view to promoting agricultural production, the sum of 1 billion FBu was used to support
the Provincial Agricultural and Livestock Departments (DPAE) by supplying them with
agricultural and zootechnical inputs and seeds for diversified food crops, such as corn, sorghum,
groundnuts, soy beans, potatoes, bananas.

The ERC helped to strengthen the community solidarity chain initiated under the EERC in
connection with rural livestock activities in cooperation with the FAO (632 million FBu).

Using ERC funds, Government arrears of 1 billion FBu to the rice-growing sector were paid off
with the donor's agreement. In the coffee sector, ERC funds were used to supply the Burundi
Coffee Board (OCIBU) with plant protection and other agricultural inputs for crop tending
(almost 1 billion FBu). In the tea sector, ERC funds were used to purchase equipment for tea
factories, production and distribution of plants to tea growers, rehabilitation of plucking paths,
purchase of green leaf transport equipment (1.2 billion FBu.). The Cotton Management Company
(COGERCO) has received funding for the purchase of plant protection products and knapsack
sprayers.

4.      Reinsertion sector

With ERC support, the Ministry for the Reinsertion and Resettlement of Displaced and


                                                - 39 -

Repatriated Persons was able to purchase sheet metal for roofing of houses for the homeless.
ERC funding helped this sector to assist the homeless with schooling, hospitalization, and access
to pharmaceuticals, as well as providing food and non-food aid. The Ministry also initiated a
study on the creation of a health insurance scheme for the informal sector.

5.      Community-driven development sector

The ERC allocated 1.6 billion to the Rural Micro-Credit Fund. ERC funding was used for the
rehabilitation and construction of tunnel furnaces in four provinces, as well as reforestation
around these tunnel furnaces. In order to ensure that the beneficiaries assume responsibility for
these, local masons/tilers were trained.

The ERC also funded fifteen (15) drinking water supply (DWS) projects over 125 km; the
Rubarasi (Gitega) project was deferred to the next phase because of insufficient funding. With
cofinancing from the Flemish region, the ERC supported the Government counterpart for the
purchase of hand-operated water pumps for the MOSSO and BUGESERA regions, where it is
not possible to supply water using springs and gravity distribution. In the area of rural
electrification, an allocation of 3.6 billion was used to provide electricity by creating seven
electricity production grids supplying 171 km, as well as 12 community schools, and to
rehabilitate four micro power stations managed by the General Rural Water Directorate.

6.      Environment sector

In this sector, there has been reforestation (production and planting of over 2 million seedlings),
and rehabilitation of forestry infrastructures (1.3 billion FBu).

7.      Transport sector

With ERC funds, the National Telecommunications Office (ONATEL) was able to pay the
mobilization advance for the rural telephone project. ONATEL mobile phones currently work in
all the main towns of communes in Burundi. In order to bring airport facilities into compliance
with acceptable safety standards, two fire trucks were purchased for Bujumbura International
Airport.

8.      Energy sector

In this sector, the ERC funded purchase of the necessary equipment for the rehabilitation of
distribution mains in districts on the outskirts of Bujumbura and 30 kV lines in the country's
urban centers.

The ERC cofinanced with the PREBU the purchase of equipment for the extension of the
MURAMVYA DWS project. Implementation is scheduled for EIB 2006. ERC funds were used
to finance the study on the doubling of the Nyemanga power station.            The purchase and
installation of equipment are scheduled for EIB 2006. With regard to the rehabilitation of existing
biogas and solar infrastructures, studies were made on supplying certain community



                                                 - 40 -

infrastructures (health centers, schools and Government offices).

9.      Development planning sector

The ERC has also helped the Institute of Statistics and Economic Studies of Burundi (ISTEEBU)
to perform calculations for the updating of the agricultural statistics needed for planning.

10.     Social welfare sector

With the help of the ERC, this sector received funding for the construction of the Ngozi office of
the social and vocational rehabilitation center, and assistance was given to children in difficulty.

11.     Foreign trade sector

It had been planned to enlarge the airport by building a refrigerated terminal for exports of fresh
products. This was not done, mainly because of the inadequacy of local skills in this sector.

12.     Sector of arrears to the private sector

ERC funding helped to pay off arrears of 14.8 billion FBu, including 11.5 billion to cover coffee
industry deficits.

13.     Public expenditure review sector

Support was provided for (i) computer and office automation equipment for tax, budget and
customs offices; (ii) financing of work on rewriting of computer programs for the tax department;
(iii) switch to the ASYCUDA (Automated system for customs data); and (iv) support for the
committee monitoring public procurement reforms and the committee on budget and accounting
harmonization.

14.     Institutional support sector

This support mainly concerned the provision of computers, office equipment and training to the
various ministries.

The funds for this sector also covered preparation of the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper.

15.     Administration and audit sector

Project management has been regularly audited. The audit reports are available for FY2003 and
FY2004 and were regularly submitted to the donor in a timely manner; the FY 2005 audit is in
progress.

The operating budget for the Unit was revised upwards to take into account the duration of the
project.



                                                 - 41 -

4.2. Economic reforms

1. Public finance management

Following the public expenditure review funded by the EERC, an amount of one billion FBu was
allocated from ERC funds to the review unit in the Ministry of Finance. The Unit prepared a
reform strategy, which was endorsed in August 2003. The summary of this workshop described a
reform program, which started with the ERC and will continue with the Economic Reform
Support Grant. The diagnosis using HIPC initiative indicators was performed. This was a
condition for release of the 2nd tranche of the ERC.

Measures were taken to improve the collection of public revenue, including modernization of the
tax and customs authorities, fraud reduction and elimination of exemptions. The counterpart funds
generated by the sale of the credit foreign exchange funded the automation of expenditure
management. This will enable the Government to produce a monthly report on budget execution
starting in mid-2006.

Under the reform program supported by the ERC, the Government had promised to prepare an
action plan to improve Treasury operations. This was a prerequisite for release of the second
tranche. A Treasury audit was conducted. It showed that there was a considerable need for
capacity-building and restructuring of financial management systems.        An action plan was
prepared.

The Government had committed to adopting a plan to reform its procurement system. This was a
prerequisite for release of the third credit tranche. In June 2003, the Government created a
Steering Committee consisting of representatives of the public and private sectors.

In August 2004, the Government adopted an action plan for public procurement reform. This
plan was revised and updated by the Steering Committee in June 2005, on the basis of the
conclusions of the evaluation of procurement in Burundi conducted by the World Bank in 2004.
Implementation of the procurement improvement plan is funded by an agency grant.

In order to improve governance, the Audit Office was established in 2003. This was a condition
for release of the third credit tranche. In October 2004, the Government adopted an action plan
to make the Auditor General operational. The position was created in 2005 and the 2004
accounts were reviewed.

2. Private sector development

The ERC funding was mainly used to consolidate the exchange liberalization policy introduced
under the EERC. Foreign exchange was made available to the private sector by means of
auctions. The credit also allowed the Government to reduce its arrears to the private sector.

The Government adopted a divestiture strategy with respect to enterprises, covering privatization
of public enterprises.



                                                - 42 -

Counterpart funds were used to settle arrears amounting to 14.8 billion FBu, including 11.5
billion owed to banks representing arrears connected with coffee sector deficits.

3. Agriculture and rural development

        In October 2004, the Government adopted a reform strategy for the coffee sector, which
was one of the conditions for release of the third tranche. Implementation of this strategy will be
supported by the operation to follow the ERC.

4. Gender and poverty reduction

As part of the program of reforms supported by the ERC, the Government adopted a gender
action plan in September 2003, which was also a condition for release of the third tranche.

In conclusion, regarding the reforms supported by the ERC, the objectives were in general
achieved, despite the lack of an adequate follow-up framework that would have promoted more
successful implementation.

The operation enhanced the capacity of the Ministry of Finance. The tax and customs authorities
improved their performance. Budget preparation was improved and more closely aligned with
PRSP priorities. Budget execution was also improved. The ERC facilitated the establishment of
the Audit Office.

                      V.        RESULT AND VIABILITY EVALUATION

5.1. Projects implemented

The projects implemented under the ERC related to the action plans in the sectoral policies of the
various ministries supported by the project. These sectoral policies implemented the Transitional
Government's Interim PRSP.

In general, the impact of these infrastructures is illustrated by the following elements :
i)      All infrastructures were created following the norms of the sectoral ministries; the
technical files and the supervision of activities were the responsibility of senior staff of these
ministries. The project promoted capacity-building in these sectors;
ii)     Certain funded projects will produce foreign exchange savings;
iii)    Social infrastructures in rural areas created employment opportunities in the areas of
intervention. These are highly labor-intensive activities;
iv)     They have promoted the development of the craft industry, which is one of the targets of
rural area development;
v)      The project encouraged the promotion of SMEs. Most of these infrastructures in rural
areas were constructed by SMEs.

1. Health sector



                                                  - 43 -

By creating and equipping health centers and hospitals, the ERC helped to implement the
Government's policy of reducing the distance people must travel in order to receive medical
attention.

Purchase of the scanner and hemodialysis generators will produce foreign exchange savings,
because patients are traveling abroad in order to be diagnosed.

2. Education sector

       The construction and equipment (desk seats and materials) of 24 primary schools was the
main factor in the Government's decision to provide at least one primary school per administrative
« colline ». This project made it possible to increase the school population by 15,000. The
purchase of equipment and improvement of sanitation in secondary schools have improved
teaching quality and the living conditions of beneficiaries.

3. Agriculture sector

The project provided impetus for reforms in the export sectors (coffee, cotton and tea) designed
to increase planters' incomes and to improve production quantity and quality. Collaboration with
the FAO for restocking rural areas through the solidarity chain helped to improve the living
conditions of beneficiaries and to strengthen social ties.

4. Reinsertion sector

The funds allocated to this sector helped to improve the living conditions of vulnerable persons.
Six thousand households were given sheet metal, and many indigent persons received medical
care. The study on the creation of a health insurance scheme for the informal sector will constitute
a database for the execution phase of a system geared to the target population, in order to
improve the quality of life, particularly for vulnerable populations.

5. Community-driven development sector

The projects implemented in this sector helped to improve the living conditions of rural
populations: drinking water, energy, housing, increased income, communication. The construction
of drinking water networks and the purchase of water pumps for the MOSSO and BUGESERA
regions contributed to the pursuit of the Government's policy of providing drinking water holes
so that every household has access to water no more than 500 meters away. The rural electricity
grids constructed under the ERC have helped to improve electricity coverage in rural areas
(estimated at 1 percent, which is one of the lowest in the world).

The construction and rehabilitation of tunnel furnaces is designed to improve the quality of
housing in the areas concerned; reforestation around the tunnel furnaces was designed to protect
the environment against the abuses caused by the use of timber to produce local construction
materials (wood, bricks and tiles). Training of local tilers will ensure the sustainability of the gains
achieved by the project as regards use of local materials.



                                                 - 44 -

The funding made available to the Rural Micro-Credit Fund (1.6 billion) supported the
Government's objectives of promoting entrepreneurship in rural areas and diversifying revenue
sources there.     The creation of the Rural Micro-Credit Fund spurred consideration of
micro-finance regulation in Burundi.

6. Government arrears to the private sector

Credit resources were used to pay off part of the domestic debt (14.8 billion, including 11.5
billion owed to the bank sector to settle coffee sector arrears. The operation restored the liquidity
of many economic operators and enterprises so that they could resume their activities. By paying
the coffee sector arrears, the Government financed the 2003-2004 coffee harvest.

7. Institutional support

        Credit funding made it possible to upgrade the technical skills of a number of senior civil
servants and to equip all ministries with modern working tools. The ERC also covered work to
prepare the complete PRSP, for which the funding pledged by partners was not forthcoming.

8. Public expenditure review

As regards public expenditure, credit funds were used to:

-       Improve the structure and quality of public expenditure by the purchase of computer
equipment and the financing of work to review budgetary and accounting classifications, which
resulted in the formulation of the New Accounting Plan validated in 2004 and put into effect for
2005. This plan will facilitate budgetary and accounting monitoring;
-       Formulate a procurement reform action plan, through the financial support given to the
Committee Monitoring Public Procurement Reform established in June 2003 ;
-       Upgrade customs services by adopting the new SYDONIA computer system.

9. Impact on the economy

The project had many beneficial effects on the economy in the areas of domestic debt, balance of
payments, exchange system reform and impetus for Government activity, and introduction of the
economic reforms supported by the project. It allowed the Government to pay off a large portion
(14.8 billion FBu) of its arrears to the private sector, to make foreign exchange available for
imports of the essential goods and services needed for the country's economy, to strengthen the
system of foreign exchange auctions, to give budgetary support in the form of institutional
support to a number of Government services, and to support reforms in the area of public finance
management, Government divestiture from public enterprises, and development of rural areas.




                                                - 45 -

                  VI.     IMPLEMENTATION RESULTS AND PRINCIPAL
                            FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT

6.1. Factors within our control

The pace of commitment was very slow initially for the following reasons:

(i)     Budgets were drawn up without indication of the projects to be funded ;
(ii)    The EERC unit kept on for the project was not yet equipped to manage a more complex
project ;
(iii)   The sectorals had insufficient capacity to conduct studies and prepare invitations to bid for
the projects selected;
(iv)    Procurement procedures were too lengthy;
(v)     The project focused primarily on foreign exchange auctions, rather than on management of
counterpart funds;
(vi)    There was no suitable framework for the follow-up of reforms supported by the ERC.

In order to accelerate the attainment of the project objectives, the Unit was given additional
human and material resources. It requested and obtained special measures to expedite the award
of contracts for the project. It regularly used consultants to meet urgent needs.
        .
6.2. Factors beyond our control (extraneous)

(i)     The reallocation in favor of arrears to cover coffee sector deficits resulted in a reduction
of the budgets for priority sectors such as health, so that health centers announced and expected
by the public remained on the drawing board ;
(ii)    The credit was budget aid requiring rapid disbursement : certain projects selected or
reforms supported by the project could not be implemented during the lifetime of the project ;
(iii)   Certain projects implemented require supporting measures that have not yet been adopted
and without which the funding will not have achieved its objectives ;
(iv)    Because the credit was obtained rapidly, the arrangements for monitoring results were not
reliable, especially for the reforms covered by the project;
(v)     The decision not to authorize the second phase of the ERC was taken in November 2005,
just as contracts had been signed: the ERC will not be able to verify that final acceptance of the
work (which usually occurs one year after provisional acceptance) is properly organized.

6.3. Lessons learned

The project had been conceived in the light of the lessons learned from the EERC experience. It
was designed to meet Burundi's immediate needs and to encourage further financial contributions
from donors. However, the project could be only partly successful, because it was implemented
in an unfavorable social and political climate due to the delays in signing the cease-fire agreement.

The hasty conclusion of the project is detrimental to the initial objectives for certain sectors. The
successive reallocations were based on the assumption that there would be a second phase of the



                                                - 46 -

project, as confirmed by all the World Bank follow-up missions. The funding pledged for studies
for projects that were not implemented must be written off, since in the future the studies will
have to be redone.

6.4. Bank performance

The project was formulated on the basis of the experience acquired during other emergency
operations in war-torn countries. The concept was simple. It was strongly supported by the
Government and was the subject of frequent communication between the Bank and the borrower.
Following a strategy adjusted to meet immediate needs other than humanitarian ones (which were
being dealt with by other donors), the credit support was aimed at delivering services to priority
sectors.

The performance of the IDA, throughout the project cycle, is considered satisfactory. There was
ongoing communication between the donor and the borrower. At each stage, the Bank displayed
remarkable determination and flexibility in the implementation of a strategy designed to meet the
urgent needs of Burundi. Requests from the borrower always met with a speedy response.

Correct supervision of the project was provided by the Bank Project Manager with the support of
the Resident Mission. There were regular supervision missions and at each stage project progress
was considered satisfactory. The development objectives and the status of implementation of the
project were considered satisfactory, since the disbursements in support of the sectors concerned
consistently reflected objectives throughout the lifetime of the project.

6.5. Performance of the borrower

The performance of the borrower can be considered generally satisfactory.             Appropriate
cooperation between the Bank and the Government was maintained during the evaluation of the
project and the Bank was kept informed of progress throughout its implementation. The project
was launched speedily; the Government was determined to attain its objectives and spared no
effort to ensure proper implementation.

The project accounts were regularly verified twice a year by an independent auditor recruited by
competitive bidding, as stipulated in the financial clauses of the credit agreement.

    VII.       SUBSEQUENT OPERATIONS: ECONOMIC REFORM SUPPORT GRANT


Whereas the EERC had been exclusively an emergency project, under the ERC project economic
reforms could be introduced to create machinery for ensuring sustainable economic development.
The Economic Reform Support Grant which follows the ERC should give priority to building on
the ERC achievements in order to consolidate the economic reforms initiated.




                                                - 47 -

- 48 -

