Document of
The WorldaBank
Report No. 24611-BU
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
PROGRAM DOCUMENT
FOR A
PROPOSED
ECONOMIC REHABILITATION CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 40.8 MILLION
(US$ 54 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
July 29, 2002
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit          FBu (Burundi Franc, period average)
1993: US$1   =      FBu 242.8
1998: US$1   =      FBu 447.7
2000: US$1          FBu 720.7
2001: US$1    =     FBu 830.4
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1-December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFD                  Agence fran,aise de developpement
AfDB                 African Development Bank
BURSAP               Burundi - Social Action Program
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
COMESA               Common Market for Eastem and Southem Africa
CPPR                 Country Portfolio Performance Review
CRP                  Community Rehabilitation Project
DDR                  Demobilization Disarnament and Reintegration
DRC                  Democratic Republic of the Congo
EERC                 Emergency Economic Recovery Credit
ERC                  Economic Rehabilitation Credit
ESW                  Economic and Sector Work
EU                   European Union
HIV/AIDS             Human LImmunodeficiency Virus/ Acquired Irnmunodeficiency Syndrome
HIPC                 Highly Indebted Poor Countries
IDA                  International Development Association
IDF                  Institutional Development Fund
IFAD                 International Fund for Agricultural Development
IFC                 International Finance Corporation
IMF                  International Monetary Fund
MDTF                 Multilateral Donor Trust Fund
MIGA                 Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
NCRR                 National Commission on Reintegration of Refugees
NGO                  Non-governmental organization
PER                  Public Expenditure Review
PRSP                 Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
SMP                  Staff Monitored Program
TGOB                 Transitional Government of Burundi
TSS                  Transitional Support Strategy
UNHCR                United Nations High Commission for Refugees
UNDP                 United Nations Development Program
Vice President        :      Callisto Madavo
Country Director      :      Emmanuel Mbi
Sector Manager        :      Cadman Atta Mills
Country Manager        :     Mathurin Gbetibouo
Country Economist     :      Hippolyte Fofack



REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
ECONOMIC REHABILITATION CREDIT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I. INTRODUCTION ........................3
II.   COUNTRY BACKGROUND ........................4
PEACE AND RECONCILIATION PROCESS                     ..4
INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE AND EXTERNAL DEBT                ..5
RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS                        ..6
HUMANITARIAN AND SOCIAL IMPACT OF CONFLICT              .....................................;.7
IMPACT OF THE CONFLICT ON POVERTY AND WELFARE INDICATORS        .     .      8
III.  THE GOVERNMENT'S REFORM PROGRAM .............................................9
A. KEY DEVELOPMENT CHALLENGES                        .9
B. THE GOVERNMENT'S STRATEGY .10
IV.   THE BUDGET FINANCING REQUIREMENTS .....................................  14
V. THE PROPOSED CREDIT                 ..16
A. CREDIT OBJECTIVES .16
Lessonsfrom the Preceding Emergency Economic Recovery Credit (EERC) . .16
Reforms supported by the proposed Credit  ..17
B. RATIONALE FOR IDA INVOLVEMENT .18
C. EXPECTED CREDIT BENEFITS .19
Poverty Reduction           ..19
Improved Effectiveness, Transparency and Accountability of Public resources..   19
Other Welfare and Social Benefits:    ..20
D. CREDIT AMOUNT AND TRANCHING ..........................................   20
E. RELEASE OF THE SECOND TRANCHE .......................................... 20
F   RELEASE OF THE THIRD TRANCHE .......................................... 21
G   MONITORABLE BENCHMARKS .......................................... 21
H   IMPLEMENTATION AND INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS . ..........................................   21
I.  INDICATION OF BORROWER COMMITMENT AND OWNERSHIP ..........................................  22
J.  ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS ..........................................        22
K. FIDUCIARY SAFEGUARDS ........................              ;             22
VI.   RISK AND SUSTAINABILITY ........................                        23
VII.  BANK GROUP OPERATIONS ........................                          24
VIII.   COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF AND DONORS ........................................... 24
IX.   RECOMMENDATION ............................................             25
Annex 1: Country at a glance      ..26
Annex 2 Key Economic Indicators      ..28
Annex 3 - Key Exposure Indicators     ..30
Annex 4 - Status of Bank Group Operations  ..31
Annex 5 - Selected Indicators of Bank Portfolio Performance and Management .. 32
Annex 6 - Distribution of Pledges by Donors (Bilateral and Multilateral Institutions) .. 33
Annex 7 - Summary of Tranche Release Conditions and Timing of Implementation .. 34
Annex 8 - Timetable of Key Processing Events  ..35
Annex 9 - Letter of Development Policy   ..36
Annex 10 - Proposed Economic Rehabilitation Credit - Policy Action Matrix..   48






ECONOMIC REHABILITATION CREDIT
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Republic of Burundi.
Amount:                    SDR 40.8 million (about US$54.0 million equivalent).
Terms:                     IDA terms with a forty-year maturity, including a grace period of ten
years.
Objectives:               The Economic Rehabilitation Credit (ERC) is an integral part of the
Bank's Transitional Support Strategy (TSS) to support the transition
process and the implementation of the Government's reform program. It
would help build the foundation for (i) the improvement of public
service delivery and basic social services through promotion of
accountability and transparency in the use of public funds, including
external assistance, (ii) the Government's efforts to deepen institutional
and structural reforms for sustained economic recovery and poverty
reduction (iii) the establishment of a track record for early access to relief
under the Enhanced Highly Indebted Poor Country (HIPC) Initiative.
Benefits:                  This operation, by focusing on public expenditure management, rural
development, private sector development and pro-poor sectoral policies,
is expected to help move the poverty reduction agenda of the Transition
Government of the Republic of Burundi forward. More specifically, the
proposed credit will help enhance the poverty reduction program through
(i) increased provision of essential social services to the poor and
vulnerable groups, following the rehabilitation of destroyed social
infrastructures, improved transparency and accountability in the use of
public resources; (ii) support the growth process by helping clear
government's arrears to private domestic suppliers and financing key
imports essential for the recovery, fostering inclusion by increasing the
participation of women to the production process; (iii) fostering private
sector development and participation to the production process.
Risks:                     The main risk factors are the internal conflict, the Great Lakes regional
conflict, the readiness and capacity of the Transition Government to
implement the reforms, and the funding of the transition. Despite the
signature of the peace accord and the installation of transitional
arrangements, the two rebel groups that did not sign the peace accord are
continuing to carry out military incursions. The regional conflict
provides Burundi's rebel groups a sanctuary in the DRC. The success in
achieving the growth and poverty reduction agenda will require
undertaking difficult economic and institutional reforms which are likely
to face resistance from powerful interest groups that have benefited from
the exclusive system of the past. Also, despite the positive response
expressed by donors at the Paris conference and the Geneva Round Table
meeting, there remains uncertainty regarding the amounts and timing of



inflows of international assistance. These risks are mitigated to a large
extent by the design of the proposed credit, which emphasizes donors
coordination, and policies that support national reconciliation to facilitate
progress toward a cease-fire.
Schedule of Disbursement:  To be released in three tranches of SDR15.1 million, SDR15.1 million
and SDR10.6 million (US$20, US$20 and US$14 million each, with
effectiveness scheduled for October 29, 2002.
Implementing Agencies:    The Ministry of Finance (MoF) has the responsibility for overall
coordination.
Poverty:                   This is a poverty-focused operation.
Project ID Number:         P074602
Map:                      IBRD 30118
2



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION PROGRAM DOCUMENT
FOR A PROPOSED ECONOMIC REHABILITATION CREDIT TO
THE REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
I.    INTRODUCTION
1.    The proposed Economic Rehabilitation Credit (ERC) to the Republic of Burundi, for
SDR 40.8 million, (the equivalent of US$54 million), on standard International Development
Association (IDA) terms, with a maturity of 40 years is an integral part of the Transitional
Support Strategy (TSS) [IDA/R2002-0013], to help finance the rehabilitation program of the
economy of Burundi. The Credit would finance eligible imports based on a negative list and the
counterpart funds from the imports would finance programs in the national budget.
2.    Since the outbreak of the conflict in 1993, the people of Burundi have experienced
insecurity and deteriorating living standards. With the signature of the Peace Accord in August
2000, Burundian authorities are confronted with the challenges of consolidating macroeconomic
stability for growth and poverty reduction, reintegrating and resettling refugees and internally
displaced persons, and strengthening human resource development. Considerable efforts have
already been made in the rehabilitation of destroyed economic and social infrastructure. The
World Bank, in the context of the Interim Strategy discussed by the Board in 1999, provided
emergency assistance to help support the peace process, the reform program and stabilization of
the economy. The TSS discussed by the Board on March 7, 2002, made exceptional IDA
allocation to Burundi to consolidate the progress under the Interim Strategy and further support
economic reforms for growth and poverty reduction.
3.    In the context of the TSS, the proposed ERC is designed to support the transition process
in Burundi through the rehabilitation and the recovery of the economy. More specifically, the
proposed Credit would help build the foundation for (a) the improvement of public service
delivery and basic social services, (b) the Government's efforts to deepen institutional and
structural reforms for sustained economic recovery and poverty reduction (c) the establishment
of a track record for early access to relief under the Enhanced Highly Indebted Poor Country
(HIPC) Initiative. The proposed ERC builds on the reforms and analytical work on the public
expenditure management system initiated under IDA's Emergency Economic Recovery Credit.
4.    Progress towards a sustainable peace, and improving the delivery of essential social
services would enhance the reintegration of refugees and engagement into productive
employment. This would eventually boost economic recovery and growth and help reduce the
incidence of poverty. The implementation of reforms is likely to enhance the growth process,
through macroeconomic stability, creation of an enabling environment for private investments
and increased inflows of foreign assistance. The proceeds of the proposed Credit would relieve
the acute shortage of foreign exchange faced by Burundi, which in the post-conflict period has
witnessed a dramatic fall in its level of foreign assistance, from over US$300 million to less than
US$48 million per annum between 1993 and 1999.
5.    With progress on the peace front, international assistance is resuming, however,
demonstrated by the size of the pledges at the donor conference on Burundi in Paris in December
2000, and the substantial increase in the amount pledged at the Geneva Round Table meeting
held in December 2001. A number of donors have also pledged to contribute to a Multilateral
3



Donor Trust Fund (MDTF) to enable Burundi service its debt and clear arrears owed to a number
of its multilateral creditors in the interim period leading to its access to debt relief under the
Enhanced HIPC Initiative.
6.    In addition to arrears clearance, Burundi's access to relief under the HIPC Initiative is
conditioned upon the elaboration of the full PRSP and commitment of the Burundian authorities
to sound economic management, evidenced by a good track record in the implementation of
economic reforms. Burundi, with assistance from the World Bank and other donors, completed
the consultation and participatory diagnostic processes and produced a draft interim PRSP
(IPRSP). The draft IPRSP was discussed by donors in April 2002, and is expected to be
presented to the Boards of the IMF and World Bank in the last quarter of 2002. The Government
concluded a Staff Monitored Program (SMP) with the Fund in the second half of CY01.
II. COUNTRY BACKGROUND
Peace and Reconciliation Process
7.    Burundians are making efforts to bring to an end a crisis engendered by recurrent
conflicts and rivalry between its two main ethnic groups, the Hutu and Tutsi. The last conflict,
which broke out in 1993, resulted in the death of a large number of civilians and left thousands
of victims. It is believed that more than 250,000 people were killed in the eight-year civil war,
and the number of internally displaced persons and refugees is estimated at 1.2 million. The
increasing social and economic costs of this conflict prompted the intemational community to
help Burundi establish a framework for a negotiation towards national reconciliation and durable
peace. Negotiations in Arusha, Tanzania, resulted in a comprehensive peace agreement (Arusha
Peace Accord), signed in August 2000. A new power-sharing Govemment was inaugurated on
November 1, 2001, in accordance with the transitional arrangements of this Accord.' This
Government has the responsibility to administer the country during the 36-month transition
period leading to general democratic elections. The transition period has two phases, to respect
the power-sharing principle. Pierre Buyoya, a Tutsi, is leading the first period, which lasts 18
months starting November 1, 2001, with Domitien Ndayizeye, a Hutu, as Vice President. Vice
President Ndayizeye will lead the transition Govemment in the second 18-month period with a
Tutsi as Vice President.
8.    Burundi faces difficult development challenges. These include fostering inclusiveness,
peace and security, promoting national reconciliation and good governance, resettling and
reintegrating displaced persons and other victims of conflict, rehabilitating destroyed economic
and social infrastructure, revitalizing the economy and strengthening human resource capacities.
The installation of the inclusive Transition Govermnent in November 2001 and a Transition
Parliament in January 2002 provides the opportunity for Burundi and its development partners to
begin to address the serious conflict-related and development challenges.
9.    Despite the swearing-in of the Transition Government and the installation of the
Transition Parliament in January 2002, the overall situation on the ground has remained fragile,
due to the continued incursions by two rebel groups, "Forces Nationales de Liberation" (FNL)
and "Forces de Defense de la Democratie" (FDD), that did not sign the Peace Accord and are not
part of the Transition Government. Discussions between Burundian Government and the rebel
For further details on the transitional arrangements, see the Arusha Peace and Reconciliation Agreement for Burundi, the Intemational Crisis
Group Africa Report No. 25, and the World Bank Transitional Support Strategy for Burundi.
4



forces,. as well as between the governments of Burundi and the Democratic Republic of the
Congo (DRC), are ongoing within the framework of the Arusha, and Lusaka Peace Accord,
respectively. Continued strong support of the peace process, the implementation of transitional
arrangements and the transition program by the international community are critical to the
success of the transition and meeting the development challenges.
International Assistance and External Debt
10.   The level of foreign assistance, over US$300 million per annum during the pre-crisis
period, has averaged less than US$48 million per annum in the crisis period. The economic
embargo imposed by regional leaders following the military coup in 1996 that overthrew a
"convention Govermment" negotiated under the auspices of the UN and OAU, resulted in a sharp
decline of donor support an contraction of the economy. Persistent terms of trade deterioration
and declining agricultural production, especially coffee and tea, the main export crops,
exacerbated. the scarcity of foreign exchange. The contraction of economic activity resulted in
significant reduction of domestic revenues and the Governent faced growing difficulties in
meeting its obligations on the US$1.2 billion (2000) extemal debt and it accumulated arrears to a
number of its creditors. Debt service increased dramatically, from US$30 million per annum in
1994 to over US$52 million in 2001, the latter accounting for over 98 percent of exports (see
Annex 1). Total extemal arrears increased to over US$103 million in 2000 and is estimated to
have exceeded US$120 million in 2001.
11.   The intemational community started to re-engage in Burundi after the signing of the
Peace Accord. This was demonstrated by the large number of donors at the intemational
conference on Burundi convened by President Mandela and hosted by France in December 2000.
The level of pledges, at US$440 million exceeded expectations. During the Paris conference,
donors also recognized that Burundi's extemal debt was unsustainable and supported the
establishment of a Multilateral Donor Trust Fund (MDTF) to service its debt and clear its arrears
to a number of creditors during the interim period leading to its access to the HIPC decision
point.2 At the Geneva Round Table Meeting on December 6-7, 2001, donors increased their
pledges to bring the total amount to US$830 million (see Annex 6 on the distribution of pledges.)
12.   Drawing on the Rwandan debt Trust Fund experience in the post-genocide period, the
donors community requested that the World Bank manage the proposed MDTF. The World Bank
proceeded to open trust fund accounts, prepare letters of agreement, and carry out preliminary
debt sustainability analysis to determine the level of resources needed to clear arrears and service
debt owed to these multilateral institutions. Preliminary estimates indicate that a contribution of
US$75-80 million will be needed to provide debt relief to Burundi over a two-year period. A
number of donors (EU, Belgium and UK) have already firmed up their pledges. An agreement
confirming the UK contribution to the fund was concluded early in July 2002. Other donors are
expected to follow and the MDTF should become operational by the time of ERC effectiveness.
13.   Discussions between Burundian authorities and the Fund are ongoing, and reportedly are
satisfactory. Burundian authorities and 1MF staff are scheduled to meet in a context of an IMF
mission in the first half of August 2002 to conduct the 2002 Article IV consultation discussions,
and negotiate a program that could be supported under the emergency post conflict assistance
facility in 2002. This post-conflict assistance program would be a catalyst for donor assistance in
2  Though Burundi is current with IDA, it is in arrears with AfDB, IFAD, EIB, OPEP Fund, BADEA and a number of bilateral creditors.
5



the context of internationally concerted efforts. Depending on the progress towards peace, a
PRGF supported program could be considered in the course of 2003.
Recent Economic Developments
14.   Agriculture is the mainstay of the economy, employing over 90 percent of the active
population and accounting for 50 percent of GDP. The conflict had a devastating effect on
agriculture, with the massive movements of the population. This was reflected in the overall
economic performance. The per capita GDP went down by 20 percent between 1993 and 1999,
reaching US$110 from US$180, far below the Sub-Saharan African average of US$490.
15.   Economic conditions in 2000 were characterized by stagnant output, increased
inflationary pressures, and continued deterioration of the balance of payments. After a 4.8
percent growth of real GDP in 1998, growth rate was negative in 1999 (-1 percent), and in 2000
(-0.9 percent), as insecurity, drought and population displacement continued to adversely affect
agricultural production (see Table 1). The economy recovered in 2001, with an estimated growth
of 3.2 percent. With a restoration of peace in many parts of the country and return of refugees,
the economy is expected to grow at about 4.5 percent per annum in 2002.
16.   The stagnant economy was accompanied by rapidly rising inflation in 2000. The gains
achieved in 1999, when the inflation rate declined to single digits (3.4 percent) after 5
consecutive years of double digits (peaking at 31 percent in 1997), were wiped out. Inflation
increased dramatically, averaging 24.3 percent in 2000, due largely to rising oil and food prices.
The Government, within the framework of the Staff Monitored Program (SMP), implemented a
series of measures to curb inflation, including the establishment of access ceilings and higher
financial charges on commercial banks borrowing from the central bank. Average inflation in
2001 is estimated to have declined to 9.5 percent, and the declining trend is projected to continue
in 2002-2003, with the period average falling below 8 percent.
17.   The overall fiscal deficit (including grants) fell sharply, from 7.5 percent of GDP in
1999, 2.1 percent in 2000. The primary fiscal balance (revenues less non-interest domestic
expenditures) registered a surplus of 2.8 percent of GDP, the second primary surplus in the past 6
years. Revenue increased from 18.3 percent of GDP in 1999 to 20.1 percent in 2000, and is
projected to stabilize at 20 percent of GDP in 2002-2003. The fiscal deficit was financed by net
external inflows equivalent to 4.4 percent of GDP. The relative improvement of the fiscal stance
is due to a number of revenue mobilization measures implemented by the Government in 2000.
The tax and customs exemptions were brought under control by eliminating line ministry
authority to grant exemptions and by creating units in the customs and internal revenue
departments to monitor the purpose, recipients, and value of exemptions granted. Petroleum
product prices were increased by 85 percent for premium gasoline and 270 percent for kerosene.
18.   On the externalfront, the current account deficit (excluding official transfers) increased
from -11.9 percent in 1998 to -16.2 percent of GDP in 2001 under the SMP, anrd is estimated to
be -19.5 percent of GDP in 2002. This sharp deterioration of the current account is largely
attributed to a conjunction of factors, including the deterioration of terms of trade and falling
coffee production which accounts for over 90 percent of export revenues. The production of
coffee decreased to 18,000 tons in 2000, from 31,000 tons in 1999 and an average of 36,800 tons
between 1992-96. The world coffee price which was US$3460 per ton in the 1980s and fell to
US$1920 and US$1370 in 2000 and 2001 respectively, is projected to rise to US$1540 in 2003
6



and US$2090 in 2005. This rising trend in coffee prices and increased output and exports of
coffee will help to stabilize the current account deficit at 20 percent of GDP between 2003-2004.
19.     Gross official reserves, which were steady at over 11 months of imports in 1997 have
been falling consistently, and reached 3.8 months of imports in 2000. Reserves averaged 2.5
months of imports in 2001, reflecting the continued deterioration of trade deficit, which
increased from US$8.7 million to US$79 million between 1997 and 2001, and is estimated to
have reached US$111        million in 2002. The widening deficit was largely financed by the
resumption of inflows of external assistance, mainly in the form of IDA financed Emergency
Economic Recovery Credit (EERC) and resources from EU COM STABEX (Compte de
Stabilization des Exportations) fund. With exhaustion of EERC resources and delays in inflows
of pledge resources, the level of official reserves has resumed a declining trend. By end-April,
2002, net official reserves were down to less than a month of imports.
Table 1: Selected Indicators of Economic Performance
Econonic Indicators                    1977     1998      1999     2000    2001     2002     2003     2004
(Est.)   (SMP)    (Proj.)  (Proj.)
Real GDP Growth Rate (%)               .4       4.8       -1.0     -0.9    3.2      4.2      5.7      6.0
Inflation Rate (% CPI, period average)  31.1    11.2      3.4      24.3    9.5      7.7      7.7      7.7
An percent of GDP, unless otherwise specified)
Total Government Revenue            13.8      17.4      18.3     20.1    20.9     21.0     20.0     20.0
Total Government Expenditure        23.2      23.6      28.7     25.7    26.9     28.2     29.1     28.7
Current Expenditure               18.2     17.5      21.3     19.8    21.6     19.0     18.4      17.7
Capital Expenditure               5.0      6.0       7.8      6.4     6.0      9.6      11.0      11.3
Mlitary and SecurityExpenditure     6.3       6.7       7.0      6.2     8.1      6.9      6.6      6.4
Total External Debt (end of period)  120.6    139.7     170.0    178.3   182.9    182.4    180.2    179.8
Balance of Payments
Current Account Balance
Excluding official transfers      -5.1      -11.9    -10.3     -15.4   -162     -19.5   -21.0     -19.9
Including official transfers      03       -6.2      -3.9      -7.4    -5.2     -4.1    -7.1      -6.7
Debt-service ratio (scheduled)*     59.6      70.3      732      79.6    106.6    100.0    74.9     74.6
an million of tE dollar, unless otherwise specified)
Gross Off. Reserves*                11.5      5.6       5.3    3.8        2.2     2.5      3.2      4.0
Exports of Goods                    87.4      64.0      55.0    49.1      39.2    42.8     48.5      55.8
Imports of Goods                    -96.1     -123.6    -97.2  -107.8    -108.4   -117.0   -123.5   -1302
External Debt                       1,154.3   1,207.2   1,170   1,211.4   1192.2  1176.4   1145.6    11562
Trade Balance                       -8.7      -59.7     -42.3  -58.7     -692     -74.2    -75.1    -74.4
Total External Arrears              53.7      72.8      76.7    101.1     112.7   120.4    110.8     109.5
* Gross official reserves are provided in terms of months of imports. Source: Burundi authorities; and IMF staff.
Humanitarian and Social Impact of Conflict
20.     The 1993 conflict created an unprecedented humanitarian catastrophe, with the number of
internally displaced persons (IDPs) and refugees living in precarious conditions estimated at 1.2
million, accounting for about 18 percent of the total population. IDPs are spread in 13 provinces,
with a large concentration in Makamba (121,400) and Bururi (87,600). The refugees estimated to
exceed 400,000, are largely concentrated in neighboring Tanzania (over 380,000) and DRC (over
20,000). A large number of victims have suffered great physical and psychological hardship;
malnutrition and endemic diseases are prevalent; and the return to normal life is constrained by
7



the lack of shelter and the large-scale destruction of economic and social infrastructure. The
number of houses destroyed or damaged is estimated in thousands. In the health sector, 73
district health centers were either destroyed or pillaged and in the education sector, more than
105 schools were completely destroyed and 376 were seriously damaged. The donor community
has been providing assistance to rehabilitate social infrastructure, the need remains enormous.
21.   The conflict also weakened existing institutional and human resource capacities, and
exacerbated the disparities across regions and provinces, especially in the provision of social
services in the health and education sector. Most qualified teachers, for reasons of personal
security are concentrated in urban areas and eight provinces representing about 45 percent of
total population, leaving the rest of the largely rural provinces, where poverty is widespread,
uncovered. The shortage of qualified civil servants and their uneven distribution remain the key
constraints likely to compromise the objective of increasing the provision of essential social
services at the regional and local level.
Impact of the Conflict on Poverty and Welfare Indicators
22.   Poverty: With the lingering conflict, poverty, already a widespread phenomenon in
Burundi has increased significantly. Between 1993 and 1999, the headcount index increased
from 40 to 68.7 percent. The increase was general across all regions, including urban areas,
where the deterioration was particularly pronounced. The incidence of urban poverty increased
from 41 to 67 percent; while rural poverty increased to from 40 to 69 percent during the same
period. There are also regional disparities in the incidence of poverty. Poverty is highest in the
eastern province of Ruyigi (93 percent) and lowest in the central province of Muramvya (49
percent). The incidence of poverty is higher for export and subsistence farmers (over 70 percent)
than public sector workers and the private formal sector (57 percent). The roots of poverty
include stagnant production due to the destruction of social and economic infrastructure and
insecurity, a dramatic fall in agricultural production due to massive displacement of the rural
population, deterioration of terms of trade, low level of investment and domestic saving, and
reduced levels of international assistance.
23.   HIVIAIDS has become one of the major causes of mortality among adults, and is the
major factor in the rise in infant mortality rates, from 110 per thousand live births in 1992 to 116
in 2000, significantly above the Sub-Saharan African average of 92. The epidemic is affecting
people in their most productive years; the proportion of adults dying before age 40 increased
significantly in the 1990s. The prevalence of HIV/AIDS also increased significantly at the
national level: in rural areas, it increased from less than 1 percent to 6 percent between 1989 and
1998; in urban areas, it increased from 11 percent to 20 percent during the same period. The
number of people living with HIV/AIDS was about 360,000 in the 15-49 age group and 19,000
for those under 15 in 1999. There are 558,000 orphans in Burundi; about 195,000 are believed to
have been orphaned by HIV/AIDS. The impact of the HIY/AIDS epidemic falls
disproportionately on women and girls: about 56 percent of those living with HIV/AIDS are
female. The conflict context reduces economic opportunities and further increases the
vulnerability of women to the transmission of HIV/AIDS.
24.   Impact on Other Social Indicators: The number of victims of malaria, the leading cause
of death, also increased. This disease and the rising HIV/AIDS epidemic are largely responsible
3 These indicators are derived from the 1998 Priority Survey, using the absolute poverty line established at about 92,000 Fbu annual per
capita expenditure in Rural areas and about 410,000 in Urban areas.
8



for the declining life expectancy, which fell from an already low level of 51 years in 1993 to less
than 42 in 2000 (see Annex 1). Similarly, a large number of other social indicators exhibited a
negative trend: access to safe water and health services remained extremely low, at less than 48
percent and 20 percent, respectively. In the education sector, gross primary enrollment fell to 51
percent from 68 percent in 1992 and the repetition rate increased from 13to 17 percent.
III. THE GOVERNMENT'S REFORM PROGRAM
A.    Key Development Challenges
25.   The conflict compounded the scope of challenges facing Burundians, particularly in the
area of (i) reintegration and resettlement of refugees and internally displaced persons and other
victims, (ii) security and national reconciliation, (iii) growth and poverty reduction; (iv)
governance, transparency and accountability, and (v) human resource development, including
curbing the trend of HIV/AIDS. The demands to meet the post-conflict recovery needs have
stretched the lean resources of the Government and its partners. The level of public resources
channeled to assist the victims increased significantly between 1995 and 2001, from 0.46 percent
to over 5.1 percent of the budget. Budgetary allocations to priority social sectors (education,
health, social protection, reinsertion and reintegration) increased by over 10 percent between
2001 and 2002, from FBu21,456 to Fbu23,762 billion, accounting for 13.3 percent and 16.2
percent of total budget, respectively.
26.   Consolidating Peace and National Reconciliation: Consolidating the peace process and
strengthening the national reconciliation process are important steps forward, key to beginning to
heal the wounds of the past, building a more harmonious society. However, to achieve these
objectives, it is important to ensure security for all Burundians, mainstream the power-sharing
approach between the different ethnic groups, strengthen the justice system and the democratic
process, and improve governance and accountability in the use of public resources, all essential
in the construction of a peaceful, stable and inclusive nation.
27.   Resettling and Reintegrating Internally Displaced Persons and  Victims: The
resettlement of victims and IDPs and their reintegration into productive employment is key to
achieving the objectives of national reconciliation, growth and poverty reduction. With support
from the international community (including EERC resources), a number of social infrastructure
and housing to accommodate victims have been rehabilitated. The challenges in this area remain
immense, with over 390,000 IDPs remaining to be settled and even larger numbers of refugees
from neighboring countries that are continuing to return to Burundi in large numbers.
28.   Poverty Reduction and Economic Growth: Burundian authorities are committed to
sound economic management, essential to achieving the economic growth and poverty reduction
objectives. They are committed to the PRSP process and to the Millennium Development Goal
(MDG) of reducing poverty by one half by 2015. The medium-term objective is to reduce the
poverty incidence by 25 percent by 2010. Sustainable and more robust growth rates would be
needed to achieve this ambitious target. Revitalizing agricultural production, the main source of
rural income, is essential for attaining the MDG. The government's strategy for agricultural
development is to enhance the role of private sector operators, increase security of land
ownership, provide extension services, and improve access to agricultural inputs. Success in
achieving the poverty reduction objective also requires sustained private sector savings and
investment and the diversification of the productive activity.
9



29.   Burundian authorities are committed to reversing the negative trend in social indicators
and have set intermediate targets within the context of the MDG. Some of these target include
reducing illiteracy by 25 percent and 50 percent by 2005 and 2010, respectively, achieving
universal coverage of basic health care by 2010, reducing infant mortality rate to 110 and 50 per
thousand live births by 2005 and 2010, respectively, and increasing access to safe water to 80
percent of the total population by 2005 and to all by 2010. These target goals are ambitious,
especially given the current status of social indicators, recent growth rates, and attaining them
will require rapid implementation of peace and security, strong commitment to the reduction of
gender, ethnic and regional disparities and support from the international community.
30.   Human Resource Development: The level of human resource capacities, already low,
deteriorated significantly during the eight-year conflict period, with negative impact on living
standards. HIV/AIDS prevalence rates are on the rise; life expectancy, child immunization and
enrollment rates declined significantly and are at their lowest levels since the outbreak of the
conflict in 1993. The Government's challenges in this area include increasing the provision of
essential social services to the poor, addressing the issue of human resource deficit and uneven
geographical distribution, rehabilitating social infrastructure, curbing the spread of HIV/AIDS,
achieving the universal primary education by 2015, and reducing gender disparities in education
and enrollment. The representation of women in the national institutions remains relatively low,
well below the 30 percent target stipulated in the Arusha Peace Accord. Gender disparities
remain pervasive in Burundi, and have been exacerbated since the outbreak of conflict in 1993.
The crisis has led to profound changes in the structure and composition of households and in
gender roles in Burundi's society and economy. While data are scarce, women play a substantial
role in the Burundian economy and dominate in the food production and processing sectors,
which has important implications for households' food security and nutritional status. The
Government recognizes the importance of addressing gender disparities as an integral part of its
poverty reduction agenda and as a key means of bringing about an inclusive and more stable
society. To this end, the Ministry in charge of Women's Affairs is preparing a National Gender
Policy which will initially focus on supporting a gender-responsive legal reform process.
31.   Improving Governance, Transparency and Accountability: The declining level of living
standards and per capita income, the rising poverty incidence recorded since 1993 are partly
responsible for the rise of corruption and fraud within an administration, which prior to the
outbreak of the last conflict was known for its probity. The consultation and participatory
diagnostic processes conducted within the context of the IPRSP singled out poor governance as
one of the key determinant of poverty in Burundi, affecting a wide range of development aspects,
including the political process and transformation, economic and natural resources management,
public expenditure allocation and profiles. In addition to the conflict context, the deterioration of
governance is aggravated by the concentration of powers in a highly centralized system
illustrated by ethnic and geographical disparities in the management and access to public
expenditures. Improving the current state of governance is key to attaining the objectives of
transforming the political process and the MDG.
B.    The Government's Strategy
32.   The previous Government presented a transitional strategy (GTS) for the period 2001-
2003 to the international community at the Paris Conference in December 2000. Under this
strategy, average economic growth was projected to reach 4.7 percent by January 2004. The GTS
10



stressed continued implementation of economic reforms and the need for social inclusion and a
participatory approach to development, a policy at variance with the actions carried out in the
pre-crisis period, when most benefits of growth accrued to a small segment of the population
largely located in urban areas. The strategy was comprehensive and emphasized increased role
for the private sector in the economy, and the consolidation of the progress in reforms. Some of
the key components of this strategy included (i) support to agriculture and rural development, (ii)
promotion of private sector development, (iii) promotion of good governance, and (iv)
strengthening of human resource development. The GOB has already begun to implement its
Strategy, and the proposed Credit is to support this effort. Box 1 summarizes the key actions
already undertaken by Burundian officials and Box 2 summarizes ongoing and planned actions.
Box 1: Summary Of Key Actions Undertaken By The Government Of Burundi
Peace and National Reconciliation: Key actions include (i) ratification of the Peace Accord by the Parliament in December
2000; (ii) promulgation of the Transition Constitution in October 2001; (iii) swearing-in of a Transition Government with
representatives from the parties signatory of the Peace Accord in November 2001; (iv) installment of the Transition Parliament
and Senate in January 2002.
Resettlement and Reintegration of Victims: Actions undertaken include (i) signature of a protocol for access and protection
of internally displaced persons in February 2001; (ii) establishment of a National Commission on Reintegration of Refugees in
May 2001; (iii) signature of a tripartite agreement between the Govemments of Burundi, Tanzania, and UNHCR in May 2001
to facilitate voluntary repatriation of Burundian refugees stationed in Tanzania.
Public Expenditure Management: Key actions include (i) adoption of a system for the functional and economic classification
of budgetary expenditure and a double-entry accounting system; (ii) implementation of a system for monitoring the flow of
resources and govemment expenditure with respect to all extemal assistance programs; (iii) computerization of the management
of expenditure from the commitment phase to actual payment by the govemment's cashier at the BRB.
Good Governance: Actions include (i) the appointment of a minister with broad responsibility for promoting govemance; (ii)
the establishment of an inter-ministerial committee to promote good govemance and fight corruption; (iii) the preparation of an
action plan to enhance the govemance agenda; (iv) the strengthening of the General Inspection in charge of finance; (iv)
establishment of an Intemational Commission of inquiry on political prisoners.
Private Sector Development: Key actions include the initiation of programs to (i) clear the govemment's arrears to private
sectors suppliers; (ii) revise the corporate and commercial laws; (iii) revise the labor code; (iv) revise the bankruptcy laws and
improve the arbitration system; (v) reform the civil code and streamline the judicial procedures; (vi) establish a privatization
program for public enterprises; (vii) establish an independent regulatory authority for the telecommunication sector; (x) extend
the provision of mobile phone services to private operators.
Revenues Mobilization: Key reforms include (i) elimination of line ministry authority to grant tax exemptions; (ii) creation of
units in the customs and internal revenue departments to monitor the purpose, recipients and value of the exemptions granted;
(iii) initiation of campaigns for the collection of property, water, and forest revenues and other administrative revenues.
Human Resource Development: Key actions include: (i) the rehabilitation of educational and health infrastructure; (ii) the
decentralization of the health management system to improve coverage and quality of basic health services; (iii) adoption of an
independent and autonomous management structure for public hospitals;.(iv) adoption of a cost recovery mechanisms to
improve health services and ensure sustainability in the provision of health services; (v) the adoption of a multi-sector strategy
for the fight against the HIV/AIDS epidemic.
Gender and Social Protection: Key actions include (i) establishment of a fund to support the development of micro-credit
institutions in rural development; (ii) establishment of safety net mechanisms to assist the poor and victims of conflict; (iii)
revision of personal and matrimonial code and promotion of campaigns to enhance the role of women; (iv) an increase in the
representation of women in public offices in accordance with the Arusha Peace Accord which establishes a minimum threshold
of 30 percent for the representation of women in all institutions; (v) initiation of the preparation of a gender action plan.
Agricultural Sector: Key actions include (i) enactment of a land law by Parliament; (ii) initiation of a study to restructure the
tea sub-sector; (iii) restructuring the coffee and cotton sub-sector; (iv) implementation of measures to recapitalize livestock; (v)
support and reintegration of displaced persons and other victims of conflict into agricultural production process; (vi) adoption
of measures by the Cabinet to increase private sector participation in agriculture.



33.   Agriculture and Rural Development: Revitalizing agricultural production and reducing
this sector's vulnerability to exogenous shocks is an essential path to sustained economic growth
and poverty reduction. The Government's strategy for this sector is to increase rural income
through a series of measures, iricluding (i) increased production and productivity, (ii) increased
access to factors of production, and (iii) access to markets. In order to increase production and
productivity, the strategy emphasizes research and extension services, seed improvement,
recapitalization of livestock, development of irrigation services, and protection of the
environment. Measures to increase access to factors of production include enhancing land tenure,
mainstreaming gender and social inclusion, and promoting the development of micro-credit
institutions. Measures envisaged to increase access to markets include development and
rehabilitation of rural infrastructure, diversification into high value export crops, and promotion
and expansion of the use of improved agricultural inputs.
34.   While the medium-term rural development strategy of the Transition Government is to
diversify the sources of growth and promote investment in high value crops; in the short term, it
plans to revive the tea and coffee sub-sectors, which account for over 90 percent of export
revenues and will continue to be critical for growth and poverty reduction in the short-run. With
the support of.the EU through the STABEX fund, Burundian authorities are in the process of
preparing a comprehensive strategy for reviving the coffee and tea sub-sector. This strategy will
address a number of issues, including marketing arrangements, export prices and taxes,
ownership of assets, support to producers, and institutional arrangements for regulation. This will
provide the basis for the reform to revive the sector.
35.   Improving Governance and Public Expenditure Management: The Transition
Government recognizes the importance of good governance. Its strategy is to improve
transparency and accountability in the management of public resources, fight corruption,
decentralize and increase community participation in the management and decision making
process, and strengthen human resource and institutional capacities in economic management.
To this end, it appointed a minister with broad responsibilities for accountability in all
government operations, a focal point for promotion of good governance and the fight against
corruption and abuse of office. Specific measures to be undertaken in the medium-term include
strengthening the capacity of the new transitional institutions and the decentralization process;
the simplification of laws and regulations establishing and implementing fiscal and customs
tariffs; improving the budget process and the effectiveness of the budget, including the adoption
of the MTEF and prioritization of the budget in line with poverty-focused priorities identified by
the PRSP process; the establishment of an Auditor General Office responsible for auditing the
government's resources and expenditures and the reform of the public procurement
administration. Other measures include strengthened public-private sector dialogue; and the
systematic implementation of external audits of government accounts. In the context of
strengthening the budget and related processes, the GOB and its partners will systematically
undertake public expenditure reviews, including public expenditure tracking studies.
36.   Private Sector Development: The government's strategy for this sector is to establish the
legal policy and institutional environment that promotes private sector development and
enhances its competitiveness. Medium-term actions include the review and revision of legislation
on commercial activities, promotion of private investment and trade, enhancement of financial
services, the privatization of state-owned enterprises, promotion of small and medium-size
12



enterprises, and strengthening govermnent and private sector partnership. Specific measures
underway include revision of the labor code, the bankruptcy laws, and the civil code to
streamline judicial procedures, and the strengthening of the arbitration systems. The revision of
the labor code is intended to liberalize labor markets, enhance labor mobility, and formally
eliminate gender discrimination. A privatization decree was adopted by Parliament in 1996 but
the process has been delayed by the conflict. A list of firms up for privatization has been
established; these include utility companies, textile complexes, coffee and tea factories, the
national pharmaceutical company and the Nile Source Hotel.
37.   Human Resource Development: Improving human resources is also key to achieving the
poverty reduction objectives. Public spending per capita on social sectors at US$4.5 in 2001 is
unevenly distributed across regions and, remains among the lowest in Sub-Saharan African
countries. A disproportionately large share of public spending is allocated to urban areas. The
government's objectives for human resource development is to rehabilitate social infrastructure,
improve access to health and education services, curb the spread of HIV/AIDS, reduce gender
disparities in access to economic and social opportunities, and provide assistance to orphans
whose numbers increased significantly. Key objectives specific to the education sector include
reduction of gender and geographical disparities in access to education, development of
communal and technical institutions, improved quality of teaching through equipment and
training of teachers, increased participation of private institutions, and support to higher
education to address the shortage of capacities and qualified teachers at the intermediate and
lower levels. Key measures specific to the health sector include implementation of a generalized
social security system to improve access, reduction of geographical disparities through support
of training of health practitioners and redeployment in regions with low coverage.
38.   The success in improving human resources development, and meeting the target
objectives of the Millennium Development Goals will also depend on the ability of the
Transition Govenment to address a number of post-conflict related challenges and emergency
needs in the short-run. Some of these challenges include the rehabilitation of destroyed economic
and social infrastructure, reintegration and reinsertion of internally displaced persons, refugees
and other victims of conflict, ensuring a minimum coverage and provision of essential social
services to the poor and vulnerable groups, especially in a context of increasingly limited public
resources. Against this background, Burundian authorities have identified a minimum package of
essential social services to be provided by the Government to the poor and vulnerable groups
during the transition period. The priority list of items under the minimum package draws on the
outcome of the consultation and participatory diagnostic processes carried out within the context
of the IPRSP, and was identified through a collaborative efforts involving key sectoral
ministries and development partners. Part of the package will be financed from a special fund for
the reinsertion and reintegration of displaced persons and other victims of conflict approved by
the Cabinet early in July 2002.
13



Box 2: Summary Of Key Actions Planned By The Government Of Burundi
Peace and National Reconciliation: Key actions include (i) establishment of an Intemational Judicial Commission of inquiry on
genocide and crimes committed since independence; (ii) promulgation of a law prohibiting genocide and exclusion, and respect of
human rights; (iii) reorganization of army and national police force to address ethnic imbalance; (iv) efforts to bring the two rebel
groups into the peace process; (v) organization of local and communal elections in 18 months, (vi) legislative elections in 36 months;
(vii) presidential elections at the end of 36 months, from November 1, 2001; and (viii) implementation of measures to strengthen the
National Assembly, and the justice system; (ix) establishment of the National Truth and Reconciliation commission; and (x)
establishment of a National Commnission for the Rehabilitation of Refugees.
Good Governance: (i) Further elaboration of the govemance agenda; (ii) implementation of measures to strengthen the public
procurement administration; (iii) creation of an independent Audit Office "Cour des comptes" to fight fraud and corruption and an
Office of Auditor General; (iv) implementation of civil service census and civil service reform and the strengthening of institutional
capacities in economic management; (vi) implementation of the decentralization program; (vi) promotion of the institution of
Bashingantahe to revitalize the gracious justice system; (vii) implementation of ongoing audit of the Treasury.
Public Expenditure Management: Key reforms include (i) increase expenditures for priority ptograms identified through the PRSP
process focusing on poverty reduction and economic and social recovery; (ii) reform of the budget processes to increase efficiency,
effectiveness, transparency and accountability with the adoption of a MTEF; (iii) improve the monitoring of all govemment financial
operations in the budget; (iv) the abolition of extraordinary expenditures; (iv) the implementation of a public expenditure tracking
study to monitor and trace the flow of public spending up to public facilities and primary beneficiaries.
Private Sector Development: Key actions include measures to foster the govemment's efforts to (i) maintain a stable
macroeconomic environment; (ii) liberalize the foreign exchange regime; (iii) strengthen the legal and judiciary framework for
commerce, and enforcement of contracts; (iv) create commercial tribunals (v) clear the government's arrears to private sectors
suppliers; (vi) revise the commercial laws including the labor code and the bankruptcy laws, and improve the arbitration system;
(vii) reform the civil code and streamline judicial procedures; and (viii) establishment of an operational program for the privatization
of public enterprises, including the establishment of a unit to implement the privatization, identification of enterprises to be
privatized, and adoption of a strategy and plan for privatization; (ix) adoption by Parliament of laws to strengthen norms and
regulation in the banking sector.
Agriculture and Rural Development: Key actions include (i) liberalization of producer pricing and marketing arrangements,
especially in the coffee and tea sub-sectors; (ii) promotion of agro-processing, transformation and commercialization of agricultural
products; (iii) implementation of a study to identify the sources of growth in rural areas; (iv) recapitalization of livestock; (v)
adoption of measures to increase private sector participation; (vi) development of irrigated agriculture; (vii) support to extension
services and research; (viii) diversification of sources of rural income through support to the promotion of export crops and
production of high valued crops and transformation of agricultural commodities (ix) stimulate rural employment through
development of public work programs and small and medium-size enterprises and industries.
Gender and Social Protection: Key actions include measures to (i) adopt a system to monitor the 30 percent target gender plan of
the Arusha Accord, preparation and adoption by Cabinet of a gender action plan to eliminate gender disparities; (ii) revise the labor
code to enhance the role of women; (iii) passage of a law by Parliament enabling women to inherit land and other properties; (iv)
increase school enrollment of girls; (v) increase social spending to assist the poor and vulnerable groups; (vi) implementation of a
social security system (vii) implementation of the decentralization progran to achieve broad-based participation of the civil society
in the development process; (viii) establishment of a fund to support reinsertion and reintegration of victims.
Human Resource Development: Key reforms include (i) definition of a minimum package of essential social services to be
provided by the Govemment to poor and vulnerable groups; (ii) increase public spending in social sectors; (iii) rehabilitation of
social infrastructures; (iv) implementation of a decentralized health strategy and cost recovery mechanisms in the health sector; (v)
implementation of an action plan for fighting HIV/AIDS; (vi) implementation of a teacher training program to improve coverage and
quality; (vii) strengthening the management of education at central and decentralized levels.
IV. THE BUDGET FINANCING REQUIREMENTS
39.     Although the fiscal situation has improved significantly since 2001- the fiscal deficit
fell from over 12 percent of GDP to less than 5.5 percent between 1996 and 2001, reflecting the
govermnent's efforts to strengthen the revenue administration- the fiscal deficit will remain
large, and is likely to increase further with the rising number of returning refugees, and
14



increasing financing requirements for reconstruction and development. Table 2 shows the
projected budget financing gap for 2002-2004, amounting to about US$105.3 million. This
budget, based on estimates of resource availability assuming an increasing trend in external
assistance, falls short of the funding requirements for accelerated transition from emergency
rehabilitation to sustained growth and development. During the calendar year 2002, the projected
budget financing gap will amount to over US$44 million; and the overall external financing gap
is expected to reach US$51 million. This gap could be covered by disbursements of program
assistance from a number of key development partners, including Belgium, France, the EU, the
IMF through the proposed Fund's emergency assistance facility, and the World Bank through the
proposed ERC. Disbursements under the IMF and EU assistance are expected to be in the
magnitude of US$14 million and US$13.3 million, respectively, accounting for about 27.5 and
26.2 percent of the total external financing gap.
Table 2: Budget Financing Gap 2002-2004
1998     1999     2000   2001       2002     2003      2004
(Budget)   (Pro;.)  (Proj.)
Financial Requirements                            (In billions of Burundian francs)
Current Expenditure                  68.8    85.7     96.8     118.6      116.0    125.2   136.2
Capital Expenditure                 23.5     31.3     31.1      33.0       49.0     63.0   73.2
Amortization of Debt                 14.2    18.0     19.9      27.8       37.6     37.9   40.3
Change in Arrears                    -7.7   -18.1    -20.0     -24.0        0.0      0.0    0.0
Financing                                         (an billions of Burundian francs)
Revenues                             71.9    73.7     98.3     110.1      128.0    140.7   158.3
Net lending                          -0.5     1.7      3.6       3.9        2.4      2.4    2.4
Extemal Financing                    20.0    24.7     44.7      25.2       41.2     62.3   63.0
Domestic Financing                   7.4     15.1     -20.3     16.2       -7.5     -5.0   -1.5
Financial Gap in (bill. Fbu)         0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0       38.5     25.7   27.5
Financial Gap in (mill. $US)         0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       44.2     29.5   31.5
40.    Military and security-related expenditures increased markedly in the aftermath of the
conflict, accounting for about 6.7 percent of GDP and 28.5 percent of recurrent expenditures in
1998. This increase was largely due to the government's efforts to restore security, maintain
peace within its territory and secure its borders in the face of cross-border insurgencies in a
context of regional conflict. Since 1999, military and security-related expenditures have been on
the decline. Projections indicate that these expenditures could decline to 5.6 percent of GDP,
accounting for about 21 percent of recurrent expenditures in 2003. Military and security related
expenditures are likely to decline even further with the settlement of the Burundian internal
conflict and the demobilization and disarmament of soldiers within the context of the regional
DDR program.
15



41.   Also, though the level of current account deficit and rising financing gap remain a cause
of concems for Burundian authorities, an improvement should be expected with increased
inflows of intemational assistance in the form of grants, including through the recently
established Multilateral Donor Trust Fund for transitional debt relief. An improved reserve
position and reduction of the balance of payments deficit are expected on the extemal front. .On
the intemal front, the saving of resources, which otherwise would have been used to service
extemal debt will help improve the govermment's position and resources base, and most likely
contribute to the reduction of the budget financing gap.
V.    THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A.    Credit Objectives
42.   The proposed Economic Rehabilitation Credit (ERC) is designed to support the
govemment's reform program. It will advance the Transitional Support Strategy goals of
enhancing national reconciliation, and strengthening economic stability and structural reformns
for growth and poverty reduction. The proposed credit builds on progress in reform and
economic recovery made under the Emergency Economic Recovery Credit (EERC) approved by
the Board on April 15, 2000. The reform program is supported by a number of donors, including
UNDP, the European Union, Belgium, France, and the Netherlands.
Lessons from the Preceding Emergency Economic Recovery Credit (EERC)
43.   Under the EERC, progress was made in a number of areas including: public expenditure
management, rehabilitation of economic and social infrastructure to strengthening human
resources. A foreign exchange auction was introduced to allocate to the private sector, the import
support funds of the EERC. In the area of public expenditure management, the EERC supported
the reform of the budget process to adopt a system for the functional and economic classification
of budgetary expenditures to strengthen the links between inputs and outputs, and the adoption of
a double-entry accounting system to facilitate budget analysis. These adjustments are already
reflected in the 2002 budget. In addition, the EERC supported the ongoing audit of the
operations of the Treasury, and increased provision of essential social services to the poor
through targeted interventions. In the area of economic recovery and rehabilitation, the EERC
provided foreign exchange for imports of essential goods, with counterpart funds allocated to
priority activities in health, education, and agricultural rehabilitation. These counterpart funds
helped in the rehabilitation of health centers, schools and community housing. By April 30 2002,
about 81 destroyed primary schools have been rehabilitated and were fully operational; over
7000 damaged or destroyed houses have been either rebuilt or rehabilitated. The recovery
process was also supported through clearance of arrears owed by the Government to private
suppliers.
44.   Most resources under the EERC have been disbursed and the project sub-components are
largely executed. The Bank and Burundian authorities are finalizing the project Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) and a number of lessons are being used in the design of the proposed
operation and will be mainstreamed during implementation. In particular, coordination among
the different sectoral ministries involved, and between the key development partners will be
16



strengthened to improve efficiency and effectiveness of resource allocation, and quality of
infrastructure. In a number of areas, numerous donors were providing assistance to rehabilitate
destroyed or damaged social infrastructure. In that regard, extended consultations were carried
out in the preparation of the proposed ERC, and the areas of assistance identified by Burundian
authorities and outlined in the Letter of Development Policy account for other donors
interventions.
45.   In the area of foreign exchange rate management, the EERC supported the efforts to
liberalize official foreign exchange markets, through the establishment of a foreign exchange
auction system. While the EERC proceeds helped reduce the spread between official and parallel
exchange rates, full convergence was prevented by the shortage of foreign exchange. The spread
between the official and parallel exchange rates widened with the exhaustion of EERC resources.
The effectiveness of IDA assistance, functioning of the auction system under the proposed ERC
and efforts to liberalize foreign exchange markets will depend on inflows of foreign assistance
from other donors. The proposed operation emphasizes the importance of other donors, including
those with whom Burundi is in arrears, resuming their assistance to Burundi. In that regard, the
Bank has been working closely with other donors to establish the MDTF to clear arrears and
service external debt to a number of donors, so that they can resume their assistance.
Reforms supported by the proposed Credit
46.   Under the EERC, the Government identified specific priority programs to rehabilitate
economic and social infrastructure to receive incremental budget allocation from the proceeds of
the EERC. The Government has decided that the ERC should consolidate the progress made in
these priority areas under the EERC. It has thus identified priority programs to receive
incremental budget allocations made possible by the resources provided by the ERC. Thus in
addition to the programs in health, education and agriculture, other priorities identified by the
PRSP will also receive incremental budget allocations. In addition to supporting ongoing
government's efforts for economic and social recovery of the population, the proposed ERC will
support a number of policy and institutional reforms to consolidate the progress under the EERC,
sustain economic and social recovery and build the base for sustained growth and poverty
reduction. These reforms are in the areas of public expenditure management and govemance,
private sector development, and agriculture and rural development.
* In the area ofpublic expenditure management and governance, the proposed ERC will
support the Govemment's effort to (i) strengthen the budget process with the
introduction of the MTEF; (ii) improve the prioritization of the budget in line with the
PRSP; (iii) strengthen public procurement administration, (iv) establish an Office of
Auditor General, (v) strengthen institutional capacity in macroeconomic management,
(v) establish a system for monitoring the flows of govemment's resources and
expenditures, and (v) implement a public expenditure tracking study to monitor the flows
of public spending to facilities; and create an independent audit office (court des
comptes) to fight fraud and corruption.
* In the area of private sector development, the proposed ERC will support the
Govermment's effort to (i) revise and update the commercial laws including labor code
and the bankruptcy laws, and improve the commercial arbitration system, (ii) privatize
public enterprises.
17



* In agriculture and rural development, the proposed ERC will support ongoing efforts
and reforms to (i) liberalize pricing and marketing arrangements, especially in the coffee
and tea sub-sector and the distribution of agricultural inputs; and (iii) privatize the state
owned enterprises in the coffee, tea and cotton sub-sector.
* In the area of gender and poverty reduction, the proposed ERC will support the
reduction of gender disparities by (i) the adoption of a law allowing women to inherit
land and other properties, (ii) the preparation and implementation of a gender action plan
to eliminate all gender discrimination; and (iii) monitoring the implementation of the 30
percent plan that requires that female participation in public offices be at least 30
percent.
47.   Prior Actions: In the context of the preparation of the proposed Credit, the Government
has fulfilled all prior actions for release, at effectiveness, of the initial tranche (para. 51). These
include: (i) initiation of a diagnostic assessment of Burundi's public Finance Management issues
using the HIPC tracking benchmarks to improve the budget processes (formulation, execution
and control) and increase poverty reduction impact of resources from the HIPC relief; (ii)
definition of a minimum package of essential social services to be provided by the Government
to the poor and vulnerable groups during the transition period, drawing on the consultation and
participatory diagnostic process carried out within the context of the Interim PRSP, to continue
to provide basic assistance and the support initiated under the EERC to vulnerable groups; (iii) in
that context, the Cabinet approved a special fund for the reinsertion and reintegration of
displaced persons and other victims of conflict to ensure effective coverage and provision of
essential social services identified as part of the proposed minimum package.
B.    Rationale for IDA Involvement-
48.   The proposed Economic Rehabilitation Credit is an integral part of the Bank's
Transitional Support Strategy (TSS) to assist the Republic of Burundi in the transition from
emergency assistance to development and poverty reduction. The TSS is designed to help
Burundi consolidate the progress achieved under the Interim Strategy during the period 1999-
2001. The proposed ERC will provide balance of payments support essential to finance key
imports needed to rehabilitate the economic and social infrastructure, particularly in the health,
education, agriculture and transport sectors, foster community development and enviromnental
protection, revitalize private sector, and deepen institutional and structural reforms initiated
under the EERC.
49.   The transition in Burundi will also be supported by a number of projects planned under
the TSS, including a Multi-sector HIV/AIDS and Orphans Project; a Health Population Project
III to continue to improve health care efficiency and affordability, a Demobilization and
Reintegration Project, a Social Action Project (BURSAP III); a Multi-sector Capacity Building
Project to strengthen public administration and transitional institutions and the Emergency Road
Rehabilitation Project to enhance the link between urban and rural areas, and Burundi and other
countries in the COMESA region, thus contributing to revival of agricultural production and
increased rural income.
18



C.    Expected Credit Benefits
50.   A successful implementation of this program would consolidate the economic recovery
process and facilitate Burundi access to assistance under the Enhanced HIPC Initiative. In
addition to a prospective access to HIPC resources, there are a range of other social and welfare
benefits expected from this operation, including the following:
Poverty Reduction:
* The implementation of structural reforms, particularly increased producers' prices,
especially in the main export sub-sector (coffee and tea) through removal and/or
reduction of taxes and support to agricultural production and rural development.
* Increased expenditures for extension services and research, promotion of investment in
high valued crops, recapitalization of livestock, promotion of exports, the provision of
credit to rural men and women, and the rehabilitation of rural power and transport
networks are likely to revive the production, raise income and reduce poverty in rural
areas. Prioritization and targeting of expenditures for poverty reduction, and transparency
in public expenditure management will improve the effectiveness of public spending to
the greater benefit of the poor.
* The implementation of privatization put idle assets into productive use, enhance private
investments, and increase private production and employment.
* The clearance of the government's arrears to private sector suppliers will contribute to
injection of liquidity in the economy and provide needed resources for rebuilding the
working capital, essential for financing investment for the resumption of production and
growth in the private sector.
* Private sector involvement, especially in the export sub-sector, is likely to increase the
farmer confidence in the marketing system for inputs and outputs, increase producer and
prices and the incentives for increase production by the farmers, and increase the
adoption of modern inputs and methods of production, processing and storage.
Improved Effectiveness, Transparency and Accountability of Public resources
* The establishment of an Office of Auditor General that will audit the government's
resources and expenditures, the strengthening of the budget process and public
procurement will help to improve the transparency and accountability of public resources.
The audit of the Treasury will further transparency in resource use. These reforms are
likely to increase effectiveness in public service delivery. Increased confidence in the
budget process and prioritization in resource allocation are likely to trigger increased
donor assistance.
* The implementation public expenditure reviews including the public expenditure tracking
surveys (PETS) to monitor and trace the flow of public spending and resources allocation
up to public facilities and primary beneficiaries is likely to strengthen accountability and
increase effectiveness in the delivery of public service.
19



Other Welfare and Social Benefits:
*  The passage and enforcement of the laws to enhance gender equality and access to
economic and social opportunities will galvanize the participation of women in economic
and social affairs, improve the welfare of households and improve overall social
indicators such as infant and mortality and lower the fertility rate.
*  The rehabilitation of education and health infrastructure, with higher public expenditures
will enhance the quality and delivery of essential social services through greater
coverage.
D.    Credit Amount and Tranching
51.   The credit of US$54 million will be disbursed in three tranches. An initial tranche of
US$20 million, upon effectiveness, a second tranche of US$20 million following the
liberalization of the foreign exchange and other budget related conditions, and a third and final
tranche of US$14 million following the fulfillment of the conditions for the tranche. It is
expected that the second tranche will be released in the first quarter of calendar year 2003 and
the final tranche in the 3rd quarter. Following the EERC model, the foreign exchange proceeds of
the first tranche of the proposed ERC will be sold to eligible private sector operators through a
series of competitive auctions according to a system and operating manual designed in close
collaboration with the IMF and being used by other donors, including the EU, which has relied
on auctions to channel STABEX Funds. Subsequent tranches will be released in accordance with
the liberalized foreign exchange system to be agreed with the IMF.
52.   Credit effectiveness and tranche releases will be conditional on the maintenance of a
satisfactory macroeconomic framework, as agreed with the Bank and the IMF. For each tranche
release, IDA must be satisfied that: (i) the overall macroeconomic environment is conducive to
sustainable growth and poverty reduction; and (ii) the implementation of the overall reform
program as outlined in the Letter of Development Policy (Annex 9) is on track. For release of the
second and third tranches, the following specific actions should have been undertaken.
E.    Release of the Second Tranche
*  adoption by Cabinet of an operational program for the privatization of public enterprises,
including the establishment of a unit to implement the privatization, identification of
enterprises to be privatized, and the adoption of a strategy and plan for privatization
acceptable to IDA.
*  issuance of a report and an action plan satisfactory to IDA to improve public finance
management issues in light of the diagnostic assessment using the HlPC tracking
benchmarks;
*  agreement with IDA on the 2003 budget allocations to the priority programs identified in
the Interim PRSP and on the system for monitoring budget releases to the priority
programs.
* preparation of an action plan satisfactory to IDA for improvements in Treasury
operations;
20



F     Release of the Third Tranche
* preparation and adoption by cabinet of a gender action plan, satisfactory to IDA, to
eliminate gender disparities, including enabling women to inherit land and other
properties;
* adoption by Cabinet of a comprehensive strategy, developed in consultation with the
stakeholders, to revive the coffee and tea sub-sectors;
* adoption by the Cabinet of an action plan for the reform of the public procurement
administration;
* adoption by the cabinet of a draft legislation to establish an Office of Auditor General
responsible for auditing the financial operations of public agencies, and the submission of
the draft legislation to the National Assembly.
G     Monitorable Benchmarks
53.   A set of quantitative benchmarks and performance indicators agreed upon (see Annex 10)
with Burundian authorities will. be monitored by Bank staff to assess the contribution of the
proposed ERC to the success of the government's efforts. In light of the relatively short-time
span of the proposed ERC, the selected performance indicators are essentially process and output
indicators. These indicators will allow the monitoring of progress under the proposed credit in
the following areas: (a) governance and public expenditure management, (b) private sector
development, (c) agriculture and rural development, and (d) gender and poverty reduction.
H     Implementation and Institutional Arrangements
54.   Disbursement: The disbursement of the Credit will follow IDA simplified disbursement
procedures for adjustment operations.4 The borrower will open a US dollar account in the
Banque de la Republique du Burundi (BRB). Upon notification of tranche release and at the
request of the borrower, proceeds of the Credit in US dollars will be deposited into this account.
If the proceeds of the credit are used for ineligible purposes, IDA will require the borrower either
to return the amount for use on eligible purchases or refund the amount directly to IDA, in which
case IDA will cancel an equivalent undisbursed amount of the credit. Although an audit of the
deposit account is not required, the Bank reserves the right to require such an audit at any time.
55.   Implementation Arrangements: The Ministry of Finance is responsible for managing
the economic reform program and will be responsible for the implementation of ERC working
with a Technical Implementation Committee (TIC). The Ministries of Health, Education,
Agriculture, Reinsertion and Resettlement, Good Governance, Communal Development, Energy
and Mining, Environment, Transport and Communication, Development Planning, Gender and
the BRB will be represented in this committee to coordinate activities in their respective sectors.
The TIC will be overseen by a Steering/Policy Committee, headed by the Vice President and
comprising the Minister of Finance (designated as chair in the absence of the Vice President) and
the Ministers of Development Planning, Communal Development, Good Governance,
4See the reference "Simplifying Disbursements under Structural and Sectoral Adjustment Loans", Operational
Memorandum, February 8, 1996.
21



Environment, Industry and Commerce, Public Works, HIV/AIDS, Gender, and NGO
representatives. The Steering/Policy Committee will provide guidance on the implementation of
the reform program. The MoF will provide progress reports on implementation to IDA, and a
monthly report on budget outcomes. Implementation will be closely monitored by the World
Bank Country Office and supervision missions by headquarter staff, including joint missions
with the IMF and other donors. The Bank will collaborate with the IMF and UNDP to ensure that
the necessary technical assistance is provided.
I.    Indication of Borrower Commitment and Ownership
56.   Burundi has recent experience in implementing Bank-supported economic reforms. The
experience with the EERC, which supported limited reforms suggests that the Government was
committed to reforms and serious about implementing agreed reforms. The Arusha Accord, the
institutional basis for the Transition Government, envisages deep socio-economic and political
reforms. The indications are that the parties in the Government support these reforms. Burundian
has also just completed consultations for the I-PRSP. These have sensitized the population on the
changes needed to improve the standard of living in Burundi and improved the climate for
making these changes. Nevertheless, the parts of the establishment in Burundi that benefited
from previous policies could still oppose and possibly delay some reforms.
J.    Environmental Aspects
57.   In accordance with paragraph 12, OD. 8.60 dated 1992, and the Clarification of Current
Bank Policy on Adjustment Lending dated June 2000, the proposed Economic Rehabilitation
Credit is an adjustment Operation, and is therefore not subject to the requirements of OP. 4.01.
Nevertheless, a review of environmental policies and practices will be carried out within the
context of this operation, and particularly the establishment of an operational program to enhance
the privatization of public enterprises, with a view towards assessing potential environmental and
social negative impacts, and proposing possible mitigating measures.
K.    Fiduciary Safeguards
58.   A diagnostic assessment of Burundi's public finance management (PFM) using the 15
HIPC tracking benchmarks which focus on budget formulation, execution, and reporting, is
being carried out jointly by the Bank, Burundian authorities and other donors, including the
European Union, Belgium and France. A number of tranche release conditions are based on this
assessment and its completion is among the second tranche release conditions. With assistance
from the Bank, through a Belgian Trust Fund, Burundian authorities are also in the process of
initiating the reform of the public procurement administration. IDA is supporting a PER planned
as a technical assistance to improve impact on the budget process. Within the context of the
IPRSP, the Government plans to systematically carry out external audits of government accounts
and resources. The timing of implementation of such audits is being worked out. These measures
being implemented by the government to strengthen financial management should ensure
fiduciary safeguards on the proper use of IDA resources provided under the proposed ERC.
Moreover, financial accountability and fiduciary safeguards are expected to improve with the
establishment of the Office of the Auditor General which will have the responsibility of auditing
the accounts of government agencies and proposing corrective actions.
22



VI. RISK AND SUSTAINABILITY
59.   Risks: The main risk factors are the internal conflict, the Great Lakes conflict, the
readiness and capacity to implement all the reforms needed for a successful transition, and the
funding of the transition.
60.   Continued internal conflict:. Despite the installation of the transitional arrangements,
military action is continuing. The two rebel groups that did not sign the Peace Accord are
continuing military incursions. Efforts for a cease-fire, backed by President Mandela and the
international community are continuing. Domestic policies aimed at national reconciliation
would facilitate a cease-fire and a durable agreement for peace. The success of the international
and domestic efforts is critical for the success of the implementation of economic reforms in
support of the transition.
61.   Regional conflict: The continued instability in the Great Lakes region contributes to
instability in Burundi. The regional conflict provides Burundi's rebel groups a sanctuary in the
DRC. Since January 2001, progress has been made on the implementation of the Lusaka Accord
to end the conflict in the region. Continued strong international support for the implementation
of the Lusaka Accord and the regional DDR Program is likely to facilitate the end of the Burundi
conflict and alleviate discord elsewhere in the region. The Governments of Burundi agreed with
the Govermment of the DRC in January 2001 to pull its troops from DRC while the Congolese
pledged to discontinue their support to Burundian rebels. However, only a comprehensive
settlement of the crisis in the region will facilitate the control of armed rebel groups.
62.   Commitment to economic reforms: Despite pronouncements reaffirming its commitment
to far-reaching socio-economic reforms, the stakes are particularly high and the implementation
of the reforms will be a test for the commitment of the GOB to reform. The Govemment of
Burundi needs to undertake difficult economic and institutional reforms to improve govemance,
stimulate economic recovery, reduce poverty, and build an economic system in which all social
groups have equal opportunities. This effort will inevitably involve changes in the role of the
Government in the economy. There are likely to be powerful interest groups that have benefited
from the exclusive system of the past who would resist the changes. The needed reforms will not
be possible without strong commitment of the Govemment and support by the civil society and
the political and business establishments. Open and coordinated dialogue by Burundian
authorities and the development partners is key to mitigating this risk.
63.   Inadequacy of resources: Despite the positive response expressed by donors at the Paris
conference and the Geneva Round Table Meeting, there remains uncertainty regarding the
amounts and timing of inflows of international assistance. With the transitional arrangements in
place, donors made additional pledges at the Geneva Round Table, however, funds have been
disbursing very slowly. This could delay key components of the recovery program (DDR, debt
relief, other resettlement and reintegration) and possibly weaken the recovery process. However,
the recent establishment of the MDTF to clear Burundi's arrears and promptly service its debt to
multilateral institutions (including IDA), during the interim period leading to its access to debt
relief under the Enhanced HIPC Initiative should contribute to resumption of inflows of external
assistance from other donors, including AFDB, IFAD, and European Investment Bank. This
should reduce fiduciary risks and contribute to increased effectiveness of IDA assistance. The
23



establishment of this Trust Fund should also reduce the risk of Burundi falling into arrears with
IDA.
VII. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
64.   IDA: Since 1970, Burundi has received 49 IDA credits totaling US$649.92 million.
Disbursements from IDA credits have totaled US$595.8 million, and have financed a broad
range of projects in agriculture and rural development, infrastructures and energy, economic and
social infrastructure, education and health. IDA credits have also financed private and financial
sector development, public enterprise reforms, technical assistance, balance of payments and
emergency support. In 2000, the International Development Association approved an Emergency
Economic Recovery Credit in the amount of US$35 million to support rehabilitation and
reintegration and economic reforms. Currently, IDA portfolio has five active projects for a total
commitment of US$115.8 million, with an undisbursed balance of US$60.3 million.
65.   IFC: IFC has one operation in agribusiness, and is exploring other investment
opportunities, particularly in the area of communication.
66.   MIGA: Burundi signed the MIGA convention in April 1995 and ratified it in March
1996. It also completed the paymnent for its initial subscription to the capital stock; however,
MIGA has not yet received any portion of its contribution to the general capital increase. MIGA
portfolio in Burundi includes two active applications for a total investment of US$6.5 million.
VIII. COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF AND DONORS
67.   The Bank and the IMF have collaborated on macroeconomic reforrns and public
expenditure management, and the government's IPRSP. The PRSP process also provided the
framework for close collaboration with other donors, especially in the area of consultation and
participatory diagnostic processes. Key among the donors supporting this process are Belgium,
France, the Netherlands, UNDP, and the European Union (EU). The EU is one of the most
important donors in Burundi; its pledges, by far the largest, accounted for 30 and 33 percent of
total donor pledges at the Paris conference and GeneVa Round Table, respectively. The Bank has
been working closely with UNDP, particularly in the area of donor coordination. Together with
UNI)P, it co-chaired the Paris Donor Conference in December 2000. The Bank is working with
the donor community to establish a Trust Fund for the regional DDR program, which Burundi
is a beneficiary and the Multilateral Debt Trust Fund to clear Burundi's arrears and promptly
service its debt to its multilateral creditors. Countries which have already contributed to this
Multilateral Debt Trust Fund include UK and Belgium. Discussions are ongoing with a number
of other donors, including the EU, Canada, Italy, Norway and Sweden, whose contribution is
expected sometimes in the first half of FY03. The regional DDR program has received funding
from the Netherlands and pledges from other bilateral donors.
24



IX. RECOMMENDATION
68.   I am satisfied that the design of the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of the
Agreement of the Association, and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
By Shengman Zhang
Washington D. C.
July 29, 2002
25



Annex 1: Country at a glance
Burundi at a glance                                                             7/1/2
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                        Saharan      Low-
Burundi     Africa  Income      Devdlopmentdlamond
2000
Population, mid-year (ndlflons)                      6.8      643     2,417                  LiUe expectancy
GNP per capta (Atlas metho, US$)                     110      490       420
GNP (Atlas metwod, USS billions)                    0.75      316     1,008
Average,annual growth, 1994-0
Population (56)                                      2.9       2.6      1.9
Labor force (X6)                                     2.4       2.6      2.4      GNP                            Gross
per                       --iprmary
Most recnt estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                            capita                      enrollment
Poverty (96 of populaton below natinal poverty line)
Urban population (X of total pooulation)               9       34        31
Llfe expectancy at bth (years)                       42        47        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live bIths)              116       92        77
Child malnutrilon (X of chilren under ,                ..       ..       ..           Access to Improved water source
Access to an Improved water source (S6 of population)  48       55       76
Illiteracy (X of population age 15+)                  52       39        39
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  61      78        96                  Bunundl
Male                                                66       86       102                  Low-4ncorne group
Female                                              46       71        88
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999     2000
EconomIc ratio
GDP (US$ biSlions)                         0.92      1.1      0.71     0.69
Gross domestic investrenVGDP               13.9     14.5       9.1      9.0
Exports of goods and services/GDP           8.8      7.9       8.8       9.0                    Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  -0.6    -5.4      -2.0      -6.6
Gross national savings/GDP                  4.6      3.4       4.0       3.0
Curent account balance/GDP                  -9.3   -11.1      -3.6      -7.4    Domestic
Interest paymentstGDP                       0.2      1.1       0.9       1.4                                Investment
Total debtWGDP                              18.0    78.2     165.7     178.5    savings
Total debt service/exports                  9.5     43.6      45.1      42.0                       J
Present value of debt/GDP                     ..      ..      94.8
Present value of debt/exports                ..       ..    1061.0
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00    1999      2000   2000-04
(average annual gmwth)
GDP                                 4.4    -2.6     -1.0      -0.9       3.8                S   urbund
GNP per capita                      1.3    -5.2     -3.9      -3.8       1.1                  Low-Income grup
Exoorts of oods                     3.4     7.9      8.7       2.0      10.6
STRUCTURE nf tti ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999     2000      Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(X of GDP)
Agriculture                                62.2     55.9      52.2      80.7     40
Industry                                   12.6     19.0      17.3      18.5    20 .
Manufacturing                              7.4     12.9       8.7       ..        o
Services                                   25.1     25.2      30.5      30.8    20                       Oa         00W
Prvate consumption                         91.4     94.5      84.9      88.0     o*
General govemment consumption               9.2     10.8      16.1      17.5 5
Imports of goods and services              23.3     27.8      18.3      23.6
(average annual growth)                 1980-90  199040      1999      2000     Growth of export and Imports (')
Agncuiture                                  3.1     -1.6      -3.0       3.8   160-
Industry                                    4.5     -5.6       7.2      4.1
Manufactunng                               5.7     -8.0      12.3
Services                                    5.6     -2.0       3.0       3.6    so.
Private consumption                         3.4     -4.5     -11.9       4.8 4
General govemment consumption               3.2     -2.1      15.0     -22.7      .                           V        0io
Gross domestc Investment                    6.9     -0.4      10.9       8.5    o.0
Imports of goods and servIces               1.5      1.1     -25.8      8.5                   E        -POrts  l0mprsa
Gross national product                      4.2     -2.6      -1.5      -0.3
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key Indicators In the country (in bold) compared with Its Income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond wil
be Incomplete. Latest year for Improved water source data Is 2000.
26



Burundi
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980     1990      1999     2000     Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(5 change)                                -0
Consumer prices                             9.5      7.0       3.4     24.3    30. 
Implicit GDP deflator                      16.4      6.0       3.4     22.5 5   0
Government inance                                                              10                           J
(% of GDP Ilndudes current grants)
Currentrevenue                             14.4     17.9      18.3     20.1            s5    go    97    os   go
Curent budget balance                       2.4      2.9      -3.0      0.3            -     GDP deator ...cPI
Overall surplus/deflcit                     6.1     -7.9     -10.4      -.3
TRADE
(USS mHllbons)                             1980     1990      1999     2000      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                          66       73        55       49     5e7
Coffee                                     58       52        42       47
Tea                                          2       a        11        14
Manufactures                                 1       4         1         1
Total Imports (cff)                         168      226        97      108
Food                                        18      12        11       11
Fuel and energy                            25       30        19       20         J
Capital goods                              33       80        52       59
Export pdce index (1995=100)                108       68        58       60          94   ss   sr   07   93   n    oo
Import price Index (1995=100)                95       91        89       91                  mExiEats      *Imnprts
Termsoftrade(1995=100)                      113       75        65       66
-74     -105
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1980     1990      1999     20W0      CurrentaccountbalancetoGDPI%
(US$ millioS)
Exports of goods and services                81       89        55       49      1
Importsotgoodsandservices                   214      314        97      108     0
Resource balance                           -133     -225       -42      -59    I-                  97 
-2                 '        '
Net income                                    2      -15       -37      -51     2     
Net current transfers                       122      219         6        5     _
Current account balance                     -86     -126       -74     -105     4*
Financdng tems (net)                         77      123        12       88     -7
Changes in net reserves                       8        2        14       17     -3
Memo:
Reserves nciuding gold (USS mlilons)         95      105
Conversion rate (DEC, localJUS$)            90.0    171.3    563.6     720.5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                                   Composition of 2000 debt (US$ mill.)
Totaldebtoutstandinganddisbursed            166      885      1,171    1,204
IBRD                                        0        0         0        0
IDA                                        37      398       559      614                  .G: 65
Total debt service                            9       42        45       55             E: 1 2
IBRD                                        0        0         0        0
IDA                                         0        4        12       13
ComposifIon of net resource flows
Offlcal grants                            39      135        60        ..         0:285
Official creditors                         38       75         ..      27
Private creditors                          -3       -6
Foreign direct Investment                   0        1
Portfolio equity                            0        0         ..       ..                 C:7
Wodd Bank program
Commitments                                38       73        12       35      A - IBRD                  E - Bilatea
Disbursements                              12       49        15       36      B-IDA    0- Otler mrltiateral  F - Pdvte
Pdncipal repayments                         0        1         8        9      C - IMF                   G - Short-term
Net flows                                  12       48         8       28
Interest payments                           0        3         5        4
Net transfers                              11       45         3       23
Development Economics                                                                                           7/1/2002
27



Annex 2 Key Economic Indicators
Burundi - Key Economic Indicators
Actual               Estimate             Projected
Indicator               1996    1997    1998    1999     2000    2001    2002     2003    2004
National accounts (as % of GDP)
Gross domestic product'                 100     100      100     100     100      100     100     100      100
Agriculture                            56       53      54      52       51      50      49       49      49
Industry                               15       17      16      17       18      19      19       19      19
Services                               29       30      29      30       31      31      31       32      32
Total Consumption                        98      96      103     102     106      108     104     101      103
Gross domestic flxed investment          12       7        8       9       9       10      10      11       II
Government investment                   10       5       6       6        6       6       5        6       6
Private investment                      2        2       2       3        3       4       5        5       5
Exports (GNFS)b                           6      10        8       9       9        8       9       11      11
Imports (GNFS)                           15      14       20      18      24       18      19      22       28
Gross domestic savings                    2       4       -3      -2      -6       -8      -4       -1      -3
Gross national savingse                   8       9        3       4       3        4       1        4      -1
Memorandum items
Grossdomestic product                   900     957      878     714     679      715     824      865    -908
(USS million at current prices)
GNPpercapita(USS,Atlasmethod)           130      130     130     120      110     100     100      100     110
Real annual growth rates (%, calculated from 1980 prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices  -8.4  0.4      4.8    -1.0     0.9      3.2     4.2      5.7     6.0
GrossDosnesticincome                  -9.1     -6.0     7.1    -5.6    -8.9     -2.5     9.1     -2.4    -8.3
Real annual per capita growth rates (%/o, calculated from 1980 prices)
Gross domestic product at m,arket prices  -10.7  -2.0   1.7    -3.9    -3.8      0.2     2.9     -3.7    -1.7
Total consumption                    -22.3    -5.8      9.5   -11.9    -3.2     -7.9     4.3    -17.3    -3.6
Private consumption                  -23.2    -6.0     10.5   -14.5     0.0    -10.0     5.2    -19.1    -3.3
Balance of Payments (USS millions)
Exports (GNFS)b                         51      96       64      55      49       39      43       49      56
Merchandise FOB                       41      87       58      50      44       31      30       28      35
Imports (GNFS)b                        137     140     124       97     127     108      117     124      130
Merchandise FOB                      100      96       88      73      78       87     108      104      84
Resource balance                       -86     -45      -60     -42     -59      -69     -74      -75     -74
Netcurrenttransfers                    111     111       56      51       59      79      94       81      82
Current account balance                -39       2      -55     -28      -50     -34     -24      -39     -40
Net private foreign direct investment    ..      ..      ..       ..      ..       ..
Long-term loans (net)                    ..      ..      ..       ..      :.      ..
Official                                7      47       35      10        ..     ..
Private                                 ..      ..      ..       ..      ..       .
Other capital (nt, incL aos & ommissions)  ..    ..      ..       ..      ..       ..
Change in reservesd                     62       19      39      14       17      -7     -10        1       -5
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of GDP)             -9.6    -4.7    -6.8     -5.9    -8.7     -9.6    -9.0    -8.7     -8.1
Real annual growth rates ( YR8O prices)
Merchandise exports (FOB)             -51.7    89.4    -3.5    -11.0    -9.6    -1.3     17.3    33.3      3.6
Primary                              -52.3   111.9   -27.1      4.7    37.7     4.7     -3.2     4.7      3.8
Manufactures                        -36.3    -87.7     3.0      2.2     6.2     6.1      6.2     6.3      6.3
Merchandise imports (CIF)            -48.1      6.7    38.6    -25.8     8.5     7.2     15.3     3.0      1.6
(Continued)
28



Burundi - Key Economic Indicators.
(Continued)
Actual               Estimate             Projected
Indicator               1996    1997    1998    1999     2000    2001    2002     2003    2004
Public finance (as % of GDP at market prices)
Current revenues                      15.5     13.8    17.4    18.3     20.1    20.9    21.0     21.2    21.5
Current expenditures                   17.6    18.2    17.5    21.3     19.8    18.2    17.3     16.9    17.0
Current account surplus (+) or deficit(-)  -2.1  -4.4  -0.1    -3.0      0.3     2.7     3.7      4.3     4.5
Capital expenditure                   10.0      5.0     6.1     7.8      6.4     8.2    11.1     10.7    11.0
Foreign financing                      5.2      2.9     3.6     4.5      3.7     3.3     3.5      3.4     3.3
Monetary Indicators
M2/GDP                                21.0     18.7    18.0    20.6     20.6    20.6    20.6     20.6    20.6
GrowthofM2(%)                          14.4    10.4    12.2    17.1     21.5    17.0     16.9     8.3     8.3
Privatesectorcreditgrowth/            42.3      8.7    77.7    92.5    131.0   105.0    105.0   105.0   105.0
total credit growth (%)
Price Indices( YR80 =100)
Merchandise export price index        87.1     99.3    75.3    67.6     70.5    69.5    70.9     71.8    73.2
Merchandise importprice index        125.1    116.6   107.6    109.3   111.7   113.1    114.6   116.2   119.5
Mcrchandise terms oftrade index       69.6     85.1    69.9    61.8     63.1    61.5     61.9    61.8    61.2
Real exchange rate (UJS$/LCU)f        75.7     66.1    68.0    69.6     71.6    74.1     75.9    78.3    80.8
Real interest rates
Consumer price index (% change)       26.4     31.1    12.5      3.4    24.3     14.0     9.6     6.8     5.0
GDP deflator (% change)                19.0    23.3    11.2      3.4    22.6     13.4    10.3     9.1      6.9
a. GDP at factor cost
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. Consolidated central government.
f. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.
29



Annex 3 - Key Exposure Indicators
Burundi - Key Exposure Indicators
Actual             Estimate          Projected
Indicator             1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001    2002   2003   2004
Total debt outstanding and         1208   1154    1207   1170   1211   1192    1176   1145   1128
disbursed (TDO) (US$m)'
Net disbursements (US$m)a            -2     39     68      56     74    110     147    173    201
Total debt service (TDS)             63     57     44      45     55     65     77     103    134
(US$m)a
Debt and debt service indicators
(%/0)
TDO/XGSb                        2101.4 1248.1  1734.8 2106.2 2565.4 2379.8 2218.0 1865.1  1979.6
TDO/GDP                          133.1  130.4   148.4  165.7  178.5  179.4   177.1  166.6  160.5
TDS/XGS                          110.4   57.1   58.9    70.0  100.1  102.1   102.7  105.4  131.3
ConcessionaUTDO                   93.0   94.0   96.0    96.5   98.8   98.5    97.5   97.2   95.2
IBRD exposure indicators (%)
IBRD DS/public DS                  0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0
Preferred creditor DS/public        ..     ..     ..      ..     ..     ..
DS (%)C
IBRD DS/XGS                        0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0
IBRD TDO (US$m)d                    0      0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0
Of which present value of
guarantees (US$m)
Share of IBRD portfolio (%)         0       0      0      0       0      0      0       0      0
IDA TDO (US$m)d                   588     567    603    559     614    658    698     734    772
IFC (US$m)
Loans
Equity and quasi-equity /c
MIGA
MIGA guarantees (US$m)
a. Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed, use of IMF credits and net short-
term capital.
b. "XGS" denotes exports of goods and services, including workers' remittances.
c. Preferred creditors are defined as IBRD, IDA, the regional multilateral development banks, the IMF, and the
Bank for International Settlements.
d. Includes present value of guarantees.
e. Includes equity and quasi-equity types of both loan and equity instruments.
30



Annex 4 - Status of Bank Group Operations
Burundi
Operations Portfolio (IBRD/IDA and Grants)
As of 06/11/2002
Differences
Last PSR                 Original Amount      Between
Supervision                in US$ Millions   Expected and
Rating                                        Actual
Disbursements
Project  Project Name             Develop  Implem    Fiscal   IDA       Undis-   Orig.   Frm
ID                                -ment    entation  Year               bursed           Rev'd
Object.  Progress
P064556  BI-EERC                  S         S        2000     35        0.26772  -13.9
P000216   Health/Pop. I           S         S        1995     21.3      222981   4.5     3.9658
P064961  Public Works & Emp.      S         S        2001     40        37.0182  -3.1
P065789  Regional Trade Facility  S        S         2001     7.5       5.35986  -0.1
P064510   Social Action (BURSAP ID  S       S        2000     12        6.26245  1.8
Ovetall                                                       115.8     51.1380  -10.9   3.9658
Result
Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 1/31/2002
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                 Disbursed
FY Approval Cornpany          Loan Equity Quasi Partic Loan Equity Quasi Partic
2000AEF V&F Export     0.43     0     0    0 0.43      0     0    0
Total Portfolio:       0.43     0     0    0 0.43      0     0    0
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan Equity Quasi Partic
2001 AEF Florex        277      0     0    0
Total Pending Commitrnent:   277     0     0     0
31 .



Annex 5 - Selected Indicators of Bank Portfolio Performance and Management
As Of Date 06/11/2002
Indicator                                              1999          2000 2001 2002
Portfolio Assessment
Number of Projects Under Implementation a                 3             4    5   5
Average Implementation Period (years) b                  6.1          3.7  1.9  2.9
Percent of Problem Projects by Number " C                0.0          0.0  0.0  0.0
Percent of Problem Projects by Amount at c               0.0          0.0  0.0  0.0
Percent of Projects at Risk by Number d                100.0          0.0  0.0 20.0
Percent of Projects at Risk by Amount a d              100.0          0.0  0.0  6.5
Disbursement Ratio (%) @                                54.3        122.7 56.2 20.2
Porffolio Management
CPPR during the year (yes/no)
Supervision Resources (total US$)
Average Supervision (US$/project)
Memorandum Item                           Since FY 80       Last Five FYs
Proj Eval by OED by Number                                40            4
Proj Eval by OED by Amt (US$ millions)                 578.6          77.2
% of OED Projects Rated U or HU by Number               35.0          75.0
% of OED Projects Rated U or HU by Amt                  44.6          87.4
a. As shown in the Annual Report on Portfolio Performance (except for current FY).
b. Average age of projects in the Bank's country portfolio.
c. Percent of projects rated U or HU on development objectives (DO) and/or implementation progress (IP).
d. As defined under the Portfolio Improvement Program.
e. Ratio of disbursements during the year to the undisbursed balance of the Bank's portfolio at the
beginning of the year: Investment projects only.
* All indicators are for projects active in the Portfolio, with the exception of Disbursement Ratio,
which includes all active projects as well as projects which exited during the fiscal year.
32



Annex 6 - Distribution of Pledges by Donors (Bilateral and Multilateral Institutions)
International Donor Conference Paris - December 2000
and
Round Table Donors Meeting Geneva - December 2001
Donots                            Natume of assistance                     Amount Pledged
._________                                                (USS million)
2000     2001
Austria       Reconstruction, water and sanitation, democracy and human rights,  4.0  1326
and debt write off                                          _
Belgium       Security and humaniarian assistance, social sectors, public works and  24.0  25.42
economic management, H[V/AIDS
Canada        Peace and humaniarian assistance, DDR                         .       2.0
Denmark       Humanitarian assistance                                      8.35
Finland       Security and humanitarian assistance                         2.36     1.5
France        Justice and national reconciliation, reinsertion and reintegration,  6.85  3.98
rehabilitation of infrastruture, food security, mral development,
public expenditure management, training and technical assistance
Germany       Conflict prevention and democracy, water and sanitation, FHV/AIDS  31.36  35.68
Italy         Reinsertion, decentralization, gender, orphans and FHV/AIDS  2.0      6.4
Japan         Food security and IV/AIDS                                    1.24     1.0
Netherlands   Humanitaran, demobilization, disarnament and reintegration   5.0
Norway        Peace and reconciliation, humanitarian assistance and DDR    6.0      4.3
OIF           Governance, education through direct support and scholarship  1.5
OPEP Fund     Agriculture and rural development                            10.0     15
Sweden        Humanitarian assistance and social sectors                   4.22
Switzerland   H    nr     assistance and debt relief                       5.29
UK            HIV/AIDS, debt relief                                        8        8
USA           Humanitarian assistance, agriculture and rural development, social  70  150
sectors and H[V/AIDS, support to refugees and orphans, promotion
of civil society and gender, education and training
EU            Balance of payments support, food securityhumanitarian assistance,  133.35  242.17
reinsertion and reintegration, rehabilitation of economic and social
infrastructure, agriculture and rural development technical assistance
AfDB          Agriculture and rural development, infrastructure, education, social  27.7  78.53
action projects and poverty alleviation, rehabilitation of economic and
social infrastructure, post-conflict reconstruction and govemance
IMF           Emergencypost-conflict assistance facilityand technical assistance,  25.0  25.0
macroeconomic management                                    _
UNDP          Donor coordination, food security, rehabilitation, reintegration,  20.0  32.0
governance, HIV/AIDS, technical assistance
UNICEF        Rehabilitation of social infrastructure and education        ..       31.0
FNUAP         HIV/AIDS reintegration and reinsertion                       ..       1.5
Wodd Bank     Balance of payments support, DDR, rehabilitation of economic and  50.0  156.0
social infrastructure, public works and roads rehabilitation, education
and health, HIV/AIDS and orphans, governance and public
expenditure management, poverty monitoring, technical assistance,
macroeconomic management.
Total pledge
Amount                                                                     446.24    832.74
33



Annex 7 - Summary of Tranche Release Conditions and Timing of Implementation
Conditions
Indicative
Date
General Conditions
IDA is satisfied:
* that the overall macroeconomic environment is conducive to sustainable growth and
poverty reduction.
with the implementation of the overall reform program as outlined in the Letter of
Development Policy (Annex 8).
Conditions for Board Presentation
*  Identification of a diagnostic assessment of Burundi's public finance management  July 2002
issues using the HIPC tracking benchmarks
*  Definition of a minimum package of essential social services to be provided by the  July 2002
Government to the poor and vulnerable groups during the transition period, drawing
on the consultation and participatory diagnostic processes carried out within the
context of the Interim PRSP
*  Approval by Cabinet of a special fund for the reinsertion and reintegration of  July 2002
displaced persons and other victims of, conflict
Conditions for the Second Tranche Release
*  Adoption by Cabinet of an operational program for the privatization of public  February 2003
enterprises, including the establishment of a unit to implement the privatization,
identification of enterprises to be privatized and the adoption of a strategy and plan
for privatization acceptable to IDA
*  Issuance of a report and action plan satisfactory to IDA to improve public finance  February 2003
management issues in light of the diagnostic assessment using the HIPC tracking
benchmarks
*  Agreement with IDA on the 2003 budget allocations to the priority programs  March 2003
identified in the Interim PRSP and on the system for monitoring budget releases to the
priority programs
*  Preparation of an action plan satisfactory to IDA for improvements in Treasury  March 2003
operations
Conditions for the Third Tranche Release
*  Preparation and adoption by Cabinet of a gender action plan, satisfactory to IDA, to  May 2003
eliminate gender disparities, including enabling women to inherit land and other
properties                                                               June 2003
* Adoption by Cabinet of a comprehensive strategy, developed in consultation with the
stakeholders, to revive the coffee and tea sub-sectors
*  Adoption by Cabinet of an action plan for the reform of the public procurement  July 2003
administration
*  Adoption by Cabinet of a draft legislation to establish an Office of the Auditor
General responsible for auditing the financial operations of public agencies, and  July 2003
submission of the draft legislation to the National Assembly.
34



Annex 8 - Timetable of Key Processing Events
Event Process                              Date and Date of Completion
Overall Processing Time                   6 months
Project Prepared by:                      Government and IDA Staff
Pre-appraisal:                            March 15, 2002
ROC Meeting:                              May 13, 2002
Appraisal:                                June 10-25, 2002
Negotiations:                             July 22-24, 2002
Circulation to Board:                     July 29, 2002
Board Presentation:                       August 29, 2002
Effectiveness:                            October 29, 2002
Project Completion:                       June 30, 2004
Closing Date                              December 31, 2004
This operation was prepared by a team led by Hippolyte Fofack (Task Team Leader,
AFTP3), and included Chukwuma Obidegwu (Lead Economist, AFTP3), Mathurin
Gbetibouo (Country Office Manager, AFMBI), Jean Ndenzako (Economist, AFTP3), Susan
Opper (Sr. Education Specialist, AFTH4), Malonga Miatudila (Sr. Public Health Specialist,
AFTH2), Willem Zijp (Operations Adviser, AFTQK), Raju Kalidindi (Research Analyst,
AFTM3), Abdul Haji (Sr. Financial Management Specialist), Serigne Omar Fye (Sr.
Environmental Specialist), Prosper Nindorera (Procurement Officer, AFTQK), Pamphile
Kantabaze (Sr. Operations Officer, AFTH4), Isabella Micali-Drossos (Sr. Counsel,
LEGAF), Michael Fowler (Disbursement Officer, LOAAF), Cecilia Kennedy
(Disbursement Analyst, LOAAF), Leoncie Niyonahabonye (Program Assistant, AFMBI),
Paula Joachim (Team Assistant, AFTP3). The Peer reviewers were Emmanuel Akpa (Sector
Manager, AFTP4) and Arvil Van Adams (Sector Manager, AFTH4). The Sector Manager
for Macroeconomic 3 was Cadman Atta Mills and the Country Director was Emmanuel
Mbi.
35



Annex 9 - Letter of Development Policy
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
ECONOMIC REHABILITATION CREDIT
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
Washington, D.C.
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn,
1.    I am writing to you on behalf of the Transitional Government of the Republic of Burundi
to seek assistance from the International Development Association (IDA) to support our efforts
at rehabilitating and carrying out economic reforns essential for growth and poverty reduction.
2.    The reforms that we are planning are intended to lay the basis for national reconciliation,
sustainable economic growth and the reduction of poverty. This will require a swift
transformation from a heavily subsidized system where resources are for the most part controlled
by the State and benefit only a small portion of the population, to a more liberal and inclusive
society where the Govemment can help to create conditions conducive to economic growth and
the development of the private sector. This Letter of Development Policy describes the core
element of the economic reform program of the Republic of Burundi to be supported by the
Economic Rehabilitation Credit (ERC). The reform program seeks to promote security and good
govemance, ensure the reintegration of intemally displaced persons and other victims of conflict,
strengthen the country's human resources and combat the AIDS pandemic, revive agricultural
output and diversify sources of income, and foster macroeconomic stability and economic
growth.
3.    We are committed to economic reforms and macroeconomic stability, which are essential
for achieving poverty reduction. Our development program is moving ahead on schedule, and
consultations and a participatory diagnosis under the Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
were completed in August 2001. These consultations provided the basis for the elaboration of the
Interim PRSP which was discussed by donors in April 2002.
36



I. CONTEXT AND RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
A. The social and political context
4.    Burundi is slowly recovering from the civil war, which broke out inl993, following the
assassination of President Ndadaye, and the economic embargo imposed by regional leaders and
observed by the international community in response to a military coup, which overthrew a
"Convention Government" in 1996. The civil war resulted in the death of a large number of
civilians and left thousands of victims. A large number of economic and social infrastructure
were destroyed. In this context, the Government and Burundian authorities focused their actions
in two key priorities: re-establishing normal living conditions and revitalizing the economy. On
the political front, the Government launched the process of national dialogue to seek consensus-
based solutions to the social and political crisis. These efforts resulted in the signing of a
comprehensive Peace Accord among all political parties with the exception of two armed groups,
on August 28, 2000, in Arusha, Tanzania. As part of the implementation of the transitional
arrangements outlined in this Peace Accord, an all-inclusive Transition Government was sworn-
in in November 1, 2001; a Transitional National Assembly was established in January 2002,
followed by a Transitional Senate in February 2002.
5.    Despite these progress, the situation remains fragile, largely due to continued incursion
and sporadic attacks, including on the civilian population by the two rebel groups that did not
sign the Peace Accord and are not part of the Transition Government. However, discussions are
ongoing between the Government and these two rebel groups to reach a cease-fire and place
Burundi on the path to full reconciliation, while allowing thousands of refugees and internally
displaced persons to return to their homelands. These discussions are taking place in South
Africa, under the auspices of President Mandela, the mediator. The direct contact recently
established between the different parties illustrate the progress accomplished and willingness to
rapidly reach a cease-fire.
B. Recent economic developments
6.    Economic activity contracted by at least 20 percent in real terms between 1993 and 2001,
reducing per capita income and causing widespread poverty, with some regions more severely
affected than others. Persistent insecurity accelerated the deterioration of living conditions. On
the macroeconomic front, intemal imbalances deepened, while the extemal position deteriorated
sharply. Foreign reserves shrank from an equivalent of over ten months of imports in 1993 to
less than 3.2 months in 2001, before falling further in the first half of 2002. By end-April 2002,
official reserves were down to less than one month of imports. The dwindling of foreign aid and
weak revenue flows, in the context of war and widespread impoverishment, deepened the overall
budget deficit (on a commitments basis including grants), which rose from 3.5 percent of GDP in
1993 to 7.5 percent in 1999, before declining to 2.1 percent in 2000.
7.    It is in this difficult context that the Government launched the reform program to support
poverty reduction efforts, increase efficiency of resource allocation and utilization, and establish
transitional institutions. In the area of fiscal policy, the Govemment implemented a number of
measures to increase revenues mobilization, compress expenditures and reduce deficits. Among
these measures, the most significant ones include: (i) stricter control over tax and customs duties
37



exemptions, after ministries were stripped of their power to grant exemptions; (ii) creation within
the taxation and customs directorate of units to audit and justify the amounts of each exemption;
and (iii) higher taxes on petroleum products and beer. These measures had positive impact on the
primary budget balance, which moved from a deficit of 1 percent of GDP in 1999 to a surplus of
2.8 percent in 2000, while the overall deficit was reduced significantly, reaching 2.1 percent of
GDP in 2000.
8.    In the area of monetary policy, expansionary monetary creation fueled inflation, which
rose from 1.68 percent in 1992 to more than 24 percent in 2000. Measures were taken in the
second half of 2000, especially within the context of the Fund program to reduce domestic
demand and restrain credit expansion and curb rising inflation. These measures were reinforced
within the context of the Fund Staff Monitored Program concluded in July 2001, and resulted in
a decline of inflation to about 8 percent in 2001. The decline was also accelerated by the increase
supply of agricultural commodities in a relatively good harvest season in 2001, following the
drought in the previous years.
9.    The total level of expenditure and net loans was reduced by 3.3 percentage points
compared to 1999, owing to: (i) the improved management of public procurement
administration, through systematic enforcement of a competitive bidding system; (ii) the
establishment of quarterly expenditure ceilings; (iii) a freeze on non-fixed commitments in case
of revenue shortfalls; and (iv) cutbacks in military spending. As the people of Burundi struggle
with insecurity and conflict, they were also confronted with unfavorable terms of trade and
falling volume of coffee production, the main export and source of foreign exchange accounting
for over 90 percent of export revenues. Total external debt reached an exceptionally high level of
US$1.2 billion in 2000; and external arrears increased to over US$114 million in 2000,
accounting for over 98 percent of export. Domestic arrears also rose substantially, largely
because of the relatively high level of government debt to the banking system. However, with the
recovery of foreign aid, including the Emergency Economic Recovery Credit (EERC) from the
World Bank, the growth of indebtedness to the banking system has been considerably reduced.
C. The Vision and Development Objectives of the Transitional Government
10.   The Transition Government is fully aware that poverty has played a major role in
perpetuating cycle of conflicts in Burundi over the last four decades, and its current policies
emphasize reducing poverty and fostering inclusion. The Government recently defined a
development strategy for Burundi, in the context of the elaboration of the interim Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP). This strategy is based on the outcomes of the consultations
and participatory diagnostic processes conducted at the sectoral and community levels, and
involving all economic actors and stakeholders, including private sectors operators, sectoral
ministries, NGOs, communities and civil society. The development strategy outlines in this
IPRSP put emphasis on: (i) diversification of sources of growth and rural income, (ii)
macroeconomic stability and economic growth, (iii) private sector development, (iv) peace,
security and good governance, (v) rehabilitation and reintegration of victims and internally
displaced persons, and (vi) strengthening human resources and combating HIV/AIDS.
38



II. THE MEDIUM-TERM MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK AND DEVELOPMENT
OBJECTIVES
11.   Over the next three years, the Government will seek to lay the basis for sustainable
growth and poverty reduction by establishing an environment favorable to private sector
development, within a stable macroeconomic framework. The objective is to achieve a real GDP
growth rate of 5 percent on average over the period 2002-2004, and at least 7 percent for the
period 2004-2010. The primary sector will continue to represent an important share of GDP.
The improvement of the government's fiscal stance initiated within the context of IDA-financed
Emergency Economic Recovery Credit (EERC) and the Fund SMP will be fostered through the
implementation of measures to enhance revenues mobilization, including modernization of the
taxation and customs administrations, reduction of tax fraud and broadening the tax base. Tax
receipts are expected to grow by 2 percent of GDP to reach 17 percent in 2002-2003. On the
expenditure side, the Government will prepare objective-based budgets and will control public
spending and ensure its efficiency. To accomplish this, public spending will be stabilized at
around 18.5 percent of GDP during the period 2002-2004, while budget allocations to priority
sectors such as health, education, water and sanitation will be increased. The public expenditure
review undertaken with the assistance of the World Bank will be pursued and completed, and
will make possible the preparation of a medium-term budgetary framework.
12.   The strategic actions to achieve these short- and long-term objectives include: (i)
improving the economic and financial environment so as to stimulate economic activity and
investment; (ii) reviving the agricultural sector, the country's main source of income, accounting
for more than 50 percent of GDP and over 90 percent of labor force; (iii) fostering small and
medium-size enterprises (SMEs), which are more suitable to the Burundian context than large
enterprises, through targeted financial mechanisms such as venture capital and guarantee funds;
(iv) re-launching the privatization process; (v) implementing a set of priority measures to revive
investment and exports, including the rehabilitation of economic infrastructure, reactivation of
the free trade zone, and promotion of exports.
13.   The subsistence farming sector, which represents more than 30 percent of GDP, will be
revived through regular supply of inputs and improved water management system to prevent
recurrence of shortages of supply witnessed during the drought. At the same time, we expect the
incomes from tradable agriculture and export crops farmers to rise, following the rehabilitation
of processing plants, enhanced productivity and expansion of grain fields, and the opening of
activity to private sector operators. With respect to the secondary and tertiary sectors, their
performance should also improve, in a general context of implementation of measures to enhance
private sector development.
14.   Finally, to ensure sustainable economic growth, there is a need not only to increase
investment, but also to gradually achieve a steady rise in the investment-to-GDP ratio and
thereby provide a better return on national savings. It is expected that the investment rate will
rise from 7.5 percent in 1999 to 25.1 percent by 2004, and increase even further over the
following decade to reach 30 percent. The recovery of investment will be supported by the
following priority operations: (i) rehabilitation of viable enterprises that are in difficulty because
of the crisis, in particular through clearance of arrears owed to these companies; (ii)
39



rehabilitation of economic infrastructure; and (iii) resort to new financing instruments to support
sensitive sectors and young entrepreneurs.
15.   Export promotion will include several components: (i) export diversification, with
revitalization of the privatization of the coffee and tea sector and promotion of nontraditional
products (horticulture, perfume plants); and (ii) adjustments to institutional provisions governing
the free trade zone. The Government's ambitious objective of reviving the private sector is based
in part on providing massive training for economic operators, rehabilitating economic
infrastructure, and reforming the banking and financial system. Consolidation of government
finances, the establishment of a solid legal and regulatory framework, stabilization of the
macroeconomic framework, and the implementation of structural and institutional reforms are
also key components of the effort to revive the private sector.
Im. THE ECONOMIC REFORM PROGRAM
16.   The economic reform program that will be supported by the Economic Rehabilitation
Credit focuses on five areas, in accordance with government priorities: (i) human resource
development; (ii) promotion of the private sector; (iii) agriculture and rural development; (iv)
good governance, peace and national reconciliation; and (v) reintegration and reinsertion of
victims and internally displaced persons.
A.    Human Resource Development and Inclusion
17.   Context: Burundi's social and human resource indicators, which were already among the
worse in Sub-Saharan Africa deteriorated significantly with the conflict during the 1990s. The
incidence of poverty increased from 40 to 69 percent between 1993 and 1999. Infant mortality
increased to 116 per thousand. At the same tirne, the HIV prevalence rate among the 15-49 year
age group increased to over 11 percent, with important gender disparity. The growing plight of
HIV/AIDS, which has been affecting an increasingly large segment of the population accelerated
the declining life expectancy. Life expectancy felt to 42 years in 2000.
18.   In 1999, the number of people living with HIV/AIDS was about 360,000 in the 15-49 age
group and 19,000 for those under 5; about 56 percent of those with HIV/AIDS are female. The
growing number of women affected with HIV/AIDS in a context where women have been
assuming increasingly greater responsibilities is a serious concern to Burundian authorities. Just
like the persistence of gender bias, particularly in the area of education, literacy, and access to
means of production. In 2000, gross primary enrollment was established at 55 percent for male
and 46 percent for female. The disparities and inequality in Burundi exceeds the gender
dimension, however; they are also prominent across regions and among the different ethnic
groups.
19.   The conflict context and relative instability accelerated the regional disparities in access
to, and provision of essential social services. The geographical coverage reduced significantly
due to large concentration of civil servants in the health and education sectors in the most
secured urban areas. The Arusha Peace Accord stresses the importance of reducing these
disparities and fostering inclusion in achieving the Government's objectives of durable peace and
national reconciliation. This objective is prominent in the vision and development objectives of
40



the Transition Government, which envisages a number of measures to strengthen human
resource development. These include the rehabilitation of destroyed social infrastructures, the
reduction of geographical, regional and social disparities, increased school enrollment rates,
enhancing institutional capacities to monitor and support private education and the
implementation of cost-recovery policies.
20.   In addition, the Government will continue the efforts undertaken before the crisis: (i) to
increase schooling for girls at all levels; (ii) to decentralize school management in cooperation
with local communities and parents' associations; and (iii) to find viable financing mechanisms
that will address concerns of equity (schooling for children from vulnerable groups) and promote
private sector involvement. The reconstruction phase must include these guidelines in the choice
of development strategies for the education system.
21.   In the health sector, the major challenges are still the AIDS pandemic, the resurgence of
endemoepidemic diseases that thrive in a setting of malnutrition and widespread food shortages,
the low level of health coverage indicators, and the shortage of human resources. The strategy to
reform the sector calls for bringing the health facilities closer to the beneficiaries and developing
human resources through basic training and on-the-job skills upgrading, as well as making
pharmaceutical products more available. Over the short and medium term, the Government will
define a new drugs policy and new strategies for the health sector by involving the beneficiaries
through mutual schemes and renewing the health insurance card, as well as giving greater
independence to health care establishments.
22.   The Govermment will study different approaches to financing public health, compatible
with state resources (in light of demographic growth and the rising demand for health care) and
with household resources to ensure that health care is financially accessible to everyone. These
studies will cover at least three components: (i) a health insurance card system based on the
findings of a study carried out in the pre-crisis period; (ii) methods to pay for care for the most
vulnerable groups; (iii) conditions for private sector involvement as well as that of traditional
therapy practitioners.
23.   Reforms supported by the proposed ERC: The social and economic costs of the 1993
conflict and the insecurity which followed had direct impact on the life of Burundians. Its
negative impact on human resources development are enormous, calling for the implementation
of a wide range of possible reforms to address imbalances in this sector and enhance human
resource development. However, in light of the relatively short span of this operation, and
accounting for intervention by other donors, we would like the proposed operation to support a
number of key reforms likely to have impact on the life of the poor and vulnerable groups in the
short and medium term.
24.   These key reforms areas include the reduction of gender disparities and promotion of
inclusion and the local and community levels, and in all the different branches of the
administration. This reform is consistent with the provision of the Arusha Peace Accord which
establishes a minimum threshold of 30 percent for the representation of women in all the
different branches of the administration, and may be viewed as steps towards its implementation.
More specifically, the proposed ERC will support the preparation of a Gender Action Plan to be
41



adopted by Cabinet. This Action will be prepared in consultation with the stakeholders and in
collaboration with the civil society. It will support the implementation of institutional reforms to
eliminate any form of gender discrimination and to increase access to ownership and inheritance
by women.
25.   The Government will continue working to overcome ethnic and regional inequalities and
those related to gender. This challenge will be addressed through an appropriate action plan that
includes sensitivity training as well as ensuring transparency and equity in the recruitment of
government officials and workers, and strengthening the judicial apparatus. In addition to
concerns about ethnic balance and other aspects of equality, whether in the security forces, the
judiciary or other areas, the adjustments planned must keep in sight the goal of a society based
upon equality of rights and duties, equality of opportunities, equity, competitiveness and
excellence. In short, the return to real democracy and the rule of law should gradually overcome
fears of institutionalizing ethnic considerations in the management of public affairs.
26.   The rehabilitation of social infrastructures in the health and education sectors, and
implementation of measures to improve access and increase the provision calls for significant
increase of public resources allocated to the social sectors in the budget. Despite the
Government's efforts and the support from the international community, including the World
Bank through the EERC, the needs remain enormous, calling for alternative sources of financing.
During the period preceding the conflict, Burundian authorities initiated the implementation of
cost-recovery mechanisms and policy to increase the participation of beneficiaries through cost
sharing. The outbreak of conflict and dramatic increase of poverty weakened the institutions and
compromised the implementation of the cost-recovery policy. As progress is made to reach a
negotiated cease-fire, we would like the proposed ERC to continue to support the rehabilitation
of destroyed infrastructure and initiate the preparation of an institutional framework and reforms
to underpin the cost-sharing policy in the post-conflict period.
B.    Promotion of Private Sector Development
27.   Context: The relatively narrow tax base .is partly the result of the embryonic private
sector largely confined in Bujumbura, the capital city, and the continued presence of government
in most aspects of the economy, including textile industries, telecommunications, tradable
agricultural sector especially coffee and tea factory and processing, and banking and financial
sectors.
28.   A large number of utilities are actually publicly owned. Some of these have been running
structural deficits in the past, including in the period preceding the conflict. During that period, a
number of publicly owned companies benefited from public resources and subsidies. However,
during the conflict, the rising public deficit and increasingly shrinking public budget reduced the
government's resource base and its ability to continue to support these companies. Worse, the
Government accumulated arrears to a number of these companies.
29.   In addition to Government's intervention, regulatory institutions are relatively weak and a
number of texts and laws regulating economic transactions and business are not up to date. Some
of theses include the labor code and bankruptcy laws which need revision to improve the
arbitration system. The civil code which needs revision to improve judicial procedures. A
42



number of steps have already been taken to reduce the government's participation. In 1996, a
privatization decree was adopted by the Parliament. However, the crisis context which followed
delayed its implementation.
30.   The Transition Government has reaffirmed its commitment to privatization by creating a
Ministry of Good Governance and Privatization. It is committed to completing the privatization
of the following public enterprises, if possible by 2004: ONATEL (National
Telecommunications Office), COTEBU (Burundi Textiles Complex), REGIDESO (Water and
Electricity Production and Distribution Agency), OTB (Burundi Tea Office), ONAPHA
(National Phannaceuticals Office), 1NABU (Burundi National Printing Office), OPHAVET
(Veterinary Pharmaceuticals Office), and SHTB (Burundi Hotel and Tourism Corp. - Hotel
Source du Nil), as well as state holdings in the coffee sector.
31.   Reforms supported by the Proposed ERC: The objective of the Transitional
Government is to gradually reduce government participation, and establish a legal and
institutional framework to promote private sector development and enhance competitiveness.
The Government intends to pursue a privatization strategy that will improve management,
modernize production facilities and revive output. The proposed ERC will help strengthen
existing institutional framework to underpin the privatization program. This includes the
preparation of a strategic memorandum and a programming framework by the Public Enterprises
Unit, and the preparation of an action plan for the privatization of these enterprises, focusing on
measures to (i) improve managerial efficiency; (ii) reduce or abolish subsidies; (iii) clear
government arrears with private operators; (iv) modernize production facilities; and (v) promote
the private sector.
32.   In addition, the proposed ERC will support the revision of the labor code and bankruptcy
laws, the civil code, help prepare an update of the 1996 privatization decree and suppoI-
institutional strengthening and capacity building in the new Ministry of Good Governance and
Privatization.
33.   The Government will undertake an evaluation of the financial sector and will implement
the resulting recommendation in an effort to restore stability to the sector. The Bank of the
Republic of Burundi (BRB) will continue its efforts to build up its staff of inspectors in sufficient
numbers and quality to supervise banks and financial institutions. Monetary policy will be
designed so as not to compromise the objective of reducing inflation, and will guarantee the
independence of the central bank and reinforce its external net asset position.
C.    Agriculture and Rural Development
34.   Agriculture which accounts for over 50 percent of GDP and supports more than 90
percent of the population is the mainstay of the economy. During the years following the 1993
crisis, this sector witnessed a dramatic fall in output and production, resulting into declining
revenues and increased poverty incidence. While the cause of falling production, particularly in
the 1990's are intimately associated with the post-conflict context which causes massive
displacement of persons, and other exogenous shocks such as drought, some of the causes are
more structural and relate to institutional setting characterized by constant government
intervention particularly in the coffee and tea export sub-sectors.
43



35.   The vulnerability of rural income and agricultural production to exogenous shocks such
as drought is partly the result of absence of diversification of sources of growth in rural arrears,
and absence of risk mitigating measures. The Transitional Government strategy to revive
agricultural production and diversify the sources of income is based on a number of measures,
including actions to revive output in the country's traditional export sectors (coffee, tea, cotton,
quinquina) with attention both to volume and to quality; (ii) promote nontraditional export crops
(fruits, flowers, vegetables, vegetable silk crops, sugar, rice and other farm products). Efforts on
behalf of traditional export crops (coffee, tea, cotton) will include: (i) rebuilding infrastructure
destroyed or damaged during the war (warehouses, processing plants, roads); (ii) restoring
farming activity and providing coaching for farmers; (iii) reinvigorating the extension services
generally; (iv) raising producer prices; (v) proceeding with the policy to privatize agro-industrial
activities. Attention will focus both on increased volumes and enhanced quality of output, with a
view to raising the relevant indicators by 2004 at least to the level that prevailed before the 1992
crisis. Promoting nontraditional export crops will require the restoration of regular
communications with international markets (scheduled flights), a solid support infrastructure, as
well as appropriate credit facilities for entrepreneurs.
36.   There is strong demand within the sub region for products that have not traditionally been
exported, such as sugar, beans, rice, palm oil and manioc flour. The Government intends to
upgrade its nontraditional export promotion programs and to help the industry in its own efforts
to exploit the potential of these new export products. Activities will include: (i) an updated
national policy and program for managing natural resources and the environment; (ii) reviving
awareness and outreach campaigns to help family farms integrate agro-sylvo-pastoral techniques;
(iii) enlisting local communities in the effort to restore and protect watersheds and ridges; (iv)
introducing legal and regulatory instruments for planning and management of the sector.
37.   Reforms supported by the ERC: The current economic and social context is
characterized by accurate shortage of foreign reserves which have fallen to less than one month
of imports. Coffee production and export is the main source of foreign exchange, accounting for
over 90 percent of export revenues. The proposed ERC will support the government's efforts to
revive the tea and coffee sub-sectors through elaboration of a comprehensive strategy which
promotes increased participation of private sector operators.
38.   A diversification of source of growth in rural areas is also envisaged as a risk mitigating
measure. The IDA supported Emergency Economic Recovery Credit (EERC) supported the
developments and expansion of irrigated agriculture. However, a comprehensive integrated
approach is required to better identify the potential sources of growth and prospects. The
proposed ERC will support the implementation of a comprehensive study to identify the sources
of growth and income generating activities in rural arrears.
D.    Promotion of Good Governance, Peace and Security
39.   Context: As a result of the conflict and rising poverty, Burundian authorities have faced
growing cases of corruption, in an administration which in the past was praised for its probity.
The conflict context in the 1990s was also characterized by shrinking public resources, which
weakened existing institutions, and particularly public expenditure management (budget
44



formulation, execution and control). The last time Burundi prepares a comprehensive budget,
including the current and capital expenditures based on the public investment program (PIP)
goes back to 1992; during the year preceding the crisis PIP were systematically prepared every
three years. Other branches of the administration have also been affected, including the public
procurement administration.
40.   The Transitional Government of Burundi recognizes the importance of governance, and
transparency accountability in the growth process, stability and security. The Arusha peace
Accord emphasizes govemance and accountability in the management of public resources, and
the promotion of inclusion. A number of measures to improve governance have already been
taken by Burundian authorities to strengthen public expenditure management. Within the context
of the PER, we have been working with donors to improve the budget formnulation and processes.
We have abandoned the line-items approach to budget formulation to adopt a system for the
functional classification to strengthen the link between government policies and budgetary
allocations. These adjustment to the budget are already taken into account in the 2002 budget.
41.   The challenges remain important, however. Audits and ex-post controls systems are not
implemented systematically. The relative weakness of existing control systems is aggravated by
the crisis context. With the implementation of transitional arrangements, the functions and
attributes of the Transitional Parliament have been substantially improved. This increases the
likelihood of strong interaction between the executive and legislative branch of the
administration, which is essential for ex-post controls. The Transition Government also
appointed a Minister of Good Governance with broad responsibility for accountability in all
government operations.
42.   Reforms supported by the ERC: Burundian authorities requested technical assistance
from the Bank to strengthen the public procurement administration. And we would like the
proposed ERC to support the reform of the public procurement administration, which is essential
to strengthen the competitive aspect of public procurement procedures, and increase the
efficiency in public expenditure allocations. The reform should help establish transparency and
accountability in the public procurement administration, and laws which are consistent with good
international practices.
43.   Other key reform areas where we are seeking support from the Bank within the
framework of the proposed ERC include the establishment of the office of the Auditor General
responsible for auditing financial operations of public agencies, the implementation of the audit
of the Treasury which was initiated under IDA supported EERC and is ongoing, and supporting
the reforms of the budget processes regarding the latter, we would like to specifically request
assistance to carry out a thorough assessment of public expenditure management (budget
formulation, execution and control) using the HIPC tracking benchmarks with a view to
identifying issues and proposing corrective measures to be implemented within the framework of
the proposes operation.
44.   The interim PRSP stresses the importance of establishing poverty-reducing priority
spending program and of strengthening the links between budgetary allocation and priority
programs. This linkage is also relevant to the HIPC process which aims at increasing poverty
45



reduction impact and effectiveness of resource utilization. The proposed ERC will support the
Transition Government efforts to strengthen the links between priority programs identified in the
IPRSP and budgetary allocations in the 2003 budget. It will also support the Transition
Government efforts to establish a system for monitoring the budget releases to the priority
programs.
E.    Reintegration and Reinsertion of Victims and Internally Displaced Persons
45.   Context: The 1993 crisis and internal conflict created an unprecedented humanitarian
catastrophe, with the number of victims and internally displaced persons estimated at 1.2
millions, accounting for about 18 percent of total population. Of these thousands of victims, it is
believed that more than 250,000 have been killed since 1993. Other are living in precarious
conditions, either as internally displaced or refugees. The number of victims and the relatively
precarious conditions are aggravated by the regional context characterized by ongoing conflict in
the DRC, with a number of countries, which are either directly involved or affected. Burundian
has over 400,000 refugees in neighboring countries, with a large concentration in Tanzania (over
380,000) and the DRC (over 20,000).
46.   The massive presence of refugees and internally displaced persons living in precarious
conditions is source of instability and a serious handicap to achieving peace and stability at the
national and regional levels. This relative instability is a source of concerns to Burundian
authorities and officials from other countries involved. At the regional levels, a number of
measures have been taken to accelerate the return of refugees: in May 2001, a tripartite
agreement was signed between the Government of Burundi, Tanzania and UNHCR to facilitate
voluntary repatriation of Burundian refugees stationed in Tanzania. Similarly, and within the
framework of the implementation of the Lusaka Accord, officials from the DRC and Burundi
reached an agreement in January 2002; whereby Burundian authorities agreed to pull out their
troops from the DRC, while the Congolese pledged to discontinue their support to Burundian
rebels.
47.   At the national level, we have also taken a number of steps to facilitate the return and
repatriation of refugees. These steps are consistent with the provisions of the Arusha Peace
Accord and include: the protocol for access and protection of internally displaced persons which
was signed in February 2001; and the establishment of a National Commission on Reintegration
of Refugees in May 2001. The Arusha Peace Accord also emphasizes the establishment of: (i) a
National Truth and Reconciliation Commission, drawing on the South African post-Apartheid
model, (ii) a Fund to support the reintegration and reinsertion of victims.
48.   Reforms Supported by the Proposed ERC: We fully recognize that the success of the
reintegration program is the cornerstone of the Government's objectives to achieve peace and
stability. The Government is pursuing a policy to strengthen the program for integrating
displaced persons and returning refugees, and to help them obtain the means to a livelihood as
quickly as possible. For many of these victims, farming is the main source of income; and
reintegration will require implementation of institutional measures to increase access to means of
production by the poor and vulnerable groups, either in the form of land, capital, or through
strengthening of human resources. For those who no longer have access to their property, the
46



Government is committed to finding them new lands and helping them settle at new sites. The
Government will also help with housing and the provision of basic social services.
49.   The priority objective in the short term, then, is to improve housing conditions,
particularly for war victims living in camps and in the hills and for the stream of refugees now
flowing back to their country. In order to facilitate the reintegration of refugees through
increased access to social services, Burundian authorities, with the assistance from the World
Bank and other donors, defined a minimum package of essential social services to be provided to
the poor and vulnerable groups during the post-conflict period. In addition to donor assistance,
we are envisaging that the assistance provided within the context of this package will partly be
funded through a "Reinsertion and Reintegration Fund" to be created. We would like the
proposed ERC to support the preparation of an institutional framework to underpin the creation
and implementation of the proposed Reintegration Fund.
50.   Such a framework should account for the Government's commitment to, and ongoing
efforts to implement fiscal decentralization. Indeed, within the framework of implementation of
the decentralization program, designed to strengthen local communities and enhance the
reintegration process of returning refugees and other victims, we have transferred full
responsibility from the central levels to communes in the provision of assistance to the needy.
And the establishment of this Fund should make the resources available to local authorities to
support the reintegration program.
IV. CONCLUSION
51.   The priority goal of the Transitional Government is to promote national reconciliation,
ensure respect for human rights, restore security for all, and promote economic growth, which is
indispensable for reducing poverty. To meet the expectations of the people of Burundi and their
aspiration for poverty reduction, these efforts will have to be accompanied by the social
rehabilitation of war victims, reconstruction and economic recovery. The Transitional
Government will therefore focus its action on priority areas such as reviving agricultural
production and rural development, reforming government finances, improving the countrys
external position and controlling inflation. These objectives of poverty reduction and improved
public welfare will be supported by a healthy macroeconomic framework based on realistic
growth objectives, better coordination and consultation between the Government and the private
sector, and a more efficient allocation of public funds based on rationalization of budgetary
choices.
OF TRENDI
47



Annex 10 - Proposed Economic Rehabilitation Credit - Policy Action Matrix
Area & Objectives                  Reform Benchmarks by Board     Outcome Benchmark for Mid-2003
Presentation
Continue to maintain a sustainable
Macroeconomic stability            The Government has maintained a  macroeconomic framework
macroeconomic framework
satisfactory to the Bank       Performance under the Fund program
supported by Emergency Post-conflict
Assistance Facility continue to be
satisfactory
Public expenditure Management      _
Budget formulation and execution                                  Agreement with IDA on the 2003 budget
Adoption of a system for the   allocations to the priority programs
functional and economic        identified in the IPRSP and in the system
Adoption of transparent fiscal policy and  classification of budget and  for monitoring budget release in the priority
budget preparation practices       abandon of line-items          programs
Budget is based on consolidated                                   A budget Memorandum for the years
macroeconomic estimtes and aggregates  .         . a              2002 and onward are based on
etrengthensystimates accounding aggrt s miti of a fiagnoice  consolidates estimates of national
Strengthen system of accounting    assessment of public finance   Accounts and reflect the revision to the
management issues using the 15  budget process
Improve commitment control         HIPIC tracking benchmarks.
Budget Inspection/Audit/and public
procurement                        Integration of recurrent and   Completion of diagnostic assessment of
investment expenditure in the  public finance management issues using
Increase competition for public    formulation of budget          the 15 HIPIC tracking benchmarks
contracts                          Iiito     fdansi
contracts  Initiation of diagnostic  Systematic monthly reporting of budget
Enhances comprehensive legal       assessment of the public       execution using the flash report and
framework for public procurement   procurement admiistration      TOFE
48



Area & Objectives                Reform Benchmarks by Board   Outcome Benchmark for Mid-2003
Presentation
Elaboration of Action plan for
reforming public procurement  Completion of reforms of the public
administration               procurement administration
Initiation of Audit of the   Strengthening capacities within the
Treasury                    public procurement administration
including through training and staffing
In light of other country
experiences, initiate        The Transition Government of Burmndi
investigations in the suitability  to submit law on public procurement
of different models to identify  based on good international practices to
the nature and contour of the  the Transitional Parliament
office of a Auditor General
consistent with Burundian    Complete Audit of the Treasury
context
Complete establishment of an office of
Auditor General
Poverty Reduction, Reinsertion and
Reintegration of victims of conflict and
1ID P s                          _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Implementation of growth         Definition of minimum package  Establishment of institutional
enhancement measures to increase  of essential social services to be  framework to underpin the creation of a
personal income and reduce poverty  provided by the Government to  Micro-credit Fund.
incidence                        poor and vulnerable groups
during the transition period.  Implementation of Consultation and
Provision of targeted assistance to the                       participatory diagnostic process within
poor and vulnerable groups, through  Approval by Cabinet of special  the context of the full PRSP
49



Area & Objectives                 Reform Benchmarks by Board   Outcome Benchmark for Mid-2003
Presentation
establishment of safety nets      fund for reinsertion and
mechanisms                        reintegration of displaced
persons and other victims of
conflict.
Implementation of measures to reduce
vulnerability and exposure to
exogenous shocks including through
broadening the sources of growth in
rural areas
Private sector Development
hnprove efficiency and effectiveness  Establishment of an operational  Adoption of measures to strengthen the
in public expenditures allocation and  program for the privatization of  legal and judiciary framework for
use                               public enterprises           commerce and enforcement of contracts
Promote and foster economic growth                             Complete revision of corporate and
through increased private ownership                            commercial laws
and creation of enabling environment  Elaboration of a framework for
the clearance of domestic arrears  Complete revision of labor code and
to private sector supplies   civil code
Update of the 1996 privatization decree
Adoption of measures to strengthen
privatization agencies, including the
"Service Charg6 des Entreprises
50



Area & Objectives                Reform Benchmarks by Board   Outcome Benchmark for Mid-2003
Presentation
Publiques (SCEP)"within the Ministry
of Good Governance and Privatization
Agriculture and Rural Development
Establishment of an operational  Complete a study to identify the sources
Increase rural income through    program for the privatization of  of growth and income generating
revitalization of agricultural   public enterprises, including  activities in rural areas.
production, diversification of sources  coffee and tea processing
of growth and protection against  complexes                   Adoption by cabinet of a comprehensive
adverse shocks                                                strategy developed in consultation with
the stakeholders to revive the coffee and
tea sub-sectors.
Implementation of institutional
measures to promote increased
participation of private sector operators
Human Resources Development and
Inclusion
Foster inclusion through strengthening  Definition of a minimum  In consultation with all the stakeholders
of human resources and reduction of  package of essential social  and Civil Society, Burundi Authorities
disparities                      services to be provided by the  will prepare a Gender Action Plan to the
Government to the poor and   adopted by Cabinet
vulnerable groups during the
51



Area & Objectives                 Reform Benchmarks by Board   Outcome Benchmark for Mid-2003
Presentation
transitional period, drawing on  Implementation of institutional reforms
the consultation and         to eliminate any sources of gender
participatory diagnostic     discrimination and to increase access to
processes carried out within the  ownership and inheritance by women.
context of the IPRSP
Preparation of institutional framework
and reforms to underpin the
implementation of cost-recovery
policies and mechanisms.
52












IMAGING
Report No.:        24611   BU
Type:     SAR



