FROM: The President                                                           December 23,2004




                                      REPUBLIC OFBURUNDI


                                 EconomicRehabilitationCredit
                                          (Cr.3710-BU)
                        Release of the ThirdTranche-FullCompliance


1.      On August 29, 2002, the Executive Directors approved an Economic Rehabilitation
Credit (ERC) o f SDR 40.8 million to the Republic of Burundi ("the Borrower"). The ERC i s an
integral part o f the Bank's Transitional Support Strategy (TSS) discussed by the Board on March
7, 2002, to support the transition process and the implementation of the Borrower's reform
program. The Credit was declared effective on October 23, 2002, and the first tranche, o f SDR
15.1 million, was released upon effectiveness. A second tranche, o f SDR 15.1 million, was made
available for disbursement on April 28, 2003 upon liberalization o f the Borrower's foreign
exchange system and fulfillment o f budget-related conditions for that tranche, and a third and
final tranche, o f SDR 10.6 million, was to be made available for disbursement upon fulfillment
of the conditions for that tranche, describedinthis memorandum.

2.      This memorandum informs Executive Directors that the Third Tranche, of SDR 10.6
million, has been made available for disbursement. As provided in Section 3.01 o f the
Development Credit Agreement, staff has reviewed with the Borrower the progress achieved in
implementing the program. This memorandum summarizes these reviews and reports on the
actions taken by the Borrower. It concludes that: (a) the macroeconomic policy framework for
growth and poverty reduction i s consistent with the objectives of the reform program; (b)
satisfactory progress has been achieved in the overall execution of the program; and (c) all
specific conditions pertainingto the release of the ThirdTranche have been met.



                                                     James D.Wolfensohn
                                                     President


                                                     By ShengmanZhang




                          Vice President         :    GobindNankani
                          CountryDirector        :   GerardA. Byam
                          Sector Manager         :   CadmanA. Mills
                          Task Team Leader       :   EricR.Nelson


                                      REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI

                                  EconomicRehabilitationCredit
                                          (Cr. 3710-BU)
                        Releaseof the ThirdTranche-FullCompliance


                               OVERALL PROGRESSOF THE PROGRAM


                                       I. .BACKGROUND

1.       Efforts to end a crisis engendered by recurrent conflicts and rivalry between the two main
ethnic groups are making significant progress. Following an eight-year conflict in which it i s
believed that more than 250,000 people were killed and 1.2 million displaced, negotiations in
Arusha, Tanzania resulted in a comprehensive peace agreement (Arusha Accord), signed in
August 2000. A new Government of national unity, inaugurated on November 1, 2001 in
accordance with this Accord, shares power among the groups during the 36-month transition
period leadingto general democratic elections; the two groups, which had refused to negotiate in
Arusha, have since joined this government. The transition period has two phases, to respect the
power-sharing principle. Pierre Buyoya, a Tutsi, led the first 18-month period, ceding power to
his HutuVice President, DomitienNdayizeye, on April 30,2003 for the second 18-monthperiod.
As the transition comes to an end, a referendum in December 2004 will ratify the new
constitution to provide a framework for legislative elections and, in April 2005, a Presidential
ballot based on universal suffrage. These are important steps toward durable reconciliation and
peace. However, the situation on the ground remains fragile.

2.       Burundi continues to face difficult development challenges. These include fostering
inclusiveness, peace and security, promoting national reconciliation and good governance,
resettling and reintegrating displaced persons and other victims o f conflict, rehabilitating
destroyed economic and social infrastructure, revitalizing the economy and strengthening human
resource capacities.

3.       Inthis environment, beginningin 1999 the World Bank provided emergency assistance
within the framework of an Interim Strategy (Report No. 1592-BU dated July 30, 1999) to help
support the peace process,jump-start the economy, and rekindlethe reformprogram. Buildingon
this, the TSS discussed by the Board on March 7, 2002 made an exceptional IDA allocation to
the Borrower to consolidate the progress made and to support economic reforms for growth and
poverty reduction. Within the TSS, the Economic Rehabilitation Credit (ERC) i s designed to
support the transition process in Burundi through the rehabilitation and the recovery o f the
economy by helping to build the foundation for (a) the improvement o f public service delivery
and basic social services, (b) the Borrower's efforts to deepen institutional and structural reforms
for sustained economic recovery and poverty reduction, and (c) the establishment o f a track
record for early access to relief under the Enhanced Highly Indebted Poor Country (HIPC)
Initiative. The ERC also builds on the reforms and analytical work on the public expenditure
management system carried out under the TSS.




                                                 2

                   11.     RECENT POLITICALAND SECURITY DEVELOPMENTS

4.      Restoration of peace. While two rebel groups, Forces Nationales de Liberation (FNL)
andForces de Defense de la Democratie (FDD-CNDD) did not signthe PeaceAccord inAugust
2000 and were not part o f the initial Transition Government, negotiations that continued under
the joint chairmanship of President Mkapa of Tanzania and Deputy President Zuma o f South
Africa led to signing a cease-fire in 2002 and participation by both groups in the transition
Government. Leaders o f both sides of the ethnic divide appear determined to do whatever they
can to keep the peace process on track. The constitutional referendum and legislative and
presidential elections, while delayed by funding and logistics and for that reason rescheduled by
regional leadership, are on course to be completed inearly 2005.

5.      The situation remains fluid. A small FNL faction led by Agathan Rwasa continues
occasional violent opposition inthe district neighboring Bujumbura, Bujumbura Rural province.
International observers have been inplace since March 2003,and an international peace-keeping
force, acting under the authority o f the African Union (AMIB) made up o f troops from South
Africa, Ethiopia and Mozambique since April 2003 has, following a resolution o f the Security
Council on May 21,2004 received a UNmandate and funding (UNOB). The force's mandate i s
to demobilize and disarm all armed groups and to set up an integrated national army and police
force. A committee to monitor the cease-fire, comprising representatives from the government,
rebel groups and the international peacekeeping force, was established in February 2003. In
response to a request from the Borrower to help it design a Burundi Ex-Combatants Assistance
Program and to provide financial assistance within the framework o f the Multi-country
Demobilization and ReintegrationProgram (MDRP), IDA approved the US$33 million Burundi
Emergency Demobilization, Reinsertionand Reintegration Program on March 18,2004.

6.     The peace process inneighboring Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) is ontrack, with
a transition coalition government appointed on June 30, 2003. Nonetheless, the localized
violence, insecurity and instability that continues in the Eastern parts o f the DRC has a direct
implication for the Borrower, interms of its security as well as its markets; inAugust 2004 this
violence resurfaced as a massacre o f Congolese Banyumulenge in a refugee camp in Burundi.
The internationalcommunity's support for boththe Lusakaprocess (which deals with the conflict
in the DRC) and the Arusha process is essential for consolidating peace in the Great Lakes
Region.

7.     Collaboration i s the norm within the transition government, at all levels. Most
stakeholders demonstrate commitment to peace and the maintenance o f a viable transition
process, characterized by potentially credible institutions, a strong anti-poverty program and the
protection of humanrights. Burundi produced in November 2002 an InterimPoverty Reduction
Strategy Paper (I-PRSP), the World Bank-IMFjoint staff assessment which was accepted by the
Boards in January 2004. The 2003 and 2004 budgets reflect priorities identified in the I-PRSP
while the fullPRSP is progressing to beready inmid-2005 for deliveryto the government.

8.     As peace progresses and takes hold, Burundi faces an enormous problem of
demobilization o f combatants, the resettlement o f a million persons-nearly     15 percent o f the
population-who     are refugees or internally displaced, and assistanceto those have suffered from




                                                  3

conflict internally. Social and economic institutions must be rebuilt and social institutions that
discourage violence as a method of resolving conflicts needto be buttressed.

                         111.    MACROECONOMICFRAMEWORK
                                                     POLICY

9.      The economy has continued to recover since 2002. Favorable weather and a recovery of
coffee production (tempered by a decline in other basic agricultural products following last
calendar year's drought) are assisting a return to positive real growth in2004 after a 1.2 percent
decline in 2003. Nevertheless, and despite a coffee crop in 2002-3 that was more than twice as
large as the poor results of the 2001-2 season and a further increase in 2003-4, export revenues
have fallen. This is due to an adverse shift in international coffee prices, lower quality of
Burundian coffee as coffee plantations were poorly attended due to the conflict andthe parastatal
auctioning board OCIBU allowed stocks to accumulate across seasons rather than accepting low
market-clearing bids, to insufficient capability to transport the increased volume o f coffee to
market, In late 2004 coffee receipts are recovering, increasing 155 percent compared to the
previous year. Tea exports have also increased 35 percent while the recovering regional market
has supported a 43 percent increase in exports of beer exports and a doubling o f those o f
cigarette.

 10.    Inflation has been volatile in 2004, reflecting bottlenecks in the supply o f fuels, but has
generally been in the single digits; in September 2004 (as in January, April, June and July) the
consumer price index actually declined, though year-on-year inflation stood at 8.6 percent (down
from 10.7 percent for 2003). The surge in world petroleum prices, along with continued
depressed coffee prices, has kept the external current account under pressure throughout 2004
and had an impact on the fiscal balance as the government has attempted to partially absorb the
price increase.

11.     Problems remain concerning the service and eventual reduction of the Borrower's
external debt, most of which i s in arrears. In March 2004 the Borrower was accorded a Paris
Club debt rescheduling under highly concessional Naples terms, and has since signed a bilateral
agreement with Russia. Discussions are underway to secure comparable treatment from other
bilateral and commercial creditors. A multilateral debt service trust fund has been established but
to date, the contributions are insufficient to cover debt service in the medium term. IFAD has
resumed lending activity and inJuly 2004 the African Development Bankreinstated its Burundi
program with a grant-funded activity while it developed a strategy to clear arrears and resume
lending, approved by its Board on October 27. The Borrower i s on track for admission to the
Enhanced HIPC Initiative in 2005; debt sustainability analysis i s underway for the HIPC
preliminarydocument.

12.     Fiscal developments.Overall fiscal performance was in line with the objectives o f the
revised budget law approved inAugust 2002 with assistance from the IMF. Government revenue
collection was less than projected, mainly due to lack o f customs revenue from a fall inthe level
o f imports overall and the application of the free exchange regime for COMESA countries which
led to further trade diversion from dutiable sources, and to efforts to absorb part o f the
international oil price increase, but this was more than offset by a decline in government
expenditure.The primary budget deficit was 1.1 percent of GDP for the first half of 2004 (down
from more than 2 percent in2003 but considerably below the surplus o f 0.5 percent programmed


                                                  4

under the IMF program), due to the oil tax adjustment and the endeavor to finance the peace
process. At mid-year the government had paid off 0.3 percent of GDP o f domestic arrears, but
this apparent progress was more than offset by the accumulation of new outstanding payment
orders equivalent to one percent of GDP.

13.     Under the transition, the Borrower faces significant increases in the wage bill from the
need to accommodate the entry into government of various rebel factions and the temporary
expansion of the armed forces to accommodate the security sector reform and demobilization
program as well as from wage pressure from the civil service and teachers unions, which ledto a
6 percent salary increase in late 2004. On the revenue side, the government expects higher
receipts from its application o f an 6 percent import service charge to all non-diplomatic imports
and the planned publication in the 2005 budget of the names o f all those benefiting from
exonerations together with the ceiling amount ofthe exoneration.

14.     The composition of expenditures continues to demonstrate the Borrower's incorporation
o f I-PRSP guidelines inthe budgetprocess, with pro-poor expenditure (as defined inthe I-PRSP)
rising from 33.9 percent of primary expendituresin2002 to 42.5 percent for 2004, representing a
rise from 6.1 percent of GDP to 9.3 percent over the period.

15.     The exchange rate continued to stabilize, continuing the auction process launched under
the EERC and since supported by the IMF. The auctions since May have been fully subscribed,
with no unsoldbalances reflectingdisequilibrium.The official exchange rate has remained stable
against the U S dollar, 1071 at end-2002, 1073 at end-2003, and 1089 inNovember 2004. More
remarkable, the differential between the official andparallel rates, which exceeded one-third five
years ago, has shrunk to less than 4 percent o fthe official value.

16.     Despite the stagnation o f export revenues, the Borrower continued its program o f
economic liberalization. The first two tranches of IDA'SERC, an EU program grant, and the
introduction o f the STABEX program have permitted the amount o f foreign exchange sold to the
private sector through the Central Bank auction to increase to a scale where the weekly auctions
could be regularized and the amount sold standardized. The positive list o f imports eligible for
foreign exchange was abolished in August 2002. The foreign exchange auction mechanism was
changed from a first-price auction to a modified dutch auction producing a single, weighted
transaction rate; in response the bids became more dispersed. From 2003 banks have been
permittedto retain a portion of the foreign exchange from exports rather than surrender it to the
Central Bank, increasing their ability to provide foreign exchange to their customers outside the
auction process and improving the interbank market. In 2004, foreign exchange bureaux were
granted access to the auction system, further providing liquidity to the private sector.
Government treasury bills have been introducedto clear domestic arrears with oil suppliers (and
thus their bankers), and measures are now being undertaken with the IMF to make these
securities tradable andthus an instrument o f market-based liquidity-managementpolicy.

17.     Donor response. Following the Arusha Accord in August 2000, an international donors
meeting called by President Mandela was held in December 2000 and raised over US$400
million. Donors met again in December 2001, and in April 2002 the I-PRSP was presented and
endorsed by the donor community at a thematic meeting. In UNDP-sponsored round-table
meetings, donors pledged US$981 million inNovember 2002 and US$l.O32 billion in January


                                                 5

2004. In January 2004 the Directors o f IDA and the IMF considered and concurred with a joint
staff assessmento f the I-PRSP.

                                 IV.   PROGRESS     UNDER ERC
                                                          THE

18.      The ERC is an integral part of the Bank's Transitional Support Strategy to support the
transition process and the implementation of the transitional government's reform program. The
government's program seeks to support poverty reduction efforts, increases the efficiency o f
resource allocation and utilization, and establish transitional institutions. A series o f measures
already taken moved the government budget from deficit to surplus, reduced inflation, and
reduced indebtedness to the bankingsystem. The strategy outlined inthe I-PRSP emphasizes: (i)
diversification o f sources o f growth and rural income, (ii)
                                                           macroeconomic stability and economic
growth, (iii)private sector development, (iv) peace, security and good governance, (v)
rehabilitation and reintegrationof victims and internally displaced persons, and (vi) strengthening
humanresources and combatingHIV/AIDS.

19.     Inthe period supported by this ERC the Borrower seeks to lay the basis for sustainable
growth and poverty reduction by establishing an environment favorable to private sector
development, within a stable macroeconomic framework. The objective to achieve a real GDP
growth rate o f 5 percent on average over the period 2002-2004 has not beenmet: real growth o f
4.5 percent in 2002 and 5.5 percent (projected) in 2004 was offset by decline o f 1.2 percent in
2003 due to drought. Growth for the period 2004-2010 i s unlikely to reach 7 percent despite the
promising increase in 2004. Inthe area o f humanresources, key reforms include the reduction o f
ethnic, regional and gender disparities and promotion o f inclusion and the local and community
levels, and in all the different branches o f the administration, and rehabilitation o f social
infrastructure coupled with improved access to social services. The Government i s pursuing a
privatization strategy that i s intended to improve management, modernize production facilities
and revive output, and set the stage to revive the coffee and tea subsectors, but implementation
steps have been hesitant. Within the administration, the ERC-supported strengthening and
transparency for public procurement administration are underway and an Auditor General (Cow
des Comptes) positionhas been created. After some delay on determiningthe authority o fjudges,
an actionplan i s now underway to make this operational by early 2005.

20.     The ERC supports broad reforms in national reconciliation, economic stabilization,
growth and poverty reduction in a program supported by a number o f donors. Implementationi s
generally satisfactory. As described above, the Borrower has successfully maintained a
macroeconomic policy framework for growth and poverty reduction that i s consistent with the I-
PRSP and the objectives o f the reform program, one of the requirements for the tranche release.
The remainder of the present memorandum concentrates on specific steps and the associated
requirements for release o fthe thirdtranche.

                   v.     CONDITIONS FORRELEASEOF THE THIRDTRANCHE

21.     Section 2.02(e) o f the Development Credit Agreement, referring to the third tranche,
states that "No withdrawals shall be made from the Credit Account after the aggregate o f the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account shall have reached the equivalent o f



                                                   6

thirty million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 30,200,000), unless the
Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange o f views as described in Section 3.01 o f this
Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Association: (i) the progress achieved by
                                                                     with
the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; (ii) the macroeconomic policy framework
                                                         that
o f the Borrower i s satisfactory, as measured on the basis of indicators agreed between the
Borrower and the Association; and (iii) the actions described inPart B o f Schedule 2 to this
                                           that
Agreement have been taken." Part B of Schedule 2, lists the following specific conditions for
release o f the thirdtranche, that the Borrower has:

     0  adopted, through its Council of Ministers, a gender action plan acceptable to the
        Association, as described inparagraph 24 of the Letter o f DevelopmentPolicy (LDP);

     0  adopted, through its Council of Ministers, a comprehensive strategy acceptable to the
        Association to revive the coffee and tea sub-sectors, as described inparagraphs 35 and 37
        ofthe LDP;

        adopted, through its Council o f Ministers, an action planacceptable to the Association on
       the reform o f the public procurement administration, as described inparagraph 42 of the
        LDP; and

    0   adopted, through its Council o f Ministers, and submitted to the National Assembly, a
        draft legislation acceptable to the Association for the creation o f an Office o f the Auditor
        General responsible for auditing the Borrower's financial operations, as described in
       paragraph 43 of the LDP.

Overall execution of the ERC Program

22.    The macroeconomic policy framework is satisfactory and program execution is
satisfactory, in spite o f delays in external aid disbursements. The IMF Board approved a PRGF
arrangement on January 23, 2004, and a first review is underway with missions in August-
September and November 2004. This review mission has found macroeconomic developments
broadly on track with program objectives', though structural reforms have lagged reflecting
limited administrative capacity and the complex political environment. Overall progress in
implementation o f the ERC financed program i s satisfactory. Progress has not been as timely as
that leading to the second tranche in 2003, as measures related to liberalizing the important
coffee sector proved difficult to implement in the transitional political environment.
Government's commitment remains firm.

Specific conditions pertaining to the third tranche

23.    Condition 1    -Gender      Action Plan: "the Borrower has adopted, through its Council of
Ministers, a gender action plan acceptable to the Association, as described inparagraph 24 o f the
LDP."



1Burundi-IMF     Office Memorandumto the ManagingDirector, DeputyManagingDirectors;
 October 28, 2004.


                                                  7

24.     Background: Article 7 o f the Arusha Accord, in the section "principles and measures
relating to exclusion", offers "constitutional guarantees o f the principle of the equality of rights
 and duties for all citizens, men and women, and all the ethnic, political, regional and social
 components o f Burundiansociety." This guidance underlies the Borrower's effort to establish a
 gender action plan. The Borrower's LDP (Para 24) states that "key reforms areas include the
reduction o f gender disparities and promotion o f inclusion and the local and community levels,
 and in all the different branches of the administration. This reform i s consistent with the
provision of the Arusha Peace Accord, which establishes a minimumthreshold of 30 percent for
the representation o f women in all the different branches of the administration, and may be
viewed as steps towards its implementation. More specifically, the proposed ERC will support
the preparation o f a Gender Action Plan to be adopted by Cabinet. This Action will be prepared
in consultationwith the stakeholders and in collaboration with the civil society. It will support
the implementation of institutionalreforms to eliminate any form of gender discrimination andto
increase accessto ownership and inheritance by women."

25.     Action Taken: The Politique Nationale Genre (National Gender Policy) prepared by the
Ministryof SocialAction andPromotionofWomenwas approved bythe Council ofMinisters at
its regular meeting of September 30, 2003 after an active debate (summarized inthe minutes) on
whether the policy i s sufficiently pro-active. The plan calls for strategic actions to promote
equality in all sectors of national life, public and private, and provides a framework for judging
progress. It defines rights and calls for progress where these have not been met in(i) (ii)
                                                                                         culture,
security and mobilization for peace, (iii)the fight against poverty, (iv) employment, (v)
agriculture, (vi) health, (vii) the fight against HIV/AIDS, (viii) education and training, (ix) equal
rights, (x) the fight against violence against women, (xi) decision making, (xii) information and
communication. It describes the constraints to be addressed and provides indicators o f
monitoring and evaluation. The documents are listed inparagraph 37(a). The staff considers that
this conditionhasbeensatisfactorily met.

26.     Condition 2 - Coffee-tea sector strategy: "The Borrower has adopted, through its
Council of Ministers, a comprehensive strategy acceptable to the Association to revive the coffee
andtea sub-sectors, as described inparagraphs 35 and 37 ofthe LDP."

27.     Background: The coffee sector, and to a lesser extent the tea sector, has been in decline
due to conflict and mismanagement. Burundian coffee, which formerly commanded a premium
on world markets, in recent years has been sold at a discount. The government paid out $11
million in 2004 to cover guarantees it had made to the banks for them to lend to the parastatal
processing and marketing organizations (SOGESTALs), at same time as SOGESTALS
marketing margins were swollen by a policy which forced producers to receive a price less than
two-thirds of which producers can receive (albeit illegally) from foreign traders. A study financed
by the EU's STABEX found that nearly half of this loss was due to financial charges, most of
which are attributable to inefficiency in the SOGESTALS and in the coffee auction facility,
OCIBU. This i s evidence of the inefficiency o f the marketing sector, and the fiscal cost that this
inefficient marketingi s creating.

28.     In the area of agriculture and rural development, the LDP notes (Para 34) "while the
cause of falling production, particularly in the 1990's are intimately associated with the conflict



                                                  8

context which causes massive displacement of persons, and other exogenous shocks such as
drought, some o f the causes are more structural and relate to institutional setting characterized by
constant government intervention particularly in the coffee and tea export sub-sectors." It
continues "the Transitional Government strategy to revive agricultural production and diversify
the sources o f income is based on a number of measures, including actions to revive output inthe
country's traditional export sectors (coffee, tea, cotton, quinquina) with attention both to volume
and to quality (Para 35). The proposed ERC will support the government's efforts to revive the
tea and coffee sub-sectors through elaboration of a comprehensive strategy that promotes
increased participation o f private sector operators. (Para 37). The outcome benchmark for reform
i s "Adoption by cabinet o f a comprehensive strategy developed in consultation with the
stakeholders to revive the coffee and tea sub-sectors.'' Despite the risk of a populist political
backlash, the Borrower decided to reform the sector and disengage the State, while exposing the
sector to market incentives for producers and intermediaries to improve efficiency and quality.

29.      Action taken: Assisted by technical assistance studies prepared by STABEX and IDA, a
Coffee Sector Strategy and Action Plan was prepared by the Borrower's authorities. This was
debated and passed by the Council of Ministers as described in the minutes o f its meeting o f
October 28, 2004. This policy calls for immediate liberalization o f entry into the sector at all
stages o f purchasing, marketing, processing and exporting; liberalization of purchasing and
pricing as o f the 2005-6 season; governance reforms o f the coffee auction house OCIBU to
reduce holding o f coffee stocks, to facilitate smallholder transactions and to enhance quality
differences in the auction process; and disengagement o f the State through privatization at
auction of individual coffee washing stations and then the SOGESTALs. While adopting this
policy, the Borrower expressed grave concern about possible negative impacts on poor
smallholder producers during the first season of liberalization, and has requested support from
the EU and IDA for necessary accompanying measures, should they be necessary. Bank Staff is
preparing assistance to the Borrower, with technical assistance and a possible future credit, if
required to provide the necessary transitional safety net to poor producers while intermediaries
adapt to market forces.

30.      The Council at the same meetingadopted a plan and calendar for disengagement of the
State from the tea subsector, with the instructions to the Ministry o f Agriculture to prepare an
action plan for the next monthly meeting. The tea sector i s already largely privatized, and
represents only one-twentieth the export revenue generated by the coffee sector. The documents
are listed inparagraph 37(b). The staff, having reviewedthese documents for the coffee and tea
reforms, considers that this conditionhas beenmet satisfactorily.

3 1,    Condition3 -Publicprocurement:"The Borrower has adopted, through its Council o f
Ministers, an action plan acceptable to the Association on the reform o f the public procurement
administration, as described inparagraph 42 o fthe LDP."

32.     Background: The Borrower's program inthe area o f public expenditure management and
governance includes efforts to (i)strengthen the budget process with the introduction o f the
MTEF; (ii)  improve the prioritization of the budget inline with the PRSP; (iii)   strengthenpublic
procurement administration, (iv) establish an Office o f Auditor General, (v) strengthen
institutional capacity in macroeconomic management, (v) establish a system for monitoring the



                                                  9

flows o f government's resources and expenditures, and (v) implement a public expenditure
tracking study to monitor the flows of public spending to facilities; and create an independent
audit office (Cow des Comptes) to fight fraud and corruption.

33.       Action taken: The Borrower's authorities requestedtechnical assistance from the Bank to
strengthen the public procurement administration, to support the reform of the public
procurement administration which i s essential to strengthen the competitive aspect o f public
procurement procedures, and increase the efficiency inpublic expenditure allocations. An IDA-
financed project - Burundi Economic Management Support Project (EMSP) approved in April
2004 - i s providing capacity enhancement to addressthe shortcomings. The documents presented
by the Borrower are listed in paragraph 37(c). It is the staffs view that this condition has been
met satisfactorily.

34.      Condition 4 - Governance: "The Borrower has adopted, through its Council o f
Ministers, and submitted to the National Assembly, a draft legislation acceptable to the
Association for the creation of an Office o f the Auditor General responsible for auditing the
Borrower's financial operations, as described inparagraph 43 of the LDP."

35.      Background: The Arusha peace Accord emphasizes governance and accountability inthe
management o f public resources, and the promotion o f inclusion. A number o f measures to
improve governance have already been taken by the Borrower's authorities to strengthenpublic
expenditure management. However, audits and ex-post controls systems were not implemented
systematically. Amelioration of the functions and attributes of the Transitional Parliament have
been substantially improved. The Transition Government also appointed a Minister o f Good
Governance with broad responsibility for accountability inall government operations. The office
o f Auditor General (Cow des Comptes) responding to the Parliament was created in 2003.
However, the status o f Magistrates was not provided for inthe initial legislation, which required
rectification. In its October 28, 2004 meeting the Council o f Ministers affirmed an Action Plan
(while recognizing that it is not their prerogative to approve or deny the plan, as the Auditor's
Office i s independento f the Administration) to assure it would be operational by early 2005, and
beginto audit the 2004 government accounts.

36.      Action taken: The office of Auditor General (Cow des Comptes) responding to the
Parliament was created in 2003. However, the status o f Magistrates was not provided for in the
initial legislation, which required rectification. The Inspectorate General o f Finance has been
moved to the Ministry o f Good Governance, and an Inspectorate General o f State has been
created within that Ministry. A new internal inspectorate for the Ministry o f Finance i s being
created under IMF guidance. An IDA-financed project - the EMSP referenced in the above
section - i s providing capacity enhancement to address the shortcomings. Inits October 28,2004
meetingthe Council of Ministers confirmedtheir adherenceto an Action Plan(while recognizing
that it is not their prerogative to approve or deny the plan, as the Auditor's Office i s independent
o f the Administration) to assure it would be operational by early 2005, and begin to audit the
2004 government accounts. The documents presented by the Borrower are listed in paragraph
37(d). It i s the staffs findingthat this condition has been satisfactorily met.

37.      The following documents have beenprovidedinsupport ofthe above actions:



                                                   10

Gender Policv andAction Plan:

   (i)    Republic o f Burundi, Ministry of Social Action and Promotion o f Women
          (nd). Lapolitique nationale genre (Thenationalgender policy).

   (ii)   Republic o f Burundi, Office of the President, General Secretariat o f the
          Government (September 2003 with cover letter dated 20 Oct 2003).
          Compte rendu de la reunion ordinaire du Conseil des ministres tenue le
          mardi 30 septembre 2003 (Minutes o f the regular meeting o f the Council
          o f Ministers held Tuesday September 30,2003).

Reformo f the Coffee and Tea Subsectors: IDA has received a package consisting of :
          Council of Ministers, Compte Rendu No 26/2004, Reunion ordinaire du
          Conseil des Ministres du vendredi 28 octobre 2004. (Minutes No.
          26/2004, meetingo fthe Council of Ministers o f Friday October 28, 2004)

          Reforme du Secteur Cafe (nd), (Reform o f the Coffee Sector) short form
          with summary calendar and action plan.

          Strategic de Desengagement de 1'Etat du Secteur Cafe : Actions Court et
          Moyen Terme (nd) (Strategy for Disengagement o f the State from the
          Coffee Sector: Short- and Medium-termActions), long form, with detailed
          calendar and actionplanannex prepared by IDA and STABEX.

          Republic o f Burundi, Ministry of Finance, Office o f Assistance to the
          Management o f STABEX Counterpart Funds, and Ministry o f Good
          Governance, Service Responsible for Public Enterprises. (March 2004).
          Plan de disengagement de 1'Etat des filieres de cultures de rente (cafe, the
          et coton). (Plan for State Disengagement from the Plantation Culture
          Subsectors (Coffee, Tea, Cotton).

Public Procurement
  (9      Republic o f Burundi, Office o f the President o f the Republic, General
          Secretariat o f the Government (August 2004). Compte rendu de la reunion
          ordinaire du Conseil des Ministres tenue le Lundi2 soot 2004. (Minutes o f
          the regular meeting of the Counsel o f Ministers Held Monday August 2,
          2004).

  (ii) Republic of Burundi, Ministryof Finance (August 2004). Projet de
          re'forme des marches publics au Burundi-Plan       d'action de la rdforme,
          Note de pre'sentation. (Proposal for reform o f public procurement in
          Burundi-Action      Planfor the reform, PresentationNote.)

  (iii) World Bank. Projet d'appuie h             la gestion e'conomique (PAGE):
          Description du projet. (Economic Management Support Project (EMSP) :
          Project Description).




                                    11

     (d)    Governance
                (i) Republic of Burundi, Cabinet of the President. Loi No 1/002 du
                         13/03/2004portant cre'ation, missions, organisation et fonctionnement de
                         la Cour des Comptes. (Law No. 1/002 o f 31 March 2004 Concerning the
                         Creation, Mission, Organization and Functioningo f the Cour des Comptes
                         [Auditor General's Office].

38.     All conditions for the release of the Third Tranche of the Economic RehabilitationCredit
have been met. Overall execution of the program is satisfactory. The macroeconomic framework
i s consistent with the objectives o f the program and execution i s satisfactory.

                                          VI.    CONCLUSION

39.     Inview of the overall performance and progress with the implementation of the program
supported by the Credit, and incompliance with the specific conditions of release as described in
Section 2.02 (e) and Schedule 2 o f the Credit Agreement, the Bank has informedthe Borrower of
the availability o f the Third Tranche inthe equivalent o f SDR 10.6 million.




                                                  12

