Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8307
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL
PHOSPHATE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT ENGINEERING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1360-SE)
DECEMBER 29, 1989
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents mav not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
WaShingion. D C 20433
U.S A
Oice ni OiC .cw.Cf.I
December 29. 1989
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Senegal
Phosphate Industry Development Engineering Project (Credit 136C-SE)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled 'Project
Completion Report on Senegal - Phosphate Industry Development Engineering
Project (Credit 1360-SE)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office with Part
II of the report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has
been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a ratricted distribution .nd may be used by rfcipaent only in the perfonmance
of their official duties. Its contenu may no ottlwise be disclsod without World lank authofization.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
SENEGAL
PHOSPHATE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT ENGINEERING PROJECT (CREDIT 1360-SE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface . .........................................................    i
Evaluation Summary  ..............................................                              ii
PART I
1. Project  Identity                  ......................................            1
2.  Background              ............................................                1
3. Project Objectives  and Description  ....................                            2
4. Project Design and Organization  ..... ........... .                                 2
5. Project Implementation ....................                                          3
6. Project Results    ...............................                                   3
7. Project Sustainability ....................                                          4
8. Association Performance  ............................. .                             4
9. Borrower Performance .....................                                           4
10.  Project Relationships  .......                 ..........................           5
11. Consulting Services ......................                               .           5
12.  Prtject Documentation and Data  ..... ........... .                                 5
PART II
Borrowers'  Comments  .......................................                            6
PART III
1. Related Bank Loans  and Credits  ......                  ..................        33
2. Project  Timetable  ..................                  ...................        34
3. Loan Disbursements  ..................                   ..................        35
4.  Project  Implementation  .......                .........................         36
5. Project Costs  and Financing  ...........              ..      ..............      37
6.  Project Results            ...................       ....................         39
7.  Status of Covenants  .................                   ..................       42
8. Use of Bank Resources  .......                 ..........................          43
This document has a rstricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authiodzaton.



i
SENEGAL
PHOSPHATE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT ENGINEERING PROJECT (CREDIT 1360-SE)
PROJECT COtMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Phosphate
Industry Development Engineering Project in Senegal, for which Credit 160-SE
in the amount of USS 7.7 million was approved on May 10, 1983. The credit was
closed on March 31, 1988. US$ 0.04 million of the credit amount was cancelled
and t:he last disbursement was on September 28, 1988.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Industry and Energy Operations
Division of the Africa Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I
and III) and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Association's final
supervision mission of the project in July 1988, and is based, inter alia, on
the President's Report; the Credit and Project Agreements; supervision
reports; correspondance between the Association and the Borrower; and internal
Bank memoranda.



- ii -
S E N E G A L
PHOSPHATE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT ENGINEERING PROJECT
(Credit 1360-SE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Evaluation Summary
Objectives
The project was designed mostly to provide new technical information
to improve Senegal's vital phosphate industry. A series of technical studies
were financed to look into ways to increase the amount of saleable materials
recovered from the mining operations. In particular, a pilot plant was to be
built to test the operability of techniques to recover phosphate from slimes
that were being discarded. Although the emphasis was on such technical
matters, one small component was a long term strategic study of the industry.
Implementation Experience
The project was well implemented, and went according to its design
except for small changes to some of the studies which the Association agreed
with. A novel arrangement was made for the implementation in which a special
company was set up to execute the work which was owned by the ultimate
beneficiaries - the two phosphate companies and the government. Two lessons
emerged from the implementation that - with hindsight - would have improved
the project.
One is that expatriate technicians dominated the execution of the
highly sophisticated studies. Although the technology derived from the
studies is now being transformed to and absorbed by the Senegalese operators,
it would have been better to have greater involvement of Senegalese
technicians right from the start. Some sort of human development component
should have been included in the project.
The second lesson is that not enough attention was paid to the
strategic study of the industry which were almost an afterthought. The study
was managed directly by the government which did not have the requisite skills
and experience. Better attention to the long term industry strategy is
essential. It may have helped the industry withstand the trauma it
experienced in the course of the project when the phosphoric acid iaarket
collapsed.
Implementation on the part of the Association was disrupted by the
reorganization and the lack of budget resources when operations in Senegal had
to be concentrated on new credits.



Results
The project was very successful in demonstrating clearly that
phoEphate can be recovered from the slimes, in directing future technical work
to increase phosphate recovery elsewhere, and in dealing with the problem of
cadmium removal. So successful was the slimes recovery pilot plant that it is
to be douLled in capacity with IDA financing.
Sustainabilitv
The project was not specifically designed to be sustainable. It was
thought of more as a shot-in-the-arm to assist the industry at a critical
point in its development. Tnis is a pity, as Senegalese phosphate development
will need outside assistance for some time to come before it is fully
self-sustaining and IDA should be associated with that assistance. As things
have turned out, IDA remains involved, but in an ad hoc way, responding to
specific requests.  Provision should have been made in the project design for
the follow-up that is inevitable in projects like these.



S E N E G A L
PHOSPHATE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT ENGINEERING PROJECT
(Credit 1360-SE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PREPARED BY THE ASSOCIATION
1. Project Identity
Project Name               Phosphate Industry Development Engineering Project
Credit No.                 Credit 1360-SE
z(VP Unit                  Africa Regional Office
Country                    Senegal
Sector                     Industry
Subsectors                 Mining, Fertilizer
2. Background
(a) Sector Development Objectives
Pnosphate cock mining and processing is Senegal's major industrial
activity and its products, which are almost entirely exported, are the single
biggest earner of foreign exchange. The Project was to carry out a number of
technical studies and trial operations (see list in Part III, para. 6) to find
ways to ir?rove the efficiency of these operations, especially by increasing
the recovery of phosphates from the mined rock. A niajor component was a pilot
plant for the recovery of slimes produced in the process of beneficiating the
rock. The slimes had been discarded up to the time of the Project and their
use would increase the utilization of Senegal's natural resources. Other
studies were to look at the problem of removing cadmium from the phosphate
products, as this impurity is suspected of causing toxicity in the food chain
and is becoming less and less acceptable by phosphate importing countries
particularly in Western Europe, the main market for Senegal. Finally, studies
were to be done on the long term development strategy for the phosphate
industry.
(b) Policy Context
The Project did not include specific requirements for policy guidance



- 2 -
as it was mostly concerned with the investigation and development of specific
technologies. However, the long-term planning component was to provide
general guidance for the future policies for developing the phosphate industry.
(c) Linkages between Project, Sector and Macro Policy Obiectives
Project, sector and macro policies were somewhat inter-linked as the
Project was to provide the indispensable technical base on which to improve
the operation of this vital ecoi'omic and export activity. However, the sector
and policy aspects were regarded as secondary to the technical ones at the
time the project was launched.
3. Project Objectives and Description
The objectives of the Project were to: (i) establish technologies to
maximize the overall efficiency of the phosphate mining and processing
operations in Senegal and (ii) help oriet.. Senegal's development efforts for
exploiting its phosphate resourLes in the most promising direction. The
Project consisted of three components:
(i) processing component to help establish the commercial scale viability
of upgrading the phosphate slimes currently rejected by the mine into
feed material for a phosphoric acid plant that was to be built. This
component was executed in two phases, with the major second phase
works carried out after the first phase had confirmed their
techno-economic justification;
(ii) mining/beneficiation component to help optimize the long-term
phosphate recovery of the mining and beneficiation operations, taking
into account the future phosphoric acid and phosphate fertilizer
production capacity; and
(iii)  planning component to help define an overall integrated long-term
development plan for exploiting Senegal's phosphate resources.
4. Project Design and Organization
The Project was well designed and organized as a result of extensive
discussion among the three sponsors - the mining company, CSPT; 1/ the
phosphoric acid and fertilizer company, ICS; 1/ and the Government - and the
Association during preparation. An innovative approach was used in having the
three sponsors create a new commercial entity - Promophos 1/ - to execute the
Project, and in having Promophos give the technical management of the Project
to EMC, a capable French company which is one of the main shareholders of
ICS. 1/ The autonomy and technical competence of Promophos ensured the sound
and timely execution of the Project, which was itself timely and of the
appropriate scope and scale.
1/  CS"T  -  Compagnie Senagalaise des Phosphates de Taiba
EMC   -  Enterprises Miniere et Chemique
ICS   -  Industries Chemiques du Senegal
PROMOPHOS - Societe de Promotion des Phosphates du Senegal.



One drawback of :he design is that most of the management and
operation of the Project was heavily in the hands of senior expatriate
technicians, and as a result there was little technology transfer during the
Project to the Senegalese staff of the sponsors. By now however, all the
technologies developed by the Project have been transfered to Senegal.
In retrospect, another problem of the Project design is that it paid
insufficient attention to the overall strategies for developing the industry,
and perhaps too much to solving technical problems. Management of the strategy
plan was left to the government which did not have the depth of technical and
sector expertise to give it the same attention as EMC was able to give to the
technical aspects.
5.  Project Implementation
There were practically no variances between the planned and actual
project implementation, except for some minor changes in the scope of the
studies, which became clearly needed as the Project developed, and which were
fully supported by the Association. The project risks were carefully and
correctly assessed, in that the most costly part - the installation of the
slimes recovery pilot plant - was done step-by-step with a thorough analysis
of the situation between steps.
During project implementation major changes occurred in the global
phosphate market and the price of phosphoric acid dropped considerably. This
cauged ICS to become practically bankrupt, while CSPT remained in good shape
financially as phosphate rock prices did not decline as sharply. The result
is that the industry is now unbalanced with one healthy and one very sick
company dominating it - something which needs to be corrected before the
industry can develop soundly. This could not have been foreseen at the time
of launching the project, but one of the lesson learned is that more resources
should have been devoted to the overall planning aspects, with more specific
attention to policy and institutional arrangements.
6. Project Results
The Project achieved its specific objectives of proving technologies
to recover the slimes - which now form 10-20% of the feedstock of the
phosphoric acid plant - and to improving recoveries in the beneficiation plant
at the mine. But as indicated above, it fell short of meeting the broader
objective, namely the preparation of the intellectual basis for sound future
development of Senegal's phosphate industry. In a sense, the priority
objectives for the sector changed during Project implementation from
improvement of technologies to survival and growth in the erratic
international fertilizer business. Again, this could not have been
anticipated, but perhaps room should have been left in the design for a degree
of flexibility to adapt the Project to changing needs.
Despite this shortcoming - which can easily be corrected by a
suitable, low-cost follow-on project - the Project had positive impacts on
macro and sectoral growth and policies as it has demonstrated sound
technologies to recover more of the phosphate, and to overcome the cadmium
problem. There were also positive impacts on human resource development and



-4-
the technological environment as the technologies developed are slowly being
absorbed in Senegal, and on the physical environment because of decreased
slimes disposal and increasing water recovery. The Project had little or no
direct impact on the social environment and national and local institutions.
7. Project Sustainability
The Project as defined had a fixed term and has been closed. However
consideration is being given to replicate it in soae form. The idea is both
to carry on the vital technical studies that are always needed in these types
of operations, and to find ways to move more determined!.v into the policy and
institutional areas.  Serious proposals have been made to the Association by
all three sponsors of Promophos for a follow-on project. For the moment, IDA
cannot entertain such ideas given the other priorities in its lending programs
- which stress seeking solutions to the macro-economic and financial problems
of the country - and the limited staff and financial resouzces available.
8.  Association Performance
The Association performed well during Project preparation and
appraisal, and played the leading role in establishing the sound project
design. The early parts of supervison also went smou hly, dealing well with
:.t-! slight changes in project scope. The last part of supervision was upset
- . by the 1987 Bank re-organization which caused disruptive staff changes
and diluted responsibilities, and because what little remained of the staff
resources was concentrated on new lending. Largely as a result, the
Association now has little direct association with the vital Senegalese
phosphate industry.
There is perhaps little that the Association could do in the
circumstances, but there is a lesson to be learned. While the macro- problems
of IDA client countries must receive priority, vital productive sectors cannot
be neglected, and suificient staff and budget resources must be allocated to
assure their growth and good health. -t is not too late to reverse the poor
position of the Association in the Senegalese phosphate industry.
9. Borrower Performance
The ultimate Borrowers were Promophos, CSPT and ICS and their
performance was good at all stages of the project cycle, and especially that
of Promophos during Project implementation. Deployment of staff and
consultants went well. The chief weakness of the borrowers, and especially
ICS - as indicated above - was their tendency to keep most of implementation
at the technical level and in the hands of expatriate technicians. The
Government might have asserted itself more forcibly in this regard, especially
as it is a shareholder in Promophos and in CSPT and ICS.
The two lessons to be learned are that more direct participation of
Senegalese staff should have been provided for in the Project design and
execution possibly by including a human resource development component and
that more institutional and policy work should have been included in the
Project design.



10. Project Relationship
The Association-Borrower relationship was generally good throughout
the Project. There was a remarkable degree of cooperation and mutual
development during Project preparation. The relationship deteriorated
somewhat at the latter stages of the Project when the external disruptions
referred to earlier occurred. The forward momentum was lost as
responsibilites and priorities changed.
The relationships of the Association and the Borrower with others
were also generally good - although those with the Government were somewhat
peripheral and could have been screngthened.
11. Consulting Services
Consultants played a major role in the Project, carrying out most of
the studies, providing technical support for the trial operations of new
technologies, and executing the overall strategy plan for the industry.
Generally they performed well, meeting cost and schedule targets, and
producing the expected results. Th.is in turr. was largely due to the tight
Project management exercised by Promophos. The lesson to be learned is that
consultants perform well when the task they have to do is well defined and
properly managed.
There is some justified criticism that the overall strategy plan was
rather thin and overly general. However, this part of the work was managed
directly by the Government which was lacking in staff resources to adequately
plan and supervise the work, and the budget was relatively meager.
12 Project Documentation and Data
The legal agreements and Staff Appraisal Report appear to have
provided a good framework for dealing with the Project during implementation.
Their major strength is that they rightly anticipated the logic of the steps
to be taken, and that they allowed for changes to take place. For instance
the legal agreements are proving useful in settling a small dispute which has
arisen after Project closing.
Data for the PCR was available, although unnecessary digging was
needed, especially to get some of the quantifiable data - such as the
cummulative disbursements and the staff resources needed. It would help in
the preparation of the PCR if the data required for Part III and that for
supervision missions were identical and were kept up-to-date in one place on
the MIS.



-6-                                                j
S E N E G A L 
PHOSPHATE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT ENGINEERING PROJECT                         N
(Credit 1360-SE)                                         I
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART II: PREPARED BY THE BORROWER
The following report was prepared by the Borrower in July 1988 as
activities under the Project came to a close. As the Project was mainly for a
Technical Assistance most of the report is descriptive. However, the part
that deals with the slimes recovery pilot plant is an analytical from both an
engineering and economic point of view.
The Association agrees with the views expressed in this report.
rm



PROMOPHOS
Senegal Phosphates Promotion Company
Limited Liability Company with a capital of 1,500,000 F CFA
Headquarters: Residence Seydou Nourou Tall - DAKAR
The World Bank
1818 H St.,
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States
our ref. IK/HL 88-25
your ref.                                            13 July 1988
To the attention of Mr. Jean Francois BAUER
Industry & Eneray Division - Sahel Dept.
Africa Region
Credit Seneaal No. 1360 - SK / Proiect Comnletion Report
Dear Sir,
As per the project agreement signed between the World Bank and
PROMOPHOS, I.C.S. at C.S.P.T. on 29 June 1983, PROMOPHOS must
provide the Bank with a report analyzing the results of studies
and tests carried out in Senegal on the phosphate subsidiary.
Attached are three reports of activities covering parts A, B and
C of the project.
We hope the Bank finds this data satisfactory; please contact us
if you need further information.
Moreover, we expect to finish the second stage of development for
Taiba slimes recovery as part of a new agreement which we have
called "PROMOPHOS 2".
We maintain that release of funds which would enable Senegal to
considerably increase its phosphate reserves is a matter of great
urgency.
Sincerely,
Manager, PROMOPHOS
Igor Kotlarevsky
/s/
I. Kotlarevsky



- 8 -
Copies of this item dated 13 July 1988 and addressed to the World
Bank will be mailed to:
.M.D.I.A.:          Mr. Famara Ibrahima Sagna, Minister
.World Bank:        Mr. Glenshaw
Mrs. Chassard
Mr. Borin
.D.M.G.:            Mr. Baidy Diene
.I.C.S.:            Mr. Kama
Mr. Peix
.C.S.P.T.:          Mr. Sy, Dakar
Mr. Gabriel, Paris
.S.S.P.T.:          Mr. Ducret, Dakar



-9-
Part A
Analysis of part A of the I.C.S project - PROMOPHOS
Please refer to the terms of article 305 b in the Project
Agreement.
PROMOPHOS, with the assistance of the I.C.S., must - by 30 June
1987 or on any other date acceptable to the Association - supply
the lender and the Association with a detailed report analyzing
the results of studies and tests carried out in part A of the
project, and making recommendations for investment in a sludge
recovery industrial organization.
The Association accepted that this report would be provided on 30
June 1988. Part A of the project would comprise the following
chapters:
I/ Laboratory tests on extraction of cadmium from
phosphoric acid.
-    II/ Laboratory studies and tests  for:
* a) selecting the optimum microhydrocyclone;
* b) producing phosphoric acid from slimes;
* c) determining the characteristics of recovered
slimes;
* d) finishing the plans for the quarter-scale pilot
plant.
-    III/ Carrying out the studies scheduled in section 3.05
of the project agreement.
-    IV/ Construct and operate the '/4-scale pilot plant.



- 10 -
Part A
Chapter 1.  Tests for extraction of cadmium from phosphoric acid
The I.C.S. carried out four studies with the WARREN SPRING
Research Laboratory under the British Ministry of Industry.
*    1/ The first contract No. CR 2059 (MB) was signed on 7 July
1983.
It provided for laboratory studies of different current
procedures for extracting cadmium from phosphoric acid.
*    2/ The second contract No. CR 2645 (ME) dated 31 July 1984
called for studying the three procedures which would be most
effective in the preceding report.
3/ Contract CR 2800 (MM) dated 24 April 1985 provided for
all-laboratory development in full detail of the procedure chosen
as agreed with the WARREN SPRING Laboratory.
4/ Finally, contract CR 2941 (MM) dated 19 May 1988
optimized a procedure for extracting cadmium from Taiba
phosphoric acid which appeared to be simple and inexpensive and
which would make it possible to extract 99% of the cadmium
present in the acid.



- 11 -
PART A
CHAPTERS II AND III
LABORATORY STUDIES AND TESTS ON SELECTING A PROCEDURE
AND EOUIPMENT FOR RECOVERING PHOSPHATE IN TAIBA SLIMES
These sections were the subject of a special report sent 20
March 1985 to the World Bank.



- 12 -
PART A                                      j
CHAPTER IV                                    I
CONSTRUCTION AND OPERATION OF THE 1/4 SCALE PILOT PLANT              I
I
A report was drawn up by the I.C.S. and is appended.



- 13 -
BALANCE SHEET FOR THE 20 T/H PILOT PLANT AFTER 6 MONTHS OF
OPERATION
1. General results
The results for the mnnths of October and November are of
great importance and can serve as a diagnostic base for
studying the slimes plant.
Table 1 summarizes the group of results, the main values for
which are reported below:
October        November
Hours the plant was in operation   461.2 h          535.3 h
Tonnage processed                   43134 t         54227 t
% P205                         22.38 %         22.08 %
Tonnage produced                    7420 t          10356 t
% P205                         28.56 %         28.54 %
% feral                        5.70 %          6.11 %
% SiO2                         17.16 %         17.69 %
Tonnage P205
Added to the reactor                2119 t          2955 t
Restoration of water
in CSPT in 1/m3                     332 1/m3        396.3 l/m3
Consumption of flocculent
(g/t effluent)                      80.8 g/t        64.7 g/t
___________________
(*) in liters of water recovered per m3 of raw sludge pulp at 120
g/l supplied by the sludge predensifier.



- 14 -
Table 1: Results from the sludge factory
Tabeau I 1           Tonnage   Volume pulpe  Volume eau    Coac. ODbis traites  P2            Ie2°   A1201   leral   Si&
_ _ _~~~ ~ _5_                                                           . 
Octobre (461.2 h) I
Alimentation  ',
preepaississeur        43 134     719 234        704 333       60      93,6  1I59.S
Retour eau tSPT 3                                419 667                       910
doknt
excidentIl20 g1i                                * 60 050
Alim. uwineJ           43 854    299 367         284 686      144      93,6    650    22.)l   3,51   3,96      9,47   24,87
(359 610)                    120
Concentre schlamms      7 420      10 446          7 587      731      16,1     22    28,36   2,12   3,58      5,70   17,16
tIP205 5            (2 119)                                          4,6
Eau recbur CSPT 6                                 59 236              129.0
Effluents 17          35 734     230 163         217 843      1355,3   77,     499    21,10   3,80   6,45      10,25   26,47
Rendements            17.1996    80,82 g/t        332 Ilml.                           21,93   10,4 % 10,3 91  10,35   11,9 %
de Ilocula    h 120 8g
Novembre (533,3 1)
Alimentation ,
prasisseur            SO 827    913 783         894 877        60    102,4   1707
Retour eau CSPT 3                               463 619                        866
dont
excdernt/120 gSl                                  6 nt8
Alim. usine 4         34 827    430 164         431 258       121,8  102,4    841   28,08   3,30   7,08    10,58   24,92
(456 892)                    (120)
Concentre schfamms   10 336       13 103         9 532        790,4   19,35    24,5  28,54   2,10   3,97       6,11   17,69
5      (2 935)
Eau retour CSPT                                174 347                        325,7
Effluents q7          44 471     262 714       247 379        169,3   83,05   490,1  20,57   3,82   7,80      11,62   26,60
Rendements 6          I8,9 9S     64,74 g/t      396,3
de Iloculant   I/ll' i 120g                          24,41   11,55  10,)V    10.91   13,41
[KMy to Table 1 on following page]



- 15 -
Key to table 1 on previous page:
(A) Tonnage, t
iB) pulp volume, m3
water volume, m3
(D) concentration g/l
(E) processing rates in t/h and m3/h
(F) FeAl.
(1) October (461.2 h)
(2) Pre-thickener supply;
(3)  CSPT water return, of which
surplus/120 g/l
(4) Plant supply
(5) Slimes concentrate
t/P205
(6) CSPT water return
(7) Effluents
(8) Yields
(9) November (535.3 h)
(10) of flocculent.
(11) at
2. Evolution of plant oReration
2.1. Pre-October 1987 Reriod
Operation of the plant was greatly disrupted:
- <by the lack of qualified operators (operation at two
stations, only 5 days a week);
-    by numerous technical problems, largely involving
operation of CSPT and ICS facilities, and in the sludge
plant, due to problems with electricity and disposal of
effluents.
2.2. Post-October 1987, the plant has been operating regularly at
full capacity under the following conditions:
2.21. Pre-thickener
over the first 6 months of operation, we encountered two
types of incidents, the consequences of which could have been
serious:
-    Several times, the device was fed over the weekend, at
which times there were rather long periods of ICS
inoperation, without corresponding extraction, simply
by using the air passage circuit.



- 16-                                       j
By overconcentration of the dumped material (up to 200           U
g/l), the operators spent over 4 days unblocking the
network of pumps that pump the slimes up and along to
the plant, pushing the operational limits of the air
passage circuit. We should note that prolonged
inactivity of extraction will cause supply to the
thickener to stop under current conditions. In
particular, during planned ICS stops in January and
April 1988, the pre-thickener had to be purged
beforehand for a week before turning on the air passage
circuit.
-    Through lack of surveillance, and after an accidental
switch of the drainage pumps into manual mode, the
predensifier overflowed at night on all its boundaries
for roughly an hour. The safety instructions were
reviewed by those in charge of the thickener.
-    observations made in the area where the densifier was
experiencing the leakage:
During modification of the turbidimeter wash water
circuit, a trench 75 cm deep was made along pre-
thickener elements 37 to 40. The bottom of the pit was
dry to the right of the turbidimeter and slightly moist
across from elements 37 and 38.
The leakages observed during provisional acceptance
have not progressed any farther, and the moisture spots
on the concrete walls have disappeared.
2.2. Factory
Up to 1 December 1987, the factory's administrator was Mr.
S. Gaye, who analyzed its operation.
In addition to his notes, the following observations were
made:
Procedure:
Monthly analysis (October and November) reveals that the
factory achieved the overall results described in Table 1.
Unfortunately, it was not possible to do a granulometric
test of cyclone operation, since analyses turned out to be
difficult to use (Fig. 1 and Fig. 2). An examination of the
results will be made in collaboration with the company which
manufactured the granulometric measuring device.



- 17 -
Regular analyses have been made by elutriation and confirmed
a significant deviation between the results of the two
methods.
For the level of production attained to date, no influence
was observed on performance of the phosphoric acid plant.
Figure 1 shows the contradictory results of granulometric
measurements made. The automatic granulometer tended to
give rougher analyses of the supply, and more precise
analyses of the concentrate, than the corresponding
measurements using elutriation.
Figure 1 - Granulometric test analyses
(1) sludge plant supply by automatic granulometry
(2) sludge concentrate by automatic granulometry
(3) sludge plant supply by elutriation
(4) sludge concentrate by elutriation
..;E   ........  _
-C. ~    F 
I  .1+I  .N-                               A f ./;-_
I~~~~~~~ .                             -.. ''-'{-'
o i . .     _1._ __ 20 -       'top
,   .    ,      s~~~~~ 4 , *  .     20   30  Lop5 



- 18 -
Figure 2 shows all curves obtained for the month of October.
Partition curve (6) compiled from analyses (2) (plant
supply) and (3) (concentrate produced) reveals that there is
no limit, which was invalidated by the analysis of the
contents of raw sludge (Table 2): to obtain a content of
28.5 percent in October, it had to be cut off above 10
microns.
Partition curve (7) is compiled from analysis of the
reconstituted supply (5) based on the month's analyses for
effluents and concentrate.
The d50 value is on the order of 16 microns, and overall
imperfection on the order of 0.47.
Lacking a more reliable value, we estimate that these
results give a good idea of the current limits of the plant.
FiQure 2 - Overall cranulometric analyses - month of October
1987
(1) analysis of the monthly concentrate of CSPT raw sludge
by elutriation (see Table 2).
(2) average analysis, plant supply      )
(3) average analysis of the             ) by automatic
concentrate                         ) granulometry
(4) average analysis of the effluents )
(5) reconstituted supply based on (3) and (4)
(6) partition curve based on (2) and (3)
(7) partition curve based on (5) and (3)
a



- 19 -
iJs _  ~~J2' '  |    | , |  _ _ _   |  _L-1  -   _30
_________________ _  N' 1 -   -       7-- -   -i
,~~~~~~~~~ .                             frl  7-_        it 
. S 1 ! t ~~~~~~- iX'_-r-.                              --
i_ _               .     ~     -   P:                                         ~- '1  - ':~ 
I  i  ; - 1 1aw g ~~                         ~        --   r' --'"  
L   a           2
%    |% cum.        %        % cumn.     %       % cum.    %       |% cum.
40 Pr    l,71               23,60      23,60      6,73                26,93
3V40 p     2,29      4,00      26,06     23,01       6,90      6,83     21,39      23.76
28132 t    0,90      4,90      30,93     26,10       4,70      6,44     l2,00      21,60
20/28 I    6,39    11,29       30,46     28,37       3,42      5,86     14,47      17,36
14/20"     8,$41    19,70     239        27,*2      6196       6,33     18,59      18,00
l1014 J    7,79    27,49      2;,W7      26,90      7,71       6,72     20,80      L 979
- 1"    72,3 L                18,93      21,12      9,60      81 1      29,0S     26,23
Table 2:  Analysis of the monthly composite obtained by CSPT  in
October  1987
Improvements planned:
Two factors which will contribute to improving the results in the
future:



- 20 -
-    the "deposit factor": in the months to come, an
increase in the content of extracted mineral is
expected by CSPT.
On the sludge level, this will mean an increase in P.O.
and a simultaneous decrease in SiO2; feral will not 'Je
affected at all by these changes. This increase in
content should entail an additional P205 boost of 13%;
-    the "limit factor" can be decreased by adjusting tie
parameters of the cyclones. This manipulation, wh-ch
would be slight, would be dealt with in instructiois
provided by the MDPA addressed to the ICS. But it
would only be attempted if the first factor could be
improve-d.
2.23   Decanting
This area was studied thoroughly. Currently, the study is
made easier due to the following:
-    greater power installed to push along effluents to the
tanks;
-    and especially better use of flocculent; consumption of
flocculent was reduced to less than 50 g/t since we
began to use the product recommended by MDPA, that is,
product A130 by the Cyanamid Company.
It is possible that effluents could be densified to 130 g/l,
which would require an immediate modification of the
supernatant water drainage circuits.
It must be possible to drain at the following maximum rates:
+ supply             1100 m3/h pulp at 115 g/l (126.5 t/h)
+ make-up water      15 m3/h
- concentrate        31 m3/h pulp at 700 g/l         (21.5 t/h)
- effluents          585 m3/h pulp at 180 g/l        (105 t/h)
= drained water      499 m3/h water
Equipment such as it is can discharge only 400 m3/h for CSPT.
(Note that the user is already diluting the concentrate to make
its transfer to the phosphoric acid plant easier).
At basin 6, residual water can no longer be drained since CSPT
failed in its attempt to put the "spillway" into ser-vice near
passage 77.
The water is trapped for the moment at the end of the basin,
and it may be possible eventually to try and recover it.



- 21 -
PART B
Analysis of part B of the Droiect
Part B of the project deals with making use of the Taiba deposit
and originally consisted in:
-    extracting cadmium from phosphate.
-    studies and tests to improve recovery of P205 and
operation of the plant.
-    installation of equipment for taking samples and for
instrumentation,
-.   drilling and analysis of sludge in the deposit.
-    recovery tests of sludge in the old basins.
-    laboratory studies to enrich the sludge with other
procedures.
=    feasibility studies on the above points.
This program was subsequently partially redirected with your
agreement and now includes the following chapters:
--   -    removal of cadmium from the phosphate.
II   -    improvement of P205 recovery on granular
particles.
III  -    mathematical modelling of mineral preparation
operations, and microprocessor simulation program.
IV   -    drainage of the cleaning yard at the mine.
V    -    improvement of water recycling at the plant.



- 22-
PART B
CHAPTER I
Removal of cadmium from phosphate
The C.S.P.T., before the project, paid to have data retrieval
done and preliminary studies made by the Office of Geological and
Mine Research of France (B.R.G.M.). They showed that cadmium
contained in the Taiba phosphate is mostly linked to the
crystalline network of apatite, and that thermal treatment would
enable it to be extracted at least in part from this network.
As part of this project, C.S.P.T. carried out the following work:
1)   Calcination tests at the laboratory stage, by the
FIVES-CAIL-BABCOCK (F.C.B.) in France and F.L. SMIDTH
in Denmark.
2)   Calcination tests on a loop and on a mini-pilot plant
by F.C.B.
3)   A physicochemical study of samples calcinated by the
Center for Study and Research of Industrial Minerals
(CERMI) of the NEYRTEC company in France.
4)   Comparative tests on continuous manufacture of raw and
calcinated phosphoric acid from phosphates, carried out
by CERMI.
5)   Comparative tests on concentration of acids (raw and
calcinated) carried out by CERMI.
All these studies and tests were the subject of a summary report
(GD/CC-86/111) which we will provide on request.



- 23 -
PART B
CHAPTER II
Improvement of PM20 recovery on granulated particles
This study had three sections:
1)   Gravimetric Drocessing tests, to obtain a preconcentration
of granulated particles. These tests, carried out by the
VEDAQ company from the K.H.D. Group in Germany, were not
successful.
2)   Film flotation tests.  This procedure is used successfully
by certain phosphate specialists in Florida. The B.R.G.M.
performed a series of tests for C.S.P.T. at the laboratory
and at the pilot plant. They revealed the effectiveness of
the procedure on Taiba phosphate, but the sensitive nature
of the procedure made it less favorable than the one studied
in the third section. The B.R.G.M. produced two reports:
85 DAN 020 MIN and 85 SEN 059 MIN. We will provide them o.
request.
3)   Flotation tests with a column using the FLOTAIRE machine.
The American engineering company ZELLARS WILLIAMS, member of
the JACOBS ENGINEERING group, carried out a study on this
relatively new technique--which is becoming more and more
popular in mining industry--for the C.S.P.T. at in their
research station in Florida. After a series of preliminary
tests on laboratory machines, two series of tests at the
plant revealed that the flotation column made it possible to
obtain better flotation yields no matter what the
granulometric cross section, but even more notably so in
coarse grains. These results convinced the C.S.P.T. that
installation of an experimental water stream system at the
Taiba plant and the preliminary study for definition of this
experimental system has just been begun. ZELLARS WILLIAMS
reports describing tests carried out to date, and the
results of these tests, are available upon request.



- 24 -
PART B
CHAPTER III
Mathematic modellinQ of mineral Dreparation operations
and simulation grogram
The design of a processing plant, particularly in the details of
the flow chart and machinery adjustments, does not remain the
same throughout the operating life and a semipermanent
arrangement is necessary in order to accommodate economic and
technical variations. This adaptation requires that frequent
choices be made, with considerable financial investment which
results from long stages of consideration and costly industrial
tests which are difficult to interpret.  Simulation helps                   -
engineers to make choices and enables the cost to be reduced.
Work carried out by teams from C.S.P.T. and B.R.G.M. comprised
three successive stages:
-    modelling various operations which take place in the
workshop for mechanical preparation of the mineral
after flotation.
-    developing the first model of a simulator for this
workshop, to operate using a VAX minicomputer.
-    building a microversion for PC compatibles.
Use of this software after its development enables the operator
to:
-    classify devices into different operating
configurations;
-    devise a strategy for optimum use of facilities;
-    define new flow-charts.
Over 70 simulations have been carried out since 1988, making it
possible to evaluate a number of lay-outs for the workshop for
different supply rates; this would give the operator better
knowledge of the procedures and operation of the workshop and
enable him to evaluate possible future modifications.
A general description of this work was presented by the C.S.P.T.
and the B.R.G.M. to the Mineral Industry Congress of 1987. The
document is available upon request.



- 25 -
PART B
CHAPTER IV
Drainaae of the cleanina yard
Drainage of the cleaning yard led the C.S.P.T. to begin a
hydrogeological study of the entire surrounding area.
This study was assigned to a French engineering consulting
agency, BURGEAP. It had to be supported with drilling tests
carried out by the Senegalese company SONAFOR. The study was
concluded with an evaluation of the various procedures which
could be used to drain the yard. The one which was chosen as the
most effective was drilling to lower the ground water around the
bed.  This drilling was done by the Senegalese company
S.A.S.I.F., three times in May 1988. The first results are
positive, but it would be premature to draw definite conclusions
from them at present.



- 26 -
PART B
CHAPTER V
ImDroving water recycling at the plant
To increase the proportion of water recycled at the plant, a
decision was made to build a third, bottom scraped settler on the
sludge discharge circuit. The mechanism of this settler was
ordered from the VENCO FRANCE company, French representative of
the American group, and manufactured in Italy by a subsidiary of
the FINCO group.
This mechanism is currently stored on site at Taiba.



- 27 -
PART C
ANALYSIS OF PART C OF THE PROJECT
Part C of the project consists in the following:
1/ Analysis and consultation of existing studies on the MATAM and
THIES deposits.
2/ Preliminary laboratory study and enrichment tests on Matam
phosphate, and determination of P205 content as a function of
mineral granulometry.
3/ Analysis and enrichment tests and tests on manufacturing
phosphoric acid from phosphate found in the Thies deposit.
4/ Preparation of a long term development plan for the phosphate
reserves of Senegal.



- 28 -
PART es
CHAPTER I
ANALYSIS AND CONSULTATION OF EXISTING STUDIES ON
MATAM AND THIES DEPOSITS
A/ MATAM
The contract C/10/FM signed on 27 February 1988 between the                 7'
Government of the Republic of Senegal (D.M.G., Mines and Geology
Administration) and the French Office for Mine and Geological
Research (B.R.G.M.) called for:
a)   a geostatistical study of the Matam deposit;
b)   heavily representative sampling;
c)   an industrially-oriented mineralogical study of dry
stage enrichment with preparation of the concentrates
for phosphoric acid manufacturing tests.
All these studies were described in report 88 SEN 027 dated
February 1988, which is available upon request.
B/ THIES
Nothing has been done on the Thies deposit.



- 29 -
PART C
CHAPTER II
ENRICHMENT TESTS ON MATAM PHOSPHATE
This study is included in the B.R.G.M. report mentioned
previously in Chapter I (section 1).
WA



- 30 -
PART C
CHAPTER III
ANALYZING TESTS ON MANUFACTURING PHOSPHORIC
ACID FROM THIES PHOSPHATE
Nothing has been done in this area.
I
I
I



- 31 -
PART C
CHAPTER IV
PREPARATION OF ,A-LONG TERM DEVELOPMENT PLAN FOR
THE PfOSPHATE INDUSTRY IN SENEGAL
A contract to study optimization of the phosphate industry in
Senegal was signed between the Mines and Geology Administration
and the SEMA METRA CONSEIL company in early 1987.
The final report was submitted in March 1988.
It is available upon request.



- 32 -
1'
r-
CONCLUSIONS ON PART C OF THE CONTRACT
1/ Matam deposit
Now there is enough information on the Matam deposit to carry out
a complete development study.
We recommend that this study be done quickly.
In sum, the Matam deposit has relatively large and good quality
reserves which would be well suited to direct application and
manufacture of phosphoric acid.
Moreover, Matam phosphate contains no cadmium, or very little.
Unfortunately, the bed deposit the disadvantage that it is
located roughly 700 miles from the sea and the port of Dakar.
However, there are possibilities for local use in the new
irrigated lands created by the damming of the Senegal River.
2/ Thies deposit
Although there are no recent studies available on Thies
phosphates, we believe that there is potential for this
phosphate, either for the I.C.S. to manufacture phosphoric acid
or phosphate fertilizers, or for export.
Regarding Phospal (calcinated aluminum phosphate), there are also
considerable possibilities for Senegal since a similar phosphate
operation in the Christmas Islands may very likely soon be shut
down.
We recommend that studies be done on this subject.
3/ Phosphate Rlan for Seneaal
The first studies carried out by the SEMA-METRA CONSEIL company
show that available data on the phosphate reserves of Senegal are
not enough to be able to develop a long term policy.
We recommend therefore that more funds be made available to the
Government of Senegal to make the appropriate in-depth studies,
possibly as part of a research and drilling program to determine
the actual extent of krnown deposits.



- 33 -
S E N E G A L
PHOSPHATE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT ENGINEERIN'G PROJECT
(Credit 1360-SE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
U
PART III: PREPARED BY THE ASSOCIATION
1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Loan Title:   Senegal - SEFICS Rail Transport Project (Loan 2025-SE)
Purpose   :  Establish a private railway operating company to carry inputs to
and outputs from the phosphoric acid plant of ICS.
Year of   :   1981
Approval
Status    :  Complete.  Loan closed.  PCR done.
Comments  :   The Project was successful in establishing an efficient railway
transportation system for the plant and in setting up an
alternative form of railway operation which has helped to spur
the state company to greater efficiency.
IFC           Industrie Chemique du Senegal
Investment
Purpose   :   Part of the financing for the company that built the phosphoric
acid plant and improved fertilizer production.
Year of   :   1982
Approval
Status    :   Soon after it was launched ICS got into considerable financial
difficulties - like most phosphoric acid manufacturers - because
of poor market conditions. A financial restructuring was done in
1986 in which IFC participated.
Comments  :  Despite the financial problems, the Project has done well
technically and in the current up-market is in a position to
improve its finanical condition.



- 34 -
2. Proiect Timetable
Date           Date              Date
Item                         Planned         P.Zvised           Actual
Identification                   na              na               02/82
Preparation                      na              na               02/82
Appraisal Mission                 na             na               06/82
Loan/Credit Negotiations      10/82              na               03/83
Board Approval                12/82              na            05/10/83
Loan/Credit Signature            na              na            06/29/83
- Loan/Credit Effectiveness    09/83             na            02/13/84
Loan/Credit Closing        03/31/88              na            03/31/88
Loan/Credit Completion    06/30/87               na            06/30/88
Comments:    The original Project timetable was slightly optimistic,
especially regarding the internal Bank procedures which resulted
in Board approval being five months later than planned. The
completion was about 12 months later than planned. These delays
are not significant, and did not cause any problems.



- 35 -
3. Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$m)
1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988   Cancelled   Total
Approx. Est.      0.3      2.3     4.6      6.9     7.7      -          -        7.7
Actual            -        -       0.39    1.26    6.47    7.65        0.04      7.7
As % of Est.      -        -        8        18      84       -          -       100
Date of final disbursement: 09/28/88



- 36 -
4. Proiect Implementation
The two major indicators of project implementation were:
(a) Completion of the many studies financed under the Project.
Changes in the scope and nature of the studies specified at the time
of appraisal were agreed to by the Association. All studies were
completed with generally satisfactory results (see 6. Project
Results).
(b) Successful operation of the slimes recovery pilot plant.
The slimes pilot plant was completed in a timely and satisfactory
manner. Its size was doubled in agreement with the Association
because the design work showed that it was likely to be quite
successful. The plant is now operating well.



5. Protect Costs and Financing
A. Project costs
Aepraisal Estimate                Revised Estimate                         Actual
Local        Foreign              Local      Foreign                Local      Foreign
Item                Costs   Exchange Costs   Total  Costs  Exchange Costs  Total   Cost   Exchanae Costs  Total
(US$ M)                          (US$ M)                            (USS M)
Processing Component         na            na          7.3      -           -            -       -            -           7.3
Mining/Beneficiation
Component                   na            lea         2.0      -           -            -       -            -           2.0
Planning Component           -             -           0.3      -           -            -       -            -           0.3
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --_  - -_ _- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
TOTAL                   1.9           7.7          9.6                                                                9.6
Comments:  No major changes were made to the budget for the Project.  Strict budget and cost control was
maintained throughout the Project.  As a result, the Project cost and financing remained
stable throughout the life of the Project.
UM



- 38 -
B. Project Financing
Planned
(Credit Agreement)       Revised            Final
Source              (US$'000)        (US$'000)    b    (US$O000)   %   Comments
IBRD/IDA
Processing
Component                  5.7             -         -         5.7    59
Mining/Beneficiation
Component                  1.7             -         -         1.7    18
Planning Component          0.3             -         -        0.3      3
Total                   7.7             -        -         7.7    80
Co-Financing
Institutions                0               -         -        0        -
Other External
Sources                     0               -         -         0
Domestic                    -               -         -         -
Processing
Component                  1.6             -         -         1.6    17
Mining/Beneficiation
Component                  0.3             -         -        0.3      3
Total                   1.9             -        -         1.9    20
TOTAL                  9.6                                 9.6   100
Comments:   No major changes were made to the budget for the Project.  Strict
budget and cost control was maintained throughout the Project. As
a result, the Project cost and financing remained stable
throughout the life of the Project.



- 39 -
6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
The studies were successfully completed and the slimes pilot plant
was built and is operating.
B. Economic Impacts
There were no measurable economic impacts.
C.  Financial Impacts
There were no measurable financial impacts.
D. Studies
The results of the various studies performed under the project were
as follows :
Processing Component
First phase
(1)  Cadmium removal from phosphoric acid.
Four research/study contracts were executed by the Warren Springs
laboratory of the UK Department of Industry which showed that a
simple and low cost process could be developed to remove 99% of the
cadmium from the phosphoric acid. It is not yet clear how economic
it would be to install the process in Senegal.
(2)  Studies and laboratory trials to choose the process and the equiDment
for the recovery of phosphate from the slimes of the Taiba mine.
The studies and trials were completed in 1985 and clearly indicated
the process and equipment that would be most suitable.
(3)  Engineering of a slimes recovery pilot plant.
The engineering was done on the basis of the above results.As a
result of the successful pre-engineering work, it was decided to
double the size of the pilot plant from 10 tph to 20 tph, or from 1/4
full size to 1/2 full size.



- 40                                                  1
Second Phase
(1) Construction of pilot plant.
Completed.
(2) Test Operation of pilot plant.
Completed.  Achieved smooth operation by late 1987.
Mining/Beneficiation Component
This component originally was to consist of seven studies, namely:
(1) extraction of cadmium from phosphate rock;
(2) studies and trials to improve recovery of P205 and the utilization
factor of the plant;                                                              N
(3) installation of sampling and control equipment;
(4)  drilling and analysis of slimes in the slimes dam;
(5) trials to recover discarded slimes;
(6) trials to enrich the slimes;
(7) studies to establish the feasibility of using the above results.
With the agreement of the Association, this component was slightly
reoriented to the following studies and trial operations:
(1) Removal of cadmium from phosphate rock.
The results of calcination tests and physico-chemical studies on the
rock, and of production of acid from the treated rock were not
encouraging, but provided basic scientific knowledge of the
parameters of removing cadmium, which may be useful in the future.
(2)  Improvement of recovery of P205 from coarse particles.
Gravimetric, skin flotation and column flotation methods were tried,               *
and the latter was encouraging to the point that CSPT plans to build
a pilot plant.
(3)  Mathematical modeling of the beneficiation process.
This has been successful and CSPT engineers now have operating models
on PCs both at the mine site and at the Paris technical office. The
models have been successfully used to simulate proposed changes in
the benficiation circuits.



- 41 -
(4) Studies to dewater the overburden removal system.
This was successful, and a method of drilling wells on the edges of
the ore body has proven effective. As a follow-up, CSPT plans to
model the water table mathematically to save time and money in these
operations.
(5) Improvement of recycling water in the plant.
Studies showed that a third thickiner was required. The credit
financed the studies and also the purchase of the mechanical parts of
the thickiner which now await installation.
PlanninR Component
(1) Evaluation of other phosphate deposits at Matam and Thies.
The Matam studies were successfully completed. They showed that this
cadmium-free material could be used, but was unlikely to be
economically exploitable due to the high capital cost of the
infrastructure that would be required. No work was done on the Thies
deposit as this did not appear to offer any near term chance of
success.
(2) Long term strategic plan for phosphate development.
The report was completed in March 1988. and proved to be a good - if
broad - document summarizing the state of the industry and its
prospects in the very unsure future of global phosphate developments.



- 42 -
7. Status of Covenants
All the covenants of the credit agreement and of the subsidiary loan
agreements were complied with - generally on time and without difficulty.
Disputes that arose were settled amicably after exchanges of views.



- 43 -
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle                                          SW
Preparation and Appraisal                                   17.9
Negotiations                                                 3.4
Board Approval and General                                  12.7
Subtotal                                              33.7
Supervision                                                 31.8
PCR                                                          2.0
PAD                                                          3.3
Subtotal                                              37.1
T O T A L                                             70.8
Comments:   The Project has been quite low in its demand of staff inputs.
This is largely due to the sound management of the Project by the
Project sponsors, the good reporting by the Project management to
the Association, and the generally problem-free execution of the
Project.
The staff time was well balanced between launching the Project -
preparation, negotiations and Board approval - and supervision.



S. Mission Summarv
Month/     No. of       Days in                             Performance
Activitv            Year        Persons      Fiel _      Speciali2ation         Ratina           Comments
Pre-
Identification      1/78            2           2       Sheldrick (FAd)              n.a.       Projects identified (i) for IFC financing to produce
Quan      (FA)                         phosphoric acid and (ii) for Bank/IOA in infrastructure
and possible TA.
Identification      12/81           2           4       Larroque  (FA)               n.a.       Project identified for phosphate slimes recovery on a
Sheldrick (FAd)                        pilot plant basis.
Preparation         4/82            3           6        De Raet   (LO)               n.a.      Project prepared for Phosphate Industry Development
Larroque  (FA)                         Engineering mainly geared to slimes recovery. and
Sheldrick (FAd)                        a long-term strategy.
Appraisal           6/82            6           5        de Raet   (LO)               n.a.      This Project appraised with 3 components - Processing.
J. Cape   (CONS)                       Mining/Beneficiation. and Planning - at cost of
Hendriks  (ME)                         US$9.6 m to be executed by SENPHOS (later PROMOPHOS)
Larroque  (FA)                         a new entity created by the Government and the 2
Sheldrick (FAd)                        main phosphate companies.
Vuylsteke (LEG)
Supervision         10/84           2           4        El Daher  (FA)               1         Project proceeding well - disbursements lagging a little.
Sheldrick (FAd)
Supervision         12/85           1           3        El Daher (FA)                1         Project going well - but phosphoric acid component
doing badly financially because of slump in the market
slimes pilot plant to be doubled.
Supervision         3/86            1           6        El Daher (FA)                1         Slimes plant on schedule despite doubling - phosphoric
acid is being financially restructured - scope of some
studies altered. Planning studies started.
Supervision         2/88            4           5       Borin (PIS)                             Project almost complete and satisfactory but serious
Chassard-Manibog (FA)        1         concern for long term competetivity of the phosphate
Geli                                    industry because of imbalanced structure.
Kaps (Res. Mission)
Supervision         8/88            1           5       Glenshaw (SCE)                1         Project complete and satisfactory - sponsors ask for
an extension and other WB/IOA assistance but further
direct intervention is ruled out.
FA  =  Financial Analyst             LEG  =  Lawyer                                      ME      Mining Engineer
FAd =  Fertilizer Adviser            PIS  =  Principal Industrial Specialist
LO  =  Loan Officer                  SCE  =  Senior Chemical Engineer
June 1989
4 89P



