Document of                           F LE  PY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3489-SE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 7.1 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR A
PHOSPHATE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT ENGINEERING PROJECT
April 18, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit          =       CFA Franc (CFAF)
Calendar 1982
US$ 1.0                =       CFAF 340
CFAF 1 million         =       US$2,940
The CFA Franc is pegged to the French Franc at the fixed rate of CFAF 1.00 =
FF 0.02 and floats vis-a-vis the US dollar.
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Senegal          July 1 - June 30
CSPT and ICS                   January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BRGM         Bureau de Recherches Geologiques et Minieres
CPSP         Caisse de Perequation et de Stabilisation des Prix
CSPT         Compagnie Senegalaise des Phosphates de Taiba
EFF          Extended Fund Facility
EMC          Entreprise Miniere et Chimique
ICS          Industries Chimiques du Senegal
MDPA         Mines de Potasse d'Alsace
OMVS         Organisation Pour la Mise en Valeur de Fleuve Senegal
ONCAD        Office National de Cooperation et d'Assistance au
Developpement
SEFICS       Societe d'Exploitation Ferroviaire des Industries Chimiques
du Senegal
PROMOPHOS    Societe de Promotion des Phosphates du Senegal
SIES         Societe Industrielle d'Engrais au Senegal
SOFISEDIT    Societe Financiere Senegalaise pour le Developpement de
l'Industrie et du Tourisme
SONAR        Societe Nationale d'Approvisionnement du Monde Rural
P205         Phosphoric Pentoxide - Nutrient Element in Phosphatic
Fertilizers
tpy          Metric tons per year
tpd          Metric tons per day
tph          Metric tons per hour



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PHOSPHATE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT ENGINEERING PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of Senegal.
Amount:             SDR 7.1 million (US$7.7 million equivalent).
Terms:              Standard IDA terms.
Beneficiaries:      Government of Senegal, Compagnie Senegalaise des Phosphates
de Taiba (CSPT), and Industries Chimiques du Sen6gal (ICS).
On-lending Terms:  The Government would on-lend US$7.4 million equivalent of
the proceeds of the Credit to the Soci6t6 de Promotion des
Phosphates du Senegal (PROMOPHOS), the promotional company,
which in turn would on-lend US$6.0 million equivalent to
ICS and US$1.4 million equivalent to CSPT to finance the
studies and tests they would undertake under the project
processing and mining/beneficiation components, respec-
tively. ICS and CSPT would reimburse PROMOPHOS, and
PROMOPHOS would, in turn, reimburse the Government on the
following terms:
(i) if the project's studies and tests are not successful
and do not lead to industrial operations, ICS and CSPT
would repay the funds borrowed at 0.75% interest rate
over 20 years including 7 years of grace; and
(ii) if the studies and tests are successful and do lead to
industrial operations, the funds borrowed would be
repaid at 12.7% 1/ interest rate over 15 years
including 3 years of grace, the amortization period
starting when the commercial viability of slimes
recovery is established.
Project Description: The objectives of the project would be to: (i) help
maximize the overall efficiency of the phosphate mining
and processing operations in Senegal and (ii) help orient
Senegal development efforts for exploiting its phosphate
resources in the most promising direction. The project
would consist of three components:
1/   This rate represents the rate at which Bank funds are currently
charged to revenue earnings borrowers (12.1%), plus a risk premium
(0.6%) to compensate the Government for having alleviated the companies'
financial risks in case (i) above.
This document has a-restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
(i) processing component to help establish the commercial
scale viability of upgrading the phosphate slimes
currently rejected by CSPT into feed material for
ICS's phosphoric acid plant. This component would be
executed in two phases, with the major second phase
works to be carried out after the first phase has
confirmed their techno-economic justification;
(ii)  mining/beneficiation component to help optimize the
long-term phosphate recovery of CSPT mining and
beneficiation operations, taking into account ICS's
future phosphoric acid and phosphate fertilizer
production capacity; and
(iii)  planning component to help define an overall
integrated long-term development plan for exploiting
Senegal's phosphate resources.
Project Risks:      The major risk facing the proposed engineering project
would be that, were the studies to conclude that a full-
scale slime recovery plant is not technically and
economically justified, the investments made in the
project's processing component would not be recovered.
This risk is considered minimal and is further minimized by
executing the processing component in two phases, and by
initiating the investments in the slime recovery pilot
plant only after preliminary feasibility studies are
completed and show satisfactory results.



- iii -
Estimated Cost:    The estimated cost of the project, exclusive of taxes a/,
is as follows:
Foreign      Local   Total
--( Us$  million)…
Processing Component
Studies and Tests                  0.5         0.1    0.6
Slimes Recovery Pilot Plant        4.1         1.0    5.1
Mining/Beneficiation Component
Studies and Tests                  0.7         0.1    0.8
Phosphate Recovery from
Stockpiled Slimes                  0.3         0.3    0.6
Planning Component
Studies and Tests                  0.2          -      0.2
Base Cost Estimate              5.8         1.5    7.3
Physical Contingencies                   0.6         0.2    0.8
Price Escalation                         1.3         0.2    1.5
TOTAL PROJECT COST                 7.7         1.9    9.6
Financing Plan:                           Foreign      Local   Total
-------(US$ million)-----
IDA                                7.7 b/        -    7.7
ICS                                  -         1.3    1.3
CSPT                                 -         0.6    0.6
Total                              7.7         1.9    9.6
Estimated Disbursements:       IDA  FY      1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
Annual                                  0.3    2.0    2.3       2.3    0.8
Cumulative                              0.3    2.3    4.6       6.9    7.7
Rate of Return:             Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:   None
Map:                        None
a/   The Government has confirmed that the project is exempt from taxes.
b/   Includes the refinancing of an advance of US$800,000 equivalent
from the Project Preparation Facility.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT OF
SDR 7.1 MILLION TO THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL FOR
A PHOSPHATE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT ENGINEERING PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Devel-
opment Credit to the Republic of Senegal SDR 7.1 million (US$7.7 million equi-
valent) to help finance a Phosphate Industry Development Engineering Project.
The Credit would be on standard IDA terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       A report entitled "The Economic Trends and Prospects of Senegal"
(1720a-SE) was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 10, 1980,
followed by a President's Report for a Structural Adjustment Loan/Credit
(P-2869a-SE) dated November 26, 1980, which contained an expanded section
on the economic situation. Since approval of the Structural Adjustment
Loan/Credit, a series of supervision missions have visited the country to
monitor execution of the program. The following paragraphs reflect the
conclusions of those missions.  Country data appear in Annex I.
Economic Structure and Past Developments
3.       Three-quarters of Senegal's territory lies in the Sahel zone, which
suffers from low rainfall and periodic droughts. The mainstays of the tradi-
tional economy are millet cultivation and nomadic cattle-raising for domestic
consumption, and groundnut cultivation for exports. The modern sector of the
economy is concentrated in Dakar, the capital, a city of about one million in-
habitants, the economic base of which consists of excellent port facilities,
an important industrial sector, and a small but fast-growing tourism indus-
try. With a population of 5.8 million in mid-1981, Senegal's per capita GNP
for 1981 was estimated at US$500.
4.       During the 1960s, the Senegalese economy experienced virtual stagna-
tion as real output increased at a rate estimated at 2.7% per annum, hardly
more than the rate of population growth. With Independence, Senegal lost its
privileged position as the center of French West Africa, and subsequently had
to adapt to its reduced economic, administrative, and political circumst-
ances. Moreover, during the latter part of the decade, income from groundnuts
(the principal export) fell, due to unfavorable weather and declining export
prices.
1/   The text of this Section remains substantially unchanged from that
included in the President's Report for the Petroleum Exploration Project
distributed to the Executive Directors on January 18, 1983.



5.       In the 1970s, Senegal's narrow-based export sector was again hit by
sharp fluctuations, and even with higher rates of both private and public in-
vestment, average annual growth did not rise above the level of the previous
decade. After recovery from the earlier droughts, real GDP increased at about
5% a year between 1973 and 1977, but declined by 2% a year between 1977 and
1981, reflecting the effect of three severe droughts during this period. A
marked recovery from the previous depression occurred in 1982 with an esti-
mated 10.5 percent real growth in GDP. Results of the 1982/83 agricultural
season have been good, leading to an expected 4.5 percent growth in GDP in
1983.
6.       The large fluctuations in physical production were aggravated by the
price movements of Senegal's major exports and imports. For example, in 1974,
the terms of trade improved by over 21% due to exceptionally high prices for
phosphate rock, Senegal's second export commodity; however, in 1975, export
prices for groundnuts declined sharply, followed by a drop in export prices
for phosphates in 1976. Increases in oil and rice prices brought a further
deterioration in the terms of trade, causing a total loss in income of roughly
6% of GDP between 1974 and 1982. This deterioration in terms of trade, along
with the unsatisfactory performance of the economy as a whole, led the Govern-
ment to launch an economic and financial stabilization program in 1980. This
program was extensively discussed with the Bank and the Fund, and was the
basis for an agreement on the purchase of US$243 million equivalent under an
Extended Fund Facility (EFF) approved by the IMF in August 1980, and a US$60
million Structural Adjustment Loan/Credit (SAL) approved by the Bank on
December 18, 1980.  The main objectives of the Government five-year program
were to stabilize the economy and public finances during the first two years,
and then achieve an economic growth rate of 4% per annum in the following
three years.
Execution of the Structural Adjustment Program
7.       The structural adjustment program had a slow start as a result of the
change in Government in January 1981, a record low 1980/81 groundnut crop and
steep increases in the price of imported rice. The new Government reaffirmed
the general objectives of the program, but during its first year in office
chose to focus on the economic and financial crisis caused by the drought.
Some of the measures and policies adopted by the new Government contradicted
the objectives of economic stabilization and structural reform undertaken by
the previous Government, and the agreed calendar for execution of the SAL
program was not fully respected (paras. 9-16).  In early 1981, the IMF
suspended Senegal's access to the EFF, replacing it later in the year with a
Standby Arrangement to help the Government overcome its severe short-term
financial difficulties. Although considerable progress has been made by the
Government since 1981, only the first tranche of the SAL (US$40 million), has
been disbursed to date. The Bank has withheld release of the SAL second
tranche of about US$16 million, pending implementation of a renegotiated
action program in the agricultural sector. The closing date for the SAL is
June 30, 1983.



-3-
Balance of Payments
8.       The new balance of payments policies introduced under the rehabili-
tation program were based on strict control of overall demand through tax and
consumer price increases, combined with increases in the prices paid for the
major export crops and the introduction of special incentives for manufactured
exports (para. 9). However, the targeted reduction in the resource gap could
not be achieved, mainly due to the 1980/81 drought and organizational problems
in the agricultural sector. The fall in groundnut product exports from a past
five-year average of US$220 million to US$94 million in 1980 and US$34 million
in 1981, together with exceptionally high import bills for petroleum, rice,
and oil seeds, increased the resource gap in 1981 to US$523 million, or about
22% of GDP.  In 1980 and 1981, the Government received exceptional aid from
bilateral and multilateral donors, averaging US$170 million a year.  This was,
however, insufficient to avoid a further fall in net foreign assets, from
US$78 million in 1980 to a level of negative US$463 million by the end of
1981. This was subsequently financed by the IMF for an amount of US$148 mil-
lion. For 1982, the resource gap is estimated at 18% of GDP and is forecast
at about 15% for 1983. The good rainfall during the 1981/82 growing season
permitted a fivefold increase in the 1982 value of groundnut exports, despite
exceptionally low world market prices for vegetable oils. However, the value
of imports rose by about 15% despite the introduction of measures to contain
urban demand (para. 11). With total imports for 1983 still projected at about
45% of GDP (as compared to around 30% in the early 1970's), further economic
adjustment needs to be achieved in the coming years, mainly through con-
tainment of urban consumption levels, food import substitution and strong
promotion of exports.
Producer and Export Incentives
9.       The structural adjustment program laid the basis for further
improving the country's balance of payments by supporting an export premium
system on certain manufactured goods. The export premium system has already
significantly increased export and employment levels in the sectors to which
it was applied (para. 31). An extension to 18 other agricultural and indus-
trial branches, as well as a considerable refinement of the system, will be
implemented during the current fiscal year. In February 1982, with a 31%
increase in the official consumer price for imported rice, the Government also
effectively completed the introduction of a 15% general import duty. More
frequent price adjustments for rice will be required to reflect changes in
import costs, mainly related to the realignment of franc zone currencies.
Senegal has begun to make serious efforts to improve its competitive position
in industry and servicesby limiting wage increases to substantially below
those of the urban cost of living index.
Public Finances
10.      The first budget (1980/81) under the new financial and economic
policies respected the 15% public savings target set under the structural
adjustment program. However, the economic depression drastically reduced tax
receipts, particularly on corporate profits and luxury imports. On the
expenditures side, under pressure of growing unemployment among graduates, the



-4-
Government did not succeed in restraining civil service growth.  Moreover, the
price stabilization fund started to generate vast losses, mainly on supporting
producer prices and input subsidies in the groundnut subsector. The severe
deviations from the budget estimates put tremendous strain on the Treasury,
and the Government's inability to pay its bills threatened the stability of
the entire economy. Whereas the Government had always given priority to
payment of its external obligations, in mid-1981 it asked the Paris Club for a
rescheduling of publicly-held foreign debt, and in October 1981 a rescheduling
of US$81 million amortization was agreed upon. During the same month, the
Government also called a donors' conference to assemble the support needed to
finance an exceptionally high proportion of a selected program of investment
projects and rehabilitation activities.
11.      In accordance with the IMF Standby Arrangement, subsidies on basic
food and petroleum products were removed by increasing Government-controlled
consumer prices by betweem 25 and 60%. Other consumer prices were affected by
increases of 1 to 2% points in value-added tax, and 4 to 12 points for taxes
on various services. Government purchases were reduced to an absolute minimum
and the IMF credit ceilings were respected. In fact, by end-June 1982, all
performance criteria established by the IMF had been met. But despite a
reasonably satisfactory fiscal performance, it is unlikely that by 1985 the
Goverrment will be able to finance from its net budgetary savings 25% of its
public investment program, the target that the Government set itself in the
original structural adjustment program. The main reason for this shortcoming
is that debt service will reach 33% of Government receipts in 1982/83 instead
of the 15% projected in 1979, owing to an additional 20% of previously
unregistered debts, debt service on exceptional aid during the drought years,
rescheduled amortization payments, and debt service on the US$265 million debt
of ONCAD (paras. 14-16). Because of these unfavorable public finance pros-
pects, in November 1982 the Government obtained from the Paris Club another
round of debt rescheduling. The Government also agreed with the IMF on the
renewal of the Standby Arrangement, based on a program of further tax in-
creases, reduction in the growth of the civil service and other measures
linked with the SAL program.
Investment Program
12.      The outlook for the national investment program has deteriorated
drastically since the establishment of the structural adjustment program in
1980. While the latter imposed ceilings on the investment program to re-
establish macroeconomic equilibrium, implementation of even the reduced
program has become the main problem. Private investments are stagnating
because of the depressed national economy. Public investment is suffering
from financing problems because the country is uncreditworthy for commercial
loans, domestic credit is constrained under IMF ceilings, and, for the next
few years, the budget will not be able to generate an investable surplus. A
positive development is the progress being made on the new parastatal phos-
phoric acid and fertilizer complex based on locally-mined phosphate rock,
whose production is intended largely for export to India and other African
states. Since the Government continues to give priority to projects in
productive sectors, the share of directly productive investment will probably



- 5 -
reach 65% and thus surpass the objective of 55% set in the structural adjust-
ment program. The combined investments of the public and the parapublic sec-
tor will be in the vicinity of the agreed ceiling of 10% of GDP set for this
category.
Parastatal Sector
13.      The Government has made the establishment of "contrats-plan" (program
contracts) with public enterprises an active policy instrument aimed at re-
ducing budgetary support to the companies, increasing the autonomy of their
managements, and allowing these enterprises to achieve their objectives. So
far, the Government has signed or is negotiating eight contracts with public
enterprises, and five more companies are to enter into negotiations this
year. Six program contracts have been financed out of SAL counterpart funds,
mainly in the agriculture and transport sectors.
Agricultural Reforms
14.      At the outset of the economic and financial rehabilitation program in
1979, the problems in the agricultural sector had been vastly underestimated,
both in terms of the size of financial deficits generated, and the strength of
the vested interests supporting existing structures. The liquidation of the
Government-controlled agricultural marketing organization (ONCAD) set in mo-
tion the slow process of sorting out these deficits and building up a national
consensus around the new organizational formulae. Following ONCAD's liquida-
tion, the Government took a major positive step by entrusting, from the
1981/82 campaign, secondary groundnut marketing to oil mills, thus reducing
the number of intermediaries in the marketing.
15.      The heart of the envisaged reform was in the cooperative structure
and credit system, where farmer groups at the village level would collectively
maintain their credit rating and undertake certain tasks such as primary
marketing and storage of groundnut seed. A new law for agricultural
cooperatives that determines the legal status of these farmer groups has
recently been presented to the National Assembly but not yet put into
effect. As for credit, the Government has absorbed the farmers' old seed
debts, considered irrecoverable after the drought years, and announced the
creation of a new agricultural credit organization in which a French
agricultural credit bank has been asked to participate. Tests with the new
system are ongoing in several areas, including a few districts in the Ground-
nut Basin. In the interim, the absence of agricultural credit for the
majority of groundnut farmers would be dealt with by a system of cash sales
for fertilizer and a levy on the groundnut purchase price to finance seeds.
16.      By eliminating the large and cumbersome groundnut marketing agency,
the Government took a major policy initiative. This move was complemented by
a positive step: entrusting secondary groundnut marketing to the oil mills,
thus eliminating the need for intermediaries. Over the same period (1980),
the Government created SONAR, a state enterprise intended to phase out the
Government's direct involvement in the supply of agricultural inputs. Little
progress was achieved, however, under the latter reform, and SONAR is already
showing some of the weaknesses of the former ONCAD. It inherited a good part



-6-
of ONCAD's staff, which was more than required to execute its limited func-
tions. But above all, the Government did not change its seed and fertilizer
policy, despite the inability of both the Government and CPSP to bear the
heavy costs involved. The policy includes: (a) a central and costly scheme of
seed distribution to groundnut farmers, and (b) heavy subsidies (80% of full
cost of CFAF 100-120/kg in 1982/83) on fertilizers. Subsidies on seeds
accounted for one-sixth of the US$70 million losses accumulated last year in
the State's price stabilization fund, CPSP. The Government's inability to
make the required down-payment to the fertilizer factory resulted in minimal
quantity delivered for the 1982/83 season, and, because of the high subsidies,
the private sector could not enter the market for fertilizers. In September
1982, however, under the SAL program, the Government committed itself to
change progressively its seed and fertilizer supply policy. Beginning with
the 1983/84 season, farmers are being encouraged to keep their own groundnut
seeds. Fertilizers are being sold against cash at an average price of CFAF
50/kg, as compared to CFAF 25/kg the previous season. The Government has
further committed itself to submit to the Bank, by July 1983, proposals for
further reducing this subsidy.
Long-term Prospects
17.      The Government's long-range development strategy continues to be
based on the promotion and diversification of agriculture and export-oriented
activities. The agricultural program calls for development of areas less
prone to drought (Casamance and Eastern Senegal) where cash crops other than
groundnuts can be grown. Agricultural research will be oriented more to farm-
ing systems than to individual crops, with the objective of lowering the costs
of yield-raising agricultural techniques and better adapting them to farmers'
constraints. Irrigated cereal production is being developed in the arid nor-
thern part of the country along the Senegal River. Construction has started
on the two large dams planned for the Senegal River by the OMVS, but the high
level of state subsidies required on irrigated rice will force the Government
to pace new irrigation development prudently.
18.      The phosphoric acid project is now well advanced, and the export
premium and realignment of the Franc Zone currencies will, hopefully, attract
more light export industries and tourism once the international economy has
improved. Construction of a ship-repair yard has been completed. However,
these export diversification efforts are unlikely to offset the severely weak-
ened prospects for groundnuts, still Senegal's main export commodity. Ground-
nut oil exports suffer from irregular supplies and from an increased supply of
competing vegetable oils; exports of groundnut cake suffers from the risk of
aflatoxin contamination, which diminishes their value as cattle fodder. As a
consequence, in the next few years, the share of exports in GDP is expected to
remain below the levels attained in the early 1970's.
19.      The Government's economic policies and the exceptional foreign aid
granted to Senegal have helped the country pass through the most difficult
years of its economic history, but these efforts have not been enough to bring
the economy back on a path of balanced growth. The overextended public sec-
tor, as well as the vast arrears and debt service charges, will impose heavy



- 7 -
burdens on the State Treasury, and may create a need for further debt re-
scheduling. The Treasury will not be able to absorb substantial additional
recurrent cost charges from public investment projects, and for a few years,
will need high shares of foreign financing for projects in order to maintain
minimum investment levels. The unfavorable balance of payments situation
calls for a reassessment of Senegal's longer term prospects and the estab-
lishment of a new program of action to achieve the required structural
adjustments. The Bank will focus its country dialogue on these problems and,
in the interim, considerably reduce the IBRD share in the Bank Group blend
financing Senegal receives.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL
20.      As of March 51, 1983, the Bank Group has had 51 operations in Senegal
for a total of US$462.7 million including 26 IDA credits, 12 Bank loans, 5
blends of Bank and IDA funds, 5 IFC operations, 2 blends of Bank and IFC
funds, and one blend of Bank, IDA and IFC funds. Most project lending has
been for agriculture, transportation and education. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank Group operations in Senegal. Physical execution
of projects is progressing reasonably well, although some operations are af-
fected by the shortage of counterpart funds due to the Government's continuing
difficult public finance situation, described in Part I of this report.
Institutional weaknesses in several sectors and a lack of qualified local
staff for key positions constitute serious obstacles to efficient project
implementation.
21.      The Bank's Group strategy for Senegal is to offer financial and
technical assistance in areas where the Government is ready to take necessary
corrective action to: (i) implement investment policies and incentives to
develop and diversify Senegal's production and export base; (ii) increase the
efficiency and savings capacity of the public sector; and (iii) maintain
existing infrastructure. Top priority is given to improving policies in the
agricultural sector where projects can be expected to have a beneficial impact
on economic growth, export earnings, income distribution and rural incomes.
Progress in agriculture, however, is hampered by slow implementation of policy
reforms under the SAL and unsatisfactory performance of several key Government
and parapublic agencies. The Bank is also planning to continue financial and
institutional support through project lending and technical assistance opera-
tions to institutional reforms that would encourage a stronger role for the
private sector, as in the phosphate and petroleum industries.
22.      In agriculture, project lending will continue to promote productivity
improvements for traditional food and cash crops, together with diversifi-
cation into new crops and new regions. This effort has led IDA to finance a
high-priority Agricultural Research Project focussing on agricultural systems
improvements. This should give new impetus to extension services and lead to
a more integrated approach to rural development in semi-arid areas. The Bank
is now preparing a cotton/food crop project for the rainfed Eastern and



-8-
Casamance regions, and is also considering support for a Fourth Irrigation
Project that would rehabilitate and expand existing medium-sized irrigation
perimeters. The feasibility of new activities in the Groundnut Basin depends
on further progress with structural reforms in input distribution, crop
marketing and agricultural credit (paras 15-17).
23.      The Bank Group has also supported diversification of the economy by
lending to the growing industrial sector through the Societe Financiere
S6negalaise pour le Developpement de l'Industrie et du Tourisme (SOFISEDIT),
a development finance company established with Bank assistance in 1974, and
for which a third line of credit was approved in FY81. Also in FY81, the Bank
supported the execution of the ICS phosphoric acid/fertilizer complex by fi-
nancing the rail infrastructure component. The proposed project would help
maximize the efficiency of phosphate mining and processing in Senegal and
assist Senegal in orienting the global development of its phosphate resources
in the most promising direction. Currently, Senegal's economy depends greatly
on oil imports. After the 1973 and 1979 oil crises, the Government embarked
on an active policy of promoting the discovery of new energy resources and
applications of new technology. The Bank supported this new orientation by
approving a Petroleum Exploration Project in February 1983. Diversification
is also being pursued through a tourism infrastructure project which is almost,
completed and which includes a special line of credit to provide long-term
financing as a catalyst for potential private investors.
24.      Bank Group projects have supported economically desirable moderniza-
tion and expansion of the country's infrastructure. But with the stagnant
economy and heavy infrastructure investments in the past, emphasis is now
being given to better utilization and maintenance of existing facilities.
Thus the Bank is now preparing a project designed to support the Government's
policy to preserve the road network through adequate maintenance. Similarly,
the Bank is preparing a project at the Port of Dakar to finance facilities
required to accommodate the increasing container traffic.
25.      While the Bank Group's overall lending strategy responds to the
importance in Senegal of financing directly productive projects, it also
recognizes the need for some assistance to the so-called social sectors.
Project design and preparation have taken due account of the ability of both
the Government and users to bear the recurrent costs involved. In education,
efforts have been directed to technical and vocational training to support
activities in the productive sectors. The Bank Group is now finalizing
preparation of a Regional Management School Project. A possible Fourth
Education Project would focus on reversing the current downward trends in
access to primary education. A Rural Health Project was approved by the Board
in December 1982 and a Water Supply Project in eleven secondary centers has
been appraised and will be submitted to the Board in FY84.
26.      As it became increasingly clear that many of Senegal's economic and
financial problems went beyond the limits of specific subsectors, the Bank
started to shift some of its program toward multi-sectoral technical assist-
ance and structural adjustment lending. A FY78 Technical Assistance Credit to
the Parapublic Sector and a FY81 Structural Adjustment Loan and Credit are



- 9 -
examples of this changing strategy. The SAL aims at supporting the Govern-
ment's efforts to control aggregate demand, redirect its public investment
program and promote industrial exports and other productive activities through
improved price and incentive policies. The local currency counterpart funds
of the SAL are being used for financial rehabilitation of several parapublic
enterprises which have agreed with the Government on comprehensive "contrats-
plan" spelling out their respective objectives and obligations. A proposed
Second Parapublic Project would help consolidate the results already achieved,
and possibly also create a medium-term facility to support rehabilitation of
viable public enterprises. The FY81 Technical Assistance Project for Economic
and Financial Planning is expected to strengthen the Government's capacity to
expedite preparation of selected investment projects, and to identify bottle-
necks in project execution and take remedial action. In addition, substantial
technical assistance is being provided under the Bank's economic and sector
work program, as well as under engineering loans and credits and PPF advances
for project preparation.
27.       Given the need to focus Senegal's public investment program on high-
priority projects and to finance almost all of this program from external
sources, improved donor coordination now assumes increased importance. The
Bank is pursuing its economic dialogue with Senegal in close coordination with
the IMF and with strengthened consultation with bilateral and multilateral
donors. Recognizing the importance of helping Senegal extend its access to
donor assistance, the Bank financed consulting services for preparation of a
donor conference in October 1981, and has been actively participating in
follow-up discussions on policies and investment priorities in specific
sectors.
28.      The Bank Group's share in total external aid disbursements to Senegal
over 1982 stayed at an average of approximately 18%, of which roughly two-
thirds is IDA-financed, largely reflecting disbursements on existing Bank
Group commitments. The Bank Group's share in outstanding disbursed debt was
21% in 1981, and may approach 25% by 1985. The Bank Group's share in public
debt service is expected to increase from 4.3% in 1980 to about 9.5% in 1985.
PART III - THE SECTOR
A. Senegal's Industrial Sector
29.       Since independence, the industrial sector's share of GDP has risen
from 19% to about 24%, giving Senegal a somewhat larger industrial base than
many African countries, consisting principally of the processing of primary
products and the substitution of manufactures imports. Four main activities
constitute the bulk of the output: a) food processing, including oil seed
milling (37% of sales); b) chemicals, including petroleum refining (18%);
c) phosphate mining (15%); and d) textiles (10%). The sector comprises a
small number of large public enterprises, many enterprises of mixed (public
and private) ownership, a number of foreign-owned and medium-sized firms, and
many small Senegalese-owned firms. In terms of employment (30,000 permanent
and 70,000 seasonal jobs) and regional development, the sector's contribution



- 10 -
to economic development is still limited, with 75% of industrial capacity
concentrated in the Dakar area.
30.      Industrial growth has been modest--4.0% per annum.  Although the
sector is fairly vulnerable to world market fluctuations, further growth in
manufacturing is possible via rehabilitation and expansion of existing firms,
new import substitution, and some export-oriented investments. Two branches
especially show promise for productive investment: fishing and fish proces-
sing, and tourism, which now contributes about 25% of non-merchandise
exports. However, industrialization faces several constraints in Senegal: a
low level of investment, high production costs, a limited market, and govern-
ment policies which operate as disincentives in some areas.
31.      During the 1970's, Senegal's philosophy of "guided liberalism" has
resulted in extensive state intervention in the ownership, management and
operations of large firms in key sectors. The Government also invested
heavily in several new large-scale, capital-intensive projects (e.g., Dakar-
Marine, textiles). The tariff and Investment Codes have tended to favor
import substitution and discourage exports and upstream linkages.  The eco-
nomic difficulties of the late 1970's led the Government to reduce direct
interventions in industry and attempt to revive private sector investment.
The 1979 economic rehabilitation program includes several measures for sti-
mulating productive investments. In addition, the Investment Code has been
revised to link benefits to local value added and an export incentive system
has been introduced for textiles, shoes, processed fish, fertilizers and
agricultural implements, which together represent one-third of Senegal's
traditional exports. The investment climate should benefit from this shift
toward private sector, export-oriented and better integrated industrial
development, provided that administrative controls affecting prices, market
share and subsidies are alleviated.
32.      The financial institution, SOFISEDIT, with financial assistance from
the Bank, IFC and bilateral sources, is responsible for promoting and diver-
sifying the manufacturing sector. In 1979, it was designated as the pri-
vileged banking partner for the fishing and fish processing industries, which
have been the fastest growing sector in Senegal since independence, accounting
for about 3% of GDP and 15% of total export receipts. SOFISEDIT also plays a
major role in promoting Senegal's tourism, which is the country's fifth
largest foreign exchange earner 1/. However, SOFISEDIT's performance in
widening and diversifying Senegal's industrial base has been hampered recently
by the difficult economic environment, a deterioration in the quality of its
portfolio and increased operating expenditures. Measures are being taken to
redress this situation.
B. The World Phosphate Industry
33.      Phosphorus is one of the three main plant nutrients--nitrogen,
phosphorus and potash--used extensively to increase agricultural production.
Phosphate fertilizers are derived almost entirely from phosphate rock and
1/   after groundnuts, fishing, petroleum and phosphate rock.



- 11 -
about 90% of all phosphate rock produced is converted into phosphate
fertilizers. The remaining 10% of phosphate rock goes into other phosphate
chemicals such as detergents, insecticides and animal feeds. The paragraphs
which follow discuss the world production, consumption and trade patterns for
phosphate rock and phosphate intermediaries and fertilizers.
Phosphate Rock
34.      In 1981, world phosphate rock production was about 138 million tons
of rock concentrate, with three major countries--the USA (52.2 million tons),
the USSR (25.2 million tons), and Morocco (19.7 million tons)--accounting for
about 70% of world production. About 84 million tons of world rock production
was consumed by the producing countries, while 46 million tons, or 33% of
total production, were traded internationally. It is estimated that in 1981,
the two major exporters, Morocco (15.6 million tons) and the USA (10.5 million
tons) together accounted for 57% of world phosphate rock exports. They were
followed by the USSR, Jordan, Togo, Senegal and other small producers. In
1981, the phosphate markets were negatively affected by the difficult economic
conditions prevailing worldwide. Export demand for rock fell by about 12%,
and phosphate stocks reached record levels. However, given the agricultural
requirements for phosphate fertilizers, total world demand for phosphates is
expected to increase at 4% p.a. over the next decade. With economics in-
creasingly favoring location of phosphate fertilizer production near the
mines, world export trade of rock is expected to grow at a rate of about 2%
psa., whereas intermediate and finished products would grow at 7% p.a.
Phosphoric Acid and Phosphate Fertilizers
35.      About 70% of the world's phosphate fertilizers are produced in the
form of concentrated fertilizers such as triple superphosphate or diammonium
phosphate. Phosphoric acid is the key intermediate product in the manufacture
of these fertilizers. In 1981, the world's installed capacity for phosphoric
acid was 31 million nutrient tons (P205 equivalent). Phosphoric acid produc-
tion in that year was 22.3 million nutrient tons or about 70% of installed
capacity--about 70% of this amount, or 16 million nutrient tons, was consumed
locally. 11%, or 2.4 million nutrient tons, was exported directly as phos-
phoric acid--the USA (0.9 million tons), Morocco (0.6 million tons) and South
Africa (0.2 million tons) together accounted for 68% of the world phosphoric
acid exports--and about 19%, or 3.9 million nutrient tons of phosphoric acid,
was exported in the form of finished products such as diammonium phosphate and
triple superphosphate.
36.      Finished phosphate fertilizers are used mainly in the industrialized
countries of Europe, North America and Oceania, which together account for 83%
of world consumption. World demand for phosphate fertilizers has been static
for the last three years or so, reflecting the depressed state of world agri-
culture. As a result, there was a 3.5 million nutrient tons surplus supply in
1981/82 and phosphate fertilizer prices are currently very depressed (in real
terms, they are at their lowest level in over 20 years). However, as the
world economic situation recovers and fertilizer demand increases, and since
phosphate fertilizers must be used to replace depleted phosphates from the
soil, the growth of world phosphate fertilizer demand, which averaged 6.2%



- 12 -
p.a. over the last 20 years, is expected to resume, albeit at a lower rate
averaging about 4% p.a. over the next 10 years. There will be relatively
little growth in industrialized countries where phosphate utilization levels
are already high, but high growth rates are likely in South America, Asia and
Eastern Europe. Planned increases in capacity could be sufficient to satisfy
demand until 1987. Equilibrium may, however, be reached before then since
rock importing regions like Western Europe may close their smallest and oldest
plants.
World Phosphate Fertilizers Supply/Demand Balance
(in million nutrient tons)
1981/82 a/  1982/83   1984/85   1986/87   1988/89   1990/91
Supply                35.03        36.76     39.30      41.10     41.10 b/  41.10 b/
Demand                31.56        33.46     36.98      39.68     43-52      47-74
Surplus (Deficit)      3.47         3.30      2.32       1.42      (2.42)    (6.64)
a/   Actual.
b/   On the basis of planned projects only.
37.      Demand for phosphate fertilizers is expected to reach 47.7 million
nutrient tons by 1990/91 and there will be a supply shortage unless new
capacity is added. In the strengthened market that will ensue, prices are
likely to increase in real terms. Although there is time to build additional
plants in the mid-1980's to avoid any shortfall, the margin is narrow. After
1987, world phosphate demand, mainly as phosphoric acid-based fertilizers, is
expected to increase by about 1.5 million nutrient tons per year. In order to
meet this growing demand, there will be a need to build the equivalent of 4-5
new large phosphate fertilizer plants each year. Most of these plants will be
built in countries with phosphate rock reserves, with Morocco and the USA
undoubtedly playing a leading role in helping the world to meet its phosphate
requirements. Additional supplies will nevertheless be required from other
sources.
Changing Phosphate Trade Patterns
38.      During the past 20 years, the proportionate share of production of
different phosphate products has changed significantly. Due to improvements
in production process technology and to the increasing cost of freight and
transportation, the relative share of simple low-concentrate products declined
steadily, while the share of high concentration phosphoric acid-based products
increased significantly, accounting for about 70% of total phosphate supply in
1980 as compared with 11% in 1956. This trend is expected to continue and
about 80% of the increase in phosphate consumption between 1980 and 1990 is
likely to be derived from phosphoric acid.



- 13 -
39.      Until a few years ago, phosphate fertilizer trade originated almost
entirely from producers in industrialized countries which, with exception of
the USA, imported phosphate rock at relatively low prices and processed it
into phosphoric acid and finished fertilizers. Following rapid increases in
phosphate rock prices and freight rates, and the introduction of new tech-
nology improvements which make possible the economical processing of low-grade
rock near the rock beneficiation plant, it is now increasingly difficult for
importers of rock to produce phosphoric acid that can compete with acid
produced in vertically integrated operations near the mines. Accordingly,
most new plants, particularly export-oriented facilities, are likely to be
built near phosphate mines. As a result, demand in the export markets for
phosphoric acid and processed fertilizers is expected to increase at a much
higher rate over the next decade than that for rock exports (para. 34).
Industry sources forecast that by 1985 phosphate intermediates will comprise
about 33% of the total phosphate trade as compared to 8% in 1967 and 25% in
1979.
C. Phosphate Industry in Senegal
Phosphate Reserves
40.      Senegal's known phosphate reserves are estimated at about 100 million
tons of concentrate, in two major locations: first, 80 million tons at Taiba,
100 km north of Dakar, in two deposits (25 million tons at the Keur Mor Fall
deposit which is currently being exploited, and 55 million tons at the nearby
Tobene deposit); and second, about 20 million tons in a newly discovered
deposit at Matam, 700 km east of Dakar. While they are inherently difficult
to mine, the Taiba deposits contain calcium phosphates of high quality with
standard properties. The Matam deposit is also of high quality and, although
it is remote and would require large infrastructure investments, it could in
the long term offer interesting opportunities for rock export or local
processing into phosphoric acid.
41.      Senegal also has about 100 million ton of calcium aluminum phosphate
reserves near Thies (80 km northeast of Dakar) which have been mined since the
1950's.  Being unsuitable for phosphoric acid production under standard
processes, this calcium aluminum phosphate has been calcined and marketed as a
top dressing fertilizer to substitute for basic slag. Due to the limited
market for this type of phosphate material, however, operations at These have
been constrained, with sales of only about 300,000 tons phosphate rock
equivalent in 1980.
Phosphate Mining and Beneficiating
42.      High quality calcium phosphate deposits were discovered at Taiba in
1948, and the Compagnie Senegalaise des Phosphates de Taiba (CSPT) was formed
in 1957 to exploit them. Operations began in 1960, when CSPT opened a mine
with an installed capacity equivalent to 600,000 tpy of concentrate. Fol-
lowing a major expansion in 1965 and subsequent additions, capacity now stands
at 2.0 million tpy.  CSPT is currently mining the Keur Mor Fall deposit which
has a limited remaining life (15 years at current mining rate). Its produc-
tion in 1981 was 1.9 million tons of concentrate (about 1% of world rock



- 14 -
production), but, with the depressed rock market condition worldwide (para.
34), its exports reached only 1.2 million tons (about 3% of world exports).
This represented a decline when compared with exports of 1.4 million tons in
1980 and 1.6 million tons in 1979. About 72% of CSPT 1981 exports went to
Western Europe, principally France and the Netherlands, 8% to Eastern Europe,
the Middle East and Africa, and 20% to South and East Asia.  These sales of
phosphate rock are an important source of Senegal's foreign exchange earnings,
as they accounted for about 10% of its export revenues in 1980/81.
43.      Originally a joint venture of French and American companies, CSPT was
reorganized in 1975 when the State of Senegal purchased a 50% share of
the company's capital. The company is now owned as follows: the State of
Senegal--50%; Coframines, a subsidiary of the French mining company Bureau de
Recherches Geologiques et Minieres (BRGM)--16%; International Minerals and
Chemical Corp., an American company--11%; the Nouvelle Compagnie Financiere
pour l'Outre-Mer, a French financial institution--8%; and other French
financial and indutrial institutions--15%. CSPT currently has about 1,300
staff members, of whom 98% are Senegalese. CSPT's management is experienced
and competent, and rock mining, beneficiating and marketing operations are
successfully carried out, despite inherently difficult mining conditions.
44.      CSPT's assets totalled US$79.3 million in 1981 and it had a debt to
equity ratio of 30:70 in that year. In spite of the relatively low export
volume in that year (para. 42), sales reached US$60.1 million and profits
after taxes were US$2.6 million. This was due both to the premium that Taiba
rock commands on the export markets (it has one of the world's highest P205
content) and to the favorable US$/CFAF exchange rate (phosphate rock sales are
transacted in US$ while CSPT production costs are mainly incurred in CFAF).
As phosphate rock demand recovers from its presently depressed condition, and
as local demand for rock dramatically increases with the opening in 1984 of
the large phosphoric acid plant now under construction at Taiba (paras. 46-
47), CSPT sales are expected to recover and approach 2 million tpy, the
company's production capacity.
Phosphate Processing
45.      Small-scale phosphoric acid and phosphate fertiliz-er production has
been undertaken in Senegal since 1969 by the Soci6te Industrielle d'Engrais du
Senegal (SIES) at its 30,000 tpy phosphoric acid and 120,000 tpy compound
fertilizer plants at M'Bao, near Dakar. Preparation for local large-scale
manufacture of phosphoric acid and phosphate fertilizer began in 1976 with the
creation of Industries Chimiques du Sen6gal (ICS), under Government leader-
ship. ICS was to promote and later undertake a project designed to produce
phosphate fertilizers for export. In 1978, the Senegalese Government re-
quested IFC to take the leadership in promoting the project and assembling a
financial package with other major bilateral and multilateral aid agencies, in
addition to ICS shareholders. At the same time, the Government and IFC sought
the Bank's technical and financial assistance for heavy infrastructure invest-
ments related to the industrial complex. In view of the Bank's knowledge and
intervention in the Senegal railways, the Bank concentrated its efforts on the
rail transport component of the project, thereby pursuing two major objec-
tives: first, assisting the creation of an industrial complex which could



- 15 -
diversify Senegal's secondary sector, and second, helping streamline Senegal's
poor railways operations, by the creation of a subsidiary of ICS and of
Senegal Railways--the Societe d'Exloitation Ferroviaire des Industries
Chimiques du S6n6gal (SEFICS)--thus ensuring the efficient and reliable trans-
port of all input and output materials required for ICS operations.
46.      The Bank Group involvement in promoting and shaping the final tech-
nical design and financial package of the ICS complex led to the approval by
the Executive Directors in June 1981 of a US$25 million IFC loan (IFC Invest-
ment 584-SE of September 30, 1981) to ICS to help finance the industrial
complex and of a US$19.3 million Bank loan (IBRD Loan 2025-SE of September 30,
1981) to SEFICS to help finance the rail equipment and track works required to
transport the 800,000 tpa of materials required for ICS operations. Condi-
tions prior to the initial disbursement of the IFC loan, and as a corollary of
the Bank's and other lenders' loans (in application of cross-effectiveness
clauses) have been met. A full description of the ICS and SEFICS projects may
be found in IFC Staff Appraisal Report No. IFC/T369 and in IBRD President's
Report No.P-3038a-SE.
47.      The ICS project consists of (i) a 800 tpd phosphoric acid plant with
a 1,900 tpd sulfuric acid plant located at Taiba next to CSPT's mine; (ii) a
672 tpd DAP/MAP (or 912 tpd TSP) granulation plant located at M'Bao next to
the SIES plant (!CS and SIES are to merge shortly); and (iii) port facilities
with input/output storage and handling facilities located at the port of Dakar
and at M'Bao.  The SEFICS project consists of the railroad facilities (track
and rail equipment) necessary to transport ICS's raw materials and products.
48.      The ICS project is anticipated to begin commercial production by
October 1984 and total costs are now estimated at US$196.5 million, with 36.5%
financed by equity and 63.5% by debt. ICS equity will total CFAF 24.4 billion
or US$71.8 million equivalent, and is to be held as follows: the Government of
Senegal (23.0%); a group of Indian fertilizer companies (18.9%); Entreprise
Miniere et Chimique (EMC), the French technical partner of ICS (9.4%); the
State of Cameroon (9.4%); the State of the Ivory Coast (9.4%); the Islamic
Development Bank (9.4%); the State of Nigeria (9.4%); and CSPT (6.5%).
Several other different financial and industrial institutions own the
remaining 4.6% of ICS shares. Loans totalling US$94.6 million equivalent are
provided by major bilateral and multilateral aid agencies, such as IFC, CCCE,
EIB, Kuwait Fund, OPEC, BAD, and BADEA, and US$30.1 million equivalent is
provided as suppliers' credits.
49.      By having a large and experienced industrial company--EMC--both as
major shareholder and technical partner, and by initially basing its project
on high quality, well-known raw material (CSPT export rock), ICS has sub-
stantially lessened the technical risks that similar industrial projects
normally face during their implementation and early operations. Similarly, by
having a group of Indian fertilizer companies as both major shareholder and
major customer, ICS has substantially lessened its market risks.  The project
has now been under construction for more than a year and implementation is
proceeding as scheduled. ICS staffing has also proceeded without delays and
currently totals 53 professionals. Since project appraisal, the scope of the
project has been slightly modified since the capacity of the main processing



- 16 -
unit, the phosphoric acid plant, increased from 720 tpd to 800 tpd. This
increase in capacity has not significantly affected the project's capital
cost, now estimated at CFAF 67 billion as compared to the CFAF 61 billion at
appraisal.
Prospects for the Senegalese Phosphate Industry
50.      As described above, the phosphate industry in Senegal is presently
fragmented since large-scale mining, beneficiation and export of phosphate
rock is undertaken by CSPT while large-scale manufacture of phosphoric acid
and phosphate fertilizers will be undertaken by ICS. Also, exploration work
for new deposits is being separately undertaken by the Government. This
fragmentation may lead to suboptimal results and, since phosphate is one of
Senegal's few resources, there is a need to. coordinate the development of all
phosphate activities towards the optimal overall use of the country's
reserves.
51.      Due to lack of appropriate studies and tests at the time, the ICS
project was appraised and is being implemented on the basis of using the fine
fraction of CSPT's beneficiated export rock. For many years, however, it has
been recognized that a much cheaper source of phosphate material might be
recovered from the slimes which CSPT rejects when it beneficiates its rock.
As noted above, CSPT beneficiation process was designed and implemented twenty
years ago when phosphates had a much lower value than at present. Phosphate
recovery with this process is low compared to competing plants elsewhere in
the world, mainly because of the difficult characteristics of the Taiba rock
and the current practice for producing very high grade phosphate rock: for
every ton of P 05 in the export rock, about .75 ton of P205 is rejected in the
slimes during beneficiation. With economics increasingly favoring phosphate
fertilizer production near the mines, this beneficiation process may have to
be modified in the long-term to give a high percentage of low-grade rock (but
produced with a high recovery rate), for use in increased local production of
phosphate fertilizers.
Bank Role
52.      In 1977, when the ICS project was being conceived, the Government of
Senegal and CSPT had approached the Bank for assistance in formulating a
development program to determine technology appropriate for upgrading CSPT
slimes into feed material for the ICS phosphoric acid plant. The Government
of Senegal, CSPT, ICS and BRGM of France established a joint financial ven-
ture, PHOSVALOR, for financing this program, and later obtained a US$250,000
loan from the European Investment Bank (EIB) for undertaking preliminary
tests. During the preparation of the ICS project, and in order to minimize
delays and technical risks, it was decided to proceed with the project with
export grade rock as feed material while keeping the option of using upgraded
slimes open, should further technical tests prove successful.
53.      With the ICS project currently in progress and the positive results
of PHOSVALOR's preliminary tests, the Government, ICS and CSPT decided to
finalize the tests for establishing the commercial viability of recovering
slimes for phosphoric acid manufacture, and requested Bank assistance to that



- 17 -
effect. In addition, to foster the needed overall coordination of their
activities (para. 50), the Government, CSPT and ICS have decided to initiate a
comprehensive development program in connection with the proposed project to
help establish optimal use of the country's phosphate resources. This is
considered especially important at this time when both the world phosphate
rock and phosphate fertilizer industries are undergoing profound and durable
structural changes.
IV - THE PROJECT
54.      The tests carried out by PHOSVALOR have now been completed, and
hydrocycloning has proven to be the most efficient technology for recovering
phosphate from slimes. Accordingly, the Government, CSPT and ICS contacted
the Bank in October 1981 for assistance in establishing the commercial via-
bility of this technology. In following discussions, the scope of the slime
recovery project was enlarged to provide for an in-depth study of the coor-
dinated optimization of future phosphate mining and processing operations in
Senegal. The proposed engineering project was appraised in June 1982. Nego-
tiations were held in March 1983, with a Senegalese delegation led by Mr.
Moussa Toure, Cabinet Director for the Minister of Planning and Cooperation.
There is no separate appraisal report. A supplemental data sheet on the
project is attached as Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
55.      The main objectives of the project are: (i) to establish the commer-
cial scale viability of upgrading CSPT's slimes into feed material for ICS's
phosphoric acid plant; (ii) to help maximize the overall efficiency of the
phosphate mining and processing operations in Senegal; and (iii) to help
direct Senegal's development efforts for exploiting its phosphate deposits in
the most promising direction.  Since the deposit that CSPT currently mines at
Taiba has a limited remaining life (para. 42), another important objective of
the project is to increase significantly the useful life of this deposit.  The
project aims at achieving this by: (i) recovering phosphate rock from the
ponds where CSPT has stockpiled its slimes over the years, thus increasing the
deposit's effective reserves by about 20%; and (ii) directly using the slimes
currently rejected by CSPT beneficiation plant, thus allowing for the same
phosphate rock/phosphoric acid production with about 1/3 less mine depletion
than presently required.
56.      The project would consist of three components: a) Processing;
b) Mining/Beneficiation; and c) Planning (described below). Annex IV
details the contents and scope of the project's studies and tests.
Processing Component
57.      This component would be carried out in two phases to ensure that the
more costly works are undertaken in Phase II if Phase I studies confirm their
technical and economic viability.



- 18 -
58.      Phase I.  After review of the existing PHOSVALOR documents, slimes
recovery tests would be conducted with different types of hydrocyclones and
operating parameters so as to arrive at optimum operating conditions. The
slimes so recovered from CSPT's beneficiation plant would then be tested for
phosphoric acid production by different international laboratories. The
settling and handling characteristics of the slimes recovered would also be
tested by specialized international laboratories to determine the equipment
needed for effluent treatment and for slimes pumping and dewatering. Since
water is scarce in the Taiba region, particular attention would be given
during all these tests to determine the quantity and quality of the water
recycled into CSPT beneficiation plant and of that introduced into ICS
phosphoric acid plant. The preliminary basic design of a 10 tph (1/4 of the
full scale slimes recovery plant) pilot plant would then be established, and
capital and operating cost estimated. If such a pilot plant is shown
technically and economically justified, bids would be prepared for its turnkey
lump sum procurement (Section 3.05 (a) of the draft Project Agreement).
59.      Several countries regard cadmium as an undesirable impurity and
impose limits on the level of cadmium in imported phosphate fertilizers due to
concerns about potential health hazards. Since Taiba's phosphate rock con-
tains relatively high levels of cadmium, bench scale tests of solvent extrac-
tion and chemical precipitation methods would be carried out to remove cadmium
from the phosphoric acid manufactured from the Taiba rock.
60.      Phase II.  The pilot plant engineered under Phase I would be con-
structed at the ICS phosphoric acid plant and tested to: (i) determine optimum
operating conditions; and (ii) evaluate its impact on ICS phosphoric acid and
CSPT rock beneficiation plants. Areas for improvements would be identified
and a feasibility report analyzing the plant modular duplication to full
commercial scale would be prepared (Section 3.05 (b) of the draft Project
Agreement).
Mining/Beneficiation Component
61.      The CSPT phosphate rock beneficiation process would be reviewed to
identify the major areas where phosphate material is presently lost and how
this material could be recovered for phosphoric acid manufacture. Bench scale
tests would be carried out for recovering phosphate at different stages of
CSPT beneficiation process and for improving the overall efficiency of this
process. The impact that such recovery and improvement would have on ICS
operations would be assessed. Since Taiba rock contains relatively high
levels of cadmium which may limit its market potential (para. 59), bench scale
calcination tests to remove the cadmium from CSPT export rock would be carried
out, followed by pilot plant scale vendor tests, if necessary. While the
slimes quality is generally known to be adequate for processing, geological
tests would be conducted under the project to analyze the ore that CSPT would
mine in the Keur Mor Fall deposit in upcoming years and to confirm the quality
and continuity of the slimes. Mining tests would also be carried out to
verify the mineability of slimes which CSPT has rejected and stockpiled since
operations began (estimated at about 16 million tons of concentrate), and a
practical mining method would be determined. These tests would enable opti-
mization of the use of slimes in the pilot plant. Comprehensive tests on the



- 19 -
physical and chemical properties of these stockpiled slimes would be conducted
to determine their best use and the most promising beneficiation method. A
report would be prepared to present the results of these studies and tests and
the recommendations for investments in the CSPT beneficiation plant (Section
3.06 of the draft Project Agreement).
Planning Component
62.      Independent studies and surveys are presently being carried out to
evaluate Senegal's other phosphate reserves. These studies have been under-
taken by: (i) the Government, with separate bilateral aid, for the deposits at
Thies and Matam; and (ii) CSPT for the Tobene deposit at Taiba. These studies
would be reviewed and their results compared and consolidated. For the Matam
deposit, additional preliminary bench scale beneficiation tests would be
carried out to assess possible beneficiation processes. For the aluminum
phosphate deposit at Thies, beneficiation and phosphoric acid production
methods would be reviewed and bench scale laboratory tests would be conducted,
as necessary, to assess the technical and financial prospects for upgrading
phosphate rock from this deposit. On the basis of these studies and tests,
the attractiveness of developing Senegal's different phosphate reserves would
be compared, and a report would be prepared to recommend an overall long-term
development plan for Senegal's phosphate resources once the Keur Mor Fall
deposit currently mined by CSPT is exhausted (Section 3.07 of the draft
Project Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
63.      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$9.6 million, exclu-
sive of taxes 1/, with US$7.7 million in foreign exchange. The processing
component is estimated to cost US$7.3 million (US$0.7 million for Phase I and
US$6.6 million for Phase II), the mining/beneficiation component US$2.0
million and the planning component US$0.3 million. These estimates include
10% for physical contingencies, and 20% for price escalation on the basis of
annual local and foreign inflation rates of 8.0% in 1983, 7.5% in 1984, 7.5%
in 1985 and 7.0% in 1986. An estimated 245 man-months of foreign consultants
and 480 man-months of local staff would be required for project execution.
The average cost of foreign engineering and technical consultancy services,
including per diem and reimbursable costs, is estimated at US$10,000 per man-
month; the average cost of local personnel and operators is estimated at about
US$4,000 per man-month.  The cost of consultants is considered reasonable in
light of the specialized work to be undertaken.
64.      The proposed Credit of US$7.7 million equivalent would cover the
estimated foreign exchange cost of the project. The Government would on-lend,
under a subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to the Association, US$7.4
million equivalent out of the proceeds of the Credit to PROMOPHOS. PROMOPHOS
would in turn on-lend, under separate Financing Agreements satisfactory to the
Association, US$6.0 million equivalent to ICS and US$1.4 million equivalent to
CSPT to assist them in carrying out their respective components (on terms
1/ The Government has confirmed that the Project is exempt of taxes.



- 20 -
described in para. 67) (Section 3.01 (c) and Schedule 3 of the draft Devel-
opment Credit Agreement (DCA)). CSPT and ICS would fully bear the foreign
exchange risk relating to the funds they would borrow. CSPT and ICS would
finance the local costs of the project's mining/beneficiation and processing
components--US$0.6 million and US$1.3 million, respectively. The Government
would provide or cause to be provided the necessary funds to cover any gap in
the project financing plan as well as any cost overrun (Section 3.01 (e) of
the draft DCA). The proposed Credit would refinance the PPF advance of
US$800,000 equivalent dated March 8, 1983 (para. 71). The Association re-
serves the right to refinance the Credit under any subsequent Bank Group
project for the development of the phosphate industry in Senegal (Part B of
the Preamble of the draft DCA).
Project Organization
65.      Since one of the main objectives of the project is to help ration-
alize and coordinate the operations of the whole phosphate sector, the Govern-
ment, CSPT and ICS have created a joint promotional company--PROMOPHOS--to
promote, finance, coordinate and control the execution of the project.
PROMOPHOS, a limited liability company, has a small capital, held in equal
shares by the Government, CSPT and ICS. In order to apportion the project's
risks and benefits equitably, and since the investments relating to their
different activities vary significantly, the Government, CSPT and ICS each
would separately take the financial responsibility for the studies, tests and
equipment purchases that concern it most. CSPT would borrow funds from
PROMOPHOS to finance expenses (i.e., consultant studies, tests and equipment
purchases) concerning the project's mining/beneficiation component, ICS would
similarly borrow funds from PROMOPHOS to finance those expenses concerning the
processing component, and the Government would directly use IDA funds to
finance tests and studies for the planning component (para. 67) (Sections 2.01
of the draft Project Agreement and 3.01 (a) of the draft DCA).
66.      For the project, PROMOPHOS would: (i) define the detailed terms of
reference of all project studies and tests; (ii) approve the hiring of con-
sultants and the terms and conditions of procurement for all goods and
services, including bidding documents for the Phase II slimes recovery pilot
plant; (iii) approve any modification or departure from the agreed studies;
(iv) supervise and coordinate all consultant work; (v) collect the results of
the studies and tests during and after implementation of each component and
make all results available to the Government, CSPT and ICS; (vi) prepare the
feasibility reports specified in paras. 60-62, and formulate recommendations
for utilization of the project results, including investment recommenda-
tions. PROMOPHOS is headed by an independent manager acceptable to the Asso-
ciation. He would be the authorized signatory for withdrawal applications to
IDA under the mining-beneficiation and processing components; he would be
assisted by a phosphate processing engineer and a financial analyst/economist
(Section 3.01 (b) of the draft Project Agreement).
On-lending Arrangements
67.      As mentioned above, part of the proceeds of the Credit would be on-
lent to CSPT and ICS to help finance the studies, tests and equipment pur-
chases of their respective components. Since ICS is not yet an operating



- 21 -
company and has a highly leveraged financing plan, it cannot prudently take
additional financial risks at this stage. Thus, unless financial risks are
minimized, ICS participation in the project would be substantially delayed.
However, optimum use of Senegal's phosphate resources requires that ICS
facilities be capable of using slimes. While fully conforming to the prin-
ciple that commercial terms apply to revenue earning projects financed by the
Association, it is thus proposed that the on-lending terms and conditions be
such that the financial exposure of CSPT and ICS be minimized until the
benefits from the project fully accrue. The following principles would apply:
(i)  if the project's studies and tests are not successful and do not lead
to commercial operations, CSPT and ICS would repay the borrowed funds
to the Government, via the promotional company, at 0.75% interest
rate over 20 years, including 7 years' grace; and
(ii) if, on the other hand, these studies and tests are successful and do
lead to commercial operations, CSPT and ICS would: (a) repay the
funds at terms and conditions equivalent to those the Bank charges to
its commercial borrowers for engineering loans; and (b) would, in
addition, compensate the Government for alleviating the financial
risks of case (i) above by paying a risk premium. This risk premium
would bring the overall expected value (after taking into account the
probability that the studies might not be successful (see case (i)
above) of the interest rate paid by CSPT and ICS in line with that
which the Bank charges its commercial borrowers, i.e., 12.1%. Since
the estimated probability for successful studies and tests is 95%,
the risk premium would be 0.6%, and CSPT and ICS would repay the
Government (through PROMOPHOS) at an overall 12.7% interest, over 15
years, including 3 years' grace. Such repayment terms would take
effect when the commercial viability of the slimes recovery is
established at project completion. Such terms would also apply
retroactively if ICS decides to proceed with commercial recovery of
slimes after project completion but prior to June 30, 1991.
68.      The on-lending arrangements for the proposed Credit would thus be as
follows: the slimes recovery pilot plant would be constructed and tested to
produce in total 40,000 tons of recovered slimes (equivalent to nine months of
production at 60% capacity utilization), at which point the techno-economic
viability of recovering the slimes would be assessed and, no less than three
months later, a feasibility report prepared (para. 70). At that time, CSPT
and ICS would begin to repay the funds they borrowed under terms and condi-
tions described in para. 67 (ii) above, except if the feasibility report
establishes, on the basis of criteria satisfactory to the Association, that
the slimes recovery is uneconomical. Such criteria are that the technical
specifications of the phosphoric acid produced with the recovered slimes are
inadequate for selling on the export markets, and that the production costs of
such export grade acid with recovered slimes are prohibitive, bringing the
economic rate of return of the pilot plant operation below 13%. In this
latter case, CSPT and ICS would repay the funds borrowed under the terms and
conditions of para 67 (i) above (Part II of Schedule 3 of the DCA).



- 22 -
Project Execution
69.      The project would be executed by the Government, PROMOPHOS, CSPT and
ICS. All studies and tests would be carried out by specialized independent
consultants hired by the Government, CSPT and ICS for their respective com-
ponents. PROMOPHOS would approve the hiring of the consultants and would
supervise their work. Disbursements for Phase II of the processing component
would only commence if the results of Phase I justify proceeding with con-
struction and operations of the slimes recovery pilot plant (Para. 2(d) of
Schedule I of the draft DCA).
70.      Since preliminary hydrocyclone tests were initiated in April 1983, it
is expected that Phase I of the processing component would be completed in
about 23 months and that the promotional company would prepare its report
presenting the technical and economic justification of the Phase II slimes
recovery pilot plant works by March 1985. Invitations for proposals for the
turnkey lump sum construction of the slimes recovery plant are expected by May
1985, and selection of the contractor would be finalized by July 1985. It is
expected that the slimes recovery pilot plant would be mechanically completed
by July 1986 and would be tested for nine months afterwards. After this
period, PROMOPHOS would prepare: (i) a report presenting the results of these
tests and its recommendations for investments in a full-scale slimes recovery
plant; (ii) a report presenting the results of the studies and tests of the
mining/beneficiation component and recommendations for investments in the CSPT
beneficiation plant; and (iii) a report presenting the results of the planning
component studies and recommendations for the optimal strategy for developing
Senegal's phosphate resources. These reports would be submitted to the Asso-
ciation no later than July 1987, one year after the pilot plant mechanical
completion. After completion of these reports, and before taking a decision
to proceed with industrial investments in (i) a full-scale slimes recovery
plant, and (ii) equipment and design changes in the CSPT beneficiation plant,
CSPT and ICS would afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views on the implementation of these projects and their financing (Sections
3.05-3.08 of the draft Project Agreement).
71.      To help assure prompt initiation of the project, expenditures of up
to US$800,000 incurred to start the tests and studies mentioned in paras.
58-60 above, are to be financed under an advance from the Project Preparation
Facility granted on March 8, 1983, which would be refinanced by the proposed
Credit (Section 2.01 (b) of the draft DCA). The implementation schedule for
the various components of the project is given in Annex V.
Selection of Consultants, Procurement and Disbursement
72.      The selection, qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment of the consultants who would carry out the project studies and
tests would be acceptable to the Association (Section 3.02 of the draft DCA
and 2.02 of the draft Project Agreement). For the coordination of the Phase I
work of the project processing component, ICS would request a proposal from a
single firm, "Mines de Potasse d'Alsace" (MDPA)--the engineering arm of EMC--
since that firm is already fully involved in the design of ICS's phosphoric
acid plant, has extensive experience in ore beneficiation and slime recovery,



- 23 -
and has a good working relationship with ICS. MDPA would subcontract work as
needed to consultants specialized in hydrocyclones and water recovery tech-
niques. The Phase II slimes recovery pilot plant would be procured on a
turnkey basis by ICS, following international competitive bidding. Equipment
for the project mining/beneficiation component would be procured after inter-
national competitive bidding except for (i) items costing less than US$50,000
each, up to an aggregate amount of US$250,000, which would be procured on the
basis of price quotations from at least three suppliers from Bank Group member
countries, Switzerland and Taiwan, and (ii) items whose availability is
limited by the need for standardization with CSPT existing equipment for which
limited-bidding using international shopping procedures would be followed.
These last items would together total less than US$400,000 (Part B of the
Procurement Schedule of the draft Project Agreement). Disbursements of the
proposed Credit would be made against 100% of the foreign expenditures for
services and equipment eligible for IDA financing.
Benefits and Risks
73.      If successful, the proposed project would first enable CSPT to up-
grade the efficiency of its operations by about 300,000 tons of rock per annum
(an improvement in yield of 30%) by establishing the technical viability of
processing phosphate from slimes presently rejected. This would enable ICS to
manufacture phosphoric acid from discarded slimes instead of high value export
rock, and reduce significantly CSPT's and ICS's overall operating costs.
Second, it would allow the recovery of about 16 million tons of concentrate
from the stock of slimes that CSPT has rejected since it began operations.
Thus, for the same rock export volume, the project would help extend the life
of Senegal's presently-mined phosphate deposit at Taiba (which at maximum can
last for another 15 years) by about one-third. This would help Senegal sub-
stantially increase: (i) the overall foreign exchange earnings derived from
phosphate mining and processing; (ii) the efficiency and profitability of
the industrial entities involved in this important industrial subsector; and
(iii) the fiscal revenues the Government will earn from exploiting and
upgrading the country's phosphate deposits.
74.      Also, the project would provide ICS with a 1/4 scale pilot plant
which could be kept for industrial operations as the first line of the full
scale plant. This would help minimize the overall investment cost for a full-
scale slimes recovery project. It is expected that, including engineering
development costs and pilot plant investments,, such a full-scale project would
cost about US$30 million and would yield an economic rate of return of about
20%.
75.      In addition, the project would help Senegal develop a comprehensive
long-term strategy in this major productive sector (which is especially
important at a time when the world phosphate industry is undergoing profound
and durable changes) by: (i) fostering the coordination of the mining and
processing industries of the country; (ii) ensuring the long-term development
of the phosphate industry throughout Senegal in a more coherent way than has
been the case in the past, i.e., by studying the technical and economic



- 24 -
viability of mining the deposits known to exist and promoting further explora-
tion; and (iii) strengthening in general the cooperation between the Govern-
ment and private industry towards achieving the most efficient and rational
exploitation of one of the country's major resources.
76.      The major risk facing the project is that, should feasibility studies
conclude that a full-scale slime recovery plant is not technically and econo-
mically viable, the investments made in the processing component of the
project would not be recovered. This risk is considered minimal and is fur-
ther minimized by initiating major works only after substantial preliminary
studies and tests are successfully carried out.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
77.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Senegal and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Asso-
ciation, PROMOPHOS, ICS, and CSPT, and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association are being distributed separately. Special conditions of the
project are listed in Section III of Annex III. Special conditions of effec-
tiveness would be that (a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement be executed on behalf
of the Republic of Senegal and PROMOPHOS, and (b) the ICS and CSPT Financing
Agreements be executed on behalf of PROMOPHOS and ICS and CSPT, respectively.
78.      I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the Arti-
cles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
79.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
by
Attachments                                                E. Stern
April 18, 1983.



- 25 -
Page 1
TABLE 3A
SENEGAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SENEGAL                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE}AGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ.  DM.)                                                        - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-a
TOTAL           196.2                               MOST RECENT         MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL    109.0              1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  NORTH AFRICA & MIDDLE EAST
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                210.0      260.0    450.0                 1053.2                 1253.6
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    116.1      116.6    253.1                 610.1                  713.5
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (TROUSANDS) 3076.0     4267.0   5661.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 22.6       23.7     25.4                 28.3                   47.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                    10.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                      34.2
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED               2135
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      15.7        21.7     28.1                 54.7                   35.8
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    31.0        40.8     50.6                129.9                   420.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        42.7        43.9     44.7                 46.0                   44.3
15-64 YRS.                        54.3       53.2      52.5                 51.1                   52.4
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  3.0         2.9      2.8                  2.8                    3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             1.9         3.3      2.8                  2.8                    2.8
URBAN                             2.4         3.7      3.5                  5.2                    4.6
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    47.9       46.8      47.8                 47.2                   41.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    26.5        23.2     21.3                 15.7                   12.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.2         3.2      3.2                  3.2                    2.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..         ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)        125.0        83.0     86.0                 90.7                  100.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREHENTS)                 109.5        98.8      94.8/c              93.9                   108.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         73.2        66.2     63.77E               54.8                   71.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      22.5        20.8     18.67h               17.0                    18.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY 3       41.8        36.8     31.8                 23.9                    15.1
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   37.2        40.3     43.2                 51.0                    56.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                         181.7       164.4    146.8                118.5                   104.3
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         ..      37.0/d                 ..                    59.1
URBAN                              ..         ..      68.CF/d                *                    83.1
RURAL                              ..         ..      23.07                  ..                    39.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
*                        TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN                              ..         ..
RURAL                              ..         ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        21971.4    16224.3  15709.6/c             14185.2                 4015.5
*                      POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    2839.5/e   1888.1   1392.57h               2213.2                 1802.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           735.0       790.3    900.5/c             1036.4                   641.7
URBAN                           391.3/f    346.5    422.o07               430.8                   538.3
RURAL                          1812.47f   1311.9   1432.97T              3678.6                  2403.3
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..        22.2      29.2/c                ..                    25.5
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              ..         ..
URBAN                              ..         7 6/
RURAL                              ..         6.D        .
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                             1.5/h       ..
URBAN                              ..         ..        ..
RURAL                              ..         ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..          ..       ..
URBAN                              ..         ..        ..
RURAL                              ..          ..       ..



- 26 -
Page 2
TABLE 3A
SENEGAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SENEGAL                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE/RAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  NORTH AFRICA & MIDDLE EAST
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  27.0         38.0      42.0                   83.3                      88.7
MALE                  36.0         47.0       51.0                  96.1                     104.5
FEMALE                17.0         30.0       34.0                  80.4                      72.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   3.0          9.0      10.0/j                 15.3                     39.7
MALE                   4.0         13.0       14.0O7-               19.4                      49.3
FEMALE                 2.0          5.0        6.0T1                11.3                      29.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY)  23.1            9.2         ..                   4.7                      10.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             43.2/f       45.0      42.3/c                 38.6                      34.1
SECONDARY                           34.0         34.3      21.07E                 23.4                      23.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          5.6/i       10.0       10.0/c                35.6                      43.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           6.5          9.0       9.2/k                 31.9                      17.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          40.6         62.8      54.4                   71.8                     131.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSANhD
POPULATION                            ..          0.3       0.4                   17.9                     44.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    6.5          4.7        4.5                  19.1                      31.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..        0.7/d                 0.6                       1.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       1424.0       1860.3    2311.2
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    39.5         39.0      38.4                   36.5                      10.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               84.0         80.0       76.0                  56.5                      42.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   5.0          7.0      10.0                   17.7                      27.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 46.3         43.6       40.8                  37.0                     *26.0
MALE                                  56.3         53.7       50.8                  46.9                      46.2
FEMALE                                36.4         33.7       31.0                  27.2                       5.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0          1.1        1.2                   1.3                       1.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   36.8/1           ..
NIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  62.57            ..         .
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3.2/1           ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    9.47            ..         .
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..                 507.0                     279 2
RURAL                                 ..           ..      82.0                  200.6                     178.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      194.0                 523.9                     403.6
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..                 203.6                     285.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..                    ..                      22.1
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..                    ..                      30.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977;  /d 1976;  /e 1963;  /f 1962;  /g 1973;  /h 1955;  /i African population only;  /j 1975;
/k 1974;  /1 Population.
May, 1982



- 27 -
Page 3
DEFINITIONS OP SOCLAL ItihICAlOEI
Cores:  Although th  dat  are draen from sources generally judged the mess a-tholrtative and reliabl., it shesld else be soed that they  .y sot be inter-
nationally co-paroble bee-ane of the lack of standardied defiuttions aed concepts used by different c-outries in collecting the data. The data ore, none-
theless, useful to describe orders of magnitude, indicate trends, and chr-ctnrize certfit saojr differences betyeencouotires.
The oeeeoogrus  c  (if the none  cunsy grocIf the  -bject coo..ley and (2) acouc..try group sith   mehet bigher seerge inc-s  thanl.  the .outry grnep
ofthe o eucc _ry    cep t Icr    lobin              LI Etprrc" gr.r    h- oMoup  ne  "Middle Ito..   N-orth Af ic  ond Middle Etot" it chosen becoe of strog
anulo-cultural offinities).  In the roferente gtoup doc  the  verages  r  population teighted arih-leoi  =eans for each indicator and shoes aily ehes
majority of the ,cotries in   group heo dato for rh.t indicnto. t     ince she cocoroge of cuontries anoog the iodilator  dependa on the  vanilhbility of da
nd i  not  oitor. cauti_o .sot bn exercised ic relating atvrgen of one indicotor co anohee.  The .  versgee  re acly oseful in comparing the value nf
one indicator at   tis  scng the cou.try and refereuce groups.
ARtA (thou and.sq.kn.)                                                                        ryulation per gospitrl bed - total, urban, and rural - Pnpnlatlin (total.
Total - Total  urf-c  rea  ot-prisiog loud are  -d inlond  -ascr; 1979 dta.                   tbhn,  and rotalf divided by thefi  ro pec-tve cu-abr If hoopital beds
_aricult-ral - Etti=te of  griculturI are  used te-p-rarily or per--anttly                    ,.rn lahe in public and pri_ote g.orral  nd  peciali_ed hoopinal and re-
fr crops, potores, -kcen -d kitches gardens cr to lie fallot; 1979 data.                   bbilitationcenstet.  Uospitals te  stablish-ets pernanently otoffed
by at Ies.t one plysIio.lotahisneh-ts providing principal ly ..sto-
INP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP Par capita eu tits  t cuerret market price, cal-                    dIIt creare onet ptec aded   Rur l hopials, ho  eve i. Srjlude heaith
culated by sae conversi-n machod o  World gaol Atlas (1978 dS  basis); 1960,                  nd sedic-l centers not permanently staffed by a phyaician (bht by a
1970, and 1980 dato.                                                                         tedical assistant, nese, =idyite, eIc.) ohch offer it-pottent  -ccop-
datios sed provide a Iliitod rang  of medical fanilinie   tu  tiati-
ENERTGY CONSUMPYTION PER CIPITA - Ancval ncoantyciot of costorcial energy (teal                tica1 purposes urban hospitalsc nlude Wtt, rin-ipal/ge e     h* epitais,
and tignita. petrnlean, natural Eao and hydrc-, nucle r and geoahernal elec-                med rural hospitals, lacal -r toal hospitls and medical and maternity
tricltyl in kilogr  qs af cccl aquin-lent penr cyits; 1960. 1970. nd 1979                     -nter-.  Sp-cialited hosPituls are inciuded ucLy usdmr titel.
data,                                                                                      Adm-io-tamee -     pialle  - Tota  -uber nt aanIaa  to e- dianharges
frog bonyitalm dinided by the on.Aer  If beds,
POPULATION AND V      SIT   ITATISTICS
Total P           Mpnlation, Mid-Year fthacuaufsf - Ah  of Jnly 1; 1960, 1970, nd 1980   HOUSING
data.                                                                                    Aver ge Size of househeld (persons per hcuIeheldl - total. uthon, And e=ral-
'Pu uplnn  .ptin  at tota"l) - atin at oc.on in tuti  Papuluttc                     A ho..eheld cusist  nf. a gcu PfIndividual  mb          ar  living t-taatt
AlIt trout itf (percnotf ub  area  ma  ffect comparability  f data                         Ad  heir gan mieas.  h hoarde   r lodger nay at ay not be incn ded in
-aang cottries; 1960, 197i. ad 1980 data.                                                  the household for  tatistir l purpo .s.
PoPviatiac Projetnion                                                                      Average catber of peroans per raoo=- tatal, urbac,.and rural -average nus-
Population in year 2000 - Current populutitn ytojections ore based us 1980                 her at peraoa  per euce is all urban, and rral occupied cPnaetitll
5                                    total populatioa by  go  ncd uer and their sort-lity  nd frtility rate-.                deellings, re-pectively.   alvelinga e-rclde no-per-aneetstructuresd
Projectiun p ranuter  fvr p-riality reten icoprise af three I veln   un-                 nuc_ pied parts.
ing life enpet -cy  t birth i_cre sing vith c-outry's per capita income               Accest to Electricity (percent of d/elliagv)  - total, urban, and rural -
levol,  mad femle  life expettancy stobilieing at 77.5 Yers.  The prar-                 fonventioval dselliegsvith electricity in living quarters a  percentage
terero tot fertility rate also hurt three lenels .o...iag decliue in                     of ttal., urban, and rural dtellings repectively.
fertility,ccording to  ince- levei and pa"c family planning p-rfotorace.
Each ivoctry is the- assigned one of these sine  -ombinatiIts af eortaliy          lEDUCATIOE
mad frtility  trends far proj ctoen p-rpo-es.                                          Adjusted E-r1llan-t Ratios
Stationary papuiap iu - In a stationary population there in no gruteh since                Priary tchqql - total, male and f-male - iross total,  ale and fenale
the birthrt  is, eqa    hniedahrc, a-h  ul,d also   o age         ..t ...cur . e-nrllmen  of allage   atihe primary level an percentges at repe-ive
mains costant.  Thin is achieved unly aft rfctility eate decigne to                        pnromar La- aget po pul ations; crnally includes Childen aged 6-li
the replacoaat level of unit net reproduction tote, vhen each generation                   yerar hut adjusted for diffarect lengths of primtary  edacatia; far
of  'nPI reploces itself exactly.  The stationary populatitn nia can                       ceuntries L ith universal edacation enrolltent may enceed 100 percent
ostittted at ahe basis of che prj-ected ch-racter-itics of the papolatice                  since  -mo  pupila are belos ar abuts the official school age.
ih the yeat 2000, and the rate of decline af fertiluty rate rt teplace-                  Secondary snhool - total,  ale and feale - Ctpted as above; -eondary
nent level.                                                                                e.o.tt_lanrequves on least icue yeats af approved prinaty inttrtoitn;
Tear ucu i..ary population iu reached - The year ohen stanionary population                  provides goneral, vocational, at teacher training iastructiers fPr pupils
nine  1ill be reached.                                                                     usnally of 12 to 17 yearn Of ago; curreapond-ece courses are generally
poyolaticu Density                                                                             aucluded.
Per nq. kh. - Mid-year popula-ian per square kiloeeter (100 hectares) of                 -ucatianal enralinect (percent of secnndary) - locational eintitutions
nt-al area; 1960, 1970 and 1979 data.,                                                  include tecetcai. industrial, or other prograts ehich operate independ-
Par uB. k_. ugrlrultuoai land - Cep-ind no a-ovae- f naricoliorat lund                     ently or at drIartnennu af secoadany institutions.
Only; 1960. 1971 and 1979 data.                                                        Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students earoaled in
Population Ago Itr-cture (percvnt) - Children (0-14 yeart), vorkiug-age (15-                 primry and ee ondary levels divided by n-ber-  of teachers in the
64 y-art), -ad raltiad (65 years and oven) as  seroentages of uid-yc-c  po-                coIrnespoding levels.
Iation; 1960, 1970, and 1980 dunn.                                                       Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adult  (tble to read and anitg)
.Puruatrin Grovth  te (percent) - total - doual groth rante  of tntal mid-                   an c pe.ttetage of tonal  dadct population aged 15 years and ovr.
year population for 1950-60, 1960-pt, mud 1970-80.
Population irovth tarc (percent) - urban - A     al g9oeth rates of urhan pupa-          CONSUMPTION
lotions far 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-80.                                               Pas-enger Car  (par thouoand poP.latien)  -       Passeger rars cosprise mtar
Croda Birth Rate (per th-u-and) - Anu-al lire births per thousaud If oid-year                car-ssating lena thou eight pert-ns: e_cludes atbulances, hearses and
Populatien; 1960, 1970, cad 1980 data.                                                     military vehirles.
Crude De-th Rlte (per ih.ousad) - dac-l deatlh  per ch.osand  of mid-year                  Radio Recei-ers (per thousand populatio-) - All types of recgivrs fPr radio
puyalation; 1960, 1070, cud 1980 data.                                                     broadcasts to general public per thbusand of popalanion: excludes an-
Irons  R-production Rate -Aeraga number af daughters anw=ncvill behr in                      Itcensed receivern in c           _antriro and i1 ypars shen regiotration af radio
her narnal reproductice period if ohe experiences present age-apecific for-                sets ems in effect; data fur recent yearn cy not be uctparable sinc
tility rates; usualy fire-year aceragas eudiag in 1960, 1970, cud 1980.                    must roantries abolished liceusing.
Panily PlanningI -Acccptors. Annual (thousands) - Annual anertat o         acceptors       TV  Ieceiwrs (par thouaand population) - TV receivees for broadcast to
at birch-coatrol devices nnder aunpices af unticoal fanily planning prugran.               genoral public per thaus.ad populatina; excladesunlicensed TV rec-i-ers
ysnily Playing - Usorn (percent of steted atdnen)  - Percentaga of serried                   incanntries and in yearn vhes regisnratian at Tt sets ems in effect.
lnm  at child-hearing age (l5-lb years) vho coo birth-ccctral  devices ta                Nescpapee  Circulatiar (oer thousad dopulation) - Sh-ov  the average cir-
a11 mrried games in so            . age groaP.                                             culation of "daily geueral interest noevpape",. defined asaeriodical
pPblic-tiom  dn   ptrimaril ta  recedicg igeneral  eest.  It is considered
FOOD ADli NUTRITION                                                                            noIbe "daily" if it appma   at least faue ti-eoaeek.
laden if Puodl Prad-ttl- par_lpino (1969-71=1011  - lude  af per usPitaunral               Inen  Annual I   t        -dev  e  farina per-'at- hose   - the. auberIn
peod      uction of al fId c_diti.  prodcci_n cIu- dgsreed mud fted ad                     cibet. reld duriug the year, incldig .adm isi..s to drive-ia  iema
in  as calendar year basin.  Comendilei  utter primtry goods (e.g. sugarcau.               and mebile units.
instead of sugar) chub are dible and containmn'trients (e.g. iffre and
tea are encluded).  Aggregate produitioc of oath tcoutry is bated on                   LABOR PORCE
na_tionl average producer price =eighns; 1981-65170,           1900 dana.               Total Labor Farce (thousando) -   ..co.oirally activ  per-ama, including
Yfe  -apitn nuwly at calories (pec-et uf  crinineucatul - Cp-ved frue                        steed fotce  end une=ployed hut excluding bhousviws, studests. -    tc.
energy equivalont uPInon fond supplies  -vailablh in country per capita                    tovaring populatiot of all again.   eficitions in vaie-us countries are
per day.  Available supplies co=prise dome.tic prodouniio, inparts lean                     at comrparable; 1960, 1970 and 190" data.
expatis, and changes ic sutik.  let supplies erclude animal eed, sends,                    Femata (rrcent) - Female lubr forceas Percentage of natal lebor furce.
onItin  od in fond Prr-cnio5, mad  osse  in disacibatia-   lequireAgiocr(prea  - LhrPteit  amngbfre tr. oiag med
Mr.s r.esti mted    by fo  ad PAO cb...ad physiolegirul .eedd  for -oe=l ati-                fishing as perceettge  f t- aa    bt force; 1960. 1970 aed 19h  0 dat.
city mud health cansideringoevirocnoatal te.p-atreI, bady eeights, age                     Induatro (percenf) - Lmbur farce iu miting, costrucetion, snafarctring
and sea distribur-op of populatio-, mud al1o1iug 10 perce_n for caste at                     and eleotricity, eater mad gas an percentage of  utoal laebr force;
h,o..ehld level; 1961S-6h  1970 and 1977 data.                                               1960, 1970 and 198O dana.
a.                    ~~~~~Per capita anp I f  Irc_e(ga        rda)- PrteIcI concot at per capita                 Participatico la.te  (perc-t) - rotal, meIa, end femln- Par=iiptrio  or
-et cprly ci tfad Par day. Ment sPPlY of Ifod is defined as mbhov.  Rh-                   acivipy ratem are cotuted as  ata   ml, and female  Pharti forte m
quiree=nn  far a11 co.utrien  -stablished by UoDA provide tar rcinitP                      percentagos of total. male and female populati-o ef a11 ages respectively;
allceunce I of hi g9amo of eun-1 prorein per day aed 20 grama of anial and                1960. 1970, and 1980 drat.  These are bas-d am ILO's participation ratts
pulse protein, at vhich 10 gruta  should be anial proteio.  Thes stand-                    reflectingage-te structure uf the ppoplation. and ilog tim  trend.  A
ards are loner than thase of 75 grams cI tonal protein aad 03 groan of                     fes estirates are free national acurces.
anim1 protein an an avtrage far the -crld, proposed by FAO in tohe  hird                 Etono=ic Depende-cy Satin - Rhtio af population under 1S mod 65 and aver
Wonrld Pood Survey; 1961-65, 1970 and 1977 dots.                                         to the natal labor fPrve,
Per capito  protei  supply fr-s a-ilal and polse - Pro-tein spply of ftId de-
rived fr.. anials aed puitan in grant per day; 1961-65, 1970 and 1977 data.           INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Child (ages 1-4) Death tote (per th-uaond) - Annual deaths per thausand in                 Percertage ef Privata Incee (both in cash and lied) - Received hy richest
age group 1-4 years., tn  hildrea in this age group, far east develepiag con-              5 percent, richest 20 pgrteat, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 pertent
tries data derivad fror life tables; 1960, 1970 and 1960 data.                             af households.
nEbALT                                                                                     POVERTY TARECT GROUPi
Life Eipect.a.c  at Birth fyears) - Average -nh-er If yearn of life remining               The follIving estiates  -ee very appruninate Ieanrem of poverty leel.,
at birth  1960, 1901 and 1980 data,                                                        and should be interpreted vith considerable -aati-n.
Insnt hortanliny tote (pen thousand) - A-nnal de-ths ut infants vndre out yeau             Esni=ted Absolute Povesty inuee Lnval (800  pea oaoita) - urb-n and aural -
af  age per thousaud lor  birth:; 1960, 1970 and 1980 data.                                Absolute p-erety income level is that income level helm shich a misisal
Access to lafe Water fpercent of pepulatiuuj - total, urhae  aed rural - N.-                 nutritionally ndeqnate diet plu essential nan-toad req1iremedts is eat
ber of people (totl. utban, and  rural) vdi reasnahleaccessntoaie                          affrdable.
wa ter supply (includes reated sariface eaters or untreated bct asautasinated            Ehtinated Relative Poverty Income Level (UiS  per  .epit.) - rbae  and coral -
-ater such as thet fran protected boreholes, springs, mud _anitary cello) as               Rural relative poverty Ltcome levl is one-third atf aerage per empirt
percentag-s af their respecti- populations.  ieanurbat area a public                       persna-l inco=e uf the nu-ntry.  Urban level is ndrid free the rueal
f-untaiu or nsandp-nt located cno mare thea 200 meters from-a house   y be                 levol vith adjustment for high-er cst af living it  arban areas.
considetedas beisg mithin reassoable access cf that house,  Irural areas                 ftimad P Ionai   Belv Abrsolute Pwerty Iome bevel (peret) -  hrba
re.sneable an.cess ..ld imply  that  the hensecife  er senherm  of the hiA.eheld          and esral - Perceet af populatien (ufben and rtoal) vhe are "abselate
do ant have to speed a dimprepertiomr-e port of the day  in fetlhing the                   poor.
f amil y' neva ter seeds .
Arcess to gxcreta Diseasal (peecent at populatinn) - total. ubra, mod meal -
Sumber of peeple (total, urban, and rartl) srved by e-ceeta dispasal as
perre-sages af their re-pectice pepulations. toccata disposal may iclude
ahe aaiiertiea and disposal, evith or vitnout treatrmemo. ef henan esoreta/
and  Iateater bY  -atee-b-eno aysrems or the one of pit privie- mud siei-
lae insatallattees.
PcenLorti- p       fee, Phcsltas - Ppa .ttiac divided by aobhee af practiving physi-                                           Eossomit mad Sciaal Dta Dirisi.n
cIme    _~aitifd P ei eia   cola   nvriptnlremr  eA-lysis and Peeeeties Dep-rt-ts
Poemlarion eer fnesiag Person - PapsIatino divided by ambee of pra..isiig                                                                  Mya 1982
male end female gr-dnats -r .es. assistant Isrees, prantical nrsess and
nesesfg auxiltaries.



March 1983.
Page 4
SENEGAL-ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population: 5,864 (mid-1981, thousands)
GNP per capita: ruS$500 (1981)
Amount
(million US$                                                             Annual grovth rates (%) at constant prices
Indicator                 at current prices)                           Actual                                           Preliminary                                     Projected
1975        1976         1977       1978          1979        1980          1981         1982         1983        1984        1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross Domestic Product a/                 2744                 7.0          7.9          3.5       -3.9           5.5        -7.2          -3.9         10.5          4.6         3.3         3.7
Agriculture                            623                  9.2          9.5          6.9     -21.0           16.6       -9.2          -5.1         22.5          3.2          4.4         4.8
Industry                               689                  5.1          7.5         11.5       7.2            2.3      -14.5          -3.5           9.7         5.0          4.6        4.0
Services                              1432                  6.7          7.3        -1.6       -4.9           2.3        -6.3          -6.8          6.5          5.5          2.6        3.8
Consumption                               2838                 6.5          2.4          9.0        1.8           2.8       -0.8           -1.9          1.3          3.1         2.0         1.4
Groas  Investment                         306                -28.6         30.9         -0.6        0.8          13.6      -34.6           15.1         20.0          5.0         5.5         6.0
Exports of GNCS                           785                 12.0         24.9         28.8      -30.4          24.7      -29.0           -9.3         30.2          5.9         2.0         1.5
Imports of GNPS                           1265                 1.2         21.7         36.2      -11.4          15.5      -21.1            3.5          4.1          2.4        -1.3         0.5
Gross Domestic Savings                   -94.2               -24.1        113.6        -34.0      -73.5          69.6           -          23.2            -         75.8           -           -
PRICES
GDP Deflator (1979 = 100)                                     82.1         86.0         87.9       93.6           100       112.0         127.0        136.4        149.5       162.0       175.0
Exchange Pate (US$1-         )                               214.3        239.0        245.7      225.6         212.7      211.3          272.0        329.0        355.0         -           -
Share of GDP at Market Prices (%)                             Average Annu'al Increase (%)
(at current prices)                                        (at constant prices)
1970        1975         1980       1985             1970-1975              1975-1980          1980-1985
Gross Domestic Product                                       100.0        100.0        100.0      100.0                2.3                    .9                3.6
Agriculture                                                24.0         30.2         22.7      22.0                 3.1                   -.4                5.6
Industry                                                   25.5         24.0        25.1       26.4                 3.9                  2.5                 3.8
Other                                                      50.5         45.8        52.2       51.6                 1.3                   1.1                2.9
Consumption                                                   89.0         90.0        103.4       88.0                1.9                   4.0                1.2
Gross Investment                                              16.0         18.0         14.1       20.0                2.0                  -1.4               10.2
Exports (GNFS)                                                27.0         36.0         20.6       28.0                1.3                    .9                5.3
Imports (GNFS)                                                32.0         42.0         46.1       36.0                 .2                   8.0                2.2
Cross Domestic Savings                                        t1.3         12.3         -0.4       12.0                5.5                    - -
PUFtLIC FINANCE b/                                            PY76         FY77         FY78       FY79          FY80          FY81        FY82
(in billion CFA francs)
Curreant Revenue                                           77.1         91.7        97.1      107.5         134.1         125.5        147.2
Current 'Expenditures                                      77.2         83.1        94.1      101.4         131.8         139.6        155.6
Surplus (+) or Deficit (-)                                 -0.1          8.6         3.0        6.1           2.3         -14.1         -8.4
Capital Expenditure                                        14-9         21.6         9.5       12.5          13.2          21.0C-        5.4
Surplus (+) or Deficit (-)                                -15.0        -13.0        -6.5       -6.4         -10.9         -35.4        -13.8
a/ At market prices
b/ Central government only, excludes parastatals.
c/ Includes CFAF 8.8 billion for settlement of 5   plan operations.



March 1983.
Annex I
Page 5
SENEGAL - EXTERNAL TRADE
Population: 5,864 (mid-1981 ,thousands)
GNP per capita: US$500 (1981)
Annual Growth rates (W) at Constant Prices
Amount                              Actual                                       Preliminary                           Projection
Indicator                                 (million ITS$ at          -----------------------------------           -------------------------------------          ---------------------
current prices)         1975        1976        1977       1978        1979        1980        1981        1982                 1983
1980
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise Exports                             492               21.9        34.6         6.0       -42.4        42.3      -35.5       -12.8        48.3                  6.1
Primary                                      317               38.0        37.0         0.5      -44.0        46.4       -33.6       -15.4        70.8                 6.7
Petroleum                                     87               -4.3       -27.3        87.5       70.6        43.3        25.0         4.5        -1.7                 -2.6
Others                                        88              -15.6        39.1        19.5      -31.9        11.9       -44.5       -15.6        11.3                 8.9
Merchandise Imports                             999                2.3        25.8        13.6        -4.7        13.5      -21.5          1.5        4.8                  3.0
Food                                         210              -23.9        41.5         7.6       -2.3        19.0       -15.3        24.5        -2.8                 10.2
Petroleum                                    275                4.2         4.4        12.8        13.1       -9.1        21.8        -2.2        17.4                 -5.3
Machinery and Equipment                      157              -13.0        12.1        18.4      -29.7         9.1       -38.1        -3.4         5.3                 4.5
Others                                       357               33.2        28.1        14.5       -9.2        -5.9       -20.8        -7.1         3.1                 2.3
PRICES
Export Price Index (1979 = 100)                                     89          98          96          95         100         116         143        142                  153
Import Price Index (1979 - 100)                                     87         109          90          91         100        119         139         153                  164
Terms of Trade Index (1979   100)                                  102          89         106         104         100          97        103          93                  93
Composition of Merchandise Trade (M)                                          Average Annual Increase (%)
(at current prices)                                                     (at constant prices)
1975              1980             1983                    1975-1980                                        1980-1983
Exports                                                           100.0              100.0            100.0                         1.1                                           11.1
Primary                                                         70.5              64.6              72.0                          .3                                           15.5
Petroleum                                                        7.0              17.7              13.5                        14.5                                             .8
Others                                                          22.5              17.7              14.5                        -1.9
Imports                                                           100.0              100.0            100.0                         6.5                                            3.1
Food                                                            23.2              21.0              22.0                         2.3                                           10.0
Petroleum                                                       12.0              27.5              27.8                        18.5                                            2.8
Machinery and Equipment                                         18.4              15.7              16.2                         5.4                                            2.2
Others                                                          46.4              35.8             34.0                          3.1                                            -.6
Share of Trade with                              Share of Trade with                              Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries (1)                         Developing Countries (%)                    Capital Surplus Oil Exporters (%)
1970          1975         1980       1981         1970         1975        1980       1981        1970         1975        1980         1981
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                                              --           66.4         50.4        47.3          --          20.0        36.6       36.2         --           --          2.5          2.9
Imports                                              --           67.1         60.6        68.4          --          11.5        18.7       15.8         --          4.1         18.0         12.9



~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nl   P        wlOI                                                                         00                   0    001000                         0000 1CppPSHs   
.  c.        0 a  c.               NO         00 0XD  j    O' 3y  ,0q4    1'> '(¢r,0      o~~                                           ON  N'   N    =r    *              ONQ|>8Ff
r  O wr   t pl r   5    S    Z   es2 a v            er      o0                                  07      NI    NINNN 0a                  ,tOlNeI        0          cN>
O    N          N                     S    ON 5          ON ON            00 N5                    0011                 (00 °O  I-' 000 P  gNO P0 c     Pp    1                            0
0    00      0.0                        NI   000 .0    -'                     N       N C:l0                                      NO D   N    00        N       -0004 
N        N          o000              N       N'             NO O O4                                                               0               O  nO  N_
0 ~   ~       ~      ~      s _. NI_ I             p g 01'           NI Ns                         NI 1-                  >"           ON NS    O    O00
10 ~ ~    ~    ~    r 000.  1 N '0    N       ixn NO            '       1          A    -o1          0o -0    ND N               -N       0
.   NI   10'ON               -. 0'             O  r00 1X                             N                     '-0           0                       NI                                          41  4d      os     ug < I N9Jig
.  o    .rWVVD ON  00'   0    NI D O     O    -                  o                                  P0 D_00nr                                                                   -    41j10 
0~~~  ~~~~~ v  0.                            X            G°                                                         F C                oDVDOP '      N  -  D   O0    N  3   .
N~~~~~~~~~ s.  00               0            V             0'                                                     01D0' .n1>s  V<0                                                 -3<VO_wO   ZWnCD<aC  
N~~~~~~ IN   _        "      _                   N                                                        -                                                                 0.   o    
~~~~~~~  o  >              lwv  0  -'-   o                                                                  01g0                                                                c | N zc  nOC  P>s4Ip :
10 ~ ~    ~    ~    ux  O    O-N -N .                           N0-Ops<C                                                       QVI o            w< Vj1
r_  g pO    J oN                                                     O                                                                                                                          bt   DSOOsavOOv  1msC  D>N  0 
1f0\    CP        I  D °N°IV 
.014             '.D041.0      -1O40000'n~V s  P    40Ol-  '.0-0-  0D               W         0 lV   We  
ow~~~~~01-                             -01        a0 00           d0I- CD4 W0C   1rD   9qIrW_4 4  C0  WO  WD-.
0-00O S                                                                            Sv   N' IN W-0                              *0 N0'   D<_         
01   O01  "CP      O O                0 V   0  v  1O 4* C'47'          |I                 .41001 00 .0    0100 -.    w                J  
'4                                                '4(00              NI11  '
: ~ ~    ~     ~     ~    00         |01 4 1 0 0 0 1 0 1 5 0 0                                                           00     00-0          47 0100-                    I  '
-~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                   NO 



- 31 -                                  ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of February 28, 1983)
Amount, less cancellation
Loan/Credit                                                              (US$ Million)
Number       Year    Borrower         Purpose                   Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Seven Loans* and sixteen Credits fully disbursed                  29.0    110.7
530-SE          1975    Senegal      Education II                           15.0          2.31
1113-SE        1975    Senegal       Sine Saloum Agric. Dev.       4.2 I/                 0.12
1222-SE         1976    Senegal      Third Highway                15.0                    1.47
633-SE         1976    Senegal       Eastern Senegal Livestock               4.2          0.16
1332 SE        1976    SOFISEDIT   Second Development Finance   4.2                       0.31
1405-T-SE      1977    Senegal       Dakar Fishing Port            6.0                    0.68
1412-T-SE      1977    Senegal       Petite Cote Tourism           8.0                    2.53
1413-SE        1977    Senegal       Petite Cote Tourism           5.6                    1.77
775-SE          1978    Senegal      Debi-Lampsar Irrigation                20.0          3.99
1518-SE        1978    RCFS          Railways III                 11.0                    1.59
1665-SE         1979    Senegal      Second Airport                7.0                    3.00
S-23-SE         1979    Senegal      Water Supply Eng. & T.A.                2.5          0.86
908-SE          1979    Senegal      Education III                          22.0         12.53
991-SE          1980    Senegal      Small Rural Operations                 11.0          8.87
993-SE         1980    Senegal       Fourth Highway                         28.0         14-51
1810-SE        1980    Senegal       Fourth Highway               10.0                   10.00
S-26-SE         1980    Senegal      Power Eng. and T.A.                     3.3          2.03
1931-SE        1980    Senegal       Structural Adjustment        30.0                   16.65
1061-SE         1981    Senegal      Technical Assistance                    4.47 2/      3.45
1973-SE        1981    SOFISEDIT   Investment Promotion            6.5                    6.03
1136-SE        1981    Senegal       Investment Promotion                    2.29 2/      1.89
2025-SE         1981    SEFICS       Rail Transport 3/            19.3                   19.30
1103-SE        1981    Senegal       Forestry                                7.96 2/      7.65
1176-SE         1981    Senegal      Agric. Research 3/                     18.53 2/    18.53
1310-SE         1982    Senegal      Rural Health 3/                        15.48        15.48
1323-SE        1982    Senegal      Petroleum Exploration 4/                 9.70         9.70
Total                                    155.80   275.13       165.41
of which has been repaid               13.61     1.76
Total now outstanding                    142.19   273.37
Amount sold                    3.4
of which has been repaid   3.2          0.20     -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 2/        141.99   273.37
Total undisbursed                         63.45   101.96       165.41
*   A loan of US$3.5 million for agricultural credit (584-SE) made in 1969 was cancelled
on March 25, 1971.
1/ From the US$7.0 million original amount, US$2.8 million was cancelled on June 25,
1982.
2/ Computed at the February 28, 1983, rate of 1.08995.
3/ Not yet effective.
4/ Not yet signed.
5/ Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B.  Statement of IFC Investments (as of March 31, 1983)
Amount (US$ Million)
Equity
Fiscal          Obligor          Type of Business        Loan  Investment  Total
1967     Societe Industrielle   Fertilizer Plant       2.45       1.01     3.46
d'Engrais au Senegal
1972)    BUD Senegal S. A.
)
1973)                            Vegetable Export         -       0.84     0.84
1976)
1974     SOFISEDIT               Development
Finance Company         -        0.24     0.24
1980     Banque de l'Habitat    Money and Capital
du Senegal, S.A.       Market                   -        0.47     0.47
1980     Soci&te Hotelier6
du Barachois, S.A.     Tourism                 3.00       -       3.00
1982     Industrie Chimique
du Senegal             Fertilizer             25.00              25.00
Total Gross Commitments                       30.45      2.56    33.01
Less Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales                           2.45      1.05     3.50
Total Commitments now held by IFC             28.00      1.51    29.51
Undisbursed Balance                           24.00      0.00    24.00



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
B.   Projects in Execution l/
Cr. 530                Second Education Project; US$15.0 Million Credit of
February 19, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 22,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The closing date has been postponed to December 31, 1983, to allow
for project completion and full disbursement. The Government has decided,
with the Bank's agreement, to reduce the number of experimental rural youth
education centers. The revised construction program has been completed and
all equipment delivered. The Industrial Training and Upgrading Center and the
science and technology centers are operating satisfactorily.  The financial
situation has improved, following the increased value of the US Dollar
vis-a-vis the CFA Franc. Implementation of the decision to build and equip a
maintenance unit for the science centers and to complete the Merchant Marine
School, which was eliminated in 1979 to allow for rate exchange losses, is now
in progress. The project is efficiently managed.
Cr. 633                Eastern Senegal Livestock Project; US$4.2 Million Credit
of June 17, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1983.
The project is designed to assist about 30,000 pastoralists in
Eastern Senegal through improved grazing and herd management practices,
development of stock watering facilities and firebreaks, improved animal
health services, livestock credit, and a functional literacy program. About
95% of parallel financing is being provided by the Kuwait Fund and BADEA. The
Credit is fully committed and almost 100% disbursed. Construction of
buildings and wells is completed and most of the goals set at appraisal have
been achieved. The pastoral service established under the project is
successfully carrying out livestock extension services and implementation of
grazing management plans which have been carried out in 10 of the 53 pastoral
units created in the grazing scheme area. The recently-appraised Eastern
Senegal Rural Development Project includes a follow-up livestock component for
the grazing scheme area and will provide new funding for the project by the
end of 1983 in order to consolidate the results. The project's closing date
has been extended from June 30, 1982, to September 30, 1983.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular, to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 34 -
ANNEX I I
Ln. 1405-T             Dakar Fishing Port Project; US$6.0 Million Loan of
June 7, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: March 20, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1983.
All the civil works and the bulk of the studies and technical
assistance under the project have satisfactorily completed. The new quays are
in use. A loan balance stemming from favorable exchange rate variations and
satisfactory project execution is being used to finance audits of Dakar
Port. Overall performance of the Port Authority remains satisfactory, but
progress in meeting financial targets has been hampered by excessive central
control, lack of financial autonomy and the high level of receivables.
Ln. 1412-T             Petit Cote Tourism Project; US$8.0 Million and US$5.6
Ln. 1413               Million Loans of June 7, 1977 as amended on May 12,
1980; Date of Effectiveness:  January 23, 1981; Closing
Date:  June 30, 1985.
The project includes construction of infrastructure and common faci-
lities for hotel development on the Petite Cote, a major tourist area where
lack of infrastructure has so far limited such development; a program of works
for renovation of Goree Island; and technical assistance and studies for long-
term financing for hotel construction at the site. Construction of infra-
structure works at the Sali site has been satisfactorily completed. The first
wing of the Palm Beach hotel opened in December 1980, and the second wing is
completed and will open in Fall 1983, bringing the total number of beds to
330. Two other hotels are under construction. A worldwide recession has
dampened prospects for mobilizing private investors for hotel construction
although SAPCO has a number of projects under construction. Port and street
works for the Goree renovation are complete and bids have been awarded for the
renovation works on the Hotel Relais de l'Espadon on Goree island.
Ln. 1518               Third Railway Project; US$11.0 Million Loan of March 17,
1978; Date of Effectiveness:  August 10, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983.
The project consists of track rehabilitation and maintenance, supply
of material and equipment, improvement of telecommunications facilities and
track in the Dakar area, supply of spare parts for motive power and rolling
stock, strengthening of training programs and facilities, and studies. The
project is completed except for ballasting works.  Track repair work between
Dakar and Thies proceeded satisfactorily for about 12 months. Because neither
the Regie nor the Government were able to provide the local funds needed for
better quality ballast in FY81, track repair work was halted on and off.
Discussions are underway for IDA financing a larger share. The project is
likely to be completed by late 1983, probably with a local cost overrun of
about $2 million but with no overrun on the foreign cost element.
Cr. 775                Debi Lampsar Irrigation Project; US$20.0 Million Credit
of March 17, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: June 30,
1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project provides for development of about 2,810 ha through full
water control irrigation in the Senegal River Delta, and construction of
related facilities; technical assistance to the project authority SAED; con-



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
sulting services for applied research and studies for future development of
the River Valley. Works on the IDA-financed Lampsar perimeter (2,070 ha) and
on the Debi perimeter (740 ha), financed by the Kuwait Fund under a parallel
financing arrangement, have been satisfactorily completed. Studies for future
development of the Senegal Valley are well advanced, and will be available in
time to permit appraisal of a proposed Fourth Irrigation project.  This
appraisal could be scheduled for end-1983, depending on results of discussions
with other donors, planned for May 1983, on how to relieve SAED's structural
deficit.
Ln. 1665               Second Aviation Project; US$7.0 Million Loan of
April 18, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: November 15,
1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project consists of levelling and strengthening the main runway
and taxiway and improving the taxiway alignment at Dakar airport, together
with the installation of navigation and visual approach aids at Ziguinchor and
Cap Skirring regional airports. Work at Dakar airport was satisfactorily
completed by the end of 1980. Equipment procurement is completed, and con-
tracts for civil works at Ziguinchor and Cap Skirring have been awarded. The
Bank has approved a Government request to use the available balance of the
loan to finance supplementary works selected from the investment plan. This
additional work, which includes rehabilitation of the terminal building and
runway night lighting system, is now underway.
Cr. S-23               Water Supply Engineering and Technical Assistance Pro-
ject; US$2.5 Million Credit of May 23, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness: August 10, 1979; Closing Date: June 29,
1984.
The project provides for economic, financial, and technical studies
to prepare a priority investment project for rehabilitation and extension of
water supply systems in eleven secondary centers, including six regional
capitals; and technical assistance to strengthen the planning and operating
entities in the sector. Feasibility, organizational and financial studies
have been carried out, and detailed engineering designs are well underway.
The proposed investment project was appraised in March 1982.
Cr. 908                Third Education Project; US$22.0 Million Credit of
May 23, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: August 16, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The closing date of the EEC Special Action Credit has been extended
to December 31, 1983, to allow for the construction of new practice primary
classrooms in the Kolda area. Three of the institutions to be created under
the project, the Management Institute (ESGE), the College of Agriculture
(INDR), and the Technical Teacher Training College (ENSET) have started work
on, or are about to start work on, their new facilities. Physical
implementation of all components will be completed after an average delay of
one year. Equipment procurement is progressing with only minor delays. The
project continues to be efficiently managed.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Cr. 991                Small Rural Operations Project; US$11.0 million Credit
of April 2, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: September 10,
198-0; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project focuses on channelling funds and technical services to
small groups of rural people who will undertake to provide labor, and some
funds, for the development of several types of directly productive activities,
namely: development of small perimeters for irrigated cultivation of rice,
vegetables, and bananas; beekeeping; and fishing.   The project also includes
village water supplies, an allocation for additional directly productive acti-
vities to be identified and prepared during implementation, and provision for
a management structure. After a good take-off, the project is experiencing
coordination problems and implementation delays. In March 1983, a mid-term
review mission proposed-corrective measures to stimulate the exectuion of sub-
projects marking time. The encouraging factor is the interest shown by most
farmers and producer groups to participate in project activities.
Cr. 993               Fourth Highway Project; US$10.0 Million Loan and US$28.Q
Ln. 1810              million Credit of April 2, 1980;  Date of Effective-
ness: December 9, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The major objective of the project is to increase Government's
capacity to keep the road system in adequate condition, in particular, to
train technicians and selected staff, to improve road work planning and pro-
gramming capacity, and to rehabilitate and upgrade important road sections.
The project consists of the following components: (a) a three-year training
program for road maintenance staff; (b) a two-and-a-half year technical
assistance program for road maintenance execution; (c) upgrading of the
Government's soils laboratory to strengthen its participation in road main-
tenance activities; (d) design of proper and systematic pavement maintenance
and strengthening programs; (e) strengthening and rehabilitation of about 200
km of primary paved roads; and (f) construction of the Louga-Dahra road (about
85 km) to two-lane, paved standards, financed in parallel by the Japanese
Government. Almost all procurement has been satisfactorily completed, and the
physical works, as well as consulting services for studies are well under-
way. The training component encountered difficulties with budget allocations
and recruitment of trainers in mid-1982, but these problems are being
overcome. Due to the dollar increased value, additional road sections can be
improved under the program and at a higher envisaged disbursement rate.
Cr. S-26              Power Engineering and Technical Assistance Project;
US$3.3 million Credit of June 18, 1980, Date of
Effectiveness:  August 29, 1980, Closing Date:  June 30,
1984.
The major objective of the project is to help Government develop an
overall energy plan and reorganizing the power sector. The reorganization
study has been completed, and legislation for creation of a national power
entity is being finalized. Two technical advisors for general energy and
power sector planning have been provided to the Ministry of Industrial
Development. An overseas training program is underway for Senegalese
officials responsible for energy planning. The project also includes audits,



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 7
financial and tariff studies, and feasibility studies for a headquarters
building for the new power entity and for the renovation and expansion of
distribution facilities. Project implementation is well underway.
Cr. 1061              Technical Assistance Project for Economic and Financial
Planning; SDR 4.1 million (US$5.3 million equivalent)
Credit of October 27, 1980; Date of Effectiveness:
January 9, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The project is aimed at supporting and strengthening the Government's
ability to identify, select and prepare, monitor execution of, and carry out
retrospective evaluations of its portfolio of development projects. The pro-
ject also aims at strengthening public debt monitoring, budgeting and fore-
casting capacity, and improving coordination between project needs and public
financing. Long-term consultants have been recruited and now well estab-
lished, and a number of studies have been selected for financing. The project
is being executed satisfactorily, but technical assistance and local training
efforts, as well as management structures, need reinforcing if the project is
to achieve its original objectives. A full review is planned for May 1983.
Ln, 1931              Structural Adjustment Loan and Development Credit;
Cr. 1084              US30 million Loan and SDR 22.9 million (US$30 million
equivalent) Credit of January 26, 1981; Date of Effec-
tiveness: March 30, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
US$40 million equivalent of the Loan/Credit proceeds were released in
1981 to the central bank to help the Senegalese Government finance its medium
term economic stabilization and rehabilitation program. Specific objectives
concern the quality and the size of the investment program, improved
incentives for domestic production, increased efficiency in the overextended
parapublic sector and reforms in agricultural policies and institutions.
Counterpart funds are being used principally in the agriculture and transport
sectors to finance implementation of approved "contrats-plan" (program
contracts) with public enterprises. Six such "contrats-plan" have been
financed with SAL funds, mostly with positive results on company operations.
The second tranche (about US$16.0 million) is being withheld because of lack
of progress in achieving agreed program objectives in agricultural reforms.
About US$1.0 million equivalent is being used for consultant studies.
Cr. 1103              Forestry Project; SDR 7.3 million (US$9.3 million
equivalent) Credit of March 11, 1981; Date of Effec-
tiveness: July 1, 1982; Closing Date: December 31,
1986.
The project aims at meeting the steadily increasing demand for fuel-
wood and forest products in the urban center of Dakar and in rural areas of
the heavily populated Groundnut Basin, where rapid population growth is
resulting in serious deforestation. Project implementation is now underway.



- 38 -
"      II
Page 8
Ln. 1973              Investment Promotion Project;   US$6.5 million Loan and
Cr. 1136              SDR 2.1 million (US$2.5 million equivalent) Credit of
July 17, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: February 11, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The project aims at promoting productive investments in Senegal by:
(i) reinforcing SOFISEDIT, both financially and institutionally; (ii) pro-
viding loan and equity finance for viable subprojects; (iii) improving the
efficiency of SONEPI, the local industrial promotion agency; and (iv) stream-
lining the investment approval process. Although project implementation is
still at an early stage, commitments under the line of credit have been
progressing quite satisfactorily. Little progress has been made, however, in
reversing the deterioration of SOFISEDIT's financial position, since the
company's portfolio continues to be plagued by a high level of arrears. Steps
are being taken by SOFISEDIT's Management to improve administrative and
operational efficiency of the institution and to vigorously pursue collection
of arrears. Assistance of a highly experienced banking consultant has been
sought to determine other actions needed to put the institution on sound
footing and to insure its long-term viability.
Ln. 2025              SEFICS Rail Transport Project;  US$19.3 million Loan of
September 30, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: March 8,
1983; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project aims at creating SEFICS, an operating subsidiary of the
parent fertilizer producing company called ICS, for providing and managing
rail transport services needed by ICS. SEFICS will operate the ICS trains on
Senegal railways. main line tracks after paying a track user charge. All
major bids have been received and their aggregate cost is well within
appraisal estimates.
Cr. 1176              Agricultural Research Project;  SDR 17 million (US$19.5
million equivalent) Credit of March 12, 1982; Not yet
effective; Closing Date: June 30, 1988.
The project aims at reorganizing and decentralizing the national
agricultural research effort by making it more adapted to small farmer
needs. Under the project the Senegalese Agricultural Research Institute
(ISRA) would be reinforced to carry out (i) 5 production systems research
programs in Senegal's major agro-ecological zones, and (ii) six nationally
coordinated multidisciplinary commodity programs on groundnuts, millet,
sorghum, maize, rice, and cowpeas.
Cr. 1310              Rural Health Project; SDR 14.2 million (US$15.0 million
equivalent) Credit of February 2, 1983; Not yet
effective; Closing Date:  December 31, 1988.
The project consists of construction/renovation and equipment of nine
helath centers, upgrading the training of helth personnel, improvement of the
supply and utilization of basic drugs, improvement of health education
services, and strengthening the Ministry of Public Health's planning,
implementation and evaluation capability. The Government is currently aiming
to satisfy the conditions of effectiveness which require: a) formally
establishing the Project Management Unit, b) opening an account in a local



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 9
commercial bank for the establishment of the IDA-financed special account, and
c) opening an account for the establishment of a local revolving fund for
Government counterpart financing. The accounting consultant's contract has
been finalized, permitting commencement of the Pharmacie Nationale
d'Approvisionnement audit and setting up of project accounts. Overall
progress of project activities is on schedule.
Cr. 1323               Petroleum Exploration Project; SDR 8.9 million (US$9.5
million equivalent) Credit of March 31, 1983; Not yet
effective, Closing Date:  December 31, 1985.
The Credit was approved by the Board of Directors on February 8,
1983, and was signed on March 31, 1983; effectiveness is expected by the end
of April 1983.  In the meantime, project implementation is continuing
satisfactorily under financing from a PPF advance. All components are on
schedule, except for the Diam Niadio geophysical program which is likely to be
postponed by about six months due to delays in reaching agreement between the
Government and Elf Aquitaine.



- 40 -
ANNEX III
SENEGAL
PHOSPHATE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplemental Project Data Sheet
I.   Timetable of Key Events:
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:    13 months
(b)  Project prepared by:                CSPT, ICS and the Association
(c)  Identification mission:             February 1982
(d)  Appraisal mission:                  June 1982
(e)  Negotiations:                       March 1983
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:    September 1983
II. Special IDA implementation Action:
To help ensure prompt initiation of the project an advance under the
Project Preparation Facility in the amount of US$800,000 equivalent was
granted to the Government on March 8, 1983.
III. Special Conditions
The following principal agreements have been agreed upon during
negotiations by the Government, PROMOPHOS, ICS, and CSPT:
(a)  the Government and PROMOPHOS shall enter into a subsidiary Loan
Agreement satisfactory to the Association (para. 64);
(b) PROMOPHOS and ICS shall enter into a Financing Agreement
satisfactory to the Association (para. 64);
(c)  PROMOPHOS and CSPT shall enter into a Financing Agreement
satisfactory to the Association (para. 64);
(d) agreement among the Association, PROMOPHOS and ICS that the results
of Phase I of the processing component confirm the technical and
economic viability of the slimes recovery pilot plant would be a
condition of disbursement of Phase II of the processing component
(para. 69);
(e) PROMOPHOS would be headed by a project manager who would be assisted
by a phosphate processing engineer and a financial analyst with
qualifications acceptable to the Association (para. 66); and
(f) after completion of the project, ICS and CSPT would exchange views
with the Association prior to making decisions to proceed with
investments in a full scale slimes recovery plant and new
beneficiation facilities (para. 70).



- 41 -
Annex IV
Page 1 of 6
SENEGAL - PHOSPHATE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT ENGINEERING PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE PROJECT STUDIES
1.       The project would have three components:
I. Processing Component. Test, studies and pilot plant work to
establish the commercial-scale viability of the technology
(hydrocyclones) PHOSVALOR recommended for upgrading Taiba slime
rejects into feed material for ICS's phosphoric acid plant.
This component will be executed by consultants hired by ICS.
II. Mining/Beneficiation Component. Tests and studies to help
optimize the overall long-term P205 recovery rate of the mining
and beneficiation operations at Taiba, taking into account ICS's
future phosphoric acid and phosphate fertilizers production
capacity. This component will be executed by consultants hired
by CSPT.
III. Planning Component. Tests and studies of the Matam and Thies
deposits as needed to help define a long-term development pro-
gram for Senegal phosphate resources. This component will be
executed by consultants hired by the Government.
I. PROCESSING COMPONENT
2.       This component would be executed in two phases, so that the Phase II
works would be undertaken after the Phase I studies confirm their technical
and financial justification.
First Phase
3.       Cadmium Removal from Phosphoric Acid.  Bench scale tests of solvent
extraction and chemical precipitation methods, to remove cadmium from phos-
phoric acid manufactured with Taiba rock.
4.       Review of Existing Documents Relative to Slime Utilization.  All
relevant existing reports, notes and other documents will be reviewed to
obtain information on the following subjects:
-    phosphoric acid production process selected for the ICS plant
with particular view to its water balance and its capability to
cope with an elevated level of iron and aluminum resulting from
slime feed.
-    water circuit for CSPT beneficiation plant with particular view
to quantity of water. recycled and possible impact of elevated
content of unsettled fines and flocculation agents in recycled
water on the performance of existing plant.



- 42 -
Annex IV
Page 2 of 6
-    tests already executed by Phosvalor for upgrading of slimes by
hydrocycloning and centrifuging.
The possible impact of these results on the water balance for the
overall CSPT and ICS operations will be assessed.
5.       Hydrocyclone Tests.  Based on the previous laboratory tests and
discussions with experts and suppliers, a small number of suitable cyclones
will be purchased for installation in CSPT beneficiation plant.  Selection of
cyclones will be made in such a way that separation of a wide range of par-
ticle sizes (say from 2-10 microns) can be studied with a number of cyc-
lones.  Multi-stage cycloning will be simulated by batch-type operation.  The
cyclones, together with pump, motor and other necessary equipment will be in-
stalled at the existing pipeline from the underflow of the Taiba thickeners to
the slimes dam. Each cyclone will be tested under different operating para-
meters and results analysed to arrive at optimum operating conditions. The
tests will be extended to cyclones from different suppliers, as needed.
6.       Laboratory Tests with Upgraded Slime from Hydrocyclone Tests.  The
upgraded slimes from the hydrocyclone tests will be used in laboratory tests
for the production of phosphoric acid. From these and, if necessary, other
laboratory tests, the impact the upgraded slimes would have on the water
balance of the phosphoric acid plant and the qualities of the produced acid
will be determined.  Based on the results of these tests, maximum possible
quantity of slimes in the feed material for the phosphoric acid plant will be
assessed.
7.       Laboratory Tests with Overflow from Hydrocyclone Tests. Tests will be
made with the cyclone overflow to determine settling characteristics of the
enriched slimes. The necessary effluent treatment and the amount and quality
of the water recycled to CSPT beneficiation plant will then be assessed.
8.       Laboratory Tests with Thickened Slime Samples from Hydrocyclone
Tests. Tests will be carried out to partially dewater the upgraded slimes
from the hydrocyclone tests. The thickened samples will then be tested to
determine their handling properties such as viscoscity and settling rates.
The requirements for slime pumping and storage will then be determined.
9.       Engineering of a Slimes Recovery Pilot Plant.
(i) Based on the results of the above tests (paras. 5-8), a pre-
liminary flowsheet and the basic design features of a pilot plant
capable of supplying ICS's phosphoric acid plant with upgraded
slimes, will be determined. The size selection of the pilot
plant, now tentatively fixed at 1/4 scale (10 tph), will be
influenced by the following factors:
-   reliable transfer of operating -esults to full size commercial
plant,



- 43 -
Annex IV
Page 3 of 6
-   consideration of modular composition of full size commercial
plant,
-   possibility of using pilot plant for continuous, economical
supply of upgraded slimes to the phosphoric acid plant.
All interconnections of the pilot plant with CSPT beneficiation
plant (such as slimes supply and water recycling) the ICS
phosphoric acid plant (such as feed and power supply) and
infrastructure (such as reject disposal) will be specified.
(ii) A capital and operating cost estimate for the pilot plant
described above will be made.
(iii) If justified by above cost estimates, bid invitations will be
prepared for the turnkey procurement of the pilot plant.
Second Phase
10.      Construction of Pilot Plant.  The pilot plant engineered under Phase
I (para.9) will be constructed at ICS's phosphoric acid plant site by a turn-
key contractor.
11.      Test Operation of Pilot Plant.  Test runs of the pilot plant will be
made to determine optimum operating conditions, to evaluate its impact on ICS
phosphoric acid and CSPT beneficiation plants and to identify areas for
improvements.
II. MINING/BENEFICIATION COMPONENT
12.      Cadmium recovery by Calcination.  High cadmium levels in Taiba rock
concentrate may affect CSPT's European rock sales. Bench scale calcination
tests to remove the cadmium will be carried out. They will be followed by
pilot scale vendor tests as necessary. Before proceeding with vendor tests
the conceptual process will be proven at bench scale levels.
13.      Coarse Product Recovery.
(i) Preliminary Study. CSPT indicates that approximately 100,000 tons
of concentrate is now lost as coarse products with the present
flow sheet. CSPT would prepare a technical/economic review to
justify recovery of this product by alternate means before making
the tests envisaged as follows in (ii)-(v).
(ii)  Mine Washer 20 or 25 mm Screen.  Test a 20 or 25 mm coarse waste
rock split instead of the present 30 mm split to reduce the
overload on the present rod mill circuit. Test would involve
changing mine washer screen size at full plant capacity.



- 44 -
Annex IV
Page 4 of 6
(iii) Heavy Media Separation. Bench scale tests will investigate and
prove the possibility of upgrading coarse feed material (315 to
800 mm) by projecting chest waste.
(iv) Coarse Feed Conditioning. Tests will be made to verify the
present coarse feed conditioning efficiency and test more
efficient methods such as a drum conditioner.
(v) Coarse Flotation Method. Small and large scale tests will be made
to evaluate the use of pneumatic cells, spirals, or belts for
coarse and skin flotation.
14.      Flotation Operation Efficiency.
(i) Preliminary Study. CSPT will prepare a techno/economic study for
the installation of modern large flotation cells.
(ii) Flotation Cell Tests. Full scale flotation tests will be
performed to assess improvements in operating factor, maintenance,
and power consumption if larger flotation cells (mechanical type)
were used.
15.      Plant Controls.  An engineering study, equipment evaluation and
specifications followed by quotations for sampling equipment and instru-
mentation will be prepared. The following equipment will be purchased,
installed and commissioned:
- Automatic samplers
- Flotation pulp density regulation
- Flotation pH regulation
- Tailings mass/flow measurement
- Laboratory analysis equipment
16.      Alternate Product Potential:
(i) Run of Mine (-30 mm) Ore Acidulation. Bench scale investigation
for the direct acidulation of approximately 28% P205 minus 30 mm
run of mine ore; plus assessment of potential economic benefits of
such acidulation.
(ii)  Deslimed Flotation Feed Acidulation.  Bench scale investigation
for the direct acidulation of approximately 31% P205 flotation
feed after desliming; plus assessment of potential economic
benefits.
(iii) Miscellaneous Product Recovery. Economic and technical evaluation
for potential recovery of various Taiba plant rejects which
contain relatively high levels of P205.



- 45 -
Annex IV
Page 5 of 6
17.      Slimes Reserve, Mining, and Use Evaluation:
(i) Keur Mor Fall Slime Reserves. Drilling, sampling and analysis
with about 50 drill holes in the next 15 years reserves at Keur
Mor Fall to ensure that the ore CSPT will mine in the coming years
will contain slimes in adequate quality and quantity to supply ICS
phosphoric acid plant as planned.
(ii) Existing Slime Pond Reserves. Drilling and pits to sample and
analyze the existing slimes in CSPT mined-out pits, and ponds.
(iii) Existing Slimes Mineability. Mining tests of existing slimes
ponds; i.e. backbee mining tests to verify a practical mining
method.
(iv) Existing Slimes Agglomeration. Agglomeration studies to evaluate
the potential of granular direct application products from the
existing slimes ponds which have now settled to about 70% solids
and 24% P205.
18.      Slimes Beneficiation Tests.  Critical technical and economic review
of slime test work to date and additional work on any methods which may have
good potential of improved recovery and better economics than hydrocyclone
beneficiation.
III. PLANNING COMPONENT
19.      The Government of Senegal is presently carrying out different geo-
logical surveys and studies to evaluate the country's other phosphate reserves
Matam and Thies. These surveys and studies are financed by different sources
of bilateral aid. CSPT has already carried out surveys and studies of the
Tobene deposit. It is proposed that:
(i) the results of these studies be reviewed and consolidated,
(ii) additional studies and tests be conducted as required to determine
the technical and economic viability of beneficiating, exporting
or processing rock from the Matam and Thies deposits, and
(iii) a report be prepared to recommend an overall long term development
plan for Senegal phosphate resources once Taiba deposits are
exhausted.
For the Matam deposits, preliminary bench scale beneficiation tests would be
carried out to assess possible beneficiation methods for this rock. Various
products from those tests would also be analyzed to determine the P205 v.s.
size distribution of feed and concentrate. For the Thies deposits of aluminum
phosphate, beneficiation and phosphoric acid production methods will be



- 46 -
Annex IV
Page 6 of 6
reviewed and tested as needed. A report would be prepared to recommend the
optimal comprehensive long term development plant for Senegal phosphate
resources.
Industry Department
June 1982



SENEGAL - PHOSPHATE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT ENGINEERING PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1983        1984         1985         1986         1987
I.  Processing Component                       1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3   4  1  2  3  4
First Phase
-  Cadmium recovery from acid
-  Review of existing documents
-  Hydrocyclone tests
-  Laboratory tests
-  pilot plant engineering
Second Phase
-  Pilot plant contractor selection
-  Pilot plant construction
-  Pilot plant tests/operation
-  Report
II. Mining/Beneficiation Component
-  Cadmium recovery from rock
-  Coarse product recovery
-  Flotation operation efficiency
-  Plant controls
-  Alternate product potential
-  Slime reserves
-  Slime beneficiation tests
-  Report
III. Planning Component
- Review of previous studies
(Thies, Matam, Tobene)
-  Beneficiation tests, Matam
-  Beneficiation/acid tests, Thies                                           .X
-  Report
Industry Department
April 1983



