OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS CREDIT NUMBER 1360 SE
Development Credit Agreement
(Phosphate Industry Development Engineering Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                            , 1983


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1360 SE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1983, between
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL (hereinafteF called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL   DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION   (hereinafter   called   the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) any financing so provided by the Association would be
refunded, if the Association so requests, out of the proceeds of
any credit by the Association or loan by the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development which may later be granted to
the Borrower or any other party for the purpose of exploiting the
Borrower's phosphate resources; and
(C) Parts A and B of the Project will be carried out by ICS
and CSPT, respectively, with the assistance of the Borrower and
PROMOPHOS, and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will
make available to PROMOPHOS, and PROMOPHOS will in turn make
available to ICS and CSPT, part of the proceeds of the Credit as
hereinafter provided;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
PROMOPHOS;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said  General   Conditions  Applicable  to  Development  Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).


﻿- 2 -
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "ICS" means Industries Chimiques du Senegal, a company
established and operating under the laws of the Borrower;
(b) "ICS Statutes" means (i) the Statuts of ICS dated
November 25, 1976 as amended on November 18, 1977, November 18,
1980 and July 30, 1981, and (ii) the Convention d'Etablisssement
between the Borrower and ICS dated April 21, 1981, both as
amended from time to time;
(c) "CSPT" means Compagnie Senegalaise des Phosphates de
Taiba, a company established and operating under the laws of the
Borrower;
(d)   "CSPT Statutes" means (i) the Statuts of CSPT dated
August 21, 1979, and (ii) the Convention d'Etablissement dated
June 10, 1958 as amended on November 16, 1968 both as amended
from time to time;
(e) "PROMOPHOS" means Societe de Promotion des Phosphates
du Senegal, a limited liability company (Societg a responsabilite
limit6e) established and operating under the laws of the Borrower
and held in equal shares by the Borrower, ICS and CSPT;
(f) "PROMOPHOS Statutes" means the Statuts of PROMOPHOS
dated March 9, 1983 as amended from time to time;
(g) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and PROMOPHOS, ICS and CSPT of even date herewith, as
the same may ba amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules to the Project Agreement and all agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(h) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and PROMOPHOS pursuant to SeC-
tion 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(i) "CSPT Financing Agreement" means the agreement to    be
entered into between PROMOPHOS and CSPT in accordance with the


﻿-3-
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, as such agreement may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all sched-
ules to the CSPT Financing Agreement;
(j) "ICS Financing Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between PROMOPHOS and ICS in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, as such agreement may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all sched-
ules to the ICS Financing Agreement; and
(k) "Project   Preparation   Advance"  means   the  project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated February 12, 1983 and
March 8, 1983 between the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section  2.01. The Association    agrees to   lend  to  the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
seven million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 7,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit


﻿shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1988 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each
year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 15
and September 15 commencing September 15, 1993, and ending March
15, 2033, each installment to and including the installment
payable on March 15, 2003, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the Republic of France is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.


﻿-5-
Section 2.10. The Managing Director of PROMOPHOS is desig-
nated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions for the purposes of the carrying out of Parts
A and B of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part C of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in cc.iformity with
appropriate financial, administrative, engineering and industrial
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights and powers as a
shareholder of PROMOPHOS, ICS and CSPT and every other right,
power or remedy available to it to permit or cause PROMOPHOS, ICS
and CSPT to perform all their obligations under the Project
Agreement, and it shall not take, nor cause or permit any of its
political subdivisions or any of its agencies or any agency of
any such political subdivisions to take, any action which would
prevent or interfere with the performance by PROMOPHOS, ICS and
CSPT of their obligations contained in the Project Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and
(6) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement to PROMOPHOS under a subsidiary loan agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and PROMOPHOS under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Association and
which shall, except as the Association may otherwise agree, inter
alia, include the terms and conditions set forth in Part I of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the pur-
poses of the Credit, and except as the Association shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.


﻿- 6 -
(e) Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions
of Section 2.01 of the Project Agreement, the Borrower specifi-
cally undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause to believe
that the funds available to ICS or CSPT will be inadequate to
meet the estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of
Parts A or B of the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory
to the Association, promptly to provide ICS or CSPT or cause ICS
or CSPT to be provided with such funds as are needed to meet such
expenditures.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out Part C of tne Project, the Borrower shall employ experts and
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association,
such consultants to be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause all services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit for Part C of the Project to be
used exclusively for the purposes of the Project until its
completion.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to PROMOPHOS
all necessary information in respect of Part C of the Project to
enable PROMOPHOS to carry out its obligations under Section
2.05 (a) of the Project Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of Part C of the Pro-
ject (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it),
to identify the services financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, and to disclose their use in Part C of the Project; (ii)
enale the Association's representatives to visit the facilities
and sites included in Part C of the Project and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association at
regular intervals all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning Part C of the Project, its cost
and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the
expenditure of such proceeds and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
-(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the


﻿-7-
Association may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of Part C of the Project, but
in any event not later than six months after the Closing Date or
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare with the
assistance of PROMOPHOS as and when req-tred and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and ini-
tial operation of Part C of the Project, its cost and the bene-
fits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations
under this Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the opera-
tions, resources and expenditures, in respect of Part C of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower respons-
ible for carrying out Part C of the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall not, without the Associa-
tion's prior approval, (A) consent to any modification of the
PROMOPHOS Statutes, or (B) sell, pledge or otherwise dispose of
any of its share of PROMOPHOS or permit a change in the percen-
tage of its holdings of such shares.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) PROMOPHOS, ICS or CSPT shall have failed to perform any
of its obligations under the Project Agreement;


﻿-8-
(b) as a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situa-
tion shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that PROMO-
PHOS, ICS or CSPT will be able to perform their respective obli-
gations under the Project Agreement;
(c) the PROMOPHOS Statutes, the ICS Statutes or the CSPT
Statutes shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of
PROMOPHOS, ICS or CSPT to perform any of their respective obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement; and
(d) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of PROMOPHOS, ICS or CSPT or for the suspension of their
operations.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Associa-
tion to the Borrower, PROMOPHOS, and ICS or CSPT; and
(b) any events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on
behalf of PROMOPHOS, ICS and CSPT have been duly authorized or
ratified by all necessary corporate action;
(b) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and PROMOPHOS;


﻿-9-
(c) the ICS Financing Agreement has been executed on behalf
of PROMOPHOS and ICS; and
(d) the CSPT Financing Agreement has been executed on
behalf of PROMOPHOS and CSPT.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by PROMOPHOS, ICS and CSPT, and is legally binding upon
PROMOPHOS, ICS and CSPT in accordance with its terms;
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and PROMOPHOS and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and PROMOPHOS in accordance
with its terms;
(c) that the ICS Financing Agreement has been duly author-
ized or satisfied by PROMOPHOS and ICS and is legally binding
upon PROMOPHOS and ICS in accordance with its terms; and
(d) that the CSPT Financing Agreement has been duly author-
ized or ratified by PROMOPHOS and CSPT and is legally binding
upon PROMOPHOS and CSPT in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The d,te   C)    A..,      VY83 , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under
Article IV of this Agreement and the provisions of Article V of
this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date 20
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.10 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated


﻿- 10 -
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere de l'Economie et
des Finances
Rue Charles Laine
Dakar
B.P. 4017
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINFINANCES                        3203 SG
Dakar
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
By   jS/
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Western Af-:ica


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the allocation of
amounts of the Credit to each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                    SDR Equivalent)
(1) Consultants' and experts'                        260,000
services for activities set
forth in paragraphs (A) 1, 2
and 3 of the Exhibit to
Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement
(2) Construction and operation                     4,460,000
of the slime recovery plant
referred to in paragraph (A) 4
of said Exhibit
(3) Consultants' and experts'                        340,000
services for Part B of the
Project
(4) Equipment for activities set                     320,000
forth in paragraphs (B) 3 and
4 of said Exhibit
(5) Consultants' and experts'                        250,000
services for Part C of the
Project
(6) Refunding of Project                             730,000
Preparation Advance
(7) Unallocated                                      740,000
TOTAL    7,100,000


﻿- 12 -
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower;
(b) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement;
(c) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation, manu-
facture, procurement or supply thereof; and
(d) payments made for expenditures under Category (2) until
the Association shall have notified PROMOPHOS that it is satis-
fied, on the basis of studies and tests to be carried out under
Part A of the Project, that the construction of a pilot plant
shall be technically and economically justified.
3.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
set forth in the second column of the table in paragraph 1 above,
if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance all expenditures in that Category, the Association may,
by notice to the Borrower, reallocate to such Category, to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the
Credit which are then allocated to another Category and which in
the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other
expenditures.
4.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Asso-
ciation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:   Processing
Tests, studies and, if justified on the basis of the
foregoing, development, construction and operation of a pIlot
plant to carry out further tests, to determine the commercial
scale viability of recovering slimes produced by CSPT into feed
material for ICS' phosphoric acid plant.
Part B:   Phosphate mining and beneficiation
Tests and studies to assist CSPT in optimizing the overall
long-term P205 recovery rate of its mining and beneficiation
operations at CSPT, taking into account ICS' future phosphoric
acid and phosphate fertilizer production capacity.
Part C:   Planning
Tests and studies of the Borrower's phosphate deposits at
Matam and Thies to assist the Borrower in defining a long-term
program for the development of phosphate resources.
The detailed features of the Project shall be as set forth
in the Exhibit to this Schedule, as such Exhibit may be amended
from time to time.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1987.


﻿- 14 -
Exhibit to Schedule 2
Detailed Features of the Project
The detailed features of the Project shall be as follows:
(A) Part A of the Project
1.   Laboratory tests- of cadmium removal from phosphoric
acid.
2.   Studies and laboratory tests to:
(a) select optimal microhydrocyclone type and size for
slime recovery;
(b) produce phosphoric acid from recovered slimes;
(c) determine   settling,   handling  and   dewatering
characteristics of recovered slimes;
(d) engineer a 1/4 scale slime recovery pilot plant.
3.   Feasibility studies for the purposes set forth in
Section 3.05 of the Project Agreement.
4.   Construction  and  operation  of a   1/4  scale  slime
recovery pilot plant.
(B) Part B of the Project
1.   Laboratory tests for cadmium removal from phosphate
rock.
2.   Studies and tests for improving (a) the P205 recovery
in CSPT beneficiation plant, and (b) the operating
efficiency of that plant.
3.   Installation of sampling equipment and instrumentation
to control product flows in CSPT beneficiation plant
and to determine P205 losses.
4.        (a) Drillings and analyses to estimate slimes
reserves in the deposit at Keur Mor Fall; and


﻿- 15 -
(b) mining tests to establish the mineability of
CSPT stock-piled slimes, and chemical tests
to assess the potential for manufacturing
granular direct application products from
stock-piled slimes.
5.   Studies and laboratory tests for slimes beneficiation
with processes other than hydrocyclone.
6.   Feasibility studies for the purposes referred to in
Section 3.06 of the Project Agreement.
(C) Part C of the Project
1.   Review and consolidation of existing studies on the
deposits at Matam and Thies.
2.   Preliminary  bench   scale  beneficiation  tests   for
phosphate rock from the deposit at Matam and deter-
mination of P205 vs. size distribution in ore and
beneficiated products.
3.   Review and tests of beneficiation and phosphoric acid
production methods for phosphate rock from the deposits
at Thies.
4.   Preparation of a long-term development plan for the
Borrower's phosphate resources.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Terms and Conditions of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
the ICS Financing Agreement and the CSPT Financing
Agreement; Responsibilities of PROMOPHOS
I.   Subsidiary Loan Agreement
The Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be concluded between the
Borrower and PROMOPHOS pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of the
Development Credit Agreement shall, inter alia, provide for the
following:
(a) The Borrower shall relend to PROMOPHOS the proceeds of
the Credit allocated to Categories (1), (2), (3), (4)
and (6) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement.
(b) PROMOPHOS shall repay all amounts relent to it out of
the proceeds of the Credit and shall pay interest and
other charges thereon on the same respective terms as
PROMOPHOS shall be required to apply to ICS and CSPT in
accordance with the provisions of Part II (b) and (c)
of this Schedule.
(c) PROMOPHOS shall undertake to further relend (i) to ICS
all amounts allocated to Categories (1) and (2) of the
table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the
Development Credit Agreement and such amounts allocated
to Category (6) of said table as shall be disbursed in
respect of Part A of the Project under a financing
agreement (the ICS Financing Agreement) to be entered
into between PROMOPHOS and ICS, and (ii) to CSPT all
amounts allocated to Categories (3) and (4) of said
table and such amounts allocated to Category (6) of
said table as shall be disbursed in respect of Part B
of the Project under a financing agreement (the CSPT
Financing Agreement) to be entered into between
PROMOPHOS and CSPT. Said Financing Agreements shall
include, inter alia, the terms and conditions set forth
in Part II below.
(d) PROMOPHOS shall undertake to exercise the responsibi-
lities set forth in Part III hereof and to duly perform
its obligations provided for or referred to in the
Project Agreement.


﻿- 17 -
II. ICS Financing Agreement and CSPT Financing Agreement
The agreements to be concluded pursuant to paragraph (c) of
Part I above shall, inter alia, provide for the following:
(a) PROMOPHOS shall relend to ICS and CSPT the amounts
referred to in paragraphs (c) (i) and (c) (ii), respec-
tively, of Part I of this Schedule.
(b) The terms and conditions applicable to the relending of
said amounts to ICS and CSPT shall be as follows:
(i) Subject to the provisions of sub-paragraph (ii)
below, ICS and CSPT shall each repay the amounts
of the Credit relent to them by PROMOPHOS over a
period not exceeding 15 years, including a grace
period of 3 years, all counted from the date
referred to in Section 3.05 (b) of the Project
Agreement. ICS and CSPT shall each pay to
PROMOPHOS interest at the rate of 12.7% per annum
on amounts withdrawn by them and outstanding from
time to time, it being understood, however, that,
until the date referred to in Section 3.05 (b) of
the Project Agreement, (A) no such interest shall
accrue and (B) ICS and CSPT shall each pay to
PROMOPHOS a service charge at the rate of 0.75%
per annum on the amounts withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
(ii) In the event that Part A of the Project shall not
result in commercial operations, then the terms
set forth in sub-paragraph (i) above shall not
apply to amounts relent to ICS and CSPT but the
following terms shall apply: ICS and CSPT shall
then each repay the amounts of the Credit relent
to them by PROMOPHOS over a period not exceeding
20 years, including a grace period of 7 years from
the date of this Agreement. Each shall also pay to
PROMOPHOS a service charge at the rate of 0.75%
per annum on the amounts withdrawn by them and
outstanding from time to time as well as all other
charges which the Borrower may have to pay to the
Association in respect of said amounts.


﻿- 18 -
(iii) For the purpose of this paragraph, the term
"commercial operations" shall have the following
meaning:
Part A of the Project shall be deemed not to
have resulted in commercial operations if the
feasibility report to be prepared pursuant to
Section 3.05 (b) of the Project Agreement shall
have established, on the basis of criteria satis-
factory to the Association, that the recovery of
phosphate slimes shall be discontinued because (A)
the technical specifications of phosphoric acid
produced with recovered slimes are inadequate for
purposes of exporting such phosphoric acid, or (B)
the level of production costs of export grade
phosphoric acid makes its production uneconomic.
It is understood however that should ICS decide at
a later date prior to June 30, 1991, to proceed
with commercial recovery of slimes, then the terms
set forth in sub-paragraph (i) above shall apply
with retroactive effect.
(c) ICS and CSPT shall each undertake to pay to PROMOPHOS
all other charges which shall be payable by the
Borrower to the Association in respect of proceeds of
the Credit onlent to PROMOPHOS and which shall in turn
be payable by PROMOPHOS to the Borrower.
(d) ICS and CSPT shall each undertake to obtain, as and
when required, the approval of, or to consult with,
PROMOPHOS as provided for in paragraphs (a), (b), (c)
and (d) of Part III below.
III. Responsibilities of PROMOPHOS
PROMOPHOS shall further exercise the following functions
with respect to the Project:
(a) Preparation of detailed terms of reference for the
studies and the tests to be carried out.
(b) Supervision and approval of the selection and employ-
ment of experts and consultants and all procurement.
(c) Approval of any modification in the terms of reference
and conditions of employment referred to in the preced-
ing paragraphs (a) and (b).


﻿- 19 -
(d) Collection, on a continuing basis, of all results of
studies and tests under the Project and communication
of such results, together with PROMOPHOS' comments
hereon, to the Borrower, ICS and CSPT.
(e) Preparation of the feasibility reports referred to in
Sections 3.05, 3.06 and 3.07 of the Project Agreement.
(f) Developing recommendations on ICS' and CSPT's future
investments in phosphate beneficiation and processing.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
1983
FOR SECRETARY


