Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.7884
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LESOTHO
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1036-LSO)
JUNE 21, 1989
Infrastructure Division
Technical Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o



ABBREVIATIONS/ACROWYMS
ADB             -             African Development Bank
BEDCO           -             Basotho Enterprises Development Corporation
BFC             -             Building Finance Corporation
GOL             -             Goverment of Lesotho
LBFC            -             Lesotho Building Finance Corporation
LCU             -             Labor Construction Unit
LEC             -             Lesotho Electricity Corporation
LEHCO-OP        -             Lower-Income Housing Company
LHC             -             Lesotho Housing Corporation
LSPP            -             Land Survey and Physical Planning
MMC             -             Maseru Municipal Council
MTO             -             Maseru Township Office
PCR             -             Project Completion Report
PCU             -             Project Coordination Unit
USIT            -             Urban Sanitation Improvement Team
COUNTRY EXCHANGE RATES
Name of Currency:              Maloti (Loti plural)
Year                  Exchange Rate
Appraisal Yr. Av.               1979                  US$l   0.82M
Intervening Yrs. Av.               1980-83               US$1 = 1.02M
1984-86               US$1 = 1.67M
Completion Year              1987                   US$1 = 1.96M



FOR OMcIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. DC 20433
USA
Ofice of DfectmCAwatI
Ope#atme Etvawatwn
June 21, 1989
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Lesotho
Urban Development Project
(Credit 1036-LSO)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Lesotho - Urban Development Project (Credit
1036-LSO)w prepared by  the  Africa  Regional  Office.    No  audit of this
project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LESOTHO
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1036-LSO)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface                      .............  i
Basic Data Sheet         ....                                      iii
Evaluation Summary               . .....v
I.   INTRODUCTION ...........................................     1
II.    PROJECT PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL .....    .................  2
A. The Process ........................................      2
B.  Objectives and Project Description .................    3
III.    IMPLEMENTATION ........................................5. 
A.  Effectiveness    ......................................5 
B.  Physical Progress .......  .........................    6
C'. Costs      ..............................................    10
D.  Financing Plan ........   .............................    10
E. Disbursements .     ..............................    11
F. Procurement               ....11
G. Reporting             . ...11
H. The Role of IDA             .. . ........  12
IV.   OPERATING PERFORMANCE ..................................    12
V.    INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS .............................    15
VI.    FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE ..................................    16
VII.    ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION .................................    20
VIII.    CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS .......   .........................    22
A.  Conclusions    ........................................    22
B. Lessons Learned ....................................    23
-  -be   by     - in



ANMEJES
1.    Constraints in the Land Act ...........................  26
2.    Details of Technical Assistance .......................  28
3.    Total Proiect Costs ...................................  30
4.    Disbursement of the Credit ............................  31
5.    Compliance with Key Credit Covenants ..................  32
6.    Cost Recovery .........................................  34
7.    Contract Data .........................................  35
S.    Affordability, Plot, Loan and Service Charges .........  36
9.    Economic Rate of Return Calculations ..................  37
CHARTS
1.    Appraisal and Actual Implementation Schedule ..........  41
2.    Disbursement Profile ..................................  42



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LESOTHO
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1036-LSO)
PREFACE
This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) for an Urbar Development
Project for which Credit 1036-LSO was approved on June 3, 1980 in the
amount of  USS6.0 million.    The  original  Closing  Date  of the credit,
June 30, 1985, was postponed twice; the final Closing Date was June 30,
1987.   Final  disbursement  was  made  January  21,  1988,  at  which time
approximately US$511,800 was cancelled.
The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure Division of the Africa
Technical Department on thE basis of documents contained in the regional
files, information provided by staff members involved with the project
during its execution, and a visit to Lesotho in November 1987. The
valuable assistance provided by the Government of Lesotho, the staff and
management of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU), and the Lower-Income
Housing Company (LEHCO-OP) met during the preparation of this report is
gratefully acknowledged.
This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED).
The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower on April 7, 1989, for comments by
May 26, 1989, but none were received.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LESOTHO
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1036-LSO)
BASIC DATA SHEET
KEY PROJECT DATA
Item                            Appraisal         Actual or
Expectation        Current Est.
Total Project Cost (US$ million)    7.1              6.8
Overrun or underrrun (Z)              -              -42
Credit Amount (US$ million)          6.0             6.0
Disbursed                        6.0             5.5
Cancelled                         -              0.5
Date Physical Components Completed  6/30/84          4/30/88 /a
Proportion Completed by Above Date  lOOZ             100o
Proportion of Time Underrun/Overrun   -              +901
Economic Rate of Return (X)           22Z            152
Financial Perfomance                  Good           Fair
Institutional Performance             Good           Good
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Item                      Original              Actual or
Plan       Revisions  Current Est.
First mention in files   -           -           05/27j77
Government Application   -           -           05/27/77
Negotiations              11/19/79               03/24/18
Board Approval            01/08/80   05/27/80   06/03/80
Effectiveness Date        07/11/80   11/10/80   11/07/80
Closing Date              06/30/85   06/30/86   06/30/87
Borrower                       Kingdom of Lesotho
Executing Agencies        Ministry           Ministry of Interior (MOl),
of Interior,       Project Coordination Unit (MOI)
Maseru Township    and Lower-Income Housing
Office             Company
Fiscal Year of Borrower                 April 1 to March 31.
Follow-on Project Name                  Urban Sector Reorientation Project
Loan/Credit Number                      Under negotiations
Amount (USS million)        .           US$20.4 million
Loan/Credit Agreement Date
/a Estimated completion date for the multi-purpose community centre in Thamaes.



- iv -
STkii INPUT
(anweks)
1979  1980  1981  1982  1998  1984  1985  1986  1987  1989  TOTAL
Preappri *al   10.0    -   -    -    -    -    -         -    -      -    10.0
Appraisal    29.2  17.7    -    -    -    -    -    -          -    -    48.9
Negotiation    .1  6.0    -    -    -    -    -          -    -      -    6.1
Supervision    -    -   17.8  7.7  14.9  4.2  6.2  5.0   2.0  6.E   68.6
Other          -     .1  1.2   .9    -    -    -         -     -    -    2.2
TOTAL       89.8  28.8  18.5  8.6  14.9  4.2  6.2   6.0  2.0   6.8  128.8
MISSION D&TA
Item            Month/    No. of  No. of  Staff-  Date of
Year      Weeks   Persons  weeks  Report
Identification 10/77      1.0      1         1.0    11/18/77
Preparation    05/78      1.0      1         1.0    06/15/78
Preappraisal   08/78      2.0      5        10.0    11/15/78
Appraisal       04/79     3.0      5        15.0    08/17/79
Post-Appraisal 01/80      1.0      1         1.0      --
Total                  8.0              28.0
Supervision I  10/80      2.0      1       2.0      12/03/80
II            01/81     1.5      3       4.5      02/25/81
III           05/81     1.0      1       1.0      06/30/81
IV            11/81     2.0      2       4.0      12/31/81
* V             07/82     1.0      2       2.0      08/20/82
* VI            03/83     1.0      3       3.0      05/26/83
VII           06/84     1.0      3       3.0      09/23/84
* VIII          04/85     0.5      1       0.5      05/16/85
T IX            01/86     1.0      2       2.0      05/19/86
* X             01/87     2.0      2       4.0      04/07/87
Completion      11/87     2.0      1        2.0     Completion Report
Total                15.0             28.0



- v -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LESOTHO
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1036-LSO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
i.        This was the first Bank-supported project in the urban development
sector in Lesotho. The project was successful in completing all major
physical works and in expanding and improving urban infrastructure,
including communizy facilities, to low-income families.   Approximately 860
new and improved housing units were added to Maseru's housing stock at costs
affordable to the low-income households. The project successfully
introduced enabling legislation and administrative procedures for managing
urban development. The legislative reforms provided the basis for reviving
the municipal finance system by establishing a process of periodic
revaluation of properties and introducing rates throughout greater Maseru.
The project has thus brought about an important turning point in urban
policy in Lesotho.
ii.       The project was designed to assist the Government of Lesotho (GOL)
in building a local government framework centered on the Maseru Municipal
Council (MMC) which was to be established under the project. MMC, which has
now been in operation since November 1987, has become the first urban local
authority in the coiu-try. Major legislation enacted during the project
(Urban Government Act, the Municipal Valuation and Rating Act and the Town
and Country Planning Act) helped lay the foundation for self-sustaining
local government operations. The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) created
within the Ministry of Interior in connection with the project has now been
absorbed into MMC. Technical and financial support provided by the recently
appraised follow-on urban project has helped to accomplish this
institutional objective.
iii.      Another objective of the project was to ensure replicability of
project components through full recovery of all allocable costs. Other
objectives were to provide community facilities, improve sanitation and
health, stimulate employment through technical and financial assistance to
the informal sector, train manpower, and establish an adequate routine
maintenance of infrastructure throughout greater Maseru.
iv.        The project consisted of (a) technical assistance for the PCU,
and studles to design the organizational structure and administrative and
financial management systems for MMC and to assess its training needs; (b)
development of 500 serviced residential and 25 business plots in
Khubetsoana; (c) upgrading and densification in Thamaes affecting 1,300
residential and business plots; (d) provision of about 1,700 loans to pay
for buildi.ng materials for home improvement/construction and latrines; (e)
community facilities, including a health center, and additional classrooms
for primary education; and (f) assistance to the informal sector in the form
of building materials' loans for constructing shops, and construction of two
rel  1   rkets.



- vi-
v.        The technical assistance component of the project has been
instrumental in streamlining the bousing delivery system with the merger of
two parastatals, Lower Income Housing Company (LEHCC-OP) and the Lesotho
Housing Corporation (LHC). Continued technical advice and support is being
provided undar the follow-on second urban development project to bring about
this consolidation and to assist in the early stages of operation.
vi.       The project has been a major force in introducing low-cost
affordable standards for housing and related infrastructure, and these
standards have generally been accepted (para 8.05).
vii.      The project has successfully increased the supply of shelter and
urban services to the residents of Maseru. Women, in particular, have
derived considerable benefits from the housing development and housing loan
schemes in Khubetsoana and Thamaes (para 4.05). and this can be attributed
to the project's success with community education and participation.
viii.     The physical components of the project were smoothly and
efficiently implemented and no major problems were encountered. There were
a few modifications to the project, primarily due to difficulties in
implementing the Land Act, which was the main mechanism for converting
traditional land to formal tenure. As a result of the limitations of the
Land Act (Annex 1), including the absence of political will to enforce it,
it became difficult to subdivide the Thamaes upgrading area. This led to
delays in the takeup rate of home improvement loans as well as lower than
anticipated demand for these loans. The resulting savings were used to
extend services te- low-income households in an adjacent infill area.
Correspondingly, because of the land constraints in Thamaes, the employment
generation components were deleted from the upgrading scheme, a-nd
construction of the multipurpose community center was delayed by about four
years.
ix.       Despite the difficulties with land subdivision in Thamaes, the
project was partially successful with its densification objective (i.e.
increasing the number of households per plot), and this can in part be
linked to the improved level of services introduced in Thamaes (paras 8.08
to 8.10). Subdivision turned out to be an insignificant factor in the
densification process. Increased attention will be given to land issues
under the follow-on project.
x.        After an initially good performance with beneficiaries'
collections, the project experienced a steady and persistent deterioration,
culminating in very high rates of arrears. The difficulties in collecting
payments from beneficiaries can be attributed primarily to faulty and
deficient record-keeping within the principal collection agency, Lesotho
Building Finance Corporation (LBFC). Collection performance was exacerbated
by the relatively low fees assigned to LBFC at appraisal which did not
provide sufficient incentive for improvement in LBFC's collection effort. A
recent increase in LBFC's colle tion fee along with other measures (para
6.10) has begun to bring about iziprovements in collection performance. The



- vii -
GOL has recognized the importance of effective cost recovery auLd is
introducing a number of measures to achieve tiis objective under the follow-
on project.
xi.       The project has been partially successful in its employment
generation objective. Approximately 1,600 jobs were created during the
construction phase of the project. The permanent jobs anticipated to be
created once the market stails (60) and business plots (50) were developed
have been slow to materialize (paras 3.17 and 7.09); the jobs (380)
anticipated to be created at the abbatoir located near the Khubetsoana site
did not materialize.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LESOTHO
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1036-LSO)
INTRODUCTION
1.01      Lesotho is one of the smallest countries in Africa.  it is
completely surrounded by the Republic of South Africa [RSA] on which it
depends for about 90 percent of its trade. In the late 1970s Lesotho did
not have urban pressures of the scale found in most other African countries,
partly due to the ability of rural families to supplement farm income with
wage remittances from RSA. During the early 1980s, however, in response to
employment opportunities in and around Maseru, population growth accelerated
at a rate which has placed serious pressures on the limited availability of
urban services.  Although this problem fas not yet large by comparison with
other African countries, GOL wished to prevent further deterioration in
urban services and provide a rational urban development pattern and better
living conditions for the poorer urban drellers. To this end, GOL sought
IDA's assistance through this first urban development project.
1.02       In 1980 the urban population growth rate was more than twice the
national average (4.8 percent compared to 2.3 percent) while Maseru's
unplanned peri-urban areas expanded at about 16 percent yearly. The backlog
in urban housing was estimated at 3,600 units at that time, and the housing
demand was estimated to be growing by 1,200 units per year.
1.03      Most housing construction in Lesotho is done by the informal
sector. GOL's past involvement in housing development had mostly been
limited to supplying housing on a subsidized basis to civil servants and
expatriate technicians involved in specific development projects. The
Maseru Township Office (MTO) was able to do little to provide essential
infrastructure and urban services to its outer suburbs, as its revenue base
was limited to the original town and was very low. Public housing agencies
were yet to address the shelter requirements of Maseru's low-income
residents on any significant scale due to capacity, financial and legal
constraints, such as the land tenure system, and they paid insufficient
attention to appropriate standards which would be affordable.
1.04      As part of GOL's longer term program to improve the delivery of
urban services on a replicable and affordable basis, GOL drafted in 1979 a
comprehensive housing policy which aimed at mobilizing domestic savings,
abolishing housing and infrastructure subsidies and promoting self-help
construction. The GOL also sought to strengthen the weak housing
institutions created in the 1970s to provide housing and finance for all
income groups: the Building Finance Corporation (BFC) which began operation
in 1977; the Lesotho Housing Corporation (LHC) established in 1971; and the
Lower Income Housing Company (LEHCO-OP) founded in 1975.



2
1.05      The Government also introduced measures to improve the legislative
framework for urban development by drawing up four new bills, the most
important of which was the Land Act of 1979 dealing with the main issues of:
(al land tenure and transferability of title; [b] urban institutions with
sufficient authority, manpower and an adequate financial base for managing
urban growth; and (c] proper legal authority to control the orderly
development of urban areas. The Act gave entitlement to every adult Hoiotho
to one lease free of ground rent, provided the property is used solely for
his/her residence. Additional leases are allowed, subject to ground rents
renewable every decade. Titles are inheritable and lessors may transfer
their interests, create mortgages and sublst. Other provisions of the Act
allow plot costs to be reduced through higher residential densities and
introduce cost recovery mechanisms essential to the success and
replicability of urban development projects.
1.06      The second piece of legislation, the Urban Government Act, enabled
the Government to create urban authorities starting with the Maseru
Municipal Council (?4MC) which has now become operational (para 4.01). Two
other acts drawn up to (i) create a Town and Country Planning Board to plan
land use and area development (Town and Country Planning Act), and (ii)
consolidate and extend assessment and collection of charges (Valuation and
Rating Act) for urban services, were enacted in 1979 and 1980, respectively.
1.07      The first urban development project in Maseru was prepared during
the time when many of the new policy initiatives were under consideration by
the GOL. The project provided GOL an opportunity to demonstrate the
feasibility of implementing a new approach to urban development emphasizing
simple, low-cost, technically appropriate standards for urban infrastructure
within an improved legislative context.
1.08      The closing date for this project was extended twice primarily to
allow a more realistic timeframe to lay the groundwork for establishing the
MMC and also to complete construction activities in Thamaes. During
June/July 1987, the Bank appraised a second urban project which essentially
builds on the policies and procedures introduced in the first project and
strengthens and rationalizes the institutions involved in the sector.
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
A. The Process
2.01      The first urban development project in Lesotho arose from a
request from the GOL for IDA support to help alleviate the growing backlog
in the supply of housing and reliable urban services as part of a long-term
program to rationalize urban development. Identification missions in
October 1977 and May 1978 agreed with GOL on a suitable package for Bank
financing consisting essentially of upgrading of a squatter settlement, a
sites and services scheme, community facilities, primary education, aid to
small businesses, and technical assistance. Retroactive financing in the
amount of US$150,000 was made available to the PCU to assist in project
preparation.



3
2.02      The project was appraised by IDA in April 1979, approximately two
years after project identification as it awaited the passage and enactment
of a Land Act which was critical to the project's evolution.   The Act was
finally gazetted on June 16, 1980. The following factors also delayed the
preparaticn schedule and altered the project composition, including: (i)
late land acquisition as the initially proposed housing site had to be
changed because of GOL's decision to retain the land at the Agricultural
Experimental station for agricultural use; (ii) reduction in the number of
plots from 1,000 to 500; (iii) elimination of project loans to small-scale
enterprises; and (iv) delays in the appointment of a project coordinator.
2.03      In January 1980 a post-appraisal mission reviewed the detailed
plans and development costs for the alternative housing site [Khubetsoana]
approved by GOL. Negotiations and Board approval proceeded rapidly as
conditions precedent to negotiations were met by GOL, i.e. passage and
establishment of a firm date for gazettement of the Land Act; Cabinet
approval of the extension of water to the sites and services areas; transfer
of the approved site to Government; and the allocation of sites for project
staff housing. Negotiations were held in Washington in March 1980 with
representatives from the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of the Interior,
Ministry of Planning, the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) of the Ministry of
the Interior, and LEHCO-OP.
2.04      The main issues during pre--ration and negotiations centered
around (i) the onlending interest rate to be charged to beneficiaries of
housing loans; (ii) the heavy arrears in municipal rates in Maseru; (iii)
establishment of a timetable to shift responsibility from PCU to MMC when
created; ar.d (iv) establishment of a road maintenance program for Maseru.
2.05      With respect to the onlending rate for housing loans, agreement
was reached on an indexed system under which the rate would be revised in
the fifth, tenth and fifteenth years (of the 20-year loans) at two
percentage points below the prime lending of the Building Finance
Corporation (BFC).  BFC i-s also required by statute to operate on a sound
commercial basis. The Government further agreed to establish an annual road
maintenance program, to design new financial and administrative systems for
Maseru and to examine the township's arrears problem.
B. Obiectives and Prolect DescriDtion
2.06      The principal objective of the project was to demonstrate the
feasibility of providing affordable urban services to low-income households
on a financially sound basis. More specifically, the project set about to
assist GOL to establish the requisite legislative and institutional
framework centered on the planned MMC. The PCU created within the Ministry
of the Interior was expected, with the existing MTO, to form the nucleus of
the MKC. To ensure replicability of project components, full recovery of
all allocable costs was a major goal. The project was intended to be a
time-slice of a longer term involvement of the Bank in the urban sector and
included funds for the preparation of a follow-on project which was
appraised during June/July 1987.



4
2.07      Other objectives were to upgrade and construct community
facilities, improve health and sanitation conditions, stimulate employment
through financial and technical assistance to the informal sector, encourage
local construction methods, train manpower and establish adequate routine
maintenance of infrastructure throughout Maseru.
2.08      Specifically, the project components as agreed at appraisal are
listed below:
i. Technical Assistance for:
(a) the staffing and housing of the project co-ordination unit
(PCU);
(b) studies to (i) design the organizational structure,
administrative and financial management systems for MHC and
to assess its training needs, and (ii] further develop Maseru
including identification of a second project; and
(c) a sanitation team to design and supervise construction of
low-cost sanitation units.
ii. Site Preparation and ServicinR including:
(a) development of about 500 residential and 25 business plots at
Khubetsoana; and
(b) upgrading of Thamaes, a peri-urban area of about 1,300 plots
(the entire area to be upgraded and large plots subdivided to
give a total of 2,500 plots, of which about 25 plots would be
reserved for smiall businesses).
iii.  Rome Construction and Improvement Loans
Ranging from US$298 to US$954 to be made available to about 1.700
households in Khubetsoana and Thamaes to purchase building
materials for home improvement, construction and latrines.
iv. Primary Infrastructure
(a) for the Khubetsoana site and services area: upgrading of an
existing peripheral road to gravel standard, paving of a
through road and provision of street lights with project
funds. Paving and lighting of the peripheral road in the
Thamac, upgrading area also expected to be funded under the
project;
(b) provision of off-site water fully funded by GOL from its own
resources in Khubetsoana and by an existing African
Development Bank (ADB) loan in Thamaes; and



5
(c) extension and upgrading of the electrical network to the
project areas provided by the Lesotho Electricity Corporation
(LEC) from its own resources.
v. Community Facilities
(a) a total of 28 additional classrooms for primary education in
project areas; and
(b) centers for health, nutrition, child care and community
activities (one each for Khubetsoana and Thamaes).
vi.  Maintenance and Refuse Equipment
Provision of minimum equipment to allow MTO to maintain the town
and project roads adequately and for trash collection.
vii.  Assistance to the Informal Sector
(a) two 30-stall retail markets and serviced plots for workshops
and retail outlets;
(b)  building material loans to small businesses (maximum 50
loans up to US$954 each); and
(c) loans to purchase machinery, other equipment, raw materials
and working capital amounting to about US$171.000 to be
provided by the Basotho Enterprises Development Corporation
(BEDCO) out of its normal resources.
III. IMPLEMENTATION
A. Effectiveness
3.01      Project startup was relatively uneventful except for minor delays
in meeting the following effectiveness conditionss
(a)  enacting and gazetting the Land Bill;
(b)  appointing a municipal engineer, a sanitary engineer and an
accountant for the PCU;
(c)  entering into a formal agreement with BFC to collect all charges
from project beneficiaries; and
(d)  entering into agreement with LEHCO-OP to ensure its provision of
services needed for the house construction/improvement loan
program.
The credit became effecti,c on November 7, 1980, approximately five months
after Board approval and four months later than the original plan.



6
B.   Physical Progress
3.02      Implem'entation of virtually all the physical works progressed
smoothly and efficiently. Relatively quick startup and execution of civil
works in Khubetsoana made it possible for early plot allocation procedures
to begin, an important factor for an effective cost recovery program
(collection difficulties did occur, however, as explained in paras 6.07 to
6.10).   While the civil works portion of the Thamaes upgrad4ng scheme
proceeded on target, execution of the total upgrading package was
constrained by delays in laad acquisition and subdivision, stemming largely
from difficulties in implementing the Land Act (Annex 1). Slow land
subdivision led to delays in issuing building material loans in Thamaes as
they were to be issued only upon completion of infrastructure works, plot
rationalization and issuance of leases.
3.03      Savings resulting from the lower than estimated demand for house
improvement loans at Thamaes and other deletions from the project (para
3.13), coupled witn savings resulting from the devaluation of the Maloti
during project implementation were utilized to extend services, including
residential plots, to low-income residents in an adjacent infill area in
Thamaes.
3.04      The flexibility followed by GOL and IDA during implementation
ensured the completion of most of the components of the project as
appraised, while allowing the deletion and/or postponement of some of the
items which were unresolvable within the timeframe of the project and the
addition of other similar items considered to be feasible with the resources
that were available.
3.05      Project modifications were largely responsible for the need to
extend the closing date of the credit by two years. Had the land
acquisition and subdivision issues been resolved earlier, th: original four-
year implementation schedule for physical works estimated at appraisal would
not have been unrealistic. The implementation schedule comparing actual and
appraisal estimates is shown in Chart 1.
(a) Rhubetsoana Sites and Services
3.06      Implementation of most aspects of the Khubetsoana component
proceeded well ahead of schedule and satisfactorily. Excess demand for the
serviced plots (a total of over 1,200 applicants for 500 plots by mid 1982)
caused LEHCO-OP to discontinue advertising and stop accepting applications
much earller than expected. Initial deposits were promptly paid by
successful applicants, legal agreements signed and building material loans
issued. Housing construction and occupation were completed within eight
months of loan disbursements.
Business Plots
3.07      A 30-stall retail market was constructed and 25 business plots
surveyed and advertised, but there has been some diffi;ulty in



7
operationalizing these facilities. The market stalls completed in 1983 have
not been taken up as anticipated primarily because standards were considere'
by GOL as too basic to attract occupants, even at nominal rents. GOL
proposes to upgrade these facilities to the standards of existing markets
elsewhere in Maseru. Likewise, 20 out of the 25 business plots developed
under the project have remained vacant for over two years, large.y because
of (i) the inability of prospective beneficiaries to secure loans from BEDCO
for working capital, and (ii) the types of businesses that have shown
interest are inappropriate for the existing level of infrastructure. In
total these two components represent less than 2 percent of total project
costs.                     ::
Roads and Drainage
3.08      Construction of the perimeter roads to gravel standard was done as
expected at appraisal, but only lOOm of the 600m of the through road was
upgraded to bitumen surface because of cost overruns. Storm water drainage
was laid as anticipated. These road and drainage works were carried out by
Labor Construction Unit (LCU) of the Government force account with minor
design changes (e.g. upgrading the culvert from 2.4m to 3m) which had little
effect on final costs.
Water
3.09      All on-site reticulation was completed satisfactorily and on
schedule by LCU as opposed to the initial plan to contract it out. Bids for
the joint CIDA/IDA contract were considered too high (18 percent above
estimates after contingencies); because of the small size of the job, PCU
recommended LCU to perform the work. Despite fears that LCU's workload
could not accommodate the contract, LCU showed that the work could be
programmed into its own schedule without exceeding its capacity.
Electricity
3.10      Construction of both on-site and off-site electrical works was
done by the Lesotho Electricity Corporation (LEC) from its own resources.
House Construction Loans
3.11      A total of 503 loans averaging M 2,150 (approximately US$2,100)
were advanced to beneficiaries during 1981-84 for construction of basic two-
room housing units and latrines, representing an increase of 59 percent over
appraisal estimates in constant maloti. Plot sizes averaged 240 m2.
Community Facilities
3.12      Construction of 28 additional classrooms for primary education was
completed on schedule and within cost estimates by a local contractor. The
multipurpose community center was constructed by the Ministry of Works using
direct labor with minor delays and a 90 percent cost overrun.



8
(b) Thamaes UDtradina
3.13      The major problem with this component is linked to the requirement
to declare Thamaes a *Selected Development Area* to enable boundary
adjustment and upgrading of services. It was expected that subdivision
would take place which would be the vehicle for densification and for making
charges more affordable. Subdivision and eventual sale of plots did not
take place as anticipated, and this led to delay3 with physical progress as
land for the construction of community facilities in Thamaes did not become
available until late in the project cycle; business plots had to be deleted
from this component due to the inability to obtain the necessary land.
Densification, however, did take place and therefore the underlying
objective was not compromised (paras 8.08 to 8.10).
Roads and Drainage
3.14      The main problem with the roads component was the rapid
deterioration caused by the increase in traffic which exceeded the appraisal
estimates and gravel standard provided.   As a result of the relatively
steep site and the low design standards, silt rapidly accumulated in the
unlined drains. Utilizing savings under the project (paras 3.03 and 3.04),
the roads were upgraded to bitumen standard at an additional cost of 0.4
million maloti.
Water
3.15      Initial delays were caused by uncertainties as to whether funds
under the ongoing ADB-sponsored project would be sufficient to cover the
cost of reticulation in Thamaes. This was resolved as ADB identified
sufficient funds to cover the complete reticulation network up to and
including meters to the standpipes, as well as the standpipes. Because of
the large number of individual connections at the site, the number of
standpipes was reduced from the original provision of 60 to 28.
Home Improvement Loans
3.16      Difficulty in applying the specifications of the Land Act, the
primary mechanism for subdividing Thamaes, slowed the finalization of plot
surveys and issuing of leases, and this contributed to a slow rate of take-
up of the home improvement loans. Of the 1,200 loans earmarked for Thamaes,
only 292 were advanced averaging 2,630 maloti (approximately US$2,500) each.
Compared with appraisal expectations the average loans represent an increase
of about 90 percent in constant maloti.
Community Facilities
3.17      Land acquisition difficulties also hampered the timely
construction of the multipurpose community center in Thamaes. Land for the
center has only recently been acquired from previous occupants. Designs
have now been completed and construction has recently commenced. It is
expected that construction undertaken by the Ministry of Works will end by
mid-April 1988 at an estimated cost of M 300,000. Problems of site



9
acquisition led to the deletion of markets and business plots from the
Thamaes subproject.
(c) Thamaes Infill
3.18      In order to further address Maseru's housing shortage, the PCU,
after IDA consultation and agreement, utilized a portion of the project
savings to develop a mini sites and services scheme in the Thamaes Infill
area (available land adjacent to the upgrading area). The initial designs
done by LSPP had to be redone following a topographic survey which
highlighted the difficult terrain and rocky conditions of the infill;
designs were finalized by LEHCO-OP. Plot development and housing
construction took place during 1986 and 1987. A total of 58 units were
developed as opposed to the initial estimate of 108. House construction
loans eisbursed for this component averaged M4,140 (approximately US$2,100),
covering the costs of plot development and housing construction.
Roads
3.19      The cost of road construction was relatively high caused by
additional excavation work required for the rocky soil conditions in the
infill. Higher than anticipated cost estimates led to the construction of a
lower standard of road (earth instead of gravel), narrower widths and
unlined stormwater ditches along the lateral sections of the roads.
Water
3.20      A total of three standpipes were provided in the Thamaes Infill
area.
(d) Sanitation
3.21      At the time when the project was conceived, coverage of adequate
sanitation facilities in urban areas was extremely poor, and there -.ere no
clear plans as to how this situation could be improved. It was established
early that waterborne sewerage was not viable in the project sites and
services areas since it was unaffordable to the beneficiaries. Studies
undertaken by the sanitation team under the leadership of an expatriate
advisor led to the adoption of simple pit latrines as the most viable and
least cost solution for the project sites. Materials for pit latrines were
purchased by beneficiaries using house construction loans, and technical
advice in latrine construction was provided by the sanitation team. Final
costs of the sanitation units ranged from M300-750 depending on the types of
materials used.
(e) Purchase of Maintenance and Refuse Equ¢-..ent
3.22      The project provided for the purchise oL minimum equipment for
maintenance of project roads and for trash collection. Routine maintenance
is being carried out satisfactorily as expected at appraisal.



10
(f) Technical Assistance
3.23      The technical assistance component proceeded according to
appraisal design (paras 4.08 to 4.11). Project savings largely due to the
devaluation of the Maloti were utilized to expand this component (Annex 2),
and the resources allocated to identification and preparation of the follow-
on second urban project were significantly increased.
C. Costs
3.24      A detailed breakdown of actual project costs compared with
appraisal estimates of costs are provided in Annex 3. Although in local
terms, there was a cost overrun of 19 percent as a result of devaluation of
the maloti during the project implementation period, in US dollar terms
there was a slight overall saving (4 Z) compared to the appraisal estimate.
The real savings in actual costs of the project enabled adjustments in the
level and standards of service provisions during implementation. Overall
contingency provisions in the project were adequate.
D. Financing Plan
3.25      The estimated and actual project financing plans are summuarized in
Table 3.1 below. The IDA Credit of US$6.0 million (M4.9 million) was
expected to finance about 85 percent of total project costs. The proceeds
of the IDA Credit which were disbursed, amounting to US$5.5 million (M7.4
million), financed approximately the intended share of project costs.
Table 3.1: Summary Project Financing (at 12131/87)
1980 - 1987
Est.      Act.      Est.       Act.
(M'million)        (US$millior)
IDA Credit     4.9        7.4       6.0        5.5
GOL Funds      0.9        2.0       1.1        1.3
TOTAL        5.8        9.4       7.1        6.8
3.26      The financial arrangements for passing on the proceeds of the IDA
credit to executing agencies and for repaying the Borrower were not clearly
defined in the Staff Appraisal Report nor in the Development Credit
Agreement. It was assumed by both IDA staff working on the project and the
Borrower that the proceeds of the credit would be combined with the
Borrower's funding requirements and passed on as budgetary allocations to
the MTO and PCU, the latter which would, in turn, pass on part of the
allocation to LEHCO-OP for the house construction/improvement loan program.
Part of the project costs are being directly recovered from beneficiaries in
the form of mortgage payments for plots and house loans, but no specific
arrangements were entered into for repaying the Borrower out of the proceeds
collected. As a result, a bank account is currently accumulating the funds
collected, but the ownership and use of those funds are not yet defined.



11
Future projects should ensure that either arrangements are made for repaying
the portion of the funds passed on to executing agencies for items for which
cost recovery is anticipated, or arrangements are made for setting up a
revolving fund for future development activities. The proposed follow-on
second urban project has established clearly the repayment obligations of
project agencies.
E. Disbursements
3.27      Disbursements from the various categories of the credit are shown
in Annex 4, and accumulated disbursements from the credit by quarters
compared with appraisal estimates are given in Chart 2. Disbursements began
3 months later than initially estimated and took place at a slower rate than
originally projected, requiring six-and-one-half years compared to the
appraisal estimate of four years. The lag in the disbursement profile can
be attributed to three factors: (i) slow disbursements of material loans in
Thamaes, (ii) the initial lack of familiarity with procedures on the part of
the implementing agencies, and (iii) the significant devaluation of the
maloti vis-a-vis the dollar. By June 30, 1987, the second and final
extension of the closing date of the credit, some US$1.3 million, or 22
percent remained undisbursed. IDA agreed to keep the credit account open
until December 31, 1987, at which time an estimated US$500,000 of the credit
was cancelled.
F. Procurement
3.28      Procurement of civil and building works and equipment was
conducted according to local competitive bidding practices.   This was
justified on the grounds that the contracts were too small to attract
contractors from outside the Southern Africa region. Likewise, the building
materials were procured from local sources using local bidding primarily to
avoid the need to store materials for long periods with the resultant
carrying costs and problems of pilferage. Road works were constructed by
LCU force account; electrical works were also undertaken on force account by
LEC, as these two agencies had demonstrated their capacity from previous
experience.
3.29      Procurement was conducted as envisaged at appraisal and no major
problems were encountered. There were a few minor procedural changes,
however. For example, the on-site water contract for Khubetsoana was
changed to force account because the bids received were well above estimates
and considered excessive for the scale of work to be carried out. In
retrospect, this was judged a good decision as LCU force account performed
efficiently. In all instances, changes to contract packaging and procedures
took place after IDA consultation and approval.
G. Reporting
3.30      During the period of relatively intense physical implementation,
quarterly progress reports were sent to IDA regularly through March 31,
1985. They became less frequent thereafter for the following reasons: (i)
staff shortage in the PCU after the departure of the project engineer; (ii)



12
difficulty experienced by the PCU in getting reports from other implementing
agencies; and (iii) the remaining staff in the PCU began directing their
efforts to preparatior of the proposed second urban project. In total, 16
quarterly progress reports and one consolidated report (1983) of
satisfactory quality were sent to IDA. In addition, audit reports fol the
PCU for each fiscal year were sent to IDA within six months after the end of
each year as covenanted (Annex 5) in the Development Credit Agreement.
H. The Role of IDA
3.31      The participation of IDA in the identification and preparation of
the project benefitted from auspicious timing. At the initial stage of the
project, GOL (with USAID assistance) was in the process of drafting a
comprehensive housing policy aimed at providing greater housing
opportunities for all income groups with specific emphasis on the urban
poor. GOL also set about to establish the enabling insti_utional and
legislative framework for urban development.  IDA's involvement advanced the
policy initiatives then being taken by tne GOL and provided substantive
inputs and advice; a fruitful dialogue was established and a highly
productive working relationship ensued.
3.32      PCU officials found IDA's assistance during the preparation period
to be particularly supportive of their own professional development. IDArs
advice and input was considered to be sufficient to allow PCU staff to gain
experience and continue on their own.
3.33      GOL officials considered IDA's involvement to be valuable to the
timely adoption and subsequent implementation of the new housing standards
and urban development policies. Moreover, tt.l GOL saw IDA's role in the
establishment of MMC as pivotal from the very early stage of initiating the
idea through continuous technical advice and support which led to its
eventual formation. MMC has now become operational (as of November 1987)
under the recently appraised follow-on urban development project.
3.34      All components of the pkaject were supervised by the former Water
Supply and Urban Development Division of the East Africa Projects
Department. During implementation, a total of 10 supervision missions
visited Lesotho. By project completion, a total of 28 staffweeks or an
average of 4 staffweeks per year were spent in the supervision effort, which
is considered adequate for a small pilot project. The quality of working
relations between IDA and Borrower remained highly productive throughout the
project's execution.
IV. OPERATING PERFORMANCE
Establishment of MMC
4.01       Establishment of MMC involved the transformation of the Maseru
Township Office from a heavily subsidized, limited service delivery
organization into a full local authority. The Development Credit Agreement
for the project required the MHC to be established by April 1, 1982, but it
was not established until November 1987. In retrospect, the original



13
timeframe, while short, could have been adequate to encourage the necessary
action on the part of the government. However, an initial lack of political
commitment slowed its establishment but was eventually overcome, and the
GOL, with IDA support, efficiently undertook the myriad of legal, financial
and managerial steps necessary for the establishment and operationalization
of MMC. The PCU has now become part of the MMC as had been planned at
appraisal. Technical and financial support provided under the project
facilitated the achievement of this institutional objective.
Rationalizing Land Ownership
4.02      The issuing of leases to rationalize land ownership is a lengthy
process requiring, among other things, tenurial adjudication and surveying.
The Land Act which was the primary legal basis to accomplish this objective
proved to be ineffectual both because of anomalies in the Act itself. and
also because of the lack of political will to enforce the requirements of
the Act.  Efforts to subdivide the Thamaes upgrading area raised a number of
property ownership disputes stemming from dubious and absentee ownership.
Moreover, the Department of Land Survey and Physical Planning (LSPP) was
constrained by initial lack of surveyors to undertake land subdivision.   In
order to address the difficulties encountered during the land subdivision
exercise, the GOL has set up a commission to examine and revise relevant
sections of the Land Act, and the second urban project will provide support
for strengthening LSPP.
Market Stalls
4.03      The market stalls in Khubetsoana were completed on schedule in
September 1982, but currently only J out of 30 stalls have been occupied.
The MMC attributes the poor occupancy rate to the fact that standards
provided were too basic to attract beneficiaries even at nominal rents.
(The rent structure for the stalls, considered a feasible charge to the
beneficiaries by MTO. does not cover the current construction costs). In
order to reach full occupancy, the MMC now plans to upgrade the market
stalls with its own funds.
Road Maintenance
4.04      Road maintenance equipment was procured as agreed in the appraisal
report and annual maintenance programs were formulated as covenanted (Annex
5) in the Development Credit Agreement. Appropriate maintenance is ongoing
within the limitations of the budget allocated for this purpose.
HousigiR Plots
4.05      A total of 853 new and improved houses were constructed under the
project in Khubetsoana and Thamaes, including the infill area. The demand
for housing loans (particularly for the sites and services scheme) far
exceeded the volume supplied under the project (para 3.06). Plot allocation
and occupation proceeded as anticipated. A socio-economic profile of the
beneficiaries of the sites and services and upgrading schemes shows that 40
percent were female-headed households, the majority of whom were single



14
(never married, separated, widowed or divorced). The percentage of female
beneficiaries in the Khubetsoana sites and services was far higher than in
the upgrading scheme (46 percent as compared with 29 percent in Thamaes
upgrading). This finding suggests that the project was instrumental in
increasing the availability of housing to female-headed households who had
difficulty previously acquiring land and housing on their own, stemming in
part from legal constraints, but also because women are often not fully
informed about the opportunities that exist to participate in the housing
and credit markets.
Business Plots
4.06      Some 25 business plots were developed in the Khubetsoana sites and
services scheme, of which 5 have been allocated and occupied. Difficulties
in negotiating suitable terms with BEDCO for initial working capital (para
3.07) and also in attracting suitable beneficiaries to the area have been
major factors contributing to the delay in occupancy of the business plots.
Community Facilicies
4.07      The multipurpose community center in Khubetsoana was handed over
to the MTO (now MMC) for operation. The health facility of the center is
fully staffed and operated by the Ministry of Health. The multipurpose
community center in Thamaes, delayed by difficulty in acquiring land for
construction, is now scheduled to be built during November 1987 to April
1988. The families who previously occupied the site for the center have
been relocated in the Thamaes infill area after legal action was taken.
They have been able to build new houses with the monetary compensation given
them as a result of land expropriation.
Technical Assistance and Training
4.08      The technical assistance component of the project was designed to
provide professional support and advice to address fur.damental urban
development issues of organization, structure, management, finance, and
sanitation. The following agencies benefitted from these services: the PCU;
LBFC; Ministry of Interior, LHC and LEHCO-OP. The technical assistance
component was significantly increased, utilizing the savings brought about
by the devaluation of the maloti vis-a-vis the dollar, to support
preparation of the follow-on urban project.
4.09      Some of the important achievements of the technical assistance
component included:
ti) financial and legal advisory assistance to restructure and
merge LEHCO-OP and the Lesotho Housing Corporation (LHC) into
a new housing agency;
(ii) recommendations for LBFC to acquire a new accounting and
computer system and for management reporting;
(iii)setting up of an Urban Sanitation Improvement Team (USIT)



15
which has trained builders to construct sanitation units and
provide user education; and
(iv) consultant advice to finalize the legal, financial and
technical procedures needed to operationalize MMC.
4.10      The project has accomplished some important training and
institutional strengthening objectives in terms of (i) institutionalizing
the Urban Sanitation Team (USIT); an expatriate sanitation advisor succeeded
in securing four permanent government positions for the USIT; (ii) providing
effective expatriate support for the PCU; and (iii) providing resources to
address staffing shortages when necessary (e.g. valuation staff to LSPP).
4.11      The project also provided for a training needs assessment, which
was carried out in 1987. The assessment has identified a suitable training
package for the newly-formed MMC as well as a number of other agencies and
government departments involved in urban development activities. Funds to
support the training program are to be provided under the proposed second
urban development project.
V.       INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
5.01      Overall responsibility for project execution lay with the Ministry
of the Interior through its Project Coordination Unit (PCU) which was to be
transferred to MMC upon its creation (para 5.03). At appraisal the Ministry
of the Interior was responsible for most urban (through LHC) and rural
housing and the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, through LEHCO-OP,
provided housing .or the iower-income groups.  Technical assistance provided
under the nroject has accelerated plans to consolidate the housing delivery
system with the merger of LEHCO-OP and LHC. Continued technical advice and
saipport are being provided under the follow-on second urban development
project.
PCU
5.02      The PCU was responsible for overall coorditation of the project
and provided oversight to the implementation of all components carried out
by GOL agencies involved in the project. All project funds were disbursed
directly by the PCU. This arrangement allowed the PCU to take prompt,
corrective action whenever necessary.
5.03      The PCU was given adequate powers to perform its supervisory role
and did so effectively. Useful experience gained by the PCU in managing and
implementing an urban project has now been transferred to the MMC, the first
local authority in Lesotho.
5.04      There was an important design flaw in the institutional
arrangements which contributed, to a large eitent, to the weak collection
performance under the project. Funds were passed on to LEHCO-OP on a grant
basis for the building material loans program and a third party, LBFC, was
responsible for collections from beneficiaries for a fee.  In retrospect,
this arrangement did not facilitate collection performance as it provided



16
little incentive either for LEHCO-OP to collect because it had no repayment
obligation to Government, nor for LBFC since it received very low fees for
collection (para 6.09). Corrective action is being taken in the follow-on
urban project to rectify problems which resulted from this arrangement.
LEHCO-OP
5.05      The project provided LEHCO-OP with valuable experience to meet the
housing demand at the iow-cost end of the housing sector. Additional staff
were recruited to meet the requirements of the project and technical
assistance was provided to undertake studies and to advise on proper
procedures (accounting, financial) to enable LEHCO-OP to perform its duties
efficiently.
5.06      LEHCO-OP was particularly effective in its execution of the
following functions:
(a) mobilizing community participation (pitsos and neighborhood
meetings) in the project sites through its community service
department; community participation worked successfully in
eliciting feedback from the residents of the upgrading area
on such things as the final placement of roads, standpipes
and community facilities and on the basic options for
providing services;
(b) community education which has led to a relatively high
participation of women in the project;
(c) assisting the LSPF in planning the site and services
development and upgrading layouts;
(d) providing technical assistance to beneficiaries in self-help
house construction techniques; and
(e) administering the building materials loan scheme, including
management of customers' arrears.
5.07      LEHCO-OP was less effective in coordinating  with BEDCO on the
appropriate terms for the small business loan program which was intended to
provide assistance for construction and development of business sites and
working capital purposes. BEDCO remained inflexible in its terms for
lending, particularly its requirement of 25 percent equity participation and
other standard requirements, despite r.umerous negotiating efforts of LEHCO-
OP and PCU.
VI. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
MTO's Finances
6.01      It was expected that during the project MTO would develop from a
financially dependent arm of government into a self-sufficient local
authority (MKC) supported, in this process, by the institutional and



17
legislative reforms introduced under the project. MTO's financial position
was judged to be weak at appraisal, lacking sufficient income to provide an
appropriate level of municipal services, and suffered from growing arrears
in collection of rates and other sources of revenue. Although no specific
targets were established at appraisal for improving that situation, during
the course of the project MTO, with its own resources. undertook a study for
increasing its revenues and has recently begun to implement the study's
recommendations.  MTO's initiatives have had a significant impact on its
co.lection performance of property rates. To illustrate, during FY84-85 and
FY85-86, amounts rollected by MTO represented only about 54 percent of
amounts due; during the following year, amounts collected increased to about
96 percent of amounts due. In addition, MTO has stablished for
implementation in FY87-88 better follow-up procedures for all rate payers
which should generate increased income for the local authority.
Cost Recovery
6.02      It was anticipated at appraisal that about 72 percent of total
project costs would be recovered directly from beneficiaries through
development charges, loan repayments, service charges, municipal rates and
utility tariffs. The remaining 28 percent being unallocable to
beneficiaries would be provided from the general revenues of the central
government. Included in the unallocable category were the costs of the
multipurpose community centers, the primary classrooms, technical assistance
and studies, and PCU overheads, for which budgetary allocations were
normally provided. In effect, there has been a reduction in the proportion
of total costs directly recoverable from beneficiaries from 72 percent
stipulated at appraisal to 48 percent. This change has been due largely to
the effects of the devaluation of the Maloti which allowed for an expanded
technical assistance component (non-allocable cost). A comparison of
appraisal estimates of costs to be recovered with actual performance is
presented in Annex 6.
6.03      It was expected at appraisal that beneficiaries would pay the full
costs (i.e. all allocable costs) for the services rendered. Costs would be
recovered through the following mechanisms:
(1) tariffs for the recurrent costs of electricity supply to the
project areas;
(2) mortgage loan repayments for all on-site development costs
for infrastructure, home construction loans, engineering
u.sign and supervision for the Khubetsoana site and serviceb
development, (the same principle applied to the Thamaes
Infill scheme);
(3) mortgage loan repayments for home improvement/house addition
loans in Thamaes upgrading;
(4) a monthly service charge for providing urban services
(garbage collection, street lighting, cleaning and
maintenance) in Thamaes upgrading area prior to the
l



18
introduction of municipal rates tx-'re;
(5'i municipal rates for urban services in Khubetsoana; and
(6) rents for a portion of the capital cost of market stalls.
6.04      From Annex 6, it can be seen that the principle of cost recovery
remains essentially the same except for the following modifications (a) the
monthly service charge expected at appraisal to be levied in the Thamaes
upgrading area to cover the costs of services provided was not introduced,
primarily because of administrative difficulty faced by LEHCO-OP in applying
the charge to its target group in a mixed income development; (b) valuation
and rating of property in the upgrading area has been delayed (now scheduled
for mid-1988), thus delaying the introduction of municipal/property rates;
(c) a decision is still pending on an appropriate method for recovering the
costs of water consumption from unmetered standpipes in the project area;
and (d) only nominal rents are being applied to the retail markets.
6.05      Definitional problems have made it difficult to quantify with
precision the exact proportion of allocable cost items that are now directly
being recovered. For example, at appraisal it was expected that 63 percent
of plot development charges were to be recovered and that 100 percent of
building materials loans and transport costs were to be recovered from
beneficiaries. The method adopted for defining project accounts do not now
allow for disaggregation of the cost of these items with an acceptable
degree of accuracy. For Khubetsoana, the records indicate that the full
allocable development costs were charged to beneficiaries, but at Thames
infill it is less clear to what extent allocable costs were charged. The
full costs of the home improvement loa-s at all sites were charged to
beneficiaries.
Terms of Loans
6.06      The actual terms of the home improvement loans have turned out to
be similar to appraisal expectations. For the sites and services
development, a total of 561 residential loans averaging M2149 in Khubetsoana
and M4140 in Thamae Infill were issued to the individual lease holders. A
five percent downpayment was required and the balance was amortized at a 9
percent interest rate to be repaid over 20 years. In addition, a 6 percent
interest charge during construction was levied. In the Thamaes upgrading
area, the same terms were followed for the 292 home improvement loans
advanced. However, leases (the only legal instrument for property ownership
under the Land Act) were not issued in the upgrading area as expected. In
the case of default, significant losses would be incurred due to the absence
of collateral on these home improvement loans. Had LEHCO-OP been required
to repay GOL the funds advanced for the home improvement loans out of the
payments being collected from beneficiaries, it may have been more cautious
in advancing loans prior to issuance of leases. However, this would have
seriously delayed project implementation.



19
Collection Performance of LEHCO-OP's Mortgage Accounts
6.07      Collection of the loan repayments due per quarter has improved
recently following a history of difficult debt management problems
experienced by LBFC. A total of M29,384 is currently due each quarter from
the beneficiaries of the Khubetsoana sites and services scheme, and this
target level of collection has been sustained recently (1986-1987). Some of
the quarterly payments include advance payments on aged arrears as is
evidenced by the reduction in the number delinquent accounts 6 months and
above (from 169 in June to 155 in September 1987) and a corresponding
decrease in the total outstanding arrears (from M80,199 in September 1986 to
M69,300 one year later).
6.08      Collection performance for the Thamaes upgrading and infill
subprojects has been obscutred by deficient record keeping and delays in
rectifying and updating the records kept by LBFC and LEHCO-OP. As of
September 30, 1987, a total of 1182,978 was collected from the 353
beneficiaries of the Thamaes upgrading and infill subprojects. The
quarterly amounts collected show a steady increase from M14,216 in September
1986 to M17,804 in March 1987 and a slight decline in September 1987 to
M17,295.
6.09      The project's collection performance has not been steady, and
difficulties can be traced primarily to problems encountered when loan
collection responsibility was handed over in 1982 from LEHCO-OP to LBFC at a
time when LBFC's capacity and expertise was newly emerging. Collection
performance was also exacerbated by a lack of sufficient incentive for LBFC
to collect due to the low collection fees established at appraisal,
amounting to MO.60 per account, leviad at that time. A recent review of the
collection difficulties experienced by LBFC revealed the following
institutional and procedural problems:
(i) LBFC's accounting records were seriously deficient.
Even after employing additional staff to rectify its
records, LBFC remained constrained by the demands of its
normal workload of managing day-to-day accounts;
(ii) Because of LBFC's poor record keeping, it incorrectly
initiated legal actions against beneficiaries presumed to be
in default; and
(iii) Bottlenecks in the legal system (both with lawyers and in
the courts) further constrained the rate of action and
follow-on judgements.
6.10      Although responsibility for collections rested with LBFC,
responsibility for taking action against defaulters, on the basis of
rectified quarterly reports prepared by LBFC (with technical assistance
provided under the project), was assumed by LEHCO-OP, which has recently
stepped up its efforts to improve the arrears' situation. Measures taken by
LEHCO-OP included hiring its own court messengers and procuring a debt
management vehicle to pursue defaulters. LEHCO-OP also subsequently agreed



20
to increase LBFC's incentive for collection by increasing its collection fee
to 7.5 percent of the amounts collected per month. In addition, LEHCO-OP
has more vigorously pursued the arreLrs' problem with the court system,
which has resulted in settling a significant number of arrears' cases more
recently.
Affordability
6.11      Because the majority of homeowners expressed a preference for the
more complete core unit types (3 and 4), the basic core types (1 and 2) were
dropped from the available options.  Income ceilings remained quite
consistent with appraisal expectations requiring 60 percent of plots to be
allocated to households with incomes below 150 miloti/month (revised 1981
prices) and 40 percent to households earning 150 to 250 maloti/month.
VII. Economic Re-Evaluation
(a) Appraisal Analysis
7.01      In calculating the economic rates of return (ERRs) at appraisal
for the Khubetsoana and Thamaes components, it was anticipated that direct
benefits would be derived from: (a) the provision of least cost services to
a population of about 20,000 by 1985 in the sites and services and upgrading
areas; (b) improvements in sanitary conditions; (c) employment stimulated by
the provision of markets and business plots, labor intensive road
construction and use of locally manufactured building materials; and (d)
improved access to water supply.
7.02      The following costs were included in the calculation of the ERR at
appraisal:
(a) site development costs, including design and supervision, on-
site infrastructure, allocable primary infrastructure and
physical contingencies;
(b) cost of building materials and labor for home construction
estimated at 60 percent of building materials; and
(c) annual operating and maintenance costs estimated at 3 percent
of total development costs, including labor costs.
7.03      The valuation of benefits was based upon estimates of increase in
the rental values of property brought about by improvements made under the
project.  No estimate was given of the expected life of project investments.
Based on the above costs and benefits, the ERR for the sites and services
and upgrading schemes representing about 60 percent of total project costs
were estimated at 22 percent for each component.
7.04      The major non-quantifiable benefits that were to accrue to the
economy of Lesotho included the following: (a) the establishment of MMC and
training of its staff; (b) extension of progressive property taxes



21
throughout Maseru to augment the town's resources; and (c) strengthening of
LEHCO-OP's capacity to provide low-cost affordable housing.
7.05      The project was also expected to yield employment effects through
the provision of 60 market stalls, 30 each in the sites and services and
upgrading areas which would yield about 75 jobs. Additionally, adjacent to
each market area some 25 plots were to be designated for shops. Businessmen
were to be assisted by BEDCO to locate on these plots through BEDCO's normal
credit and technical assistance to small scale enterprises.
(b) Economic Re-evaluation
7.06      In calculating the ex-post ERRs essentially the same methodology
employed at appraisal was used.  The actual costs were inflated to 1984
prices which served as the base year. Benefits for the sites and service
and the upgraded areas were based on imputed rental values and increases in
rental values, respectively, of the units based on rents paid by lodgers and
information from a survey of dwellings in similar neighborhoods in the
greater Maseru area. The imputed rental values of the project housing
options were estimated considering the dwelling sizes, availability of
sanitation and levels of urban services. The benefits come on stream
beginning 1982 when occupancy started in the new developments. On the basis
of these assumptions, the ex-post weighted average economic rate of return
for the expanded sites and services and upgrading components representing
about 45 percent of total project costs has been calculated at 15 percent
compared to appraisal estimates of 22 percent.
Khubetsoana Sites and Services
7.07      The sites and services component had important demonstration
effects regarding policies it introduced: low cost solutions; reduction of
plot sizes; and provision of appropriate sanitation technology. The URR for
the Khubetsoana component has been calculated at 11 percent.
Thamaes UparadinR and Infill
7.08      The upgrading component of the project has been relatively
successful in demonstrating the viability of improving integrated
neighborhoods benefitting a mix of income groups through improvements in
infrastructure, both public and private. By encouraging densification in
the upgraded areas, additional housing targetted for the lower income
residents was developed. This component has had a significant influence on
LEHCO-OP's policies, particularly regarding the approach it would pursue to
satisfy future demands for low income. The ERR for the Thamses upgrading
and Infill component has been estimated at 18 percent.
Other Benefits
7.09      The expected employment generation did not materialize on the
scale anticipated at appraisal for the following reasons:
(a) due to difficulties in attempting to subdivide Thamaes, no



22
land could be acquired in Thamaes for building the market
stalls (30) and business plots 25 plots;
(b) BEDCO's assistance to small businesses failed to materialize
because of inflexibility in BEDCO's terms;
(c)  delayed occupation of the 25 business plots in Khubetsoana;
and
(d)  delayed occupation of the market stalls; currently, 25 oait of
30 stalls remain vacant some five years after their
completion.
During the period of physical works, including housing construction,
however, short term cons:ruction employment was generated, averaging
approximately 800 jobs per year over a two-year period.
7.10      The project has also yielded non-quantifiable benefits through
improvements in the quality of Maseru's physical environment through
improvements in garbage collection, drainage, water supply and pablic
sanitation; improvement inl MTO's capacity to maintain urban services through
the strengthening of and equipment provided to its technical department.
The addition of classrooms and health clinics has also significantly
improved the availability of education, health and nutrition services in the
project areas.
7.11      Additional longer-term benefits are expected to accrue to the
economy of Lesotho through the establishment of an institutional and
legislative foundation to respond to the demand for basic and affordable
services in Maseru and its peri-urban areas which will help to ensure the
sustained provision of adequate levels of urban services.
VIII. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS
A. CONCLUSIONS
8.01      Urban Development I was the first IDA-assisted project in the
urban sector in Lesotho. It has clearly demonstrated the viability of an
approach to delivering urban services which are affordable to the majority
of urban residents. By adopting modest standards, which are upgradable as
incomes rise, a large proportion of the investment costs can be recovered
and services can be replicated. The sites and services scheme helped ease
the housing shortage facing families in the lower-income ranges,
particularly female-headed households. The upgrading scheme introduced
needed infrastructure and sanitation facilities into a rapidly growing peri-
urban area, thereby enhancing the environment and health conditions. Most
notable is the project's success in laying the fouadation for establishing a
local government system in Lesotho, and in encouraging a regular valuation
and rating exercise, the proceeds of which would allow a more adequate level
of urban services to be sustained.



23
8.02      The project was less successful in its land rationalization
objectives largely because of difficulties in applying the regulations of
the Land Act and also becauta of the absence of political will to enforce
the Act (Annex 1). The Land Act, which was intended to be the main
mechanism for converting traditional land to formal tenure, proved to be
ineffectual under the project; as a result, surveys of the plots and hence
the issuance of formal leases were delayed. A commission has been set up to
examine the anomalies of the Land Act, and this matter is receiving priority
attention under the follow-on project.
8.03      The employment generation did not materialize on the scale nor in
the manner anticipated at appraisal, which is partly due to unrealistic
appraisal expectations about employment generation in the Rhubetsoana site
(para viii), but also due to difficulties inherent in extending credit to
small enterprises in Lesotho.
B. Lessons Learned
Timing
8.04      This first project has been highly successful in laying the
foundation for the establishment of local government in Lesotho.  The
project was auspiciously timed as its identification coincided with a range
ef urban policy initiatives being undertaken by the GOL. The favorable
policy environment supported the urban policy shifts introduced under the
project.
Standards
8.05      The project has been a major force in introducing lower cost,
affordable standards for housing and related infrastructure, and these
standards have been generally accepted. However, the experience in building
roads and drainage suggests a need for deeper analysis of the traffic
patterns prior to undertaking work in an existing residential area.
Standards in this case were too low considering the then current and
expected future levels of traffic, and from the viewpoint of recurrent cost
implications. A more realistic assessment would have avoided the need for
substantial maintenance of roads constructed during the project and an
eventual upgrading of these roads to permanent surfacing also during the
project, incurring an additional cost of about 0.5 million Maloti.
Financing Arrangements
8.06      The financial arrangements for passing on the proceeds of the IDA
Credit to executing agencies and for repaying the Borrower out of the
proceeds collected were not clearly defined either in the Staff Appraisal
Report nor in the Development Credit Agreement. As a result, a Bank account
is currently accumulating the funds collectea, but the ownership and use of
those funds is not yet defined. Future projects should ensure that either
arrangements are made for repaying the portion of the funds passed on to
executing agencies for items for which cost recovery is anticipated. or



24
arrangements are made for setting up a revolving fund for future development
activities.
Cost Recovers
8.07      Full recovery of the allocable costs of the project was
constrained by the following factors: (i) unclear financial arrangements for
passing on the proceeds of the credit to executing agencies (para 8.09);
(ii) inadequate incentives for the executing agencies to collect mortgage
repayments from beneficiaries (para 6.02); (iii) deficient accounting
procedures which obscured the financial records of beneficiaries (para
6.06)! and (iv) modifications in the cost recovery principles agreed upon at
appraisal (paras 6.01 to 6.04). The GOL has recognized the importance of
cost recovery for project replicability, and steps are being pursued under
the follow-on urban project to enhance the GOL's capacity to institute
appropriate measures to achieve full recovery of allocable project costs.
Densification
8.08      It was expected that subdivision of plots in the Thamaes upgrading
area would take place, reducing plot sizes from the average size of 1,000 m2
to about 300 m2 in order to increase the supply of buildable land and to
lower infrastr-cture costs per household. Since monthlv charges/rates were
to be levied on a per square meter basis, these charges were expected to
provide an incentive to subdivide. Plot subdivision, which had originally
been the vehicle for densification, did not take place, and this can
primarily be attributed to problems in implementing the Land Act.
Nevertheless, this lack of subdivision did not prove to be a constraint to
the original objective, as densification (i.e. increasing the number of
tenants per plot) was achieved.
8.09      Densification of Thamaes can in part be linked to the improved
level of services introduced in the upgrading area. It has been estimated
that at least 200 rental units have been added to properties in Thamaes with
the home improvement loans (a total of 292) provided under the project, and
that 57 percent of all plots now accommodate tenant households. The lesson
from this experience suggests that subdivision of plots was not an important
requirement for densification to take place.
8.10      As a result of the increased density and higher property values,
the levels of taxes to be collected should be more or less satisfactory to
support the costs of maintaining the infrastructure improvements provided.
Payment of municipal rates (when charges are introduced) should be more
affordable to homeowners because of the increased rental income.
Community Develooment
8.11      LEHCO-OP's community development efforts were well managed and
stimulated active community participation, particularly in project design
and construction of on-site infrastructure which was critical for efficient
implementation of the Thamases upgrading component (para 5.04). Commnunity
education also influenced a relatively high participation of women in the



25
project. A more coordinated effort (i.e. with the participation of the
other implementation agencies involved with the project) may have yielded
greater results, particularly in subdividing the Thamaes upgrading area.
LEHCO-OP, however, was limited in its efforts by the difficulties of the
Land Act which, among other things, constrained the issuing of leases in
Thamaes and hence subdivision.



26                             A4NEX 1
Page 1 of 2
Constraints of the Land Act
The Land Act (1979) was not given full consideration by GOL at the
time of its passage. Consequently, the complementary resources --
principally trained staff and equipment -- required to implement it were
never allocated. Moreover, the political will required to reorganize the
process of land allocation was not made explicit and the hierarchical
structure of chleftainship -- including the fact that there are over 1,000
local chiefs -- was neither seriously challenged nor integrated.
Consequently, the local Chiefs continue to play a fundamental role in the
allocation of lands in the Maseru urban area. In accordance with the Land
Procedure Act of 1967, Form C certificates are still being used, which in
most cases are backdated to before June 13, 1980 (the point at which the
Land Act took effect).
A good example of the lack of effectiveness of the Land Act is
presented in the Thamaes upgrading component. In order to facilitate
redevelopment in this area, the government declared it a Selected
Development Area in 1980. !.ubsequently, a form was sent out to every owner
(to the extent that the owner could be identified) requesting their name,
address and the details of the original allocation procedure. In turn,
these forms were supposed to be veted by a site selection committee composed
of the local chief, a representative of the Commissioner of Lands and
several ex-office members.  This committed was supposed to ensure, first,
that each plot had been properly allocated originally, and that the correct
owner had been identified, and secondly, that it would fit in with the
proposed physical plan for the redevelopment. Subsequently, each plot was
to be surveyed and, if necessary, reduced or increased in size. Following
this, an application was to be sent to the Minister for consent to lease and
following consent, a substitute lease was to be issued. Once this had been
returned with the fees required to cover the cost of the survey, a final
lease was to be issued. In fact, this process proved virtually
unmanageable, and very few leases have been granted to date.
The reasons for the failure of this process are as follows:
(a) residents did not understand either the intent of the Act nor
the proposed method of achieving it;
(b) very few of the initial information forms were returned
either because people were suspicious, the actual owners were
absent, or could not be identified;
(c) the site selection committee wjas dominated by the chief
alone;
(d) there was political pressure from some landowners not to
change the existing order of things;



27                             ANI4EX 1
Page 2 of 2
(e) the Department of Surveys (LSPP) did not have the staff,
equipment or transport to conduct the cadastral survey of
plots;
(f) potential lessors did not return their substitute leases; and
(g) because no valuation had been made of properties at the
outset, compensation was difficult to calculate, and as a
result, no compensation was given.
The result has been that while residents consider they have paid
for their land, they are illegal occupants in terms of the Land Act because
they do not hold a lease (as required by the Land Act). Furthermore, if
they do not hold a lease they are not required to pay either a plot
development fee or rates.



LESOTHO
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1036-LSO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Details of Technical Assistance Component
Contract        Contract
Consultant             Amount           Period                          Purpose
(maloti)
1.  Ketsekile               120,000                             AFchitectural Design for MMC
2.  Sam Sherer               21,932     May 21-June 17, 1987   Planning for urban development
3.  NJA Associates           35,638                              Solid Waste Study
4.  D.A. Crackwell           14,090      2 weeks
May 4-16, 1987          Traffic Management Study
5.  E. Tranham and           25,112      July 6 -                Setting up accounting systems
D. Parcell                          Aug. 2, 1987             and accounting standards for MMC
6.  John Ferguson            10,000      Nov. 16-23, 1987        Advice on capital projects for MMC
7. Ian Hamilton
World Bank Consultant                1985                    Training needs assessment for MHC
8. Cooperative Housing
Foundation             130,000     5 months study 1987    Merger Study of LEHCO-OP and LHC
9.  Peat Marwick              7,600      10 days 1987            MMC Computerization
0
10. Van der Geer             33,000      1980-82                 Study on establishing MMC
. .



Contract        Contract
Consultant             Amount           Period                          Purpose
(maloti)
11. Paul Bermingham          11,750      1986                    Accountlng System - LBFC (Urb. II)
B%rmingham & Assoc.                  3 - 5 months
12. Eric Dixon                2,500      Oct.1986-Mar.1988       Advice to Town Clerk in formation of
month                               (MMC)
13. N.C. De                US$3i333/    May 1987-April 1988    Consultant advisor to MMC in Treasury
WOOV                              (Urb. II)
14. Roger Swain              14,000      12 days 1987            Cpnsultant advisor to MMC in Finance
month                               (Urb. II)
15. John Ferguson            14,000      12 days 1987            Consultant-Financial Accountant MMC
16. Coopers & Lybrand       169,600      1987                   LBFC Studies (Urb. II)
17. Coopers & Lybrand        46,900      1987                    LHC/LEHCO-OP Merger (Urb. II)
18. Cooperative Housing
Foundation              140,000      1987                   Housing Policy Study (Urb. II)
19. LESCON                  490,000      1987                   Detailed Eng. Design (Urb. II)
20. T. Santos                20,000      1987                    Detailed Design (Urb. II)
o '
N



LESOTHO
URBAN DEi ELOPMtNT PROJECT (CREDIT 1036-LSO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Total Project Costs
fCumulative mosition at March 31, 1988)
Current WON0                 Current UStOOO
Appraisal                   Appraisal
Estimate     Actual          Estimate            Actual
Item-
A.  Site Preparation and Servicing                                           1 947          21                   l_bZS
Site and Service Plots                               112             221           139                   a36
Upgrading Schem                                      639           1,626          777                  1,243
B.  Home Improvement Loans                                     1=12          1i8i           1,479                1419
Material Loans                                        1,007        1,740          1,302                1,299
Material Stores                                          35           31              43                  3o
Equipment                                               110           82             134                  84
C.  Primary Infrastructuro 2/                                   i                           An
Electricity                                           64              -            66
Roads                                                278              -           339
D.  Community Facilities                                       j_                                                fl 221
Mulipurpose Comm. Centers                            160           614            195                 3a7                               w
Primary Schools                                       350          411            427                  419                              0
E.  Maintenanco and Refuso EquipmeAt                            i           d1                2                  lin
Road MaInteaance                                      280          319            342                  300
Refuse Collection                                     82            97             100                  97
F. Technical Assistance                                        i.           & 43            1.434                Lim
Project Coordination Unit                               376        1,294            467                  819
Housing                                                 126          136             162                 131
Housing Imp. Unit (LEHCO-OP)                            180          267            220                  220
Studies                                                242         2,521            296                1,290
Engineering, Architecture, Supervision                 254           150            310                  166
G. Assistance to Informal Sector             -
Retail market                                         _s80             23             38a19
Subtotal                                      4,373         9,422          6,334                6,769
H. Contingencies                                               1419           _              .72  
Physical /                                              244                          298
Price j                                              1/.17         _I              1.434
TOTAL                                        LS 72          9422           Z.Mft                LZi /1
1/  Included in this category are the development costs of Thamass upgrading and Thames infill.
2/ The development charges for electricity, roads and water for Khubetsonna and Thamses have been Included in A above.
f  Physical coitingencies were 15 percent on items A  C, D and G.
J   Price contingencies were compounded at appraisal annually on base costs and physical contingencies to year of
execution as follow,:  1980 - 12X; l981-82 - 11, 1983 onwards - 10X, which have proven to be adequate.
J/  Included in this total is an estimated expenditure of 111,861,00  or US8826,600 (rate adopted MI = 10.50) for the
period November 1987 - March 1988 broken down as follows: Nov-Dec 1987 M1,076,000 or US3638,000 and Jan-mar 1988
M676,001 or USS287,600.



31
ANNEX 4
LESOTHO
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 1036-LSO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Disbursement of Credit from Categories
US$ Equivalent
Amount         Amount
Allocated      Disbursed
in Credit      as of
Cateqory                  Agreement       12/31/87
----------------------------------------------------------_
(1) Civil and building works    1,680,000       1,936,820
(2)  Building materials loans    1,140,000      1,171,243
(3)  Equipment                    490,000         448,857
(4)  Technical Assistance       1,220.000       1,931,337
(5)  Unallocated                1,470,000          -
Total                  6,000.000      5,488,257
tNO0TE: A total of US$511,743 was cancelled representing
undisbursed amounts from the following categories:
Equipment US$41,143; and Unallocated US$470,660.



32                                             ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 2
LES07
139AN DEVUJPIMT !MJ~  tawMnr IgSs-iso)
rKJEWtCT W.UWLETION REPuRT
Compliatee with KeY Covenants
Target Date
for        Actual
Section        Covenants                     Compilance      Date                  Remarke
* 01        The Borrover shall enter into   12/81/80               In compliance in the Khubetsoons sites and
agreement with LEC to                                  services development and in the Thamoes
upgrade and extend electrical                          upgrading.  The Thmes  Infill was not
network to Project areas; and                          prov;ded with electricity.
to provide adquate resources
for this purpose.
38.1        The Borrower *hall vest In       4/01/81               Standpipe services are currently provided
WS8 responsibili'y for OAM                             without charge to the beneficiary.
of water supply works;
Including the recovery of
the epital and recurrent
costs through utility charges.
8.64        The Borrower shall furnish                             In compliance until end-1984.  Formal
(c)(il)     through PCU quarterly                                  reporting was lose frequont thereafter.
consolidated reports.
8.64        The Borrower shall prepare and                         Not in compliance
(c)         furnish through PCU, not later
than 6 months after the Closing
Date a report on the execution
of the project.
8.66        Tho Borrower shall declare       12/21/80      9/01/81 In compliance.
(a)         the area of Thoese-  as a
selected developmnt area"
pureuant to the provisions
of the Land Act end, prior to
undertaking any construction
draw up a development and
densification schem.
8.07        The Borrower shall cause the                           In eomplionce in Khubetsoana.
coemunity faeilities to be                             Construction of the Thamaes MCC, delayed by
adequately staffed, operated                           slow land acquisition and a lengthy
and maintained,                                       expropriation process, will now be completed
by April 1988.
83.8        The Borrower shall establish                           In complipnce.
(a)         beneficiary selection criteria
for plot allocation and review
tho appropriateness of these
criteria once a year.



33                                            ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 2
Target Date
for        Actual
Section        Covenants                     CompilAnce      Date                 Remarks
MEir')    The Borrower shall determine                             The actual level of cost reovery is much
and collect through BFC *                              lower than appratnal estimates; collection
capital lovelop ent charge,                            performance has been poor.
a monthly charge for loane,
and a ontly service chargo.
4.81        PCU shall maintain *sparate                            In compliance.
project accounto.
4.01        pCU shall have its accounts                            In compliance. Audited report for FY86-87
(C)         and financial ostt onts                                becmes due by March 1986; 05-09 audit
audited for each fiscal                                done but no management report or audit
yogr and shall furnish state-                          certificate has been sent to IDA.
ments no later than 6 months
after the end of each year.
4.03        The Borrower shall appoint                             Partially in compliance. A shortage of
local counterparts to T.A.                            qualified local staff has made it
Consultants                                            difficult to comply fully.
4.04         Tho Borrower shall establish      4/01/82              The enabling Urban Local Covern  nt Act
4nd provide tt wth                                    was oncted In 1968.  The second urban
ad pquote fInnctl reourct                             projoct has provided the requloit
atdff and fcnlatiaeso                                 resoureos to support the operational-
lzetion of MMC and the program of
Institutional development embodied In
the Act.
4.06        The Borrower shall adequately                          In cowpliance.
maintain roods and shall prepare
a satisfactory road maintenance
program by the beginning of
each fiscal year.
4.07        The Borrower shall draw up        4/01/82              In compliance.
(a)         an updated valuation and
rating of property to ratie
revenue for urbon services.
(b)         The Borrower shall Introduce
measures for developing land
with efficiency and economy.



Annex 6
34
LESOTHO
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 1036-LSO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Cost Recovery
_ ___ --_ ---------------------------------------------------------                           --
Aaounts                                             Fercent of total costs
Directly                                            to be recovered froo
App'.    Actual   Being      Appraisal Est.       Actual Method             beneficiaries
Preject Cosponent                Cost     Cost      Charqed   for Recovery          of Recoverv          Appr. Est.        Actual
ZLCR    -------    -------  --------------------  --------------------------
RLLOCABLE
A. Site Preparation and
Servicing                      1359    2,254
Private Plots                     964         21         0 Plot Charges        Plot Charges
Public Areas                      394             2,102 ~Municipal Rates             y
D.  Material Loans                   1780    1,853            Loan Repayment       Loan Repayment
C.  Road and Refuse Vehicles          428       416           Municipal Rates            l
D. Primary Infrastructure             547                     M unicipal Rates &        21
Utility Charges         4/
E.  Markets                            41        23           Rents                     i
Subtotal                   4154    4,546                                                            72Z                482
NON-ALLOCABLE
A. Project Coordination Unit,
Housing and Studies             943    3,951            Central 6ovt.        Central Govt.
8. Multipuroose Community Centers
and Primarv Schools             795      925            Central Govt.        Central Govt.
Subtotal                   1638    4,876
TOTAL                5792    9,422                                                             281                521
_-                                              - _--___--_----_---- ----- ---- ---- -_- ___-- ___--- ---- -__-- ---- --_--
I The valuation and rating exercise has been successful in most of Maseru,
including Khubetsoana, which is scheduled for a rate revision in 1988.
The Thamaes upgrading area is now planned to be rated by mid-1988.
2 Included in this figure are the following items: plot developeent, materials'
loans lincludinq 15 percent sark-up for LEHCO-OP's administrative costs).
initial 5 percent dounpayment, and 6 percent interest during construction.
3 Frimary infrastructure costs are included in A above.
4  It appears unlikely that beneficiaries will be charged for water from standpipes
as no sechanism is currently in place to do so.
5 Oniv a ncainal fee is being charged for rental of the earket stalls. but plans are underway
to upgrade these tacilities which should justify levying aopropriate financial charges.



LESOTHO
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT C1036-L90)
Contract Data
Final
Bid Value   Appraisal   Contract          Startinq    Co,npletion
Contract Description       Contractor          Est. Cost   Estimate    Amount             Date         Date
1 Khubetsoana
Plant purchase            Various Suppliers         10,176
Pipe purchase             Superocla Ltd.            10.778
Roads                     LCU                      159,946      250,900                 Feb. 1981   ALuO. 1981
Offsite water             Water Branch                                                                Sept. 1981
Onsite Water              PCU direct                41,000       58,300                 Junp 1981   Sept. 196l
Offsite electricity       LEC direct                26,703                              11ar. 1961   July 1981
Onsite electricity        LEC direct                18,451       25.700                 JulY 1981   Aiuq. 19BI
Multi purpose
community center        MOW direct               108,00o      111,000                 May 1981    Sept. 1982
Market                    MOW direct                25.000       20,000       27.000   t1ay 1981    Sept. 1982
Schools                   McCarthy Mgt.            475,000      986,00C)0    444,545  tMay 1981    Feb. 1962
2 Thamaes
Roads                     MOW                      761,000      993,000   1,293,986   Sept. 1981  June 1987
Water reticulation        Water Branch              31,000      111,300                               Dec. 1983
Electricity               LEC                       50,000      131,7l00                Jan. 1962   April 1982
Multipurpose
community center         MOl:                     110,000      111,000      300.000   Nov. 1987   April 1988
Market                    MOW                       25.000       20,000                 Cancelled   Cancelled
3 Thamaes In4ill
Roads                     LCU                       53,420         n.a.       48,732   June 1986   Sept. 1996
Water                     WSB                       12,300         n.a.        7.200   Aua. 1986   Oct. 1986
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__---------------------------



36
Annex 8
LESOTHO
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1036-LSO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Affordability. Plot. Loan & Service Charges
Appraisal
Plot and Loan Charges 1/                Estimate     Actual
(in maloti)
Avg. plot development cost                  456         2,165
Building material loan                      823         2,039
Sub-total               1,279         4,204
Monthly plot and loan charge at
92 for 20 years                          10.94        37.82
Service Charge
Plot and material costs                   1,279         4,204
Labor costs (60Z of materials costs)        494         2,522
Sub-Total               1,773         6,726
Monthly Service Charge (32 of value)       4.43          - 1/
Total Monthly Charges
Plot and loan charge                      10.94         37.82
Service Charge                             4.43          -
Suo-total               15.37         37.82
BFC Collection Cost 2/                     0.42          4.09
Average Total Charge                      15.79         41.91
Percentage of Population who can
afford the charge                         402         81?
1/ Charges for the sites and services and upgrading.
2/ BFC collection charge was raised from 0.60 per account to 7.5 percent
per amount collected per month.
3   Service charge was not levied because of difficulties related to
land subdivision.



37
Annex 9
LESOTHO
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 1036-LSO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Worksheet for Economic Rate of Return for Combined Project
YEAR      TOTAL COSTS   TOTAL BENEFITS          NET BENEFITS
1980           84,032                    0            (84,032)      0.16
1981          946,644                    0           (946,644)
1982        1,765,815             133,200         (1,632,615)
1983        1,724,604             728,100            (996,504)
1984        1,064,035             920,400            (143,635)
1985          335,832             920,400             584,568
1986          335,832             955,200             619,368
1987           124,689            955,200             830,511
1988           124,689            955,200             830,511
1989           124,689            955,200             830,511
1990           124,689            955,200             830,511
1991           124,689            955,200             830,511
1992          124,689             955,200             830,511
1993           124,689            955,200             830,511
1994           124.689            955,200             830,511
1995           124,6B9            955,200             830,511
1996           124,689            955,200             830,511
1997           124,689            955,200             830,511
1998          124,689             955,200             830,511
1999           124,689            955,200             830,511
2000           124,689            955,200             830,511
2001           124,689            955,200             830,511
2002           124,6B9            955,200             830,511
2003           124,6B9            955,200             830,511
2004           124,689            955,200             830,511
2005           124,689            955,200             830,511
2006           124,689            955,200             830,511
2007           124,689            955,200             830,511
2008           124,689            955,200             830,511
2009           124,689            955,200             830,511
2010           124,689            955,200             830,511
0.1495521243
Internal rate of return   ISX



38
LESOTHO
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 1036-LSO)
PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
Norksheet for Economic Rate of Return for Thanaes and Infill Area
Total   Constant
Subtotal                   Costs    Prices
Infra-   Housing                        Constant                Constant   Iaputed Net
Vear structure  Construct.Overhead Subtotal  Prices              O&N      Prices      Rents Benefits
1980     51,239      -           -      51,239    84,032           0      84,032      -        (84,032)
1991    375,999      -       25,000   400,989   573,414            0     573,414      -       (573,414)
1982    532,332      -       25,000   55,332   724,532             0     724,532      -       4724,532)
1983    130,606   614,400   25,000   770,006   954,707             0     854,707   465,300  (389,407)
1984    123,662   614,400   25,000   763,062   763,062             0     763,062   618,600  (144,462)
1985    299,021      -       25,000   324,021   285,138            0     285,138   618,600   333,462
1986    109,989   250,803   25,000   385,792   304,776             0     304,716   618,600   313,824
1987          0   125,402   25,375   150,777   110,067    73,995         184,062   653,400   469,338
1988          0          0         0         0          0    73,995       73,995   653,400   579,405
1989          0          0         0         0          0    73,995       73,995   653,400   579,405
1990          0          0         0         0          0    73,995       73,995   653,400   579,405
1991          0          0         0         0          0    73,995       73,995   653,400   579,405
1992          0          0         0         0          0    73,995       73,995   653,400   579,405
1993          0          0         0         0          0    73,995       73,995   653,400   579,405
1994          0          0         0         0          0    73,995       73,995   653,400   579,405
1995          0          0         0         0          0    73,995       73,995   653,400   579,405
1996          0          0         0         0          0    73,995       73,995   653,400   579,405
1997          0          0         0         0          0    73,995       73,995   653,400   579,405
1998          0          0         0         0          0    73,995       73,995   653,400   579,405
1999          0          0         0         0          0    73,995       73,995   653,400   579,405
2000          0          0         0         0          0    73,995       73,995   653,400   579,405
2001          0          0         0         0          0    73,995       73,995   653,400   579,405
2002          0          0         0         0          0    73,995       73,995   653,400   579,405
2003          0          0         0         0          0    73,795       73,995   653,400   579,405
2004          0          0         0         0          0    73,995       73,995   653,400   579,405
2005          0          0         0         0          0    73,995       73,995   653,400   579,405
2006          0          0         0         0          0    73,995       73,995   653,400   579,405
2007          0          0         0         0          0    73,995       73,995   653,400   579,405
2008          0          0         0         0          0    73,995       73,995   653,400   579,405
2009          0          0         0         0          0    73,995       73,995   653,400   579,405
2010          0          0         0         0          0    73,995       73,995   653,400   579,405
Internal Rate of Return = 181



39
LESOTHO
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 1036-LSO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Worksheet for Khubetsoana Residential Units
total  Constant
Constant                Costs    Prices
Infra-     House                            1984                Constant   Imputed          Net
Year structure  Construct.  Overhead Subtotal        Prices    O&h        Prices      Rents   Benefits
1980     -                       -          0.0           0         0          0      -               0
1981   221,000       -         40,000  261,000    373,230           0    373,230      -        (373,230)
1982     -          760,987    40,000  800,987  1,041,293           0  1,041,283   133,200   (908,083)
1993     -          743,691    40,000  783,691    869,897           0    869,997   262,800   (607,097)
*      1984     -          210,279    40,000  250,279    250,279   50,694    300,973   301,900             827
1985     -           -          -             0           0   50,694      50,694   301,800    251,106
1986     -           -           -            0           0   50,694      50,694   301,800    251,106
1987     -           -          -             0           0   50,694      50,6l4   301,800    251,106
.1989     -           -          -             0           0   50,694      50,694   301,800    251,106
1989     -           -          -             0           0   50,694      50,694   301,800    251,106
1990     -           -          -             0           0   50,694      50,694   301,800    251,106
1991     -           -          -             0           0   50,694      50,694   301,900    251,106
1992     -           -          -             0           0   50,694      50,694   301,900    251,106
1993     -           -          -             0           0   50,694      50,694   301,900    251,106
1994     -           -           -            0           0   50,694      50,694   301;800    251,106
1995     -           -          -             0           0   50,694      50,694   301,800    251,106
1996     -           -           -            0           0   50,694      50,694   301,800    251,106
1997     -           -          -             0           0   50,694      50,694   301,800    251,106
1998     -           -           -            0           0   50,694      50,694   301,800    251,106
1999     -           -          -             0           0   50,694      50,694   301,800    251,106
2000     -           -           -             0          0   50,694      50,694   301,800    251,106
2001     -           -           -             0          0   50,694      50,694   301,800    251,106
2002     -           -           -             0          0   50,694      50,694   301,800    251,106
2003     -           -           -            0           0   50,694      50,694   301,800    251,106
2004     -           -           -             0          0   50,694      50,614   301,800    251,106
2005     -           -           -            0           0   50,694      50,694   301,800    251,106
2006     -           -           -             0          0   50,694      50,694   301,800    251,106
2007     -           -           -             0          0   50,694      50,694   301,900    251,106
2008     -           -           -             0          0   50,694      50,694   301,800    251,106
2009     -           -           -            0           0   50,694      50,694   301,800    251,106
2010     -           -           -             0          0   50,694      50,694   301.800    251,106
Internal rate of return   10%
I



40
Notes on Assumptions Used to Calculate Rate of Return
1. Khubetsoana Residential Units
Infrastructure costs included the costs of preparing and servicing
residential sites.
l
Housing construction costs came from two sources: (i) housing and
sanitation loans, including a 5 percent deposit, 6 percent
interest during construction; and (ii) the cost of construction
estimated at 60 percent of the housing loans.
The portion of LEHCO-OP's overheads used for the Khubetsoana
scheme has been estimated at 50 percent of LEHCO-OP's total charge
to the project. Similarly, the remaining 50 percent of LEHCO-OP's
overheads was assigned to the Thamaes scheme.
Operating and maintenance costs are estimated at 2 percent of
total development costs, including labor costs.
Community facilities have not been included in the cost stream
since associated benefits are not directly quantifiable.
The benefit stream has been calculated on the basis of: 503
housing units at 2 rooms per unit average = 1,006 rooms at M25 per
room/month = 25,150 per year. The rooms come on stream as ready
for occupancy as follows: 222 in 1982; 216 in 1983; and 65 in
1984.
All costs and imputed rental values are expressed in 1984 prices.
2.        Thamaes Upgrading and Infill Area
Cost streams have been calculated on the same basis as
Khubetsoana.
Rental values have been calculated on the following basis: (i)
additional rents from the 1,300 residential units existing at the
time of appraisal as follows (1300 * 3 rooms * 10 maloti * 12
months); (ii) approximately 292 units constructed using the home
improvement loans and other sources of finance times 2.5 rooms per
unit at 35 maloti per month. (Rents are slightly higher in the
upgrading area than in the new developments because of the level
of service existing prior to the project); and (iii) 58 newly
constructed sites and services constructed in the Thamaes Infill
times 2 rooms per unit at 25 maloti per room/month.



*  .i. . 
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (Credit 103645)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
IMPtEMENTATION SCHEDULE
(Actual compared with Appraisal)
Q_* i9,                                                            3 423442   i9U   39U  i3 ._44 2   4
Carnufn il                                 r1  W                                  111
hh~Mot.dh LOWU
Rs~: bbkt (Ditl I
Pw .ir                              1Ir InS WAW A                              V lim ifn    
Pr*tCowdnWd?mUr
._________ _._.___                                                                                                            0, b
ft
*s/I   . I                 I          _
.. .._.._..._ ..., I                                                                               Wo1s*- 3t



42
Chart 2
LESOTHO
URBAN DOVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credt 1036L )
PROJECT COMPIETION REPORT
Schedule do lbwsemt
7mp                                                             
l~~~~~~~~~~
t                                                                                  I
-sm                      -                          
#tt         I
- 3. 1-   9/30;   3/m1.   9/J0t   /31.   9/x0.   VJ31.   9130.   3/31.   9/30.  3t31.  9o/0    VJ31.   9/3D
Q:o0z t1211   6/301  12311  6130   12/31   6/301  12/311 #XX *a0     2V1    6/30L  12/31,      10         23
foil           FVNI            FVIU            Fvu,            FS             Fmo             PWez           FYN
g~~~~~~~~vmatm



