Document of
The World Bank    Fl L E C G P Y
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2807-LSo
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
FOR AN
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 6, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        =   Maloti (M)
1 Loti              =   US$1.20
US$1                 =   x 0.83
US$1 million        =   M 830,000
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB       -   African Development Bank
BEDCO     -   Basotho Enterprises Development Corporation
BFC       -   Building Finance Corporation
CDC       -   Commonwealth Development Corporation
CIDA      -   Canadian International Development Agency
FYDP      -   Five Year Development Plan
GOL       -   Government of Lesotho
IDA       -   International Development Associat:Lon
HABITAT   -   United Nations Centre for Human Settlements
LCU       -   Labor-Intensive Construction Unit
LEC       -   Lesotho Electricity Corporation
LEHCO-OP  -   Lower Income Housing Company (PTY) Ltd.
LHC       -   Lesotho Housing Corporation
LNDC      -   Lesotho National Development Corporation
MCH       -   Maternal and Child Health
NMC       -   Maseru Municipal Council
ME        -   Ministry of Education
MH        -   Ministry of Health
MI        -  Ministry of Interior
MW        -   Ministry of Works
ODA       -   United Kingdom Overseas Development: Administration
PCU       -   Project Coordination Unit
RSA       -   Republic of South Africa
TPP       -   Third Plan Period
SACU      -   Southern Africa Customs Union
UNCDF     -   United Nations Capital Development Fund
UPI       -   Urban Poverty Income
USAID     -   United States Agency for International Development                    a
WSB       -   Water and Sewerage Branch



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LESOTHO
URBAN PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Kingdom of Lesotho
Amount:             US$6.0 million equivalent (IDA)
Terms:              Standard IDA
Project
Description:      The project would include:  (i) Technical Assistance for:
a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) in the Ministry of
Interior that would be the main project executing agent,
and studies for the identification of training needs,
and design of administrative and financial systems for
the proposed Maseru Municipal Council; and identification
of a possible second project; (ii) Site Preparation and
Servicing: in Khubetsoana, 4.5 km from central Maseru,
the development of about 500 residential and 25 small
business plots and in the Thamaes, a peri urban area of
Maseru, upgrading of 1,300 existing plots and about 1,200
plots (to be created through subdivision of existing
plots), including about 25 for small businesses; (iii)
Home Construction and Improvement Loans: loans ranging
from US$298 to US$954 equivalent would be made available
to about 1,700 households and about 50 workshops and small
businesses; (iv) Primary Infrastructure: roads, water
and street lighting would be provided in the Khubetsoana
and Thamaes project areas; (v) Community Facilities:
health clinics and multipurpose community centers would
be provided in each project area, and 28 classrooms would
be added to existing schools; (vi) Maintenance and Refuse
Equipment: equipment would be provided to maintain roads
and collect refuse in Greater Maseru; and (vii) Markets
and Shops.
The project would have important institution building
effects. Through technical assistance the PCU would be
developed as the nucleus for the Maseru Municipal Council,
for which organizational, administrative and financial
management systems would be designed. It would provide
essential services for about 20,000 people of which about
62 percent would be urban poor while meeting 25 percent of
the town's upgrading requirements and 15 percent of shelter
demand.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
Project risks center on the needs for effective inter-
agency coordination, timely densification in Thamaes,
and effective cost recovery.
I.   Estimated Costs                            Local   Foreign   Total
----(US$ Thousand)-----
Item
A.   Sites, Services and Upgrading          477        439       916
B.   Home Improvement Loans                 687        792    1,479
C.   Infrastructure                         216        189      405
D.   Community Facilities                   281        341       622
E.   Equipment                               56        386      442
F.   Technical Assistance                   560        874    1,434
G.   Markets                                 18         18        36
H.   Contingencies                          784        948    1,732
TOTAL                               3,079      3,987    7,066
II. Financing Plan
IDA                                       2,013     3,987    6,000
Government of Lesotho                     1,066               1,066
TOTAL                               3,079      3,987    7,066
III. Estimated Disbursement
IDA Fiscal Year                    FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85
IDA
Annual                         630  2,375  1,865  1,010    120
Cumulative                     630  3,005  4,870  5,880  6,000
Rate of Return for Sites and Services and Upgrading:  22 percent
Staff Appraisal Report:  Report No. 2640-LSO dated April 28, 1980.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE KINGDOM OF LESOTHO FOR
AN URBAN PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Kingdom of Lesotho for the equivalent of US$6.0
million on standard IDA terms for an urban project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        Lesotho 1/ is one of the UN-designated "least developed" countries.
GNP per capita in 1978 is estimated at US$280. 2/ The country is surrounded
by the Republic of South Africa (RSA); it is mountainous, soil erosion is
extensive, and less than 15 percent of its land area is suitable for crop
cultivation. Population pressure on land, resources is intense. In 1979, the
population was estimated at 1.3 million, growing at 2.3 percent a year. About
nine percent of Lesotho's population lived in towns in 1979, and urban growth
stood at 4.8 percent a year. More than half (59,000) of Lesotho's urban
population lives in Greater Maseru, the capital, which has a growth rate of
7.4 percent.
3.        The economy is dominated by subsistence agriculture and stock
raising, and the temporary migration of about half the male labor force to the
South African mines. Subsistence agriculture and livestock are the main
economic activities of about 85 percent of the resident population and account
for about 36 percent of domestic product. The economy is also dependent on
South Africa for about 90 percent of Lesotho's merchandise trade and tourist
traffic. Worker's remittances equalled about 55 percent of domestic product
in 1977/78 and customs receipts from the Southern Africa Customs Union (SACU) 3/
1/   The most recent economic report entitled "Economic Memorandum on Lesotho"
(No. 2251-LSO) was distributed to the Executive Directors in February
1979. Transport and education sector memoranda were issued in January
and March 1979. A report (No. 1688-EA) which examined migration in
Southern Africa, and in particular, the migrant labor situation in
Lesotho, was distributed to the Executive Directors in February 1978.
Country data are shown in Annex 1.
2/   GDP per capita in 1978 was about US$165; per capita GNP is substantially
higher because of migrant workers' remittances.
3/   The Southern Africa Customs Union was established in 1910 (and revised
in 1969 and 1976) among Botswana, Lesotho, South Africa and Swaziland.
The Agreement provides for free movement of goods among member countries
and for revenue-sharing from a common pool of customs, excise and sales
duties.



-2-
revenues. The country's integration with the South African economy has also
been bolstered by its membership in the Rand Monetary Area and by the country's
use of the South African Rand as legal tender.
4.        While Lesotho's lack of natural resources is a major constraint to
its development, its unique migrant labor situation remains the major force
in shaping the economy. About 165,000 Basotho are estimated to be employed
as migrant workers in South Africa; about 40,000 have found wage employment
in the domestic economy. There are few opportunities for domestic earnings
in Lesotho comparable to those in the South African mines, and rapidly rising
mine wages in recent years have spurred even greater migration. Between 1970
and 1977, the number of Basotho in the mines increased steadily except
for a brief period in 1974 when 15,000 workers returned on short notice to
Lesotho after disturbances in the mines.
5.        Migration has provided substantial remittances that have become
critical to maintaining the living standards of much of the population. The
continuing absence of much of the male population has led to a shortage of
skilled and semi-skilled manpower and a decline in agricultural production.
The economy's dependence on remittances has also left it vulnerable to devel-
opments over which the Government has no control. Increasing mine mechaniza-
tion and RSA policies encouraging the hiring of South African blacks have led
to a decrease since early 1978 in the number of Basotho employed. It is
thought that this decline will continue, placing more pressure on the
Government to create jobs and probably increasing migration into Maseru.
While agriculture would seem the obvious sector for job creation, its short-
term absorptive capacity is low and ongoing projects have proven difficult to
implement and have yielded disappointing results.
6.        The Government began implementing its Third National Develop-
ment Plan (1980-85) in April of this year; as in the Second Plan (1975-80),
Lesotho's development strategy calls for gradually reducing dependency on
South Africa by increasing production and incomes in agriculture, improving
physical infrastructure, reforming education to meet developmental needs,
and expanding industry. The prospect of stagnating job opportunities across
the border is reflected in a greatly increased stress oni agricultural pro-
ductivity and labor-intensity in industry. Employment will be the most
difficult challenge faced by Government under the Third Plan--the labor force
is expected to grow by about 92,000, while domestic wage employment is
unlikely to increase by more than 11,000. Although the Government expects
to expand the Labor Intensive Construction Unit (LCU) created under the
1977 Second Highway Project, informal urban sector and agricultural activities,
most of relatively low productivity, will likely have to absorb the bulk of
the growing labor force.
7.        Recent economic growth has been satisfactory, despite sharp fluc-
tuations in agricultural output mainly because of unfavorable weather. During
1974-1978 output tripled in the Government and tourism sectors, and increased
tenfold in construction; GDP is estimated to have increased about seven to
eight percent a year in real terms. Expenditure pattern highlight the coun-
try's severe external dependence: consumption exceeded domestic product by



about 75 percent, a situation made possible by substantial remittances (para.
4). Total investment in 1977/78 was 30 percent of GDP, compared to 15 percent
in 1974/75, reflecting a sustained rise in Government construction activity
and private investment in diamond mining.
8.        Government revenue stagnated between 1974/75-1976/77 at about M 30
million, as customs receipts declined, but jumped to M 52 million in 1977/78
as these more than doubled after the 1976 revision of the SACU revenue-sharing
formula. Over the same period, recurrent expenditures increased from M 19
million to M 40 million, a nominal 28 percent a year, as a result of: (i)
revisions of public service wages and salaries in 1975 and 1977 partly to stem
the flow of skilled workers to South Africa; (ii) continuing expansion of the
Government administration; and (iii) the growing recurrent costs of an expand-
ing development program. In 1977/78 capital expenditure was four times the
1974/75 level because of improved implementation capacity stemming from a
gradual buildup of skilled manpower and substantial technicLl assistance.
9.        Lesotho's balance of payments shows a chronic imbalance in merchan-
dise trade funded largely by remittances and official transfers. Between 1975
and 1978, merchandise imports increased from M 123 million to M 210 million;
while merchandise exports rose from M 10 million to M 30 million.  The start
of diamond exports worth M 17 million in 1978 accounts for the sharp increase
in export receipts; recorded receipts from Lesotho's traditional export
commodities, wool and mohair, stagnated. On the services account, net earnings
in 1977 were almost 2.5 times the 1974 level, mainly as a result of higher
mine wages, while net transfers doubled with the surge in customs receipts.
The overall balance of payments showed small surpluses in 1977 and 1978,
mainly reflecting the Government's improved budgetary situation. Gross
official reserves amounted to M 11.2 million in December 1978, equivalent
to about two weeks of 1978 imports. However, this only partly reflects the
country's foreign reserve position, given the integration of the monetary
system with that of South Africa, and the substantial under-recording of
external transactions. In 1979 the Government established a Monetary Autho-
rity to issue a new domestic currency, the maloti, at par, circulating jointly
with, and 100 percent backed by, the rand.
10.       Until 1975, the United Kingdom was the major aid source; during the
last few years a growing number of bilateral and multilateral agencies have
provided grants or concessionary credits for projects. At the end of 1978,
Lesotho's disbursed and outstanding external debt was estimated at US$28
million:  debt service payments during 1978 were US$1.4 million, about 2
percent of total export earnings, 1.2 percent of recurrent revenue. Given
Lesotho's special monetary arrangements with South Africa relating debt
service payments to recurrent revenues rather than to foreign exchange earn-
ings gives a more meaningful concept of its debt service capacity.
11.       Lesotho's medium-term economic outlook will be largely influenced
by its continuing economic arrangement with South Africa, particularly its
membership in the Customs Union and the levels of migration. These uncertain-
ties, Lesotho's delicate geopolitical situation, and scarcity of natural



- 4 -
resources underlie the difficult task of development. While current revenue
will continue to depend on SACU, the country's growing absorptive capacity and
the recurrent budgetary demands of an expanding public investment program call
for a more rapid increase in revenue and a greater diversification of revenue
sources. Although the Government is examining ways to increase internal
revenue following an IMF review of the fiscal system, these objectives can
only be realized in the long term, given Lesotho's narrow tax base. Lesotho,
thus, continues to rely heavily on external financing for new development
projects, and donor agencies should consider financing at least a part of
their local, as well as foreign, exchange costs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
12.       Bank Group operations in Lesotho, which began in 1966, total US$54.2
million for ten 1/ credits and one IFC investment of US$330,000. The credits
have helped finance: (a) two agricultural projects to improve inputs and
service to traditional farmers; (b) two education projects to expand vocational,
technical and commercial training capability and increase rural secondary
education; (c) three road projects to upgrade Lesotho's major road network,
improve maintenance and support a labor-intensive construction unit; (d) two
lines of credit to the Lesotho National Development Corporation; and (e) a
water supply project to provide service in seven provincial towns. As of
December 31, 1979, IDA credits disbursed amounted to US$19.6 million, about 53
percent of Lesotho's total external debt, disbursed and outstanding; servicing
of IDA credits is estf mated at about 17 percent of external debt service
during 1978. Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and the IFC
investment and notes on the execution of the ongoing projects. The country's
capacity for project implementation has improved considerably over the past
few years and the quality of implementation of Bank Group assisted projects
overall is satisfactory. In May 1979, the Bank agreed to act as executing
agent for a US$1.37 million UNDP Technical Assistance project that focuses on
strengthening the Government's planning capability.
13.       Future Bank operations will continue to support the Government's
development objectives (para. 6). A mission recently reviewed the agricultural
sector, and education and roads projects are being prepared.
PART III - THE URBAN SECTOR
14.       Lesotho's population is growing by 2.3 percent annually; its urban
population by 4.8 percent and that of greater Maseru, the capital, by 7.4 percent.
About 9 percent of its 1979 population of 1.3 million was urban. On current
1/ Including a US$4.0 million second credit to the Lesotho National Development
Corporation approved by the Board on February 26, 1980, but not yet signed.



- 5 -
trends the country will have a total population of about 1.5 million by the
year 1986, of which about 11 percent (168,000) will be urban. Greater Maseru,
including the original town and its periurban areas, has about 59,000 inhabi-
tants, more than half the country's urban population, and could reach almost
100,000 by 1986.
15.       The growth of Lesotho's secondary towns has been much less rapid.
None has yet passed the 10,000 population mark and only two, Hlotse and
Morija, have growth rates about 4 percent. Although Lesotho has, so far,
avoided the massive urban migration typical of many developing countries,
Maseru's growth has accelerated in recent years, mainly because of employment
opportunities there. The majority of Lesotho's 40,000 formal sector non-agri-
cultural employees, including Government workers, are located in and around
Maseru   A further 4,500 are engaged in informal business activities.
16.       Incomes in Maseru are higher than in the rest of the country; there
are also significant differences within Maseru. According to the Second Plan,
the lowest 5 percent of Maseru's population received only 1 percent of total
income while the highest 5 percent received 26 percent. Mission estimates
show that some 50 percent of the population of greater Maseru and more than 60
percent in the periurban areas fall below the urban poverty threshold of M 90
(US$110) monthly per household (January 1980 prices). 1/ This relatively
high threshold is due largely to the high cost of food, most of which is
imported from South Africa, and the large share of household income spent on
non-food items, principally shelter and clothing, needed in Lesotho's bitterly
cold winters.
17.       Urban growth has far outstripped the availability of basic services,
especially in Maseru's unplanned periurban areas, which are expanding at about
16 percent yearly. In these areas, only 21 percent of the residents have
access to standpipes (the remainder buy water from neighbors or venders).
Sixty percent have sanitation facilities (pit or bucket latrine), but these
are grossly inadequate. In contrast, 99 percent of the population in central
Maseru have piped water and 50 percent waterborne sanitation. Road and street
lighting, schoools, health clinics and other community facilities outside
central Maseru also are relatively infrequent and usually poorly maintained.
18.       Urban housing also is in short supply.  In Maseru, demand is estimated
at about 1,200 units per year, but the backlog is at least three times this
figure. Most housing is constructed by the informal sector. The Government's
role has been limited largely to providing housing for civil servants and
expatriate technicians. The Government, has drafted a comprehensive housing
policy, which aims to give equal housing opportunities to all income groups
throughout the country of mobilizing domestic savings, abolishing subsidies
1/ Equivalent to US$304 per capita yearly. This is relatively high compared
with other countries with similar per capita incomes because of the high
import content of goods--nearly 100 percent--and services purchased by
Maseru residents.



- 6 -
and promoting self-help construction. In the 1970s, the Government established
three institutions to help supply housing:
(a) The Building Financing Corporation (BFC) is the only mortgage
finance institution in Lesotho. It began operations in 1977
with funds from the Government and the UN Centre for Human
Settlements (HABITAT) to mobilize domestic savings and pro-
mote private housing investment, particularly, for middle and
lower income groups.
(b) The Lesotho Housing Corporation (LHC), established in 1971, is
empowered to build housing for all income groups; it has been
forced, however, to concentrate on middle and upper income
groups because of a lack of staff and access to financial
resources.
(c) The Lower Income Housing Company (Pty), Ltd. (LHCO-OP) was
founded in 1975 as a private company, but has, in practice, the
status of a parastatal responsible to the Ministry of Commerce.
It provides housing to families with incomes between M 50
and M 150 (US$61 and US$183) per month. LEHCO-OP has built
250 lower-income houses in Maseru, and in 1979 contracted to
build a further 573 in Maseru and 467 in Maputsoe and Roma
under a Canadian-assisted project. LEHCO-OP has become a
competent institution and would implemerLt the self-help housing
component of the proposed project.
19.       Compared to many other development countries, Lesotho's urban
problems as a whole are not large. Nevertheless, fueled by the country's
rapidly growing populace, the problem threatens to become severe. For this
reason, the Government gives high priority to preventing further deterioration
in urban services and to improving the living conditions of poorer urban
dwellers. Toward this end, it has begun strengthening the weak institutions
which deal with urban problems, training local staff and creating a comprehen-
sive legislative framework. In order to be able to supply needed urban
services as widely as possible, the Government also is reducing design
standards, pursuing least-cost options and moving to recover fully the costs
of these services from beneficiaries.
20.       Underpinning the urban program, the Government has drawn up four new
bills, the most important of which (Land Act of 1979) already has been enacted,
dealing with: land tenure, urban institutions and legal authority to control
development. All land in Lesotho is vested in the nation; chiefs, acting on
behalf of the King, have traditionally allocated residential and farming plots
to heads of households. While plots generally were allocated to successive
generations of the same family, there was no legal security of tenure, and
land rights could not be sold or mortgaged. Under the Land Act of 1979 every
adult Mosotho is entitled to one lease free of ground rent, provided the
property is used solely for his or her residence. Additional leases are
allowed, subject to ground rents renewable every decade. Titles are inheritable
and lessors may transfer their interests, create mortgages, and sublet.
Other provisions will allow plot costs to be reduced through higher residential
densities and will introduce cost recovery mechanisms essential to the proposed



project's success and replicability. The Land Act was passed and gazetted in
late 1979. For the Credit to become effective, however, the Act must have
come into force (Section 6.01(e) of the draft Credit Agreement).
21.       The second piece of legislation is the Urban Government Bill, which
would enable the Government to create urban authorities starting with a Maseru
Municipal Council (MMC) that would replace the present Township Authority. A
draft bill, prepared with ODA assistance, is presently under Government
consideration. Two other bills, one that would create a Town and Country
Planning Board to plan land use and area development and one to consolidate
and extend the assessment and collection of charges for urban services, also
are under consideration. While these proposed bills are important for urban
development in Lesotho, they are not critical to the success of the present
project (Sections 4.04(a) and 4.07 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
22.       An IDA mission identified the project in 1978 and a feasibility
study was submitted in early 1979. The project was appraised in April 1979
and negotiations were held in Washington from March 24 to 28. The Lesotho
delegation was led by Mr. A.M. Monyake, Permanent Secretary of Finance. The
Appraisal Report, No. 2640-LSO is being circulated separately to the Executive
Directors. Annex III contains supplementary project data.
Project Objectives
23.       The main objective of the project would be to assist the Government
in building an institutional framework, centered on the planned Maseru
MMC, that would undertake rational planning of greater Maseru and provide
affordable and improved services, particularly for the poor on a financially
sound basis. The Project Coordination Unit, created within the Ministry of
Interior in connection with the project would, with the existing Township
Authority, form the nucleus of the MMC. In addition, the Project would meet
about 15 percent of the shelter demand and 25 percent of the upgrading require-
ments of lower-income Maseru residents during 1980-85. To ensure replicability
of project components full recovery of all allocable costs would be a major
goal. Other objectives would be to provide community facilities, improve
sanitation and health, stimulate employment through technical and financial
assistance to the informal sector, train manpower, and establish adequate
routine maintenance of infrastructure throughout greater Maseru.
Project Description
24.       The Project would include:
(a) Technical Assistance for (i) the project coordination unit
(PCU-para. 25), and (ii) studies to design the organizational
structure and administrative and financial management systems
for MMC and to assess its training needs. Studies for the
further development of Maseru and identification of a possible
second project are also included. For the above items it is



-8-
estimated that a total of 150 staff months of technical assist-
ance would be required at an average cost of about US$3,500 per
man month at a total cost of US$753,000. An estimated 43
man months of architectural and engineering design at a total
cost of US$310,000 would be required. Consultants and profes-
sional staff with necessary qualifications and experience are
expected to be available in the southern African region at this
cost.
(b) Site Preparation and Servicing: (i) Development of about 500
serviced residential and 25 business plots in the Khubetsoana
area; 1/ (ii) upgrading in Thamaes, a periurban area with a
population of about 8,500, about 300 existing plots and
about 1,200 new plots which would be created by subdividing
the existing large plots. About 25 plots would be for small
businesses.
Both areas would be provided with earth-gravel roads, standpipes
and latrines. Services would be to minimum standards that
could be upgraded as incomes permitted.  It is expected that
residents would be given security of tenure and would be able
to sell their leases.
(c)  Home Improvement Loans:  Loans of US$298 to US$954 would be
made available to about 1,700 households to buy building
materials for home improvement/construction and latrines.  Loan
amounts would be determined on the basis of occupants' abilities
to repay. The maximum loan would enable a beneficiary to build
a two room house with a latrine. Although an individual would
be free to construct a house of any design, a variety of
standard plans would be made available through LEHCO-OP , the
technical agency responsible for implementation.
(d) Community Facilities: The Project would provide: (i) 28
additional classrooms to existing schools, enabling full
primary education to be offered, and (ii) a center for health,
nutrition, child care and community activities in each area.
(e)  Assistance to the Informal Sector:  The Project would include a
retail market and serviced plot for workshops and retail
outlets in each area. Building material loans to small businesses
for the construction of shops would be provided (maximum 50
loans up to US$954 each). Loans expected to total about
US$171,000 for the purchase of machinery, other equipment, raw
materials and working capital would be provided by BEDCO from
its normal resources. These loans for worksheds, equipment and
working capital would generate about 160 permanent jobs at a
cost of about US$1,200 each which compares favorably with the
national average for small businesses of about US$5,000.
1/ A further 300 plots would be built through LERCO-OP under an existing 1979
Canadian International Development Agency grant of US$2.3 million equivalent.



- 9-
Project Implementation and Management
25.       Overall responsibility for project execution would lie with the
Ministry of Interior, which has set up a Project Coordination Unit (PCU),
consisting of a Project Director (already appointed), a municipal engineer, a
sanitary engineer, an accountant and necessary support staff. Appointment of
the municipal engineer, sanitary engineer and accountant are conditions of
effectiveness of the Credit (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section
6.01(b)). The unit would be responsible for overall coordination, monitoring
and supervision of the project and would disburse all the funds directly.
26.       Off-site electrical works would be provided by the Lesotho Electricity
Corporation from its own resources under an agreement to be entered into by
December 31, 1980 (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.01(c)(i)).
The Government, through the Water Supply Branch (WSB) of the Ministry of Water
would make arrangements by April 1, 1981 for WSB to supply off-site water at
tariffs that would recover capital and operating costs (draft Development
Credit Agreement, Section 3.01(c)(ii)).
27.       Consultants would be appointed to design and supervise the construc-
tion of road and water infrastructure. The Lesotho Electricity Corporation
(LEC) would design and construct electrical works; the Ministry of Works
community facilities and markets. Water reticulation and community facilities
would be constructed through contractors and maintained by the WSB (draft
Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.01(c)(ii)); street lighting by LEC
through force account. The Labor-Intensive Construction Unit would build all
roads. Equipment provided in the project would enable MI to adequately
maintain roads and collect trash in greater Maseru. The Government has agreed
to provide the funds needed to maintain roads in greater Maseru (draft
Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.06).
28.       LEHCO-OP would be responsible, under an agreement with the Government
that would be a condition of credit effectiveness (draft Development Credit
Agreement, Section 3.01(c)(iii) and 6.01(c)) for: (a) mobilizing community
participation in the upgrading scheme through its community service department;
(b) assisting MI's Physical Planning Office in planning densification of the
upgrading area; (c) preparing planning layouts for the site and service
scheme; (d) providing technical assistance for the construction of self-help
houses and sanitation units; (e) administering the building materials loan
scheme; and (f) monitoring, in coordination with BEDCO, business sites building
and development (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 6.01(c)).
29.       A major effort would be focused on community participation in this
project by LEHCO-OP's community services department, mainly through the use of
"pitsos"--traditional discussion forums used by chiefs for information dissem-
ination and decision making. MI used pitsos in July 1978 to explain the
-reasons for its socioeconomic survey to collect data for project design among
periurban residents. Although preliminary layouts and engineering designs for
upgrading areas have already been prepared, the final placement of roads,
standpipes and other facilities would only be decided after on-site consultation,
again using pitsos, by MI's Physical Planning Office. Basic options for



- 10 -
providing services would be explained, and staked, well in advance of construc-
tion. Suggestions from residents would be taken into account in deciding the
final placement of services. Exact placement of community facilities would
also be discussed through pitsos.
30.       The 1979 Land Act provides for creating "Selected Development Areas"
for redevelopment purposes, including town planning, boundary adjustment,
upgrading of services and densification. Thamaes would be declared such an
area under the project before December 31, 1980 (draft Development Credit
Agreement, Section 3.06(a)). As buildable land in Maseru is in short supply,
the Government wishes to increase density through subdividing the generally
large plots (averaging over 1,000 m2 each) in the area. MI's Physical Planning
Office, with assistance from LEHCO-OP, would prepare preliminary layouts
showing the locations of services and possible subdivisions of plots; these
would be discussed with residents through pitsos.
31.       Residents would be informed through pitsos of the cost of upgrading
and the monthly charges they would have to pay. Since monthly charges/rates
would be levied on a per square meter basis, this would act as an incentive to
subdivide. All residents with plots suitable for subdivision would be offered
that option, but would not be required to do so. Although existing allottees
would have the right to sell all or part of their plot, to avoid speculation
MI would try to acquire all new plots created by densification and allocate
them using the same criteria as for sites and services.
32.       Thamaes is a mixed residential area with some large properties and
many rental units. Preliminary indications are that about one-third of all
plots would not be subdivided. On these plots there may be an increase in the
number of households per lot, including rental units as a response to increases
in monthly charges. The subdivided plots, after deducting approximately 15
percent for unbuildable areas, accessways and other services, would average
about 300 m2. The increased population density would result in a larger
number of low income families having access to services.
Project Cost and Financing
33.       Project costs, with contingencies, are estimated at US$7.1 million
of which US$4.0 million (56 percent) would be foreign exchange. Base cost
estimates are at January 1980 prices, based on preliminary engineering designs
for civil and electrical works, suppliers quotations for equipment and mater-
ials, and current costs of consulting services on other projects in Lesotho.
Physical contingencies have been calculated at 15 percent for infrastructure,
community facilities and markets. Price contingencies of 12 percent for 1980,
11 percent for 1981-82 and 10 percent thereafter are based on inflation
estimates for southern Africa. The proposed US$6.0 million credit would
finance about 85 percent of project costs. No duties or taxes are payable on
goods and services for the project imported directly into and purchased within
the Customs Union, within which it is expected that all goods and services
would be procured. The Credit would cover the total estimated foreign exchange
cost and about 65 percent of local costs.



- 11 -
Allocation Procedures 1/
33.       Plots and house improvement loans for both the upgrading and sites
and services site in Maseru would be allocated to heads of households meeting
the following eligibility criteria:
(a) household head must be a citizen of Lesotho;
(b) have a regular income, not exceeding US$185 per household per
month (January 1980 prices); 2/
(c) have resided in Maseru for the preceding year; and
(d) not already own a site or house in greater Maseru.
Agreement was reached with the Borrower that beneficiary and plot allocation
criteria and a standard agreement with beneficiaries for payment of all
charges would be on terms satisfactory to the Association (draft Development
Credit Agreement, Section 3.08(a), and (c)).
Training
34.       Accounting staff in MI's Township Office generally have little
formal financial training and lack the basic education to absorb training
above an elementary bookkeeping level. However, a Mosotho has recently been
recruited with the necessary qualifications but little experience who would be
a suitable counterpart to the professional accountant required under the
project. No local engineers are available for PCU, but the Government plans
to provide six technicians for practical training on the project.
Monitoring and Evaluation
35.       In view of the manpower shortages in Lesotho, monitoring and
evaluation would be a modest exercise geared to the gathering of essential
management information and the limited analysis of practical problems and
project impact on beneficiaries. Efforts would be focussed on collecting
information for future urban projects. The monitoring system would highlight
implementation problems to enable remedial action to be taken quickly.
36.       Each implementing institution would be responsible for routine
monitoring of its own activities and would report to the PCU. The PCU would
1/ These are essentially the same as those adopted under the CIDA project,
except that households with monthly incomes of US$50 and below are not
eligible for loans under the CIDA project.
2/ Sixty percent of the plots in the site and service area would be reserved
for households below the poverty threshold of M 90 (US$110) per household
per month (January 1980 prices).



- 12 -
prepare a consolidated quarterly report for IDA, the format of which was
agreed (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.04(b)(iii)). PCU would
report on design, tendering, costs and construction and LEHCO-OP on the
evolution of its community development program and densification. It would
also prepare a self-help housing manual. At the completion of the project the
PCU would prepare a project completion report on the basis of an outline
agreed with the Association (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section
3.04(c)).
Procurement
37.       MI, through the PCU, would invite and evaluate all bids and award
contracts (in accordance with Bank Guidelines for Procurement). Since contracts
for civil and building works and equipment would be small, 1/ they would not
likely attract contractors from outside southern Africa. Therefore, competi-
tive bidding using local procedures would be employed. These procedures are
satisfactory to IDA and allow international contractors and suppliers and
those from neighboring countries to bid.
38.       Road works, including contingencies, amount to US$1.46 million and
would be constructed by LCU supervised by consultants. It has carried out
similar works efficiently in the past. LEC would design and construct electri-
cal works by force account amounting to US$0.22 million.
39.       Building material loans for self-help housing, sanitation units and
workshops are estimated at US$1.7 million, including contingencies, about 50
percent of which would be for blocks, cement and sand. The delivery rate for
these materials must be. closely coordinated with the rate of construction of
houses in various locations over a period of three years. To avoid storing
materials for long periods with resultant costs and pilferage problems, it is
proposed to procure these materials from local sources using local bidding
procedures.
Disbursement
40.       IDA would disburse 85 percent of the total cost of civil works,
community facilities and building materials, 100 percent of the foreign cost,
or 85 percent of the total cost, of equipment and vehicles and 100 percent of
the foreign cost or 85 percent of the total cost of technical assistance.
Disbursements would be fully documented. Technical assistance and works
carried out by force account, would be made against certificates of expenditure
certified by the Project Coordinator. Documentation for these items would not
be submitted to IDA for review but retained by the borrower and made available
for inspection by IDA during the course of project supervision.
1/ Water reticulation and building contracts, including contingencies amount
to US$0.24 million and US$0.85 million, respectively. Contracts for
equipment and vehicles, including contingencies, wouLd total US$0.68 million.



- 13 -
41.       To maintain the momentum of project preparation, the Government has
requested approval of retroactive financing to cover project-related expendi-
tures including services and operational costs of the PCU prior to Board
approval. Total estimated expenditure is about US$120,000 of which about
US$100,000 is recommended for retroactive financing for expenses incurred
after July 1, 1979.
Municipal Organization and Finance
42.       The present Maseru Township organization is part of MI.  It provides
only a few municipal services, such as street cleaning and refuse and night
soil collection, and cannot be considered an adequate municipal authority.
The Township's financial base also is very weak, consisting of income from
property rates and other charges for municipal services which covers only
about one-third of expenditures. Moreover, many items, such as office accommo-
dations, services and financial staff are not included.
43.       The largest part of Township income, about 50 percent, is from rates
on property. Collection so far has been unsatisfactory, however, with arrears
at the end of FY78/79 representing nearly one and a half years' charges. The
Township Office collected only 38 percent of outstanding arrears in FY78/79.
The technical assistance provided under the project would include a detailed
examination of the arrears problem and recommend solutions.
44.       The rate charge itself is levied at a low level of between 0.25
percent and one percent on property values. Last assessed in 1972, neither new
buildings nor improvements to existing buildings have been taken into account.
In addition the existing law on rating and valuation allows many exemptions
from, or reductions in, liability for the payment of property rates.
45.       The lack of a proper municipal tax base and inadequate collection
institutions have hampered the provision of municipal services in Maseru and
other towns. The Government proposes to establish municipal councils, starting
with MMC. Technical assistance would be provided to design organization
structures and technical, administrative and financial management systems and
assess training needs. Agreement has also been reached with the Government to
provide MMC with adequate financial resources upon its creation (draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement, Section 4.04(b)).
46.       The Government has agreed to obtain a professional accountant for
the PCU (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.01(b)). The services
of a qualified and experienced professional accountant are needed to: (a)
assist the township in improving its financial management and control; (b)
prepare for the creation of the MMC, including assisting the MMC consultants;
and (c) act as treasurer to MMC upon its creation.
Cost Recovery
47.       The following principles of cost recovery would be applied to the
project (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.08(b)):
(a) This system is the same as that for the ongoing CIDA-financed
project. Those costs normally recovered by public authorities



- 14 -
through user charges or tariffs would be so recovered (e.g.,
off-site infrastructure for water, electricity and roads);
(b) all development costs for on-site infrastructure, home improve-
ment loans, design, engineering and supervision would be borne
directly by the beneficiaries in respect of private plots.
Costs relating to public areas such as roads and community
facilities would be borne by MI/MMC.
(c) urban services to be provided by MI/MMC would initially
be recovered by a monthly service charge. With the creation
of MMC these services would be recovered by municipal rates
and charges (e.g., garbage collection, street lighting,
cleaning and maintenance).
48.       Past, low-cost housing projects in Lesotho have been subsidized,
with the Government recovering about 60 percent of allocable costs. Under the
project, all allocable costs would be recovered directly from beneficiaries.
A total of 72 percent of project costs would be recovered directly through
development charges, loan charges, service charges/municipal rates and tariffs.
The remaining unallocable costs would be recovered from general revenues.
These include health centers, schools, PCU, staff housing and studies.
49.       Those allocated plots would be required to make a downpayment of
five percent of development charges; a similar downpayment would be required
of beneficiaries taking out building materials loans. Materials loan amounts
would vary according to beneficiaries' abilities to repay. Loans are expected
to be limited to US$954 equivalent, which would be adequate to build a two-room
house and latrine. Development charges and loan repayments would be recovered
at nine percent interest through monthly payments over 20 years (draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement, Section 3.08(b)(i). These charges would be collected by
the Building Finance Corporation (BFC-draft Development Credit Agreement,
Section 3.01(c)(iv)), which has the same role in the existing CIDA project.
BFC would charge M 5 per plot per year for this service. Monthly service
charges would be based on property values computed as the sum of on-site
infrastructure, building materials and labor costs. These charges would be
adequate to meet the recurrent costs of the two project aLreas, and the finan-
cing plan would be reviewed by consultants preparing for the creation of
IMC.
50.       The Government had initially agreed to charge an interest rate of
four to five percent under the ongoing CIBA project, but raised this to nine
percent for the CIDA and proposed IDA-assisted projects. While this rate is
not now positive in light of recent inflation projections its doubling shows
an important recognition of the need to move towards positive real interest
rates. This interest rate would be reviewed every five years from the date on
which the first payment falls due and would be fixed at two percent per annum
below the price lending rate of BFC at that time (draft Development Credit
Agreement, Section 3.08(b)). The BFC service charge would average about
one percent.



-15 -
Income Distribution, Affordability and Replicability
51.       Design standards are modest, giving low unit costs per plot.  Plots
in the site and services and upgrading areas would be affordable by more than
75 percent of the poor population of greater Maseru. Plot options, plus a
construction loan to self-build one room, would be affordable by about 60
percent of Maseru's poor.
52.       The project would demonstrate the feasibility of providing affordable
services to low-income households and introducing full recovery of allocable
costs. However, the replicability of the project would be very much dependent
on successful collection of the development and service charges and development
of adequate institutional capacity. The project would meet only about 25 per-
cent of the upgrading requirements and 15 percent of the shelter demand of
Maseru to 1985. The cost of upgrading the remaining 75 percent and meeting
the backlog of Maseru's low-cost shelter demand is estimated at US$32 million.
Because of finncial and capacity constraints it would take about 16 years to
meet the demand to 1985 at the present rate of investment, including the
project. The project includes studies which should result in future low-cost
housing projects to assist the Government in meeting this demand.
Justification, Risks and Urban Poverty Impact
53.       The project would have an important impact on the urban sector, as
the Government's first major response to the demand for basic affordable
housing infrastructure and services in Maseru and its periurban areas involving
full cost recovery. Direct project benefits will include: (a) the provision
of essential services at least cost in the site and services and upgrading
areas to benefit a population of about 20,000 by 1985; in the upgrading area
63 percent of beneficiaries would be below the urban poverty threshold, in the
site and services area 60 percent of sites would be reserved for people below
the threshold; (b) the improvement of sanitary conditions in greater Maseru
affecting the whole population, but mainly directed towards the poor; (c) the
employment stimulated by the provision of markets and business plots, labor
intensive road construction and use of locally manufactured building materials;
and (d) the provision of improved access to and supply of water.
54.       The project would also have important demonstration effects, particu-
larly regarding the policies it would introduce in: (a) recovery of all
allocable costs; (b) least-cost solutions for services; (c) improvement of the
tax base of Maseru; (d) reduction of plot sizes and densification in the
upgrading area; and (e) provision of low-cost sanitation units.
55.       In the longer term, benefits would arise from the institutional
support given by the project, towards the (a) establishment of MMC and training
of its staff; (b) extension of property taxes through new areas to be incorpor-
ated into the town; and (c) strengthening of LEHCO-OP's capacity to provide
low-cost houses for the urban poor.
56.       The economic rate of return for the sites and services and upgrading
scheme components, almost 60 percent of total project costs, are estimated at



- 16 -
about 22 percent. Rates of return were not computed for other project
components due to difficulties in quantifying their benefits, which include
improvement in the quality of Maseru's physical environment by the garbage
ccllection, drainage, water supply and public sanitation components; the
Government's ability to maintain these serrices will also be greatly increased
by the reorganization0 The addition of classrooms and health clinics should
significantly improve the levels of educational health and nutrition services
in the project.
57.       As TDA's first urban project in Lesotho and the Government's first
major attempt to address the low-income housing needs of Maseru's population
on a full cost recovery basis, the project has a number of new features which
are subject to risk. The Government has expressed its willingness to initiate
these features, which it sees as being closely linked with legislative and
administrative reforms being carried out within the country. Three main areas
of risk can be identified:
(a)  Coordination of the various agencies involved in the project
will require effective project management. Early start-up
of the PCU should, however, minimize this risk.
(b) The collection needed to assure cost recovery--a key to
project success and replicability--will req[uire both good
management and political will.  Here, again, PCU's early
start-up should be helpful on the management side; the
Governmelt has, further, strongly expressed its intention to
enforce all collection, and residents of the project areas
have expressed their willingness to pay the necessary charges.
(c) Densification of Thamaes may not take place as rapidly as
planned due to political considerations. The Government
is aware of the need for reducing plot sizes in urban areas
and has already taken steps in this directiLon; the Land Act
also provides the legal instruments necessary to ensure
densificationO
The above risks have been discussed with the Government wlich has expressed
its willingness to carry out the necessary legislative and administrative
reforms to ensure the project's success. Monitoring by PCU should ensure that
any major problems are identified as soon as possible so that necessary
remedial action can be taken.
58.       The project's estimated 20,000 beneficiaries would represent 28
percent of Maseru's total urban poor. In addition, the imnprovement in munici-
pal services would have a broad impact on the urban poor. An estimated 62
-percent of total project costs would directly benefit the urban poverty
group. Thus, of the total project cost of US$7-0 million, US$4.4 million is
attributable to the urban poor. Of the US$6.0 million credit amount some
US$3.7 million is urban poverty lending. See Table 1.



17 -
Table 1: COSTS AND AFFORDABILITY
(January 1980 Prices)
Typical Plot and Loan Options
Sites & Services                    Upgrading
Plot Size                               200 m2                          300 m2
Materials Loans                           Yes                             Yes
Minimum        Maximum         Minimum         Maximum
(site only)   (site plus
two rooms
& latrine)
1. Cost to purchaser
(US$/hh)                      300           1,442             343           1,560
2. Total monthly payments
(over 20 years)
(US$/hh)                      3.8            18.8             4.3            19.3
3. Minimum monthly income
required                       19               94           21.5            96.5
4. Lowest income percentile
reached                        10               45             15               45
5. Number of households
benefitting (total)                   500                            1,200
(new plots)
1,300
(existing plots)



- 18 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.       The Development Credit Agreement between the Kingdon of Lesotho and
the Association and the recommendations of the committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are
being distributed to the Executive Directors.
60.       Special conditions of the credit are listed in Section III of Annex
III of this report. Special conditions of effectiveness would be the coming
into full force and effect of the Land Act of 1979 (draft Development Credit
Agreement, Section 6.01(a)); the appointment for PCU of municipal and sanitary
engineers and an accountant (Section 6.01(b)); and Government entry into
agreements with BFC (Section 6.01(d)) and LEHCO-OP (Section 6.01(c)) for the
services they would provide.
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
62.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By: Ernest Stern
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 6, 1980



-19--                                             ANNEX I
rABLE )A                                            Page  1  of  5
USOVO - SOC.AL EM't .T0K3S 0A-A 5                     -      g
tA.D AIEA (THOUSAND inO. KY.J                                                  -  OST XEC!NT I    rIY-7   -
-.otAL !o~~..                                                         SAP         SAM       ,E.(. RICHER
ACRICULTNAL       28.6                                  MT RECENT       GEOGRAPHC    INCOME         l:JCO?
1960  /b    1970 /b zs-.57ArE lb Jt      ION /c   CROUP /d    CROUP /4
OF PR WItTA (I'551                     '0.0        90.0      280.0            306.1      209.6        46;.3
EHERCY CONSU2ItON PER CAPITA
511LJR.C'21  3  COAL QuIVAL2ir)       ..           ..        ..            80.6        83.9       262.1
LOP'LATTON 47 I VS-AL STATISTICS
?0PqLj,XLAOH  M-f AA rAT.1.Ca3S)      0.9         1.1        1..
UARim  ?OULArto3 (PERct 0oJ T?oL)  1.5            2.6        3.4             17.1       16.2         24.;
PotULATUCK tRO.Ec7:OqS
POPULAIoH IN YEAIt 2000 (KflLLONS)                         2.0
ST?A?ONCAY  2OruLT.ON (MtLLIOWS)                           5.0
nEA  STATIONAtY POuLTON  IS UACM                       2155
POPULATION DENSITY '
m  s0.  t.                         3.0         3.0        43.0            18.4        49.4        45.2
PEg  SQ. X2. ACarcXCLWUAL LArMD    32.0        38.0       45.0            50.6       252.0        149.0
POPULATION ACt 5IRIIC7UR (?PRCNT&)
0-14 YnS.                          3S.6        37.6       39.0            64.1        43.1        45.2
15-14 'MS.                          57.0        S7.3      57.0             52.9       53.2         51.9
63 nS. AND AJOVE                     4.4         5.1        4.0             2.8         3.0          2.t
POPULA?Om CROhSll tAXt (PERNT)
MTAL                                1.5         2.2        2.4             2.7         2.t         2.7
URmw                                6.0         7.7        8.1             5.7         4.6         4.3
CR120 SttSl RATE (PER TROUSCM)       3?.0         9.0       41.0            44.3        41.4        59.'.
CUD.E DEATh tAIr (PE  THOUSA)        24.0        19.0       17.0             17.2       15.9         11.7
CROsS IEPUtODCC-o  LA?!                ..         2.5        2.7              3.1        2.9          2.7
PAIIZLy PLA.'ENtmc
ACCPTORS. AMUAL (TUOUSAlDS)          ..          ..         ..
USES (PnCT Of MALRI   WUN)    ..                 ..         .                ..        2.2        13.2
P000 A.40 (ErTlON
INDEX or Woo ?ROOUC770N
PER CAPZ7A (1969-71-10)          114.2        97.0      9n.0             94.3        96.a        99.6
P  CA?ITA SUPPLY Of
CALORIES (PEACEIT OF
ISQUtIamNS1)                     92.0        85.0       9 .0            89.5        95.3        94.7
90INS (C.M5S ?E, 3AY)            tl.7           ..      67.6             55.8        52.1        54.3
Of WIlE AlitlAL AND PULSE          ..           ..        ..             17.9       13.6        17.4
CRIu (ACES 1-4) 4ORTALm  UT!         34.0        27.0       21.0            22.3        1S.5         11.4
HCALTh
tit tLPECTANCY AT 811T?  (YtARS)    42.0          47.0      50.0             47.0       49.3         54.7
us&w  ,30T MALIrE LI:! t
YOCS AD)                                        114.4      114.0               *-      105.4        6S.1
ACCzSS  To sA5E VAT!L (nicUr O8
r/?CLAS10N)
ItDAL                                *-         3.0       17.0            20.3        26.3        34.4
2..                                           100.0       65.0            53.9        58.5       . 57.9
URAL                                 ..         1.0       14.0            10.1        15.8        21.2
ACCESS TO LXCRITA DISO5.AL (PERCENt
0f POPULATION)
TOTAL                                *.        11.0       13.0            22.5        16.0        40.4
CRUX4                                ..        44.0       51.0            82.5        65.1        71.3
l                                    ..        10.0       12.0            13.9         3.5        27.7
POUtLATION PER PrSICM                  ..     262o.0   17S00.0           17424.7    11396.4       6799.4
POPULATION PER %URSMC PeRson       7710.0      3800.0    3780.0           2506.6      5552.4      152z.1
70PDLATE20 PER 0SF T2AL SED
tOTAL                             720.0/f     570.0      560.0           502.3      1417.1       726.5
URlBA                                ..        70.0       70.0          201.49       197.2       272.7
VURAL                                *-       720.0      710.0          1403.6     :445.9       1404.4
AW$SStONS Ptl tC3S?DALED               ..           ..        ..            23.4        24.1        27.5
AVtCct sizz or mOUSLoLO
TOTAL.                                           ..        3.9             4.9         5.3         5.4
URSAi                                      ..              4.2             4.9         4.9         5.1
10911                                .            .        1.9             5.5         5.4         5.5
AVtRACG   UHtR Of PERSONS PtR NOON
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..
018.43                               ..      . .             ..                          ..
UAL                                  ..                     .                .
ACCtSS sa E-U.CtCt-  (PTRCENT
Of OWLL1NCS1
TOT.ki.                                                         22~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  29.
UA:.;                                ..           ..        ..               ..       172.        45.3
PUtL.                                .            ..        ..               ..         ..         6.9



ANNEX I
ALZ ,A                                           Page  2  of  5
LUSOS1KO-SOC1AL tXtCATOtS DATA SHE'ST
LLSOM                UTS~~.EJUNCE ~OJWS(0iSE:AUAZ
O-  OST MCEN? 5S$AT$'-
05T RtZWT        CZOGCRWIUC      L4COM.9     ENC011
1960 lb      1970 /b KSTL1ATE /b       RECGON L      COU?  d    CL UP L
ID'CATION
AMJLUsMED LEO        x SATIOS
ML iAATI      TOtL                   63.0         95.0      119.0             59.0        63.3 52.1
"LA                    63:0         77.0       98.0              4.2        79.I         87.I
FITAL&               102.0        113.0       139.0              4.2        46.4         75.1
stZoMAR1    TOETL                     3.0          7.0       15.0              9.0        18 7         21.4
UALl                    2.0          7.0       13.0             12.0        U. 1         33.0
PEh,                   4.0           5.0       17.0.             4.4        10.2         15.
OCSOIQ0AL OWtL. (S of 5ZCODSA)  13.0                 6.0        5 4               7.0         .5           9.
7UP1L-TZACYX unO
PRIMA7S                              54.0         44.0       53.0             42.2        41.0         34.1
S1CO1mU4                            20.0         22.0       22.0             22.9        21.7          3. 4
AWmL  LSTZRACY XASS (n UC)                .            .       40.0              20.         I1.2         54.0 
CO"SOMPIC
PASSENGEL CARS P   TUm sU
POPULATION                            2.0!,        2.0        3.5              4.0         2.S          9.3
RADIO RECEIVERS ?U EUWJUD
PQPVLATION                            6.0          5.0       11.0             4.3         27.2         76.9
TV RECEIVERS PER TUOASMS
POPUILATION                            ..           ..         ..              2.9          1.4        U.
bWF;SPAPEZ (-DAILY CXUtA                             ,
INTZRESr) CIRClLAflON MI
THOUSAND POPULATION                      ..           .         1.2               5.6         5.3         15.3
CIWI.A AYVUaL ATTENDANCE PU CAPITA   .                ..                          0.4         1.1          2.5
LABOR bOECC
T-OTAL LUBOX FOCE (TYU5ADS)              .             .      5O OIb                -           .
FEALC  (PEBcET)                      33.7         4.6        4.4              31.9        24.8         29.
AlICUL1IUR   (PE=NIIT)               93.4         59.7       U.0              77.6        49.4         62.7
mSr    y (nsczPO )                    2.2          3.2        4.0              7.9        10.0         11.9
PAXtClPATIOU 3121 (P7U1      )
TOTAL                                  56.5         55.5       :..3              40.8        34.9         37.1
pLt                                    * 62.4       62.7       61.2              33.9        52.4         48.8
FZMALS                                 50.9         49.1       -.7.6            25.6         15.0         20.4
CDMISC oEENDESCT RATIO                    ..           ..         1.0              1.2         1.3          1.4
INCOME DISTRISUTION
?ERCERT OF ?2lVATZ ICOlE1
ECESIVED BY
hIGHEST  PERCLEhT OF ICUSEROLOS        ...                      ..                           .     - 15.2
RIChEST 20 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS    ..              ..         .4 ..                        ..         48.2
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF ROUSEHOLDS        ..           ..         ..                ..         .           6.3
LItnST 40 PEnRCEN  Of NOUSEOLDS        ..           ..         ..                ..         ..         16.3
PovrTY TARCET GROUPS
cSTL-'T.D AISOUL7E POVEIUT  tICOtZ
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPItA)
UV314                                  ..           ..      226.0            157.6         9.2        241.3
L                                      ..           ..       5S.0             96.8        71.9        136.6
!STSEATED RLZIATIVE PORTY D6COt
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
LJ                                     ..           ..       70.0            135.4        91.2        179.7
RURAL                                  ..           ..       49.0             71.0        54.6        103.7
EST124ATED POPULATIOt RLOW ABSOLDT
POVXRTY LNCOhE LEVEL (fnZl7= )
LAA                                    ..           ..       60.0             34.5        4.1          24.8
LUAL                                   ..           ..       26.0             44.7        53.9         37.3
Noc available
.Nt applicable.
NOTES
/I    The adjusted group averegee for each indicator are population-siShted geooitrie meaus, excluding Cho *xtrtg
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each troup.  Coverage of countries amon$ the
irdicators depends on svailabillty of daca and is rot unform.
lb    Unlitas othervie. noted, data for 1960 refer to say year bet-eon 1959 and 1961; for 1970, betweeo 1f9
a*nd 1971; and gar Most Recent Esctite. betuego 1974 and 1977.
le  Africa South of Sahars;   1   Lo,  Inco,e ($250 or less per capIta. 1976):  /L  Lower H5ddle Ihce
$281-550 per capita. 1976);        f 1962;   /r  1965;   /h  Including mitrant labor in South Africa.
host secent Isttmete of CXP par capita is for 1975.
August, 1979



-21-                                  -ANpNExr
rifflE  ti it&i ~CA1VMPaii3Tg   5
Aetes: Although tie- deta are draw troo -A,roosa 5oenre.Lly judged the most sathoritatile sad reliable, It shoald also b. noted that theY Wo not he smears-
tt_.I.aly toepacIlo t_taua  of to. IUa If stasoardiond onieltloaa end   -eptc cooe  by d.fferen -t -oouata I. tollrti.s the data. Ths sate  s', nntqetbtlaan.
dsefti to desrlin  -fler  of osgoltudo, indicate treads, and coas'actrien certai  a.Jar differc *sc   hetoes  cOot rise.
The ci'uedsop a'e r.oa  ooeah indicator are popoaaioea-ightsd geceetric -Sca,  -cluIngo the sotron'sln  of ita indicator - nt hs -nt popnxatcd
coutr       cotgrp.Ino  aeo  of daa  troo p a-rergS of all lodicatos'  fac Capital Surplus Oill Exportera ad of indicatrs of Acesa to Water -od Excrsta
Dispcaal  H~ibx.g, to,ccs, DietribUtloc and Pcr.r.y for ocher country pou.. ar  ppxaction--eighood geo~tric  -cn  oithoutc eecWicxie of the entree  -alues nd
oh. ant pcvalaoicd   -tuoO.  Zire  the covra-  of ocutrien  -eRcohe tcdlcatcro decepd  on. aobshlito1 oIf data co  i  Ot onlo     rst-. stunt beserc,."d
=t.l- Ttota  Surfer. U,sc roeprinin   med area and Inland sttnos.                           tue    fpoinloxi   ran   n   oalanrdb   ortndoo.a
O.rloto     -tt recent sotinais of agricultual are  used tauporarilr                psr-etagae of their reepestios poptlatisma, lac-ta diapasal nag innat
or prenanonty for crops,  autur-e, ca.tn nod citch- es  dans. or toh CIacllectIon  and diupcai, c-th or olobout treatant, at kamo  stere,
1i. faLllo.                                                                                and  aste-natno by water-borne synsteu  or the u-e 00 pit privie   Mt s.,ailns
IN? Rfi !AP!fA 'IUTS),,   Per p.scpita eWtist   at curret .arnst prioves,                    po1o1slatonsrPoai.- PopUlatlec diloin*d by monde  of pretticig psWsictfl
ema-elo      op  ao - ooeso I-a-teo-. as World Dana Atlas (1976-78 baih                       ulfidfrnaela  ochool at uni-esity Ir-i.
1960, 1970, no   58it.                                                                     pecuatio .-tturLAC Pr - .   Ppoate  dirluod iy  -uMo  of pra-ctirig sale
g9GYCltWfflW   EP 'A7d-Th-  eAn2 C'esotion  of coooarelal nes.                           s-d reae        .nat   ..r.... prriltal  -une, -d uso-orst nre.                    oi
,rl'sa,  atura  gas       eydr. macea-  -d  o.                     Pn&stultoe cer Hospital. ted   toal   rac    n r       ood - Ppu atIon
thsa.l. e1isr~clcly) ta sillo, -  of colaqtaln  pa  cpita; 1                                 sad swerll divided by toolsr repcinnsero   cp linsnaioei
1970, nod 1970 daca.                                                                         poblir and pri.nts geeal d specialo-d hootpital cod rttiateocatera.
fflpisayal. are estahllohoents pcranntly coaxfed by et Inauc os   .ictn
PiV.'tAN-, 7710: 77177:                                                                    salieb-ete pruYridg   -rolply  ocdial care ore cot celsn .  ral
T,.0.0?oito,1-ea   clic)-A   f J.1ui  1; 1960, 1970, and                                     hospitals, boosir, ilaside health nod seA.le   coorort -- -insty sac
15777  .tn.       .                                                                         by  aW pyican  -(bet iy a erdicni aslat         -cro. elo-Lte, cto.)  MchIc  oftor
Unt  ?c'lnlo     Ivco.7ttl       ej   fura   ottlpplto;                                      l-patioct acdalnad proelde .                 140   srv,. -f =,dioa1 facilitis,;,
S                   lifteren~         ~        ~~t 'oo-'..oon- ra  -sy affect ocepa-ahlity of data           ldisi.o.o. P., H.oetil. ted  - Total cueno o  a,aco cto or diaoiasxic  .roo
acoo  o<str:s-; 19.3, 1971, end 1497'. inc.                                                hospitals oirided by the t-ole  of teds.
oStitot.  pociazlicby  .arc s   ss  ad thei,r aroaLity and feroilmoy            A-cag  Aloe! of  oushol   pTc.c  Fr" boshol)-tol   r0.aotoa
rooc. fro(e-to   ;casectsr fsr r'-taiity rates cosprise of thrse                        A  oohl   osuoo      ro  o   tiiul   a   c                        iou   ,'sat-r  and
loel  nsuin   irIf  copsotacoY at Litr   ocicreascg cith ooutry'n                   toclo1 al esals.I.  A boarder or lodger sey Or nay o-t to  ocl-us  i0 tOe
pot capit  100-c  local, and rncel  lifo  copotnoy  tabilislig at                       h-sseoid for staclotioal P-oP.s...
77. 5 yoars.   h. Par= -$er  for fertility rats alco hare thrcn leves                 A-eta. cator ofcrsosttr    total. urto. cod c-rl - Acerge oxat-r
ao -ni.g  co;o  10 fertility  -o-r-oeg to i.os  level and pane                     of poraons per roml   l  olc,ad r-al vC-piod oonr-t-cai  oii,
fanlg stnlcPvrforn-e  Eah couetey is then assignod one of those                        ra.pecti_ey.  D_eLliigs  cid   oo-pernxset cootoroc 58   coorc   ot
nina totic-tiono of  crtality and fertility trons for proection                       A..ea. to El-ctriolty Icerceet odelac) - ttl   ran   o   oa  -  I,
.7ttoct  oc-olati-Ct - is a .  atlniheny pclo.laion there In no path                    total, urban, and rural  o1U-sgs  -espectinmly.
st   he uIr'c  ratr Isealto tIc death rate, ond n.la  the  gte
st,oxc  rtao   cutc.This ox Wohieed ondly after fertli~ty ratee             EDWPATIOY1
InclIne to tIe reploon-t lard  of salt Oct rerdcinrate, ohe.                           ouo        - orlese.t 'aura.
..hb geneat-io ofat r oplacse otue1f eoectly.  Th. etatiocsy Npop-                       Peor   col-ttl   arcd resale  - tGrono total, nab  cod tenlesocit
latloc olus -n  osT"cocd onths tomi  of the Pro.scted ohaacotcrlotiuano   fal  tnt.h Iprono  ls_  as prmta                                              f, refot  -epnay
of the poua Io inhib  year 2Csit sod t4e non of daclioc of fertility                       sobhol-ags  popuatio..a; coroaly iniusscilde r. rod  -11i yer-  tot
rate to r-plsovoet be-1.                                                                   aoted tot  dlffsret icngths of prueary  eVato;  o   -co-rles slth
tear o.tatloocry oc-lotloc In reached - Trhc year  hec stationr-        ouain                siesleuaincrlosoayece   ipcetsoes-Orl
sloe boo  _oo  r`aci-.                                                                    are heist or shore the  ffoalshool age.
--   4   ct,o-ytar cropuieton per square oil tor (100 hectares) of                    edrto   eursc oo                  u   er   f- pprooo  r..'t--y   .oril:
total area                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~p-oIdes general  -oction..l, or teacher trainin,iuroitr.o  p1ipls
Per so.on iacrci'r.mo-Conputed an at-c  for .gricoltural I-d                                 usually of 12 to 17 ysars of one; ocr-npotdnn. ortt   re   ooa
only,                                                               excl~~~~~~~~~~~~-uded.
Fo?'satio  duSruo-tr- 'corcet)    Chlrn(.11 year), ourkcig-age                               Vocotiocal eorolleect (o,ctreot oh' -eccsdnr) . Vocational !-xu-ttI-a  icolude
ith-o  ycar), no0 rotreo  o   year  ad oes) at petetagsu of ead-ynr                 tocanoal,   asuti,       o   ce   roea sich Opr.te iodpssdsnti  Or n
populatioc; IL.170), nod19   axon.                                                           depar-xto of asoocory lu-tiut-i-c
powla-tic  dcci Face  -eercot)    tota  - ooo-s p-rth rates of total aid-                    Pupil-teacher ratio    oren,  o  scoods  - focal students rr.roliod In
year  optualoos  or i.l~oO,[ti-T, nod1970.77.                                    p-onry aod secoodac-rZ       i  uodcb  ro rs of teachere is tiecos
t4(a.iro')        Acc oorrIo-                     ,ral 9ereh rates of crOn                     spodlcqi Inorle.
pop t,.alo fr  9s2,liSOvl970-75.                                                        Adult 1iterecy ratc (orot) - Literate adult  (all. mu rend amd sot.) as
Cr55d0 P1th  -ate  _cr tOcoo-d) - docual lice hirths por thosan  of mid-                       a    _roetug. of tota  eotpoPulatlos ego  15 yearo ad o-re.
year populotiot; l'2. 157), cod 1977 oar.a.
erode tenth Pate  ocr -0'  cd) - Mrocia  deatho per thouxoad of aid-yew                 Cts4-fs
popxltlcn  Is.)  iYO, co  1977 catauauco   on(e  hooooooain  . Paegr  usonpina c.r;or
dros Pcrolucicc tcc    A-- _tge coole  of inogitera a oonc  sill tear                    -ticIg lees than                               ..h..r.o.o.on  shlsre,hare   r  eltr
hn bo  corralreoos-o    poriod I sbe  xoperi-c-e prtenono 5ge-elo.o
specific f-rt-lty ratoac u.c..l 1     tcya  aeoe  coding 10 1960,                         adoPolroCr  buocooroto(-All types of  ecertrral
1970, sod 1975.                                                                            _oaoattgnca  plic onrtounuodofosiuiccolnosiooc
F-1nYisploioc-doootooolaosoo) -  exon boxre of                                               receivers in oco    -land - years oboe reglotratto   of cat,  coc
aoepor  o  blrti-oootrodrie    dcor  PosCIs sf cat.iol fsaily                        rffec t; data for reocc  yeara cay cot be -oepmrciltosec.    o.cre
clnlgprogEt-                                                                          abolishe   it-tntstn.r
Pcnilc nxctoe- (tero(coroot of -rriedovt     Pertetxgr of earied                TO OcRirr  l    tioccocrro1L-   rooooo (-lv rec-oon   for brcooulaort
000cc o  obciihearicoio   1)-o yenr) cOoho  i alrtb-oocol d-ri.es              xexlio per thouo-d  pouoio;  nlodee  anicc-od r- rfei~rros totnxtci
to all nadoled uSne  to s-n  agegroup.                                                         L. I yaxco 0000 tegiotruto-  of 17 setscnir'f.                .                       - fft
FfOD ANDItht'ffl                                                                             Innaayc CIoulebot(po  o.uao   oualol.Iuat_o'eaocrool
I.JI.  f F-d 1-d-i-  -  Cpit;~~~~~~I~-.Iof 'dIly geotclictra    coo                                            ,deiad  s a Prio4         a,pbioto
100c ofFoC  frdootocro    iac tt tOoO71l          ti  ldn  ofCd1 po-aita               derted prlart ly to reorrdtuo  geocrl one    tisondeetob                        al0
aanaApreuroo  ofcl  fod  ocodtle.   rodctonenfode  004anif it -cP-ar  at leant four Oce-  5   -c
feed and Is :c onicoos  yeabss-    Comditicsoocr pri-ry 5oA                              inxdta   ttendaxcs eer CaPota  cr boar-  bac.d  -o tic.-. cuaofolnceos
(e.g. nooa-  no   loteo  o            ,ouer   cch ar  edible acsi cotaiontrna             soddro th   eocolirnniiosC'oc-O cs-osodois
( .d.offee ntIte  are e-Ilad.d).  Aggregate prodotion of oa.h oontry                   cln
Inbasdsetloc.a. o-ruge prodcurono         . pro siot.
Per oapIta aucric' of ooloro.-s peroott of recoiroecoto) - foepticed  ton  lAteR perP151it1 T.
occog  quicoloc -  nrc fod suPlIce  no;oi  locutry pe   aia                  Ttllbr orc  ~th-coano) - loconloally activ  person . cluilog  cree
per day.  OA-iuhcaub       le   oers  doesotic production, inports leso                 fur-cnn cd o-nloynd in- sooluido  boxcce   suet,et.POi.t._.o
saports. cod cba-Zos  00  tcxci.   c  oupiassaldo anioal feed, aceds,                   in curious --oo.one  ar  -otcnprbs
qosxclties ace  iA frd prcsind  -lwna.a In  Llstrihutia.    quse                      F-1xi (r;rc-t) - Posole inlo  farc  us pe-atege of t:aai laetr fr                .
Lect  cee  niZ td  y  A  bsd or plsiciagianl e.. ds for cor-aI                          uiu         e roroent) - L-rr forc  In fcreie, forestry. oh-ti.-,f aed
0'                    anclo~~~~iciy cod bonIth  osdrc   -olo teeca  tsapcratur-, body  -eithi,                fluiacg no  --cetage of tocal labor foc.-
age  ctacdorhc;'s.   o,ic  n, and aioig 10 perort for                                 ld.atry *.trrn)-  taco  co- 00   cc  ied, oetrootcoo.  -nuaocorLr,.go
aase at bhuscold teI.                                                                     Ieccrcoiy,  acco cod gas s  pe-centge of cocci lolo  foce..
Per critasuc.oc ofcr0010 lr-o  er   ay      rondo oonc.et 'f- Iore              Pao             R-ioit  (corret~   t,cocc  osle  t     col      iaeopc        on   r
onlaco   o-ly o  '   pee soy. Oct -pply of food is Onslood us                    .00-cc -Op  racec .no    -o n  on co-cl, sole, cod _.rc1,.'  oo   o-   as tr-
above.  equier-eoco for alI  -ooor-a  -sclisbd iy USDA precis  for a                    .r.noges of total, ccle and f-eul. Populati-n ot -11 cx- reep-ticely;
acs.um al. aore   f c) oon  of toccl  -tocei  per day and I0 gras  of                    1960. 1970. and 19715 onto.  thm-  or  IWo'  parti~o;;.cioa  rates re.fle,ttIop
-                     aninal~~~-  nod pulse prtoio, of clhioh 10 trea   ahould be co-lo  prctelo.              uge-oo strcture of the popuitlo, sod leug tc-  treod.  A   -c  enitace
Th.ss  todarde are boor than thoss of 79  rof  of total protein axd                      -r   reoto a- rco..
23  r,na of  iaclaprceaso  -acrgo foe toe acorId. prope..el by FAO                    Ecnsc  eedco   ai   -  (ado                P.1, . euaic  seder 10 ned tO  ad ovr to
Ithe Third World Food Survy,                                                               aorfrci  asegroup of 15-co You-
Per .1craacicl foot Ordel cod culse  - Prtnin supply of food
Chi1d (agesI-   'r,:' ,7ceor coooec    A- cxL deaths per thouxad                           Pr tU.; of  riat troc   (Foc   Icoso and kitd)  R-JOceld by rlcb..a
In at  gr-p 1' yer,t   hoido-  is tels agr grop; fur -et dcccl-                           5 percet, riochent 20prnt  poorct it percent, nod P.o.n. 1,0 pferczn
apd cetisst. derIved fr_c  life  tables                                           of htuhls
Life Po tcecny at Birch C .rar)   A-Arera   nehor of year  of life                        Stosot-d.Ahoolulet vicery foooor L,ae (S nec -ra.pit.) - urba  no  rual-I
ocailg tthoro  1 S,d, 107), so  1977T. dat.                                        Abcite po-coy boon   i1-10 otbo    rc  brlos chico a  isisal
lef_ot  .tO-c tic Fitor  o-r th, -caro    A-IAccl d-tho of infanta uder nontrItIonally adequate dIet pilu  seasooi.1  c.-fooo requiroes_o  in cot
poar of age par chosocod 10cr i,irttos.                            ~affordable,
Aoorse to WaI Woter -orcct ofr_uco               -total urannd rural                        M tlsxted Relotbo- horrty T.con  creel (U0$ Per npitn).-_urban nod r-r!
Somerofprp I  -coi   ra,co   cri  ot raoal   o ; to                                  R-.aL reslaLc- P-o-y boone lo-c  is oce-tald   fnocurpe _                  pt
case catcr soprt    ooue   created eofnos eatros or-treaced Out                            Pe-n---a  inoca  uf the c--irY. Lt- r      .Isei isL  ri,      fron the  -rurl Iiei
-ltenani.atrd .tco  ..oh as chat  -a  p-co-oor  boreoiss, sprorge,                        nith adjotecc   for higher coacf lirlg  In urban a,ec..
nod eaitacy s-lls) ns p-tuge- of choir rEpc cpouaic . In                                ttecoPwlto   e-   toor PorpIce   rd ?crt    raccd
no urban are  a pblic foorto   cor scacdyos  loonted cot  ure thanrrl-Proto  popula.tioo    rba  an  rurl  olco - er   oasc  Por."
200 mInes toe. a h-no ray he --cdr-d aa bI.cg cothlo -reabocle
that thn h-useoIfe or senIors of toe h-u-hbod do coo have ,to apr0  a                                                              keeic no  Seciai tDeta Ploision
daProp.srtlo-ts ocot of the dsp Lo feoohir  ohs fanly. caternrdcooi  Analysis and Projoti.cs  epuraseot
dngxt1479



-22-                          Aq8EX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONCQIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1977178-/                                                              ANNUAL RATE OF GR0WTE (%  CONSTANT PRICES)
US$ Million       Z                                                 1973/74-1977/78            1977/78
GNP at M4arket Prices                 318.8        100.0                                                     10.0                   9*5
Gross Domestic Investment              60.7         19.0                                                     1S v                   6.8
Gross National Savings                 11.4          3.6
Current Account Balance               -49.3        -15.5
Exports of Goods, NFS                  44.5         14.0                                                      1.3                   7. 7
imports of Goods, NFS                 248.5         77.9                                                    18.0                    7.6
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976/77
Value Added                               Labor Force/                               V.A. Per Worker
us$ Million       %                            Nit     %                                  US6          7
Agriculture                           59.6          36.4                           .343   85.6                                 174          43
Industry                              t3.8          14.6                           ... 8    2.0                               2975         729
Services                              80.2          49.0                           ..49   12.2                                1637         401
Unallocated
Total/Average          163.6         100.0                            400  100.0                                408         100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
Million)      7. of GDP                        (Rand Million)             % of GDP
197         197    196 -7                          1977/78       1977-78    1974/75-77/78
Current Receipts                                                                                     52.1          29.5           26.4
Current Expenditure                                                                                  40.0          22.6           24.0
Current Surplus                                                                                       2.1           1.2            2.7
Capital Expenditure                                                                                  24.2          14.9           11.7
Exteznl Assistance(net)                                                                               6.8           3.8            2.9
MNEY. CREDIT and PRICES
1972      1973       1974       1975       1976       1977      1978
(Million rands outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money
Bank credit to Public Sector                            2.6       3.2        2.6        3.2        6.4        6.3       6.8
Bank Credit to Private Sector                          4.8        5.7        8.6        9.8       13.9       17.9      21.0
(Percentage or Index Niasbers)
Money and Quasi Money as Z of 3G7P                      ,,
General Price Index (1972-100)_                      100.0      112.8      122.8      140.8      155.6      183.2     202.0
Annual Percentage Changes in:
General Price Index                                              12.8        8.5       15.0       10.5       17.7      13.0
Bank Credit to Public Sector                         100.0       23.0      -18.7       23.0      100.0     - 2.0        7.9
Bank Credit to Private Sector                          11.6      18.8       50.9       13.9       41.8       28.8      17.3
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period-covered.
1/  Provisional.                                            Not Available
T/  Domestic labor force                                    Not Applicable
3/  Retail price index for lor end middle income urban households.
1/3180



- 23--                                      ANWEX I
Page 5 of 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                   MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1976-78)
1976     1977      1978                                      US$ Mlillions    .1
Exports of Goods, NFS               24.5      24.8     46.6           Diamonds                         7.0        32.0
Imports of Goods, NFS              199.4    222.8    271.2            Cattle                          0.3          1.4
Resource Gap (deficit = -)        -174.9  - 198.0 - -224.6            Wool                             2.8        12.8
Mohair                          3.3         15.1
Interest Payments (net)                        ..       ..            Other                            8.5        38.7
Workers' Remittances                91.2    102.8    110.4
Other Factor Payments (net)          2.9       2.1     -7.3           All other commodities
Net Transfers                       26.2      41.7     68.9                      Total                21.9       100.0
Balance on Current Account         -54.6    -51.4    -52.6
EXTERNAL DERT, DECEMBER 31, 1978
Direct Foreign Investment
Net MLT Borrowing                    ..        .         .                                                   US$ Million
Disbursements
Amortization                      ..        ..       ..            Public Debt, incl. guaranteed               28.0
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Subtotal                          ..                               Total Outstanding & Disbursed
Capital Grants                       ..        ..       ..            DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1978-
Other Capital (net)
Other Items (n.e.i.)                 ..        ..       ..            Public Debt, incl. guaranteed               2.1
Increase in Reserves                 ..        ..       ..             Dn-Guaranteed Private Debt
Total Outstanding & Disbursed
Gooss Reserves (end year)
Net Reserves (end year)              ..nIRDDA Lending Novemb6r 30. 1979 (Million US$):
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                               IBRD    IDA
Imports                         191.7    214.6    262.3
of which: Petroleum           14.9     26.4       ..            outstanding and Disbursed            .     19.5
Exports                          16.9      14.0     34.8           Undisbursed                                30.7
of which: Petroleum             .         .        .            outstanding incl. Undisbursed        .     50.2
RATE OF EXCHANGE
1974     1975     1976      1977     1978    1979
US$1.00   $     0.679    0.732    0.870    0.870    0.870   0.833
Rl.OO = US$    1.472    1.367    1.150    1.150    1.150   1.20
1/  Estimate
2/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
.. Not available
Not applicaale
1/21/80



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN LESOTHO
A. STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS
(as at December 31, 1979)
Amount (less cancella-
tions, reimbursed,
terminations)
(US$ Million)
Credit      Year       Borrower       Purpose                  IDA         Undisbursed
Three credits are fully disbursed                              13.7            -
619-LSO      1976      Lesotho        Second Highway            5.5           1.8
702-LSO      1977      Lesotho        DFC                       2.5           1.9
748-LSO      1977      Lesotho        Second Education          7.5           6.9
795-LSO      1978      Lesotho        Basic Agricultural
Services Project       6.0           4.8
884-LSO      1979      Lesotho        Third Highway             9.0           9.0
(2.0 EEC Special Action Credit)
887-LSO      1979      Lesotho        Second Water Supply       6.0           6.0
Total                                   50.2          30.4
of which has been repaid                 0.2
Total now held by IDA 1/                50.0
Total undisbursed                       30.4
Note: Lesotho has received no Bank Loans.
1/   Prior to exchange adjustments
12/20/79



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of December 31, 1979)
Investment                                                     (US$ Million)
No.        Year    Type of Business                Loan       Equity       Total
405-LSO       1978    Lesotho Quality
Aggregate (PTY) Ltd.         299,000      31,000      330,000
Total Gross Commitments      299,000      31,000      330,000
Less: Cancellations,
terminations,
repayment and sales      -
Total now held by IFCA       299,000      31,000      330,000
Total Undisbursed



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
C. BANK PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Credit No. 619-LSO       Second Highway Project; US$4.0 million Credit of
July 25, 1974; Effectiveness Date:  January 25, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is progressing reasonably well with construction of
the St. Michaels-Mantsonyane-Thaba Tseka road expected to be completed by
October. However, various sections of the road show deterioration of the
gravel surface due to heavy rains, steep gradient and inadequate maintenance
and side drains need to be lined to avoid washouts. No funds are available
for this additional work, which will be done by force account. The Labor
Intensive Construction Unit (LCU) has successfully completed improvement of
a 31 km long gravel road and improvement of airstrips at: costs comparable
to equipment-intensive operations; it is constructing a 34 km long gravel
road with financing by SIDA.
Credit No. 702-LSO       Development Finance Company Project (DFC); US$2.5
million Credit of May 20, 1977; Effectiveness Date;
August 23, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The Lesotho National Development Corporation has submitted
applications which will fully commit its portion of this line of credit;
the Basotho Enterprises Development Corporation portion is already fully
disbursed.
Credit No. 748-LSO       Second Education Project; US$7.5 million Credit of
November 30, 1977; Effectiveness Date: February 28, 1978;
Closing Date: December 3, 1981
Over a year after Credit effectiveness, the Project has made little
progress. The Project Unit's director has not yet become sufficiently
acquainted with Bank procedures and requirements. The experience of the
first education project, successfully implemented and closed appears to have
had no bearing on this second project. The architectural team is incompletely
staffed and without terms of reference. Relationships and division of respon-
sibilities between the architectural team, on the one hand, and the Project
Unit Ministry of Public Works, on the other, have yet to, be defined. The
architectural work initially prepared was found greatly to exceed, both in
areas and cost, the agreed appraisal estimates. The architectural team is in
the process of simplifying the design in accordance with the agreed areas and
cost. The preparation of the equipment list is just beginning.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
Credit No. 795-LSO       Basic Agricultural Services Project; US$6.0 million
Credit of May 25, 1978; Effectiveness Date:
August 3, 1978; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
This is a follow-up project to the Thaba Bosiu Project designed
to increase manpower and institutional capability of other Ministry of
Agriculture and to provide basic agricultural services for increasing pro-
duction of five major crops. The Project covers about 75 percent of the
country's arable land containing 66 percent of the country's population.
The $26 million project will be assisted also by the European Development
Fund, the Federal Republic of Germany, the United Kingdom and the United
Nations Development Program. It has experienced moderate problems in meeting
staffing requirements that are at least partly attributable to competition
from the South African mines. Absorption of the Produce Marketing Board into
MOA has been completed, but it is not yet operational. The major issue is a
lack of funds for work on Block IV, for which the Government may require
assistance in locating and negotiating with a donor.
Credit No. 884-LSO       Third Highway Project; US$9.0 million (plus $2.2 million
EEC Special Action Credit) Credit of December 21, 1978;
Effectiveness Date: December 11, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
The Project is designed to improve Lesotho's road network and
maintenance capability. It involves the paving of 24 km of the St. Michaels-
Molimo Nthuse road, a feasibility study of the 120 km Oxbow-Mokhotlong road,
technical assistance and consultant services for improving road maintenance
and supervising construction, and fellowships for ex-country training in civil
and mechanical engineering and highway maintenance and equipment repair,
Credit effectiveness has been delayed pending the Government's meeting the
condition that ODM assistance be obtained to strengthen operations of the
Central Mechanical Workshop and Plant Pool.
Credit No. 887-LSO       Water Supply Project; US$6.0 million Credit of
March 20, 1979; Effectiveness Date: January 7, 1980;
Closing Date: September 30, 1983
The Project provides for the extension of water supply systems
in seven towns, technical assistance and engineering consulting services to
provide public water service to 20,000 new consumers by 1986, and improve
the reliability and quality of service for an additional 21,000.  The Water
and Sewerage Branch of the Ministry of Works would also be strengthened
under the project and through a comprehensive training program financed by
German bilateral aid. Slowness in recruiting personnel and consultants
required has delayed effectiveness.



- 28 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:  20 months
(b)  Preparation by                     Government of Lesotho and
Bank staff
(c) First Bank Mission to consider
the project                     June 1978
(d)  Appraisal Mission departed   : April 4,, 1979
(e)  Negotiations                    : March 17, 1980
(f)  Planned date of Effectiveness:  September 1980
II.   Special IDA Implementation Action
None
III.   Special Coi.ditions
The following would be conditions of credit effectiveness:
(a)  The coming into full force and effect of the Land Act of
1979 (para 20).
(b)  The appointment of municipal and civil/sanitary engineers and
an accountant for PCU acceptable to the Association (para 25).
(c)  Government entry into an agreement acceptable to the Association
with LEHCO-OP to ensure the latter's provision of services necessary
for project implementation (para 28).
(d)  Government entry into an agreement with BFC acceptable to the
Association for the collection of charges from project benefi-
ciaries (para 49).
The following covenants in the Development Credit Agreement have been agreed:
(e)  That Government would use beneficiary selection and plot allo-
cation criteria and a standard agreement for beneficiaries' repay-
ment of charges satisfactory to the Association (para 33).
(f)  That Government would declare Thamaes a "Se:Lected Development
Area" by December 31, 1980, and prior to undertaking any con-
struction in that area (para 30).



- 29 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(g)  That Government would enter into an agreement by December 31, 1980
for LEC's provision of offsite electrical works for the project
(para 26).
(h)  That Government would enter into arrangements prior to April 1,
1981, for the vesting in WSB of the responsibility for the operation
and maintenance of project water supply works, including the recovery
of capital and recurrent costs (para 26).
(i)  That the Government would take all necessary action for the drawing
up of an updated valuation and rating of property and introduce
measures for land development and planning by April 1, 1982
(para 21).
(j)  That the Government would take all necessary steps for the establish-
ment, by April 1, 1982, of a Maseru Municipal Council, and provide
that council with adequate financial and staff resources and facilities
(para 21).
(k)  That Government, in consultation with the Association, would prepare
an annual program for road maintenance in Maseru and its peri-urban
areas; the program for 1980-81 has already been agreed (para 27).



