CREDIT NUMBER 1036 LSO
Development Credit Agreement
(Urban Development Project)
between
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                               , 1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1036 LSO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1980, between
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO (hereinafter alled the Borrower) and INTERNA-
TIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Associa-
tion).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02.   Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "MI" means the Borrower's Ministry of the Interior;
(b) "MW" means the Borrower's Ministry of Works;
(c) "PCU" means the Project Coordination Unit to be estab-
lished and maintained pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) hereof within
MI until the establishment of MMC pursuant to Section 4.04 hereof,
and thereafter within MMC until the completion of the Project;
(d) "MMC" means the Maseru Municipal Council to be created
pursuant to Section 4.04 of this Agreement;
(e) "WSB" means the Water and Sewerage Branch of the Bor-
rower's Ministry of Water, Energy and Mining, or any successor
thereto, responsible for water supply and sewerage in district
headquarters towns in the Borrower's territory;
(f) "LEC" means Lesotho Electricity Corporation, a company
established and operating pursuant to the laws of the Borrower;


﻿-2-
(g) "LEHCO-OP" means Lower Income Housing Company (Proprie-
tary) Limited, a company established and operating pursuant to the
Borrower's laws and its Memorandum and Articles of Association
dated August 1, 1975;
(h) "BFC" means Building Finance Corporation, a company
established and operating pursuant to the laws of the Borrower;
(i) "Project Areas" means the part of Khubetsoana area where
Part A (1) of the Project for the site and services scheme will be
carried out and the area of Thamaes to be declared a "selected
development area" pursuant to the provisions of the Land Act where
Part A (2) of the Project for upgrading services and densification
will be carried out;
(j) "Plot" means a demarcated plot to be developed or
upgraded under the Project;
(k) "Allocable Infrastructure" means that portion of the
site preparation and on-site infrastructure allocable to the
Plot, including design, supervision and administration costs and
financial charges accrued during construction, which is recover-
able from beneficiaries and excludes site preparation costs
applicable to: (i) community facilities; and (ii) infrastructure
costs which are expected to be recovered from utility charges;
(1) "Land Act" means the Land Act of 1979 of the Borrower;
(m) "Maloti" and "M" mean the currency of the Borrower;
and
(n) "foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Borrower; it being specified that with respect
to Rands which are also legal tender in the territory of the
Borrower, expenditures in Rands for goods produced in or services
supplied from a country other than the Borrower, shall be deemed
to be foreign currency cost.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to six million dollars ($6,000,000).


﻿-3-
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, or as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1985 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
January 15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 1990, and ending
January 15, 2030, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on January 15, 2000, to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment there-
after to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate financial, engineering, administrative, planning and


﻿-4-
supervision practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
(b) For the purposes of paragraph (a) of this Section and
the overall coordination of all the activities under the Project,
the Borrower shall maintain in existence until the completion of
the Project, a Project Coordination Unit (PCU), consisting of a
qualified and experienced Project Director, a municipal engineer,
an accountant and a sanitation engineer, whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association, and adequate
support staff.
(c) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(i) not later than December 31, 1980 or such other
date as the Borrower and the Association may
agree, enter into an agreement with LEC, on terms
and conditions which shall have been approved
by the Association, providing inter alia for LEC:
(A) to upgrade and extend the electrical network
to the Project Areas; and
(B) to provide out of its own resources adequate
funds therefor;
(ii) on or prior to April 1, 1981, the Borrower shall
make arrangements satisfactory to the Association
for the vesting in WSB of responsibility for the
operation and maintenance of the water supply works
included in Parts A and B of the Project, including
the recovery through utility charges of the capital
and recurrent costs relating thereto; and
(iii) enter into a services agreement with LEHCO-OP on
terms and conditions which shall have been approved
by the Association, providing inter alia for
LEHCO-OP:
(A) to mobilize community participation for Part A
of the Project through its community service
department;


﻿-5-
(B) to assist the Physical Planning Office of MI
in planning the site and services and upgrad-
ing layouts for Parts A and B of the Project;
(C) under the supervision of the Project Director,
to be responsible for the administration of
the loan facility under Part C of the Project
and, until the completion of the Project, to
provide technical assistance (including, inter
alios, an architect-planner on a full-time
basis and adequate support staff) to Project
beneficiaries for the construction of houses,
workshops and sanitation units and the pre-
paration of house construction manuals; and
(D) to monitor, in coordination with Basotho
Enterprises Development Corporation, the con-
struction and development of workshops; and
(iv) enter into a services agreement with BFC, on terms
and conditions which shall have been approved by
the Association, providing inter alia for BFC:
(A) to collect the charges specified in Section
3.08 (b) of this Agreement; and
(B) to be paid an appropriate administrative
charge for rendering the said services.
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the agree-
ments and arrangements referred to in the preceding paragraph (c)
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
the Project, the Borrower, through PCU, shall employ consultants,
specialists and technicians whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards inci-
dent to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any in-
demnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.


﻿-6-
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain through PCU records
and procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish through PCU to the Association quarterly consolidated
reports and, at regular intervals, all such other information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from
it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish
through PCU to the Association a report, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the
execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by
the Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire all such land and rights in respect
of land as shall be required for carrying out the Project and
shall furnish to the Association, promptly after such acquisition,
evidence satisfactory to the Association that such land and rights
in respect of land are available for purposes related to the
Project.


﻿-7-
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than Decem-
ber 31, 1980, or such other date as the Association may agree,
declare the area of Thamaes as, a "selected development area"
pursuant to the provisions of the Land Act; and (b) prior to
undertaking any construction under Parts A (2) and B of the
Project for said area, in consultation with the Association, draw
up a development and densification scheme therefor.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause the community facili-
ties included in Part D of the Project to be adequately staffed,
operated and maintained by the department or agency of the Bor-
rower responsible for each such facility.
Section 3.08. In carrying out the Project, the Borrower
shall:
(a) establish beneficiary selection criteria for the alloca-
tion of Plots that are satisfactory to the Association and review
with the Association, at least once each year until the completion
of the Project, the appropriateness of such criteria;
(b) determine   and collect through BFC, to the extent that
the costs hereinafter referred to are not recovered through
utility charges, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association: (i) a capital development charge on a per square
meter basis for the right to lease a Plot, that is sufficient
to recover the full capital cost of Allocable Infrastructure,
together with an initial downpayment of not less than 5% of such
capital cost, plus interest at the rate of nine per cent (9%) per
annum, over a period of 20 years, such capital development charge
to be levied in monthly installments; (ii) a monthly charge for
loans under Part C of the Project that is sufficient to recover
the full amount of each such loan, together with an initial
downpayment of not less than 5% of the cost of building materials,
plus interest at the rate of nine per cent (9%) per annum, over a
period of 20 years; (iii) a monthly service charge, to be paid
by each beneficiary, that will be sufficient to recover the full
recurrent costs of Plot administration and of operating and
maintaining the Allocable Infrastructure; the interest rates
referred to in subparagraphs (i) and (ii) above shall be reestab-
lished at the 5th, 10th, and 15th anniversaries of the date on
which the first payment of such interest falls due at a rate of
two percent (2%) per annum below the prime lending rate of BFC at
that time, or such other rate as may be agreed between the Bor-
rower and the Association; and


﻿-8-
(c) use a standard agreement on terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Association giving the beneficiary the right to
lease a Plot in accordance with the provisions of the Land Act,
providing inter alia that such beneficiary: (i) will promptly pay
the monthly charges that have been determined in accordance with
the paragraph (b) of this Section, including any initial downpay-
ment which will be payable upon signing of the said agreement;
(ii) intends to reside physically on the Plot; (iii) may freely
sub-let the Plot or dispose of his interest except that, during
the first two years of occupancy, he may exercise the said rights
only in favor of a household head satisfying beneficiary selection
criteria as established by the Borrower; and (iv) may encumber the
Plot by mortgage.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained by the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof,
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b) Without any limitation upon the generality of the fore-
going paragraph, the Borrower shall cause PCU: (i) to maintain
separate Project accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations in respect of the Project; and (ii) to retain, until
one year after the Closing Date, all records (orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures
on account of which withdrawals are requested from the Credit
Account on the basis of certificates of expenditures, and enable
the Association's representatives to inspect such records.
(c) The Borrower shall cause PCU to: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by the Borrower's Auditor General or independent auditors
acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish unaudited financial
statements to the Association as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year and
furnish to the Association within twelve months after the end of


﻿-9-
each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements
for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested, including a separate opinion by
said auditors, in respect of the expenditures and records referred
to in paragraph (b) (ii) of this Section, as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account on the
basis of expenditures have been used for the purpose for which
they were provided; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning the accounts and financial statements
of PCU and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take out and maintain, or
cause to be taken out and maintained, with responsible insurers,
or make other provision satisfactory to the Association for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice of the Borrower.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall use its best endeavors
to appoint local counterparts to the consultants assisting in the
carrying out Part E of the Project.
(b) Upon completion of the studies referred to in Part E.2
(i) of the Project, the Borrower shall review with the Association
the findings and recommendations included therein and after taking
into account the Association's comments thereon, if any, shall put
said recommendations into effect before or promptly after MMC is
created.
Section 4.04. Except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: (a) take all necessary
action for the establishment by April 1, 1982 of MMC with such
powers and responsibilities as may be appropriate for the due
administration of the area of Maseru; and (b) provide MMC with
adequate financial resources, staff and facilities for the pur-
pose.
Section 4.05. The Borrower undertakes that, upon the creation
of MMC, it shall cause MMC to observe all covenants in this
Agreement relating to PCU, subject to suitable modifications of
such covenants as may be required and agreed upon between the
Borrower and the Association.


﻿- 10 -
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall use its best endeavors to
cause the ungazetted roads in Maseru and in its peri-urban areas,
including the Project Areas, to be adequately maintained and cause
all necessary repairs and renewals thereof to be made, all in
accordance with appropriate engineering practices. For this
purpose, the Borrower shall ensure, during the period of Project
implementation, that a satisfactory road maintenance program,
including necessary budgetary allocations, is prepared before the
beginning of each of its fiscal years and shall consult with the
Association, from time to time, as to the appropriateness of said
program.
Section 4.07. Except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall take all necessary
action: (a) for the drawing up of an updated valuation and rating
of property to raise revenue for urban services by April 1, 1982;
and (b) for the introduction of measures concerning the develop-
ment of land with efficiency and economy and due regard to the
preservation and improvement of amenities by April 1, 1982.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that, the Land Act shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a
way as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the
Borrower to carry out the covenants, agreements and obligations
set forth in this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely that, any event speci-
fied in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:


﻿- 11 -
(a) The Land Act has come into operation in accordance with
Section 1 thereof, and shall be in full force and effect;
(b) the municipal engineer, the accountant and the sanita-
tion engineer of PCU, referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this
Agreement have been appointed;
(c) the execution of the services agreement referred to in
Section 3.01 (c) (iii) of this Agreement, on behalf of the Bor-
rower and LEHCO-OP, respectively, has been duly authorized or
ratified by the parties thereto; and
(d) the execution of the services agreement referred to in
Section 3.01 (c) (iv) of this Agreement, on behalf of the Borrower
and BFC, respectively, has been duly authorized or ratified by
the parties thereto.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the agreement referred to in paragraph (c) of the
preceding Section 6.01 has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and LEHCO-
OP, respectively, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and
LEHCO-OP in accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the agreement referred to in paragraph (d) of the
preceding Section 6.01 has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and BFC,
respectively, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and BFC in
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date             )       j is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 5.02 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty-
four years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be
the earlier.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 395
Maseru 100
Lesotho
Cable address:                      Telex:
FINMIN                             367 BB
Maseru, Lesotho
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿- 13 -
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil and building          1,680,000         85%
works
(2) Building mate-              1,140,000         85%
rials under Part
C of the Project
(3) Equipment                     490,000         100% of foreign
expenditures or
85%
(4) Technical assis-            1,220,000         100% of foreign
tance                                        expenditures or
85%
(5) Unallocated                 1,470,000
TOTAL       6,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower; provided, how-
ever, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another
country from the territory of which goods or services are sup-
plied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or services
shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures".


﻿- 15 -
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shali be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or -upply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expend-
itures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$100,000 may be made in respect of Category (4) on account of
payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
July 1, 1979.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such ex-
penditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category
may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been
made.
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice
to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
The provision of:
1.   site and services for the development of about 500
Plots, including about 25 for workshops, in the Khubetsoana
area of Maseru about 4.5 km from its center; and
2.   upgrading of services for about 1,300 existing Plots
and about 1,200 Plots (to be created through subdividing the
existing Plots), including about 25 for workshops, in the selected
development area of Thamaes.
Part B:
The provision of primary infrastructure to meet the needs of
Project beneficiaries in the Project Areas, including construction
of roads and storm water drainage and the extension of the water
and electricity supply.
Part C:
The self help construction of houses, small business premises
and workshops, sanitation facilities and other improvements by
about 1,700 householders, utilizing building materials to be
provided to them by the Borrower under loans to be made pursuant
to Section 3.08 (b) (ii) of the Development Credit Agreement.
Part D:
The provision of community facilities in the Project Areas
including:
1.   the construction, furnishing and equipping of about
28 additional classrooms to existing primary schools in the
Project Areas, with an aggregate capacity of about 924 students,
each classroom having a capacity of not more than 40 students;


﻿- 17 -
2.   the construction, furnishing and equipping of two
health clinics for maternal and child health with nutrition units
and a multipurpose community hall;
3.   the provision of road maintenance equipment and of
refuse equipment for trash collection for the town of Maseru and
the Project Areas; and
4.   the construction of a retail market with about 30 stalls
in each of the Project Areas.
Part E:
1.   Strengthening the capabilities and facilities of the PCU
and the construction of three houses.
2.   Studies: (i) to design the organizational structure and
technical, administrative and financial management systems for MMC
and to assess MMC training needs; and (ii) for the further devel-
opment of the town of Maseru, including the identification of a
possible second urban development project.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1984.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   Competitive Bidding Procedures
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competi-
tive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with procurement
procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.   Items of civil works and equipment shall be grouped to the
extent possible.
B.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent
of $75,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the recommenda-
tions for award and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.


﻿- 19 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.
C.   Procurement Without Contracting
Electrical works and construction of roads for Parts A and B
of the Project shall be carried out under force account by LEC
and the Labor Intensive Construction Unit of the Roads Branch of
MW, respectively.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the  I   4     day of
198    .
FOR SECRETARY


