Report No. PID10754
Project Name             WESTERN AFRICA-ABIDJAN-LAGOS TRANSPORT
CORRIDOR
Region                   Africa Regional Office
Sector                   Health (80%); General transportation
sector (20%)
Project ID               P074850
Borrower(s)              GOVERNMENT OF BENIN
Implementing Agency
EXECUTIVE SECRETARIAT OF THE PROJECT
c/o National HIV/AIDS Control Program,
Republic of Benin
Address: P.O.Box 04-0378, Cotonou,
Republic of Benin
Contact Person: Dr. Leopoldine de Souza
Padonou
Tel: (229) 31 54 88 and 31 78 48
Fax: (229) 31 63 87
Email: ldesouza@intnet.bj
Environment Category     B
Date PID Prepared        October 21, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      October 30, 2002
Bank Approval Date       January 30, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
HIV/AIDS is a multisectoral challenge which affects many countries without
being limited by national boundaries. The project addresses the
multi-country nature of this challenge through a multisectoral,
multi-country approach which targets specific hard-to-reach populations,
who cannot easily be reached through HIV/AIDS programs that are limited by
national boundaries. The project, therefore, targets a gap in traditional
national HIV/AIDS programs by targeting the selected populations. Main
issues to be addressed are outlined below.
Transport corridors and HIV/AIDS in West Africa
In West Africa, major regional travel routes extend along the north-south
directions between land-locked and coastal countries on one hand, and
east-west directions (mainly the Abidjan-Lagos corridor) between the
coastal countries on the other. The ECOWAS policy on free movement of
nationals of member countries further contributes to increased travel
along the major travel routes. National borders often divide populations
from the same ethnic group (e.g. Akan for Cote d'Ivoire/Ghana, Ewe for
Ghana/Togo, Yoruba for Benin/Nigeria) and families frequently travel
across borders to visit relatives. Travel takes place over both short and
long distances. While travel along the major transport routes in the
region is recognized as an essential requirement for the socioeconomic
well-being of the region, it also offers opportunities for faster
transmission of, among others, HIV/AIDS among the people in the region.
Commercial vehicle drivers, commercial sex workers, migrants and the local



populations who live in border areas along the major transport routes, are
among the vulnerable groups that may be adversely affected, if HIV/AIDS
prevention, care and support services targeted at these transport routes
are not provided. On the other hand, commercial vehicle drivers,
commercial sex workers, migrants and others who travel along the corridor,
offer opportunities for dissemination of HIV/AIDS prevention messages that
can empower people to fight HIV/AIDS along the corridor. Well designed
HIV/AIDS prevention messages, if disseminated through these groups, can be
carried across boundaries, contributing to the fight against HIV/AIDS
along the corridor.
The following table indicates the extent of movement of people between the
countries along the Abidjan - Lagos transport corridor.
Percentage of nationals from neighboring countries along the transport
corridor
Destination
Origin           C¶te d'Ivoire   Ghana   Togo    Benin    Nigeria
C¶te d'Ivoire    -       4.9w    Not defined     Not defined      0.5w
Ghana   5.5w     -       17.0w   9.0w    19.6w
Togo    Not declared     39.9w   -       25.9w    12.2w
Benin   2.8w     3.3w    39.0w   -       25.1-
Nigeria 1.7t     9.5w    12.0t   19.6t   -
Source: UNAIDS/ICT
Commercial vehicle drivers and commercial sex workers along the transport
corridor
Various studies have identified the correlation between the movement of
populations and the propagation of disease and illness, particularly
sexually transmitted infections (STIs) including HIV/AIDS. Situation
analyses of travel in West Africa have identified well established
commercial sex activities along major transport corridors in the region.
Travel increases opportunities to have sexual relationships with multiple
partners, thus creating an environment that is conducive to the
transmission of HIV/AIDS. Reported high prevalence of HIV among truck
drivers and commercial sex workers (both vulnerable groups for HIV/AIDS)
in the countries along the Abidjan-Lagos corridor further supports the
need for targeted HIV/AIDS prevention, care and support services along
this transport corridor. In 1992 in Togo, 33t of the truck drivers and 80t
of commercial sex workers in Lome were reported to be infected with HIV.
Comparable prevalence rates for commercial sex workers in Cote d'Ivoire in
1990 was at 63t in Abidjan, in Ghana in 1997/8 was 74t in Accra/Tema, in
Benin in 1996 was 85.4w in Cotonou and other cities, and in Nigeria in
1993/4 was 30t in Lagos. These prevalence rates are comparatively higher
than the 1999 UNAIDS estimated population prevalence rates among the
countries along the Abidjan-Lagos corridor (Togo 5.98w, Cote d'Ivoire
10.76t, Ghana 3.60w, Benin 2.409 and Nigeria 5.069).
The high and rising prevalence levels among the transport sector workers
represents a major erosion of social capital that none of the corridor
countries, in both public and private sectors can afford to ignore.
Whereas in some countries efforts are being made to raise awareness and
provide support to HIV/AIDS activities in the transport sector, this is
too little and too diffuse. Scaling up and sharing of good practices
across borders may allow the burgeoning HIV/AIDS-related social and
- 2 -



economic issues to be addressed more effectively. This in turn could lead
to stronger and more effective national policies and practices.
UNAIDS Inter-Country Team for West Africa estimates that about three
million people cross the borders along the Abidjan Lagos transport
corridor each year. Assuming an HIV prevalence rate of 10t among these
people (the population that travels along the corridor is vulnerable and
is most likely to have higher HIV prevalence than the general population),
an estimated 300,000 people infected with HIV/AIDS travels annually along
the corridor, with the associated potential for transmission of HIV/AIDS
along the corridor, to uninfected individuals.
Migrant populations along the transport corridor
In West Africa, migrant populations who frequently use, among others, the
Abidjan-Lagos transport corridor, often live in an economic and social
environment which hampers them from obtaining similar information on
HIV/AIDS as the local populations. Migrants generally do not benefit
systematically from the social welfare system of the country where they
are residing and thus may not receive social services (sometimes in any
case quite limited) that may be available to local populations.
Furthermore, upon their return to their homeland, most often to rural
areas, migrants may generally not have access to adequate formal social
services. There is, therefore, only limited opportunity for the migrants
to obtain adequate information on HIV/AIDS and to get access to HIV/AIDS
support and care unless there are specific services that are targeted at
the migrants. Consequently, migrants merit priority consideration as an
HIV/AIDS vulnerable group in the West African context, that could benefit
from HIV/AIDS prevention, care and support services provided along the
Abidjan-Lagos transport corridor.
Local populations at border crossings along the transport corridor
The border towns are the points of entry to the foreign country by
travelers. While the resident population of the border towns is relatively
small - estimated at about 90,000 in all areas combined - the transient
population is many times larger in view of the cross border movements of
people estimated at 250,000 per month (the Ghana/Togo and Togo/Benin
crossings handling the most traffic). Because of the usually long
distances from the capital city, border towns have generally not been
adequately provided with HIV/AIDS prevention, care and support services
and other social services. Information dissemination efforts on HIV/AIDS
have generally been insufficient and condom availability is limited in
these border towns. There is a potential risk that insufficient HIV/AIDS
prevention, care and support services at the border towns can be an
opportunity for the spread of HIV/AIDS along the transport corridor.
National HIV/AIDS programs have so far not been successful in providing
sufficient HIV/AIDS prevention and care services at these border towns.
Collaboration of national HIV/AIDS programs across the border towns, a
requirement for a coherent program at these border towns, has also been
limited.
Regional Governments' coordination
In a stakeholders' workshop in Cotonou, Benin in July 2001, it was
recognized that specific institutional arrangements would have to be put
in place in view of the regional dimensions of HIV/AIDS along the
Abidjan-Lagos transport corridor. The transitional working group (TWG)
-3 -



formed at this meeting was given the mandate to review a number of
institutional options to carry out the basic intentions of the project.
The TWG was composed of representatives of the national AIDS commissions
or ministries and the transport ministries of the five countries. The
following basic structure was agreed in October 2001:
A governing body of the project will be formed with the membership of the
ministers of the five countries responsible for National HIV/AIDS programs
and the transport sector. The President of the governing body will be from
Nigeria while the vice-president will be from Ghana;
An Executive Secretariat (having project coordination responsibility) will
be located in Benin and the Executive Secretary will be a national of
Cote d'Ivoire;
An inter-country advisory committee will have members from five transport
corridor countries (representing both the public sector and civil society
organizations);
The recipient of the proposed World Bank grant to help fight HIV/AIDS
along the transport corridor will be the Government of Benin on behalf of
the five country governments.
This structure and the resulting allocation of responsibility between
countries was subsequently endorsed at high level in each case and is
contained in a joint presidential declaration issued April 30, 2002.
Linkage between the project and the National HIV/AIDS Programs
Each of the five countries along the Abidjan-Lagos corridor project is
either in the process of preparing, or already has, a national HIV/AIDS
project supported by the World Bank under MAP1 or MAP2. Effort has been
made, during the preparation of the project, to ensure that there is
coordination between the team preparing the project and the teams
responsible for the national HIV/AIDS projects. This coordination between
the corridor project and the national HIV/AIDS projects will continue into
the implementation of the project. Leaders of the ministries responsible
for national HIV/AIDS programs and Transport, in the five countries, are
members of the Governing Body of the corridor project, ensuring that
corridor project HIV/AIDS activities are consistent with the respective
national needs and complement those of the national HIV/AIDS programs. At
country level, coordination will be through the respective ministries
responsible for HIV/AIDS programs and Transport. The corridor project will
focus on HIV/AIDS activities aimed at the targeted vulnerable groups along
the transport corridor, with particular attention to the border crossing
areas, while the national HIV/AIDS projects will mainly work on national
HIV/AIDS activities while maintaining coordination mechanisms with the
corridor project. The corridor project is therefore a vital complement to,
rather then a substitute for, the national programs.
Consistency of the project with MAP2 eligibility criteria for subregional
projects
The following outlines how the project is consistent with the MAP2
eligibility criteria for subregional projects.
- 4 -



(a) The project addresses a sub-regional or cross-border HIV/AIDS issue,
promotes a public good of multinational scope, provides services to
populations beyond the reach of national programs, or realizes economies
of scale that would not be practical to attain through cooperative
country-level action: This project addresses in a targeted fashion
HIV/AIDS issues of travellers, migrants and the population having contact
with them along the Abidjan- Lagos transport corridor, that have proved to
be difficult to reach with regular national programs. Commercial vehicle
drivers spend long periods of time away from their homes travelling across
many countries and are not easily reached by their home national HIV/AIDS
programs. Commercial sex workers in the region normally prefer to travel
away from their home communities, where they are well known, to live for
long periods of time in distant and sometimes unfamiliar communities,
where they may not easily have access to the local HIV/AIDS programs.
Migrants are the foreign population to the hosting countries and do not
systematically benefit from the social welfare systems, including HIV/AIDS
services, of the hosting countries. Populations of border towns, which in
most cases are far away from the capital cities, often get inadequate
public services, including HIV/AIDS services from national programs and
are often left out by national programs. The national programs of the five
countries have not yet been successful in addressing HIV/AIDS issues among
the groups identified above. Economies of scale are also expected to be
attained, along the transport corridor, on such issues as the social
marketing of condoms as an outcome of stronger policy and program
coordination.
(b) No other alternative for achieving the project goals would be as
practicable or economic: The alternative approach would have been to
address the issue through the national HIV/AIDS programs of each country.
As outlined above, the national programs have not yet had success in
addressing HIV/AIDS across the entire Abidjan-Lagos transport corridor and
targeting the populations identified above. This project is considered to
be an essential but complementary effort to the national HIV/AIDS
programs.
(c) The project has been endorsed by the governments of the countries
concerned or a relevant public international or regional organization: The
representatives from the governments of Cote d'Ivoire, Ghana, Togo, Benin
and Nigeria have already made a joint declaration to develop the
multisectoral HIV/AIDS program along the Abidjan-Lagos transport corridor.
The countries have also agreed on the formation of the Governing body, the
Executive Secretariat, and the Inter-country advisory body.
(d) The project is consistent with the HIV/AIDS strategies, policies and
program of the affected countries and with any relevant sub-regional and
international strategy and policy: The representatives of the national
HIV/AIDS programs of the five countries will have decision making powers
within the institutional arrangements for the project and will thus ensure
consistency of the project with member country HIV/AIDS strategies,
policies and programs. These representatives have taken an active part in
the preparation of the project - as members of the TWG - and in ensuring
consistency of the preparation process with their own national HIV/AIDS
requirements. UNAIDS and USAID have been involved in the preparation of
the project and UNAIDS will ensure consistency of the project with any
relevant regional and international technical requirements. The
- 5-



declaration of the representatives of the five governments dated August
2001 stipulates that the countries along the Abidjan-Lagos transport
corridor will adopt a common strategy and policy on HIV/AIDS along the
transport corridor.
(e) A high-level coordinating body has been established to oversee the
implementation of the project: A decision has been made by the five
countries to form a Governing body with representatives from the five
countries to ensure the implementation of the project. The Governing body
will have an Executive Secretariat to ensure day to day activities of the
project. An Inter-country advisory Committee with representatives from
civil society organizations (including representatives of People Living
With HIV/AIDS (PLWHA)) has also been agreed upon by the five participating
countries along the corridor. The Governing body's ultimate authority is
vested with the 'conference of the ministers' of the five countries
nominated by the highest political offices of the countries along the
transport corridor.
(f) Appropriate institutions, policies, procedures and regulations are in
place to enable concerned subregional and national stakeholders to
participate effectively in project implementation: As outlined in above
(see (e)), the five countries have agreed on institutional arrangements
which include the formation of a Governing body, an Executive Secretariat,
and an Inter-country advisory Committee. The participation of
stakeholders, including civil society organizations, particularly People
Living With HIV/AIDS (PLWHA) is incorporated into the institutional
arrangements for the project. The project's operational manual, a draft of
which is available ahead of project appraisal, will outline in more detail
the procedures for implementation of the project. A legal document is also
being prepared to provide the underpinning of the institutional
arrangements for the project.
(g) The implementing body has an adequate fiduciary framework in place to
comply with IDA requirements and safeguards: The fiduciary framework of
the implementing body is being developed as part of project preparation
and will comply with the relevant IDA requirements before the
effectiveness of the grant. Specialists in financial management,
disbursements and procurement are assisting in ensuring that an adequate
fiduciary framework is in place for the implementing body. Contracting out
arrangements for financial management functions of the Executive
Secretariat will further enhance the fiduciary framework.
(h) The implementing body has agreed to use exceptional implementation
arrangements: The high level representatives of the five transport
corridor countries, who have participated in the preparation of the
project have agreed to the subcontracting of key project activities
including financial management and M & E through the appointment of a
management consultants to assist the Executive Secretariat in carrying out
its functions. The project further envisages substantial subcontracting
arrangements for other activities of the project including procurement and
audits. The five countries agree that such exceptional implementation
arrangements are necessary in order to accelerate the implementation of
the project.
2. Objectives
-6-



The project's objective is to increase access, along the Abidjan-Lagos
transport corridor, to HIV/AIDS prevention, basic treatment, support and
care services, by underserved vulnerable groups. Particular attention is
to be given to the transport sector workers, the migrant population and
the local populations living in the corridor with whom they interact.     It
is expected that the project will contribute to the reduction of the
spread of HIV/AIDS and to the mitigation of the adverse social and
economic impact of HIV/AIDS along the transport corridor.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
One of the priority areas for World Bank support to the development of
Sub- Sahara Africa is helping to fight against HIV/AIDS. The Bank's
support brings a number of added values: a) global knowledge on policies
on the overall development agenda; b) expertise from various sectors that
can be combined in a multi-country and multi-sector approach as required
in the fight against HIV/AIDS in a regional context; c) experience with
project implementation to help expedite project launch but not at the
expense of fiduciary and other safeguards; and d) bridging the resources
gap which is critical in many African countries which are committed to
fighting HIV/AIDS. In this project, the World Bank was instrumental in
putting together the WAI which has been a pioneer in developing regional
approaches to combating HIV/AIDS in West Africa. The World Bank has
developed a strong working relationship with UNAIDS (The World Bank is a
member of UNAIDS), leveraging UNAIDS' technical resources and expertise
for the proposed project.
4. Description
The project has the following three components: (i) HIV/AIDS prevention
services for the targeted population (ii) HIV/AIDS treatment, care and
support services for the targeted population (iii) Project coordination,
capacity building and policy development. Given that the capacity to
implement the project will be built over time, sequencing of activities of
the project will be the basis of project implementation, with priority
activities being matched with capacity. The first year of the project will
put emphasis on laying down the essential analytical, institutional and
human resources foundation for expansion in the following years of the
project.
Component 1:   HIV/AIDS prevention services for the targeted population
This component will support: (a) the implementation of an integrated
HIV/AIDS IEC/BCC policy along the transport corridor; and (b) the social
marketing of condoms in the 8 geographic border communities and along the
entire corridor. Both public sector and civil society organizations
including NGOs and the private sector will participate in the
implementation of both parts of this component.
a) Implementation of an integrated HIV/AIDS IEC/BCC policy along the
transport corridor
The component will finance information, education and communication
(IEC)/behavioral change communications (BCC) activities to be targeted at
different target groups in the border areas. These target groups will
include: (i) the providers of transport services (the workers, including
in particular commercial vehicle drivers and the management of transport
companies); (ii) the users of transport services, (iii) the local
-7 -



population having contact with travelers and migrants (iv) commercial sex
workers along the corridor (v) the migrant population; and (vi) the
locally based government border employees (immigration, police, customs).
Different approaches will be used that will be tailored to the
requirements of each target population but there will be coherence along
the corridor in terms of quality and technical content of IEC/BCC.
National HIV/AIDS programs of the five countries along the corridor will
be involved in the development of the corridor IEC/BCC policy.
b) Social marketing of condoms along the corridor
While condoms are an effective prevention tool to fight HIV/AIDS,
populations frequently need to be assisted to develop a culture of using
them. Social marketing of condoms has been shown to be an effective method
of increasing use of condoms in different communities. The component will
support activities associated with the entire social marketing effort for
condoms along the transport corridor, including procurement and
distribution of the condoms. In addition to the general social marketing
of condoms along the corridor, particular attention will be paid to social
marketing of condoms among the most vulnerable populations along the
corridor, that includes commercial sex workers and commercial vehicle
drivers. Contracting-out arrangements for social marketing of condoms, as
with many other activities of the project, will be encouraged.
Component 2: HIV/AIDS treatment, care and support services for the
targeted population
This component will support: (a) strengthening of public and private
health care facilities identified along the corridor to provide services
in the areas of VCT, treatment of STIs and HIV/AIDS opportunistic
infections; and (b) the provision of grants to Civil Society Organizations
(CSOs), including NGOs and the private sector, to undertake community
based initiatives in HIV/AIDS care and support and; (c) support the
disposal of medical waste related to the project.
a) Strengthening of public and private (where applicable) health care
facilities identified along the corridor to provide services in the areas
of VCT, treatment of STIs and HIV/AIDS opportunistic infections:
A number of public and private health facilities have been identified
along the transport corridor. The component will support the strengthening
of these facilities so that they become centers where VCT and other basic
HIV/AIDS related treatment and care can be carried out. This support will
include the financing of basic equipment, pharmaceuticals, and renovation
of facilities. The component will support development and distribution of
HIV/AIDS related treatment and care guidelines with relevant training to
the health care staff along the corridor. The above mentioned activities
will be carried out in close collaboration with the local and national
authorities responsible for provision of health services.
b) The provision of grants to CSOs (including NGOs and the private sector)
to undertake community based initiatives in HIV/AIDS care and support:
CSOs have an important role in the provision of community based HIV/AIDS
care and support services. This component will support civil society
organizations by channeling funds directly to these organizations so that
they can quickly provide community based HIV/AIDS support and care
services. Particular attention will be given to any organizations of
People Living With HIV/AIDS (PLWHA) along the transport corridor.
- 8 -



(c) Support the disposal of medical waste related to the project.
The health care facilities and other stakeholders, that will be involved
in the implementation of project activities, will be supported by this
component to implement medical waste disposal requirements as outlined in
the medical waste management plan.
Component 3: Project coordination, capacity building and policy
development.
This component will support: (a) the development of strong HIV/AIDS
inter-country coordination and partnerships among the governments and
other project stakeholders of the five participating countries; and (b)
the implementation of transport sector policies favorable to arresting the
erosion of social capital, including for smooth movement of commercial
traffic along the corridor; and (c) capacity building among implementing
partners.
a) The development of strong HIV/AIDS inter-country coordination and
partnerships among the governments and other project stakeholders of the
five participating countries:
The component will support the coordination and facilitation activities of
the Executive Secretariat of the project. It will also finance activities
aimed at increasing collaboration between the five countries fighting
HIV/AIDS along the Abidjan-Lagos transport corridor. The activities of the
Governing body that are related to the achievement of the objectives of
the project, including advocacy, the development of policies, including
those that encourage the respect of human rights of people living with
HIV/AIDS (PLWHA) and partnerships will also be supported by this
component. The monitoring and evaluation (M&E) functions of the project,
including biological, behavioral and financial, will as well be financed
from this component of the project.
b) The implementation of policies for smooth movement of commercial
traffic along the corridor:
The component will support the agreement among the countries in the
corridor to adopt policies and actions to expedite formal customs
clearance and immigration procedures as well as to address informal
barriers to the movement of people and goods. This will help in reducing
the development of commercial sex markets at the border towns and the
associated HIV/AIDS risks. The project will work closely with the regional
economic integration policy of ECOWAS, and will identify necessary
measures either to develop simplified procedures or to enforce the
implementation of the existing legislature for fast track customs and
immigration clearance. This work will build on comparable exercises on
addressing barriers to smooth flow of commercial traffic along the
Abidjan-Ouagadougou and Lome-Ouagadougou corridors. The project may also
provide support for the development of appropriate national level
responses to the HIV/AIDS costs being imposed on the transport sector.
The development and implementation of well designed transport sector
HIV/AIDS policies will complement physical investments and IEC activities
in the corridor.
c) Capacity building among implementing partners:
The component will support capacity building measures amongst the various
implementers of the project, including the public sector and civil society
organizations. Many NGOs will need significant capacity building,
especially in financial management and procurement, in order for them to
be able to effectively deliver on project objectives while providing
-9-



acceptable accountability. The newly formed Executive Secretariat may also
need capacity building to deliver on its coordination and facilitation
role. Most of the health facilities in the corridor do not presently have
the capacity to deal with the proposed HIV/AIDS related services envisaged
in the project. It will be necessary to train the health professionals
working in these facilities in order for them to effectively carry out
project related functions. Training will also be extended to various other
service providers who will be expected to provide services during project
implementation.
1. HIV/AIDS prevention services for the targeted population
2. HIV/AIDS treatment, care and support services for the targeted
population
3. Project coordination, capacity building and policy development.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT $1.00
IBRD
IDA
IDA GRANT FOR HIV/AIDS $15.00
Total Project Cost $16.00
6. Implementation
There are four tiers of institutional arrangements agreed between the 5
countries for the duration of project implementation: (i) establishment of
a governing body with the participation of the heads of national HIV/AIDS
programs and the ministries of transport in each country; (ii)
establishment of an Executive Secretariat of the governing body to
coordinate project implementation; (iii) establishment of an inter-country
advisory committee to advise the governing body on policy and
implementation issues, and (iv) involvement of public and non-public
sector implementing agencies. A detailed description of the roles of these
institutions is presented in the operational manual for the project.
The figure below is an illustration of the institutional arrangement
mentioned above.
Institutional arrangements for the project
The Governing Body of the project
The ultimate authority is vested in a "conference of the ministers" of the
five countries - nominated by the highest political offices of the member
countries. The Ministers responsible for HIV/AIDS and Transport in the
five countries or their designated representatives will comprise this
body. The Governing Body is responsible for overseeing (a) the preparation
- 10 -



and execution of the multi-country HIV/AIDS transport corridor strategy
and plan of action; (b) reviewing progress on implementation jointly with
the key donors and stakeholders; and (c) implementation of overall
sub-regional coordination, policy review and adoption. It will endorse the
annual work plans developed and presented through the Executive
Secretariat. The five countries have agreed that, Nigeria holds the
presidency of the governing body and Ghana the vice presidency, while
Benin will host the Executive Secretariat with the Executive Secretary
being a national of Cote d'Ivoire (who will be located at the Secretariat
in Benin). Togo is expected to be asked to lead the Inter-Country
Committee (ICC), as outlined below. This allocation of roles may be
subject to further review once the project is underway.
The Executive Secretariat
The Executive Secretary, who will lead the Executive Secretariat, will
report to the President of the governing body and will prepare and submit
quarterly progress reports for the project. The Executive Secretary will
be responsible for the daily management and coordination of the project -
implemented through both public and private sector implementing partners.
The Secretariat will be a small institution staffed with mainly core
staff, which may include, among others, an office assistant and a
professional translator to cater for the two official languages (French
and English) used among corridor member countries. Many of the functions
that the Secretariat will be responsible for, including financial
management and procurement review, will be contracted out to a Management
Consultant. The Management Consultant will be expected to have staff with
strong financial management, procurement, monitoring and evaluation
skills, including skills in epidemiological monitoring and evaluation or
the capability to manage any of such services which may be contracted out.
Each National HIV/AIDS Council/Commission (or its Secretariat or similar
Ministry responsible for HIV/AIDS) will appoint a liaison officer to
oversee collaboration with the Executive Secretariat (from their
respective countries) and to ensure the integration and coordination of
the national HIV/AIDS programs with the regional effort along the
transport corridor. A liaison officer with similar responsibility will be
appointed by each Ministry responsible for Transport to ensure
collaboration and ensure integration and lesson learning in regard
transport sector specific HIV/AIDS issues.
The Inter-Country Committee (ICC)
An Inter-Country HIV/AIDS advisory committee (ICC) has been established
under the Governing body with members selected from the 5 countries. The
committee will provide technical and policy advice, on the implementation
of the project, to the Governing Body. The committee members are the
representatives of civil society and the public sector in equal numbers.
The composition includes key ministries, representatives of the national
HIV/AIDS programs, civil society organizations including NGOs
(associations of PLWHA or consortia of the NGOs), and the
private-for-profit sector. The chairperson of the committee will be
selected among the members from Togo, but then it is expected to rotate on
a periodic basis. The Secretary of the Committee will be the Executive
Secretary of the project. The project will encourage civil society
organizations in the 5 countries to form a consortium or coalition to have
a representation in the ICC, so as not to overload the membership of the
committee.



(Cross) Border HIV/AIDS committees
HIV/AIDS committees with membership from both local civil society and
local public sector representatives will be formed at border areas along
the corridor, for purposes of coordinating local response to HIV/AIDS at
the border areas. The border HIV/AIDS committees will be responsible for
coordinating local initiatives that are to be financed by the project.
Such initiatives will be transformed into proposals that are forwarded to
the Executive Secretariat of the corridor project for approval and
financing. In due course it is expected that these committees may evolve
into cross-border committees to ensure the liaison of interventions of
both sides of a given frontier. Small proposals, the magnitude of which
will be specified in the operational manual, may be approved by the Border
HIV/AIDS committees and will be sent to the Executive Secretariat for
financing. To improve the capacity of border HIV/AIDS committees to
prepare proposals and facilitate the speedy delivery of the proposals to
the Executive Secretariat, it is expected that an NGO with a proven record
of working with local communities, may be contracted out to support these
committees.
The implementing agencies
(a) Civil Society Organizations (CSOs)
CSOs will be key implementing partners for the project. They will carry
out two distinct implementation tasks: (i) mobilization and empowerment of
communities along the corridor to address HIV/AIDS; and (ii) providing
HIV/AIDS related services to various community groups along the corridor.
Eligibility criteria for the CSOs, and mechanisms in which CSOs will be
able to obtain and account for project funds will be detailed in the
operational manual of the project.
(b) Public-sector implementing partners
The project will be implemented in close collaboration with public sector
partners. National ministries, in order to ensure coordination with their
respective branches along the transport corridor, responsible for health,
transport, police, immigration and customs are the key ministries the
project will target. Local Governments at border towns/districts will also
be targeted as potential public sector implementers for the project.
The recipient of the grant:
The Government of Benin, on behalf of the five governments along the
transport corridor, has been agreed upon by the five Governments, as the
recipient of the grant.
Operational Arrangements
An operations manual for the project is being prepared (a first draft is
available) in close collaboration with the Governments and civil society
representatives of the five countries. The manual includes the project's
institutional and implementation arrangements, the respective
responsibilities and mandates of each participating entity, and the
functional relationships between actors. It defines procedures and
eligibility criteria for review and approval of project proposals, as well
as providing guidelines for the preparation, implementation, and
supervision of project proposals. It includes the contractual arrangements
between the Executive Secretariat and implementing agencies and standard
contracts for a broad range of activities. It contains procurement
arrangements and financial management requirements, including accounting
norms and reporting requirements for both public sector and civil society
- 12 -



implementers. The financial management arrangements will be further
developed to ensure adequate management of the project. Its use and
contents as well as modalities for any future amendments will be to a
level satisfactory to IDA, and will be part of the grant agreement.
Disbursement of funds for civil society organizations will be in
accordance with the eligibility criteria and terms specified in the
operations manual.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements:
Project monitoring and evaluation (M&E) arrangements will be based on a
broad range of measures, including specified indicators and process and
output measures to capture project performance. These are however still in
the process of elaboration. An M&E manual will be produced within six
months of project effectiveness and thereafter, implementation of the
manual will be in form and substance satisfactory to IDA.
Project outcomes will be measured employing data from the HIV
surveillance, baseline, and end-point population-based surveys on
knowledge, attitudes, practices, and behavior. Service utilization and
special studies commissioned to assess outcome in specific areas not
easily addressed by population-based surveys will also be used. Monitoring
of the project will be carried out using project-based data, beneficiary
inputs, and program reviews. The baseline survey to generate inter alia
the agreed baseline indicator data is expected to be carried out prior to
effectiveness but in no case later than six months after the projected
launch date for the project, planned for January 2003.
The Executive Secretariat (through contracting) will monitor overall
project implementation, assessing the performance of project
implementation as well as the effectiveness and efficiency of
implementation. The activities of civil society organizations and
community-based organizations will be monitored based on their contract
performance.
The Executive Secretariat will, on behalf of the Governing Body, supervise
overall project implementation. Staff from the Secretariat will make
regular visits to the field to monitor the performance of the project in
the five countries. The Executive Secretariat will organize annual project
reviews and project completion review to assess the performance of the
project, its components and its contribution to the achievement of project
objectives. Project reviews will be carried out in a participative manner,
under the coordination and facilitation of the Executive Secretariat and
will culminate in stakeholder meetings that will form a basis for planning
for the next project period. Much of the required activities will be
carried out by the Management Consultant under terms of reference which
have already been developed and agreed with the TWG.
The Executive Secretariat and IDA will organize a joint project launch
workshop within a month of project effectiveness. One main purpose of the
workshop will be to make further progress on project monitoring and
reporting requirements.
Procurement Procedures
The Executive Secretariat will procure works, goods and services in
relation to the project, in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines:
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" (January 1995 and revised in
- 13 -



January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999), in particular
Section 3.15, Community Participation in Procurement. Consulting services
by firms, organizations, or individuals financed by IDA will be contracted
in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" (January 1997, revised in September
1997, January 1999 and April 2002). In the event of co-financing of the
project activities, the procedures of these specific agencies will have to
be employed and the ES capacity enhanced accordingly.
The Executive Secretariat will ensure that services of a Procurement
Specialist are at its disposal prior to drawing up the first year program,
in order to effectively oversee the procurement process. Such a specialist
is included in the core team to be provided by the Management Consultant,
the contract with whom is expected to be concluded by negotiations.
Communities will use the Bank's simplified "Procurement and Disbursement
Procedures for Community-Based Investments" to procure goods or services
needed to implement their respective community HIV/AIDS initiatives.
Communities and NGOs are expected to use 'local shopping' as a standard
procurement method.
To facilitate expeditious import of goods valued at less than a threshold
amount to be determined and which may be urgently for diagnosis/treatment
and institutional strengthening, contracts may be made based on
international shopping and national shopping procedures, respectively, or
through procurement from the United Nations system. Otherwise, a national
competitive bidding (NCB) procedure - with advertisement in all corridor
countries - will be employed.
Minor civil works will be included under the project and these will be
carried out depending on the value under: either a national competitive
bidding (NCB) procedure - with advertisement in all corridor countries; or
for works under a specified threshold at least three quotations received
for a given specification.
Consultancy services will generally be procured on the basis of quality
and cost based (QCBS) selection procedure employing the Bank guidelines,
with specified exceptions applying to the procurement of particular
services (selection on the basis of consultant's qualifications). Below a
specified threshold, selection may be form short lists composed only of
nationals or firms of the corridor countries.
A procurement plan will be prepared for the first year of project
operations, to be included in the project operational manual before credit
effectiveness, and procurement plans will subsequently be prepared
annually.
Procurement performance (including sub-project procurement activities)
will be assessed on an annual basis (in the form of procurement and
physical audits by an external agency). In addition to the formal annual
audits, ad-hoc procurement reviews will be conducted periodically.
Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements
The Executive Secretariat of the Governing Body, through contracting out
arrangements with the Management Consultant, will be responsible for
- 14 -



project financial management, including the preparation and production of
the annual financial statements in accordance with internationally
accepted accounting principles. The Secretariat will make arrangements for
certification of financial statements by an audit firm under terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA. The Executive Secretariat, through the
Management Consultant, will monitor all disbursements under the project
and ensure that they conform to IDA requirements. Implementing agencies
will submit annual and quarterly reports on the progress of implementation
of their respective activities. Before effectiveness, the project
financial management system will be reviewed for compliance with Bank
procedures. The financial management system will allow for the proper
recording of all project-related transactions as well as timely monitoring
of expenditures per category, implementing agency, and component.
Internal accounting controls for the project will be set out in detail in
the financial procedures of the project's operational manual, which is
available in draft form, and will be satisfactory for providing reasonable
assurances that accounts will be properly recorded and resources
safeguarded. The chart of accounts for the project will be designed to
allow reporting to requirements of any other donors who may eventually
participate in the financing of the project.
The records and accounts of all the components of the project will be
audited annually in accordance with international audit standards by
experienced and internationally recognized audit firms acceptable to IDA.
In addition to a standard short form report with the audit opinion, the
auditors will be required to comprehensively review all the SOEs and the
management and utilization of the accounts as well as the internal control
procedures governing preparation of accounts for the relevant period under
audit, to express a separate opinion thereon, and to review the management
and utilization of the special accounts and express a separate opinion
thereon as well. The auditor will complete an in-depth review of the
internal control system of the program with a view to identify the major
weaknesses and shortcomings and proposing practical recommendations for
improvement. The results of this review will be documented in a management
letter to be submitted along with the audit reports. The appointment of
the project auditor according to terms of reference acceptable to IDA will
be included in the conditions of effectiveness.
The Executive Secretariat will prepare the following reports: (a)
semi-annual progress reports; (b) an annual report and a proposed
financing plan no later than the last month of the current year; (c) a
detailed progress report on technical and financial program activities
(not later than four weeks before the end of the second year of project
effectiveness); (d) relevant sections of the implementation completion
report (ICR) three months before the closing date; and (e) a report on a
plan designed to ensure future achievement of objectives of the project,
not later than six months after the closing date of the project or such
later date as may be agreed upon with IDA. The implementing agencies will
submit consolidated quarterly financial reports with supporting
documentation to the Executive Secretariat which will consolidate the
financial reports of the operational components. The first FMR shall be
furnished to IDA not later than 45 days after the end of the calendar
quarter after the effective date of the project. Thereafter, each FMR
shall be furnished to the association not later than 45 days after each
subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. The
- 15 -



annual financial statements of the project will include at least a
statement of sources of funds, a statement of reconciliation of the
special accounts, a balance sheet, and required notes to the financial
statements.
7. Sustainability
The project is a first attempt within MAP, to address HIV/AIDS from the
regional perspective. MAP supported national programs in each of the
countries in the corridor have just been started or are about to start
letting this project to selectively address vulnerable locations and
populations across the borders of the five countries. As far as financial
sustainability is concerned, it is unlikely that the Governments along the
transport corridor will be able to fully finance the program in the medium
term. It is realistic to expect that bilateral and multilateral
development agencies will continue to finance HIV/AIDS activities along
the corridor beyond the three year implementation period of the project.
However, to ensure commitment of the corridor countries to the
institutional arrangements which are being set up, contributions will be
made by each to help cover a portion of operating and overhead costs. The
basis for these contributions and how much will be paid are going to be
determined before negotiations. This contribution is however already
factored into the financing plan.
In the best case scenario, it is possible that beyond the implementation
of this project the national HIV/AIDS programs will be able to cover - at
least in part - some of the vulnerable populations targeted by the
project. If that occurs, some of the activities financed under this
project could eventually be taken over by the national HIV/AIDS programs
leaving mostly policy and program coordination roles to be carried out at
regional level. If on the other hand, the countries find it more effective
to have an independent regional institution to deal with the issue of
HIV/AIDS at regional level, the institutional framework and the mechanism
of project implementation adopted under the project will need to be
strengthened further at the end of the project. It is also worth noting
that there has been expressed interest in the project from organizations
other than the five Governments, including for example, the International
Confederation of Free Trade Unions, which suggests that these
organizations may be interested in the sustainability of project
activities beyond the three year project period.
It is expected that the lessons learned from the experience of this
project will be taken into account when consideration is given to
cross-country HIV/AIDS interventions in other transport corridors in
Africa. The overall project risk is high because of the pilot and
innovative nature of the project and its cross-country nature.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The design of this project reflects international experience with HIV/AIDS
especially regional experience from countries like Uganda and Senegal,
HIV/AIDS control efforts of the West African Initiative (WAI) along the
Abidjan-Dakar and Abidjan-Niamey transport corridors and the experience so
far obtained in the Africa region in designing and implementing the MAP
projects under MAP1. Key lessons learned from all this experience are
- 16 -



outlined below and have been incorporated in project design.
HIV/AIDS and regional implications. International experience on HIV/AIDS
over the last two decades has shown that HIV/AIDS spreads across national
boundaries. National HIV/AIDS programs have repeatedly have had to look
beyond their national borders in order to be able to address cross-country
HIV/AIDS issues that are beyond the reach of one national program alone.
There is therefore, a gap in the fight against HIV/AIDS that cannot be
filled by national programs alone.
Political leadership and commitment. International experience has shown
that political leadership and commitment are key to mobilizing stakeholder
resources for the fight against the HIV/AIDS epidemic. The five
Governments along the transport corridor have indicated their commitment
to the fight against HIV/AIDS along the transport corridor. Effective
action requires political leadership and commitment at the highest levels
which has so far been demonstrated by the political leadership of the five
countries.
Vulnerability factors are key drivers of the epidemic. The HIV/AIDS
epidemic is nourished by underlying vulnerabilities among populations. The
combination of poverty, gender disparities, and information asymmetry
provide very fertile soil on which the seed of HIV can rapidly grow and
blossom. Any attempt at controlling the epidemic will have to address
vulnerability factors. This project targets HIV/AIDS vulnerable groups
along the transport corridor which includes, among others, commercial
vehicle drivers, commercial sex workers, migrants, border town employees
of customs, police and immigration departments and the local populations
living along the border towns.
Community participation as a process of empowerment. The communities
affected by the HIV/AIDS epidemic find themselves facing multifaceted
challenges, and have very few resources and little capacity to respond. In
addition, short term focused strategies may not meet the need for longer
term rehabilitation and healing in those communities. Community
participation engages the people in a partnership to fight the epidemic.
With external resources and the building of local capacity, the
communities will be more empowered in their response to HIV/AIDS. Such a
response is also more likely to be sustainable in the long term. This
project has the provisions for civil society organizations, including
organizations of PLWHA to actively participate in project development and
implementation in their respective communities.
Multisectoral approach. It has been widely recognized that the HIV/AIDS
epidemic extends far beyond the narrowly defined health sector. The
multidimensional nature of the epidemic and its impacts warrant a change
in paradigm from a biomedical to a development one. In this context, the
multisectoral approach in HIV prevention, care, and mitigation offer the
best chance of success. This project will involve the active participation
of different sectors including transport, health, internal affairs (border
police and immigration) finance (border customs) and local affairs (local
authorities along the transport corridor and especially at the border).
Complexity of supervision of MAP projects. Given the innovative MAP
approach and the multitude of stakeholders and partners, supervision of
- 17 -



MAP projects deserves more attention and resources than average projects.
The experience so far gained suggests that supervision teams for MAP
projects should draw on the resources of partners, particularly bilaterals
and other stakeholders. The composition of the supervision teams should
also be multisectoral. The Transport corridor project, because of its even
more innovative approach and pilot nature will need more intensive
supervision.
Robust M&E. The key features of MAP are the scaling up of multisectoral
programs and effective interventions, which require robust monitoring and
evaluation systems. The M&E plan needs to be developed through a
participatory process as a number of partners will be involved in
monitoring and evaluation activities according to their areas of
expertise. Sufficient resources and skills should be made available for
monitoring and evaluation of projects in the MAP. This project envisages
the contracting out of M&E to ensure adequate attention to the issue.
Facilitation and coordination vs command and control. Review of
preparation and implementation of MAP 1 suggest that there is an inherent
danger of National HIV/AIDS Council Secretariats empowering themselves.
Recommendations include retaining in the NAC Secs only the tasks of
coordination and facilitation. The current project envisages extensive
contracting out by the Executive Secretariat which will reduce the risk of
the Secretariat becoming a command and control institution.
Sequencing of key interventions. Experience from MAP1 suggests that there
is value in sequencing key project activities to match the developing
capacity in the countries. It takes time to build the capacity required to
implement the full spectrum of planned project activities, and the first
year of project implementation should put emphasis on building the
foundations for expansion in subsequent years of project implementation.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        The project is not expected to generate major
adverse environmental issues. However, there are risks attached to the
handling and disposal of HIV/AIDS infected materials. These risks
potentially affect: personnel in hospitals, health centers and
municipalities who handle waste, families whose income derives from the
triage of waste and also the general public to the extent that waste is
not disposed of on site or safely contained in protected areas. A medical
waste management plan will need to be prepared. The plan will have to
include the proper disposal of hazardous bio-medical waste, a bio-safety
training program for the staff of all hospital, health center and
community based programs who may be involved in testing and treatment. The
training program will include specific instruction on the triage,
transport and disposal of waste. In addition the project implementation
manual will include guidelines to ensure that environmental considerations
are taken into account in the selection and design of project activities.
Terms of reference will be prepared for such a plan which will be reviewed
by the Bank and which will be carried out prior to appraisal.
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
- 18 -



Stephen J. Brushett
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 473 4153
Fax:   (202) 473 8038
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
October 25, 2002.
- 19 -



