                                                Documentof
                                            The World Bank

                                      FOR OFFICIAL USE OhIY

                                                                                  ReportNo: 26939-BN




                                    PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                   ONA

                                           PROPOSEDGRANT

         INTHEAMOUNTOFSDR 12.20MILLION(US$16.60MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                   TO THE

             REPUBLICOF BENINONBEHALF OF FIVE WESTERN AFRICAN STATES

                                                     FOR

               HIV/AIDS PROJECTFORABIDJAN              - LAGOSTRANSPORT        CORRIDOR

                               INSUPPORTOFTHESECONDPHASEOFTHE

             US$500MILLION MULTI-COUNTRY HIV/AIDS PROGRAM(MAP2) (APL)

                                        FORTHE AFRICA REGION


                                              September 29,2003




Transport Unit
Country Department 13
Africa RegionalOffice


This documenthas a restricteddistributionandmay beusedby recipients only inthe performance
of their official duties. Its contentsmay not otherwisebe disclosedwithout World Bank
authorization.

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                        (Exchange Rate Effective May 5,2003)

                            Currency Unit = CFA Francs
                             1CFA Franc = US$0.00162
                                    US$1 = 616.76 CFA Francs

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                               January 01--  December 3I

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS    Acquired ImmuneDeficiency Syndrome
APL     Adaptable Program Loan
BCC     Behavior change communication
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CBO     Community-Based Organization
cso     Civil Society Organization
EA      Environment Assessment
ECOWAS  Economic Community of West African States
EMP     Environment Management Plan
FCFA    Franc de la Communaute Financiere Africaine
HIV     Human ImmonodeficiencyVirus
IAPSO   Interagency Procurement Services Office
ICT     Inter-country Team
IDA     InternationalDevelopment Association
IEC     Information, Education, and Communication
LIL     Learning and Innovation Loan
MAP     Multi-Country HIVIAIDS Program
M&E     Monitoring& Evaluation
NAC     National AIDS Council
NGO     Non-government Organization
PLWHA   People Livingwith HIV/AIDS
REA0    EnterpriseNetwork for West Africa
SIL     Specific Investment Loan
STI     Sexually Transmitted Infection
TWG     Transitional Working Group
UNDP    UnitedNations DevelopmentProgram
UNFPA   UnitedNations Fund for PopulationAssistance
UNAIDS  Joint UnitedNations Programme on HIV/AIDS
USAID   The UnitedStates Agency for InternationalDevelopment
VCT     Voluntary Counseling and Testing
WAI     West African Initiative
WAHO    West African Health Organization
WHO     World Health Organization

                          Vice President:    Callisto Madavo
                        Country Director:    Antoinette M.Sayeh and KeithE.Hansen
                 Sector ManagedDirector:     Sanjivi Rajasingham
        Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       StephenJ. Brushett

                                                                 FOROFFICLAL USEONLY

                                               WESTERN AFRICA
                 HIV/AIDS PROJECT FOR ABIDJAN               - LAGOS   TRANSPORT CORRIDOR


                                                    CONTENTS


      A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page

         1, Project development objective                                                     2
         2. Key performance indicators                                                        2

      B. Strategic Context

         1. Sector-relatedCountry Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supportedby the project      3
         2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        4
         3. Sector issues to be addressedby the project and strategic choices                 9

      C. Project Description Summary

         1. Project components                                                               11
         2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     14
         3. Benefits and target population                                                    14
         4. Institutionaland implementation arrangements                                      15

      D.ProjectRationale

         1, Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                        21
         2. Major related projects financed bythe Bank andor other development agencies      23
         3. Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design                               23
         4. Indications o f recipient commitment and ownership                               25
         5. Value added of Bank support inthis project                                       25

      E.Summary Project Analysis

         1. Economic                                                                         26
         2. Financial                                                                         26
         3. Technical                                                                        26
         4. Institutional                                                                    27
         5. Environmental                                                                     27
         6. Social                                                                            28
         7. Safeguard Policies                                                                29

      F. Sustainability and Risks

         1, Sustainability                                                                    30

This document has a restricted distribution andmay beusedby recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.

  2. Critical risks                                                                    30
  3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    31


G. Main Grant Conditions

  1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           31
  2. Other                                                                             32

H. Readiness for Implementation                                                        32

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                                           32


Annexes

Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                        33
Annex 2: DetailedProject Description                                                   38
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       48
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary         49
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Eaming Project Entities,or Financial Summary    52
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                  53
          (B) Financial Management andDisbursement Arrangements                        62
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   65
Annex 8: Documents inthe Project File                                                  67
Annex 9: Statement o f Loans and Credits                                               68
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          75
Annex 11: Civil society and social assessment                                          85
Annex 12: Supervision plan                                                             87
Annex 13: Gender issues                                                                89

                     HIVIAIDSPROJECTFOR ABIDJAN - LAGOS TRANSPORT CORRIDOR
                                              WESTERNAFRICA


                                      ProjectAppraisalDocument
                                             Africa RegionalOffice
                                                    AFTTR

 Date: September 29,2003                                Team Leader: StephenJ. Brushett
 Sector ManagerDirector: C. Sanjivi Rajasingham         Sector(s): Health (80%), Generaltransportation sector
 Country Director: Antoinette M.Sayeh and KeithE.       (20%)
 Hansen                                                 Theme(s): Fighting communicablediseases (P), Other
 Project ID: PO74850                                    socialprotection andriskmanagement (S)
 Lending Instrument: Specific InvestmentLoan (SIL)



 For LoanslCreditslOthers:
 Amount (US$m): $16.60


I                                                                                                              I

 BorrowerlRecipient: GOVERNMENT OF BENIN
 Responsibleagency: EXECUTIVE SECRETARIAT OF THE PROJECT
 c/o National HIVIAIDSControl Program, RepublicofBenin
 Address: P.O.Box 04-0378, Cotonou, Republic of Benin
 Contact Person: Justin KOFFI
 Tel: (229) 3154 88 and 3178 48                 Fax: (229) 31 63 87 and 30 77 92              Email:
 justinkoffi@hotmail.com



rProject implementation period: 4 years
 Expectedeffectiveness date: 03131/2004 Expected closing date: 07/01/2007

A. Project Development Objective

1. Project developmentobjective: (see Annex 1)
The project's objective i s to increase access along the Abidjan-Lagos transport corridor, to HIV/AIDS
prevention, basic treatment, support and care services by underservedvulnerable groups. Particular
attention i s to be givento the transport sector workers, the migrant population, commercial sex workers and
the local populations living along the corridor, especially at the border towns. It i s expected that the project
will contribute to the reduction o fthe spread o fHIV/AIDS and to the mitigationo fthe adverse social and
economic impact o f HIV/AIDS along the transport corridor.

2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Key outcome, output andprocess indicators are given below. Annex 1provides the full set o f performance

reduction inthe rate o f HIV infection among the affected populations - i s unlikely to be detectable during
indicators. It should be notedthat the mediumto long term impact o f this project - that i s the measurable

the short period o f project implementation o f four years. Therefore, long term impact indicators have not
been includedamong the performance indicators for the project.

Outcome Indicators

By end of2006:
1, at least 90% o f the localpopulationresidingalong the corridor can identifyat least two ways inwhich to
prevent HIV/AIDS.

2. at least 90% o fthe commercial vehicle drivers working along the transport corridor can identify at least
two ways inwhich to prevent HIV/AIDS.

3. at least 90% o f commercial sex workers along the transport corridor can identify at least two ways in
which to prevent HIVIAIDS.
4. reduceby 30%, compared with the first year o fthe project, the incidence o f reported sexually
transmitted (urethritis) infections among male commercial vehicle drivers working along the corridor.

5. reduce by at least 50%, compared with the first year o f the project, the prevalence o f gonorrhoea among
commercial sex workers along the corridor.

Output Indicators

By end o f2006:
1.each border crossingpoint ofthe corridor has at least one voluntary counseling andtesting center on
either side o f the border.

2. increase by 50%, compared with the first year o fthe project, the number o f people who use voluntary
counseling and testing centers along the transport corridor.

3. increase by at least 50%, compared with the first year o f the project, the proportion o f commercial
vehicle drivers who report usinga condom intheir last act o f sexual intercourse with a non-regular partner
inthe previous 12months.




                                                      - 2 -

4. at least 80% of commercial sex workers along the transport corridor report usingcondoms with their
clients of the previous week.

5. increaseby 50%, comparedwith the first year of the project, the number of condoms distributed through
social marketingalong the transport corridor.

6. each border crossing point along the transport corridor annually organizes a rally to mark World AIDS
Day with the participation of residents, commercial truck drivers andcivil society organizations from both
sides of the border.

7. average time for commercial vehicles to clear border formalities along the entire corridor is reducedby at
least 20% compared with the first year of the project.

8. average time for commercial vehicles to clear border formalities at the Nigeria-Benin border post (both
sides) is reducedby at least 50% compared with the first year of the project.

9. the number of informal checks along the entire corridor reducedby at least 50%, compared with the first
year of the project.


Process Indicators

1.Bythe endof 2004, all the countries along the transport corridor have adopted a common HIV/AIDS
strategy for the transport corridor.

2. By end of 2006, train at least 500 residents ofborder towns along the transport corridor as key
community HIV/AIDS IEC activists.

3. By endof 2006, increaseby at least 50%, compared with the first year of the project, the number of
trained HIV/AIDS counselorsworking involuntary HIViAIDScounseling and testing centersalong the
transport corridor.

4. By endof 2005, at least 40% of total disbursements to sub-projectswill have beenthrough civil society
organizations.


B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number:
STRATEGY OF IDA ASSISTANCE FOR AFRICA

Report No.22520-AFR: Regional IntegrationAssistance Strategy for West Africa (July 11,2001)
Report No. P7497 AFR: MAP2 Memorandumand Recommendation of the President of IDA (Feb 07,2002)


CAS date: March 30, 2000 - Doc. No. IDNR2000-26 - Ghana Joit IDA/IFC CAS + Urban V
CAS date: June 14, 2001 - Doc. No. IDNR2001-0081- Nigeria InterimUpdate
CAS date: July 3,2003 - Doc. No. IDNR2003-0147 - Benin


CAS date: June 11,2002 - Doc. No. IDAiR2002-066 - CBte d'Ivoire InterimCAS
CAS date: June 20,2000 - Doc. No. IDA/R2000-88 - Togo Progressreport



                                                    - 3 -

         Date of latest CAS discussion: See above for the respective dates.

STRATEGY OF IDA ASSISTANCEFOR AFRICA

The project i s consistent with the Strategic Framework for IDA'SAssistance to Africa discussed by the
Board on July 10, 2003. The strategy stresses the centrality for the region's development outcomes o f
dealing effectively with the HIV/AIDS pandemic, as well as pointing out that national efforts inthis
regard must be supportedby broader regional and sub-regional actions especially given the role o f
transport corridors as a prime vector for HIV.

Regionalintegrationassistancestrategyfor West Africa
The Bank's regional integration strategy for West Africa recognizes the existence o f a variety o f
cross-border externalities - the positive (trade, production) have to be reinforced, whereas the negative
(communicable diseases) have to be mitigated. Inthis context, the strategy views migratory movements as a
positive factor inaddressing sub-regional poverty by enabling people to move to exploit new
(extra-national) opportunities. The strategy recognizes that the main criterion for Bank assistance at the
regional level will be the contribution to the creation o f a unified economic space, but that critical second
order priorities will include improvement inhealth services, including HIV/AIDS related services. Inthe
context o f the regional strategy, the Bank has started working with UEMOA and ECOWAS on an action
plan in support o f trade and transport facilitation. One element o f the plannedprogram i s to undertake a
number o f actions inthe Abidjan-Lagos corridor including an observatory o f abnormal practices and
improved dissemination and use o f information about regional trade and transport agreements. The strategy
also acknowledges that other partners, particularly the French Cooperation and the United States Agency
for International Development (USAID), have been supporting cross country disease control efforts inthe
region, which have included HIV/AIDS cross border interventions. USAID inparticular has supported
efforts to prevent the spread o f HIV/AIDS along migration corridors inthe region. The proposed project
will buildon and scale up the above efforts and is consistent with the Bank's regional integration strategy
for West Africa.

MAP2Memorandum and recommendationof the Presidentof IDA
The memorandum and recommendation o f the President o f the International Development Association
(IDA) to the ExecutiveDirectors on the Second Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program(MAP2), (Report No.
P7497AFR) specifically identified sub-regional support inHIV/AIDS as one o f the areas to be supported
under MAP2. MAP2 has as its development objective to dramatically increase access to HIV/AIDS
prevention, treatment, care and support incountries inthe region that have not been covered under M A P1.
There are two additional objectives: supporting the scaling up o f anti-retroviral therapy (ART) in selected
countries; and support for cross-border initiatives. At this time, 24 country programs have been supported
to an amount o f US$848.3 million andother regional initatives are also under development.

CAS of each of the five countriesalongthe Abidjan-Lagostransport corridor
The CAS (includes interim CAS or CAS progress report as applicable) o f each o f the five countries along
the Abidjan-Lagos transport corridor identifies HIV/AIDS as an issue that requires Bank support.
Country-specific HIV/AIDS programs in all the five countries along the corridor are either already being
supportedby IDA through ongoing projects under M A P 1 or the Bank is helping prepare projects that may
be supportedby IDA under MAP2. The proposed transport comdor HIV/AIDS project will complement
the above mentioned country-specific projects and address the cross-boundary HIV/AIDS issues o f targeted
vulnerable groups that are not easily addressed through country specific projects.




                                                       - 4 -

2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
HIV/AIDS is a multisectoral challenge which affects many countries without beinglimited by national
boundaries. The project addresses the multi-country nature o f this challenge through a multisectoral,
multi-country approach which targets specific populations, who cannot easily be reachedthrough national
HIV/AIDS programs that are limitedby national boundaries. Main issues to be addressed are outlined
below.

Transportcorridors and HIV/AIDS in WestAfrica
InWest Africa, major regional travel routes extend along the north-south directions betweenland-locked
andcoastal countries on one hand, and east-west directions (mainly the Abidjan-Lagos corridor) between
the coastal countries on the other. The ECOWAS policy on free movement o fnationals o f member
countries hrther contributes to increased travel along the major travel routes. National borders often divide
populations from the same ethnic group (e.g. Akan for Cote d'Ivoire/Ghana, Ewe for GhandTogo, Yoruba
for BendNigeria) and families frequently travel across borders to visit relatives. Travel takes place over
both short and long distances. While travel along the major transport routes inthe region is recognized as
an essential requirement for the socioeconomic well-being o f the region, it also offers opportunities for
faster transmission of, among others, HIV/AIDS among the people inthe region. Commercial vehicle
drivers, commercial sex workers, migrants and the local populations who live inborder areas along the
major transport routes, are among the vulnerable groups that may be adversely affected ifHIV/AIDS
prevention, care and support services targeted at these transport routes are not provided. On the other hand,
commercialvehicle drivers, commercial sex workers, migrants and others who travel along the corridor,
offer opportunities for dissemination o f HIV/AIDS prevention messages that can empower people to fight
HIV/AIDS along the corridor. Well designed HIVIAIDS prevention messages, if disseminatedthrough
these groups, can be carried across boundaries, contributingto the fight against HIV/AIDS along the
corridor and indeed beyond.

The following table indicates the extent o fmovement o fpeople between the countries along the Abidjan -
Lagos transport corridor.

            Percentage of nationals from neighboring countries along the transport corridor

                                                               Destination
        Origin          CBte d'Ivoire        Ghana               Togo                  Benin              Nigeria
    C6te d'Ivoire                             4.9%           Not defined            Not defined           0.5%
        Ghana               5.5%                                17.0%                  9.0%               19.6%
         Togo           Not declared         39.9%                                     25.9%              12.2%
         Benin             `2.8%              3.3%              39.0%                                     25.1%
       Nigeria              1.7%              9.5%              12.0%                  19.6%




                                                    - 5 -

Commercial vehicle drivers and commercial sex workers along the transport corridor
Various studies have identifiedthe correlation between the movement o fpopulations andthe propagation o f
disease and illness, particularly sexually transmitted infections (STIs) including HIV/AIDS. Situation
analyses o f travel inWest Africa have identified well established commercial sex activities along major
transport corridors inthe region. Travel increases opportunities to have sexual relationships with multiple
partners, thus creating an environment that i s conducive to the transmission o f HIV/AIDS. Reported high
prevalence o fHIV among truck drivers andcommercial sex workers (both vulnerable groups for
HIVIAIDS) inthe countries along the Abidjan-Lagos corridor further supports the need for targeted
HIV/AIDS prevention, care and support services along this transport corridor. In 1992 inTogo, 33% o f the
truck drivers and 80% o f commercial sex workers inLome were reported to be infected with HIV.
Comparable prevalence rate for commercial sex workers inCote d'Ivoire in 1990 was at 63% inAbidjan, in
Ghana in 1997/8 was 74% inAccra/Tema, inBenin in 1996 was 85.4% in Cotonou and other cities, and in
Nigeria in 1993/4was 30% inLagos. These prevalence rates are comparatively higher than the latest
available (2001) UNAIDS estimated adult prevalence rates among the countries along the Abidjan-Lagos
corridor (Togo 6.0%, Cote d'Ivoire 9.7%, Ghana 3.0%, Benin 3.6% and Nigeria 5.8%).

The highand risingprevalence levels among the transport sector workers represents a major erosion o f
social capital that none o f the corridor countries, inboth public and private sectors, can afford to ignore.
Whereas insome countries efforts are being made to raise awareness and provide support to HIV/AIDS
activities in the transport sector, this i s too little and too diffuse. Experience also demonstrates that
activities need to be carried out where highrisk behavior occurs. Scaling up and sharing o f good practices
across borders may allow the burgeoning HIV/AIDS-related social and economic issues to be addressed
more effectively. This inturn could lead to stronger and more effective nationalpolicies andpractices.

The UNAIDS Inter-CountryTeam for West Africa estimates that about three million people cross the
borders along the Abidjan Lagos transport corridor each year. Assuming an HIV prevalence rate o f 10%
among these people (the populationthat travels along the corridor i s vulnerable and i s more likely to have
higher HIV prevalence than the general population), an estimated 300,000 people infected with HIViAIDS
travels annually along the corridor, with the associated potential for transmission o f HIV/AIDS along the
corridor, to uninfected individuals.

Migrantpopulations along the transport corridor
InWest Africa, migrantpopulations who frequently use, among others, the Abidjan-Lagos transport
corridor often live inan economic and social environment which hampers them from obtaining similar
information on HIV/AIDS as the local populations. Migrants generally do not benefit systematically from
the social welfare system o fthe country where they are residing and thus may not receive social services
(sometimes inany case quite limited) that may be available to local populations. Furthermore, upon their
retum to their homeland, most often to rural areas, migrants may generally not have access to adequate
formal social services. There is, therefore, only limited opportunity for the migrantsto obtain adequate
information on HIV/AIDS andto get access to HIV/AIDS support and care unless there are specific
services that are targeted at the migrants. Consequently, migrants merit priority consideration as an
HIV/AIDS vulnerable group inthe West African context, that could benefit from HIV/AIDS prevention,
care and support services provided along the Abidjan-Lagos transport corridor.

Localpopulations at border crossings along the transport corridor
The border towns are the points o f entry to the foreign country by travelers. While the resident population
o f the border towns i s relatively small - estimated at about 90,000 in all areas combined-the transient
population i s many times larger inview o f the cross border movements o f people estimatedat 250,000 per
month (the GhandTogo and Togo/Benin crossings handling the most traffic). Because o f the usually long


                                                          - 6 -

distances from the capital city, border towns have generally not been adequately providedwith HIV/AIDS
prevention, care and support services and other social services. Information dissemination efforts on
HIV/AIDS have generally been insufficient and condom availability is limited inthese border towns. There
i s a potential risk that insufficient HIV/AIDS prevention, care and support services at the border towns can
be an opportunity for the spread o f HIV/AIDS along the transport corridor. National HIV/AIDS programs
have so far not been successful inproviding sufficient HIV/AIDS prevention and care services at these
border towns. Collaboration o f national HIV/AIDS programs across the border towns, a requirement for a
coherent program at these border towns, has also beenlimited.

Regional Governments' coordination
Ina stakeholders' workshop inCotonou, BenininJuly 2001, itwas recognizedthat specific institutional
arrangements would have to be put inplace inview o f the regional dimensions of HIV/AIDS along the
Abidjan-Lagos transport corridor. The transitional working group (TWG) formed at this meetingwas given
the mandate to review a number o f institutionaloptions to carry out the basic intentions o f the project. The
TWG was composed o frepresentatives o fthe nationalAIDS commissions or ministriesand the transport
ministries o f the five countries. The following basic structure was agreed in October 2001:

0     A governing body o fthe project was to be formedwith membership from the ministries ofthe five
      countries responsible for National HIV/AIDS programs and the transport sector. The President o f the
      governing body will be from Nigeria while the vice-president will be from Ghana;

0     An Executive Secretariat (having project coordination responsibility) was to be located inBenin and
      the Executive Secretary was to be a national o f Cote d'Ivoire;

0     An inter-country advisory committee was to have members from five transport corridor countries
      (representing both the public sector and civil society organizations);

0     The recipient o f the proposed World Bank grant to help fight HIV/AIDS along the transport corridor
      was to be the Government o f Benin on behalf o f the five country governments.
This structure and the resulting allocation o fresponsibility between countries was subsequently endorsed at
highlevel andis reflected inajoint presidential declaration issuedApril 30, 2002.

Linkage betweenthe project and the National HIV/AIDS Programs
Each o f the five countries along the Abidjan-Lagos corridor project i s either inthe process of preparing, or
already has, a national HIV/AIDS project. Effort has been made, duringthe preparation o f the project, to
ensure that there i s coordination between the team preparing the project and the teams responsible for the
national HIV/AIDS projects. This coordination between the corridor project and the national HIV/AIDS
projects will continue into the implementation o f the project. Leaders o f the ministries responsible for
national HIV/AIDS programs andfor transport, inthe five countries, are members o f the Governing Body
o f the corridor project, ensuring that corridor project HIV/AIDS activities are consistent with the respective
national needs and complement those o f the nationalHIV/AIDS programs. At nationallevel, coordination
will be through the respectiveministries responsible for HIV/AIDS programs. Locally along the corridor,
coordination will be through a number o f intermediary NGOs or similar organizations to support
community based HIV/AIDS activities. The corridor project will be specific and focus on HIV/AIDS
activities aimed at the targeted vulnerable groups along the transport corridor, with particular attention to
the border crossing areas. Onthe other hand, nationalHIV/AIDS projects will cover all other national
HIV/AIDS activities which are aimed at populations other than those targeted by the corridor project. The
corridor project i s therefore a vital complement to, rather than a substitute for, the national HIV/AIDS
programs.




                                                       - 7 -

Consistency of the project with MAP2 eligibility criteria for subregional projects
The following outlines how the project is consistent with the MAP2 eligibility criteria for subregional
projects.

(a) Theproject addressesa sub-regional or cross-border HIV/AIDS issue, promotes apublic good of
multinational scope,provides services topopulations beyond the reach of nationalprograms, or realizes
economies of scale that would not bepractical to attain through cooperative country-level action: This
project addresses ina targeted fashion HIV/AIDS issues o f travellers, migrants andthe populationhaving
contact with them along the Abidjan- Lagos transport corridor, that have proved to be difficult to reach
with regular national programs. Commercialvehicle driversspend longperiods o ftime away from their
homes travelling across many countries and are not easily reached by their home national HIV/AIDS
programs. Commercial sex workers inthe region normally prefer to travel away from their home
communities, where they are well known, to live for long periods o f time indistant and sometimes
unfamiliar communities, where they may not easily have access to the local HIV/AIDS programs. Migrants
are the foreign population to the hosting countries and do not systematically benefit from the social welfare
systems, including HIV/AIDS services, o f the hosting countries. Populations o f border towns, which in
most cases are far away from the capital cities, often get inadequate public services, including HIV/AIDS
services from national programs and are often left out by national programs. The national programs o f the
five countries have not yet been successful in addressing HIV/AIDS issues among the groups identified
above. Economies o f scale are also expected to be attained, along the transport corridor, on such issues as
the social marketing o fcondoms, an outcome o f stronger policy andprogramcoordination.

(3) No other alternativefor achieving theproject goals would be aspracticable or economic: The
alternative approach would have been to address the issue through the nationalHIV/AIDS programs o f
each country. As outlined above, the national programs have not yet had success in addressing HIV/AIDS
across the entire Abidjan-Lagos transport corridor and targeting the populations identifiedabove. This
project i s considered to be an essential but complementary effort to the nationalHIV/AIDS programs.

(e) Theproject has been endorsed by the governments of the countries concerned or a relevant public
international or regional organization: The heads o f state o f Cote d'Ivoire, Ghana, Togo, Benin and
Nigeria have already made ajoint declaration to develop the multisectoral HIV/AIDS program along the
Abidjan-Lagos transport corridor.

(d) Theproject is consistent with the HIVIAIDS strategies, policies andprogram of the affected countries
and with any relevant sub-regional and international strategy andpolicy: The representatives o fthe
national HIV/AIDS programs o f the five countries will have decision makingpowers within the
institutional arrangements for the project and will thus ensure o f the project with member country

preparation o f the project - as members o f the TWG - and inensuring consistency o f the preparation
HIV/AIDS strategies, policies andprograms. These representatives have taken an active part inthe

process with their own national HIV/AIDS requirements.UNAIDS and USAID have been involved inthe
preparation o f the project and UNAIDS will ensure consistency o f the project with any relevant regional
and international technical requirements. The declaration o f the representatives o f the five governments
stipulates that the countries along the Abidjan-Lagos transport corridor will adopt a common strategy and
policy on HIV/AIDS along the transport corridor.

(e) A high-level coordinating body has been established to oversee the implementation of theproject: The
five countries have formed a Governing body with representatives from the five countries to ensure the
implementation o f the project. The Governing body has an Executive Secretariat to ensure day to day
activities o f the project. An Inter-country advisory Committee with representatives from civil society


                                                      - 8 -

organizations (including representatives o f People LivingWith HIV/AIDS (PLWHA)) has also beenagreed
upon by the five participatingcountries.
@ Appropriate institutions, policies, procedures and regulations are in place to enable concerned
subregional and national stakeholders toparticipate effectively inproject implementation: As outlined in
(e) above, the five countries have agreed on institutional arrangements which include the formation o f a
Governing body, an Executive Secretariat, and an Inter-country advisory Committee. The participation o f
stakeholders, including civil society organizations, particularlyPeople Living With HIViAIDS (PLWHA)
i s incorporated into the institutional arrangements for the project. The project's operational manual will
outline indetail the procedures for implementation o f the project.

(' Theimplementing bodyhas anadequatefiduciaryframework inplace tocomply withIDA
requirements and safeguards: The fiduciary framework o fthe implementing body will comply with the
relevant IDA requirements before the effectiveness o f the grant. A FinancialManagement Specialist will be
includedinthe management agency team, who will be working with the Executive Secretariat through
contracting arrangements, to ensure that an adequate fiduciary framework i s inplace for implementation.

(h) The implementing body has agreed to use exceptional implementation arrangements: The highlevel
representatives o f the five transport corridor countries, who have participated inthe preparation o f the
project, have agreed to the subcontracting o f key project activities, including financial management and
monitoring and evaluation functions (M& E), through the appointment o f a management agency to assist
the Executive Secretariat incarrying out its functions. The project further envisages substantial
subcontracting arrangements for other activities o f the project including procurement and audits. The five
countries have agreed that such exceptional implementation arrangements are necessary inorder to
accelerate the implementation o f the project.

3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
  (a) The needfor HIV/AIDS services at eight border towns and along the corridor:

  border towns along the Abidjan - Lagos transport corridor. This includes inadequate informationon
  Analyses conducted inJune 2001 and August 2002, confirmed the inadequacy o f HIV/AIDS services in

  HIV/AIDS prevention, lack o f condoms and poor health facilities for basic health care. The analyses also
  identifiedthat public officials working at border crossings were not adequately informed o fHIV/AIDS
  prevention interventions andwere therefore not ina position to do enough to fight HIV/AIDS inthe border
  towns. It i s proposedthat the initial areas for HIV/AIDS interventionalong the transport corridor will be
  the border areas consisting o f four pairs o ftownshettlements. The areas o f intervention will further be
  expanded, as capacity and momentum is developed, to other areas along the transport corridor.

(b) The needfor coherent and coordinatedHIV/AIDSpolicies and actions specijically targeting
travellers including migrants:
The existing efforts to fight HIV/AIDS inWest Africa have been mainly country specific. Little
considerationhas been given to coordination between neighboring countries to develop cross-border
initiatives. Consequently, coordination between the national HIV/AIDS programs hardly exists at present.
The limited HIV/AIDS messages received by travellers andmigrants across the countries o f the
Abidjan-Lagos transport corridor may therefore not necessarily be consistent with one another interms o f
quality andcontent which can create avenues for disinformation. While it i s acknowledged that HIV/AIDS
messages need to be tailored to local population needs along the corridor, there i s need to ensure that the
quality and technical content o f the messages i s consistent along the transport corridor. The project aims to
support a common program o f action to be followed along the entire transport corridor and which will
benefit, among others, travellers and migrants along the entire corridor.



                                                       - 9 -

(c) The need to strengthen basic healthfacilities along the transport corridorfor HIV/AIDS related
treatment, support and care:
Care and appropriate treatment interventions are part o f an effective HIViAIDS program. Voluntary
counseling and testing (VCT) services, treatment o f sexually transmitted infections (STIs) and HIV/AIDS
opportunistic infections can be provided at health facilities along the Abidjan-Lagos transport corridor,
starting with those located near the borders. The health facilities can also act as avenues for prevention
activities as condoms and other information, education and communication (IEC) materials can be made
available to travellers and local populations at these healthfacilities. The project will support the
strengthening o f these facilities to be able to provide the above mentioned services. The initial health
facility focus under the project is expected to be on VCT services and treatment o f sexually transmitted
infections (STIs). The table below provides the summary o f the health facilities inthe eight border towns
along the Abidjan-Lagos transport corridor.

                            Summary ofthe healthcenters at eightborder towns




Source: UNAIDS/ICT


 (d) The need to address constraints to smoothflow of commercial traffic along the corridor:
 Agreements have existed inECOWAS since 1982to facilitate transport and transit o f goods between
 member states. Inpractice, these agreements have been implemented in a very incomplete manner. A
 recent study to analyze the impediments to smooth flow o f traffic along the corridor, which was
 commissioned as part o f the preparation process for this project, has confirmedthat a number o f formal
 and informal national controls still exist along the Abidjan-Lagos transport corridor, resulting in slower
 transit thanwas envisaged inthe ECOWAS agreements. There is, additionally, no operational
 harmonization o f travel documents among the five countries along the corridor, which contributes to the
 constraints to the smooth flow o ftraffic. Knowledge o f the type o fdocuments required to cross borders is,
 as well, low among travellers. Physical constraints, including erratic location o f offices at the borders and
 lack o f designated places for parking, have also been identified at borders along the corridor. Given the
 vulnerability o f commercial vehicle drivers and other groups travelling along the transport corridor, the
 constraints to the smooth flow o f traffic due to both formal and informal controls i s a contributory factor
 to increasing opportunities for engaging in casual sex which intum increases the risk o f transmission o f
 HIV/AIDS. Accelerating transport flows and reducing idle time at border crossings would help reduce this
 risk.An effort is already underway throughthe EnterpriseNetwork for West Africa (REAO) to assessthe
 obstacles to smooth flow o f commercialtraffic along key West African transport corridors. An assessment
 o f the Abidjan-Ouagadougou and LomB-Ouagadougou transport corridors is already planned. The project
 will support extension o fthe observatory to this corridor as this falls within the scope o fplannedprogram
 o f actions beingpromotedby ECOWAS to support trade and transport facilitation inthe Abidjan-Lagos
 corridor. A planned regional facilitation project to be supported by the Bank will be a future potential
 source o f assistance to addressing these constraints.




                                                       - 1 0 -

C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detaileddescription andAnnex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown):
The project has the following three components: (i)    HIV/AIDS prevention services for the targeted
population; (ii)  HIV/AIDS treatment, care and support services for the targeted population; (iii)   Project
coordination, capacity building and policy development. Given that the capacity to implement the project
will bebuilt over time, sequencing o f activities o fthe project will be the basis o fproject implementation,
with priority activities beingmatchedwith capacity. The first year o fthe project will put emphasis on
laying down the essential analytical, institutional andhumanresources foundation for expansion inthe
following years o f the project. Due to the urgency o f addressing HIV/AIDS, project investment activities
will begin duringthe first year o fproject implementation. The border towns along the corridor will be the
first areas for project implementation, due to their locationand the populations that stop at them. Other
areas along the corridor will be considered for project implementation after the border towns have been
adequately served.

Component I: HIV/AIDSprevention servicesfor the targetedpopulation

This component will support: (a) the implementation o f an integrated HIV/AIDS IEC/BCC policy along the
transport corridor; and (b) the social marketing o f condoms in the 8 geographic border communities and
along the entire corridor. Bothpublic sector and civil society organizations includingNGOs and the private
sector will participate inthe implementation o fboth parts o f this component.

a) Implementation of an integrated HIV/AIDSIEC/BCCpolicy along the transport corridor:
The component will finance information, education and communication (1EC)hehavioral change
communications (BCC) activities to be targeted at different target groups inthe border areas. These target
groups will include: (i)  the providers o f transport services (the workers, including inparticular commercial
vehicle drivers and the management o ftransport companies); (ii)     the users o ftransport services, (iii)
                                                                                                         the
local populationhaving contact with travelers and migrants (iv) commercial sex workers along the corridor
(v) the migrantpopulation; and (vi) the locally based government border employees (immigration, police,
customs), Different approaches will be used that will be tailored to the requirements o f each target
population but there will be coherence along the corridor interms o f quality and technical content o f
IEC/BCC. National HIV/AIDS programs o f the five countries along the corridor will be involved inthe
development o f the corridor HIV/AIDS IEC/BCC policy.
b) Social marketing of condoms along the corridor:
While condoms are an effective prevention tool to fight HIV/AIDS, populations frequently needto be
assistedto develop a culture o f usingthem. Social marketingo f condoms has been shown to be an effective
method of increasinguse o f condoms indifferent communities. The component will support activities
associated with the entire social marketing effort for condoms along the transport corridor, including
procurement and distributiono f the condoms. Inaddition to the general social marketing o f condoms along
the corridor, particular attention will be paid to social marketing o f condoms among the most vulnerable
populations along the corridor, that includes commercial sex workers and commercial vehicle drivers.
Contracting-out arrangements for social marketing o f condoms, as with many other activities o f the project,
will be the preferred mechanism for implementation o f activities related to this issue.

Component2: HIV/AIDS treatment, care and support servicesfor the targetedpopulation

This component will support: (a) strengthening o fpublic and private (where applicable) health care
facilities identified along the corridor to provide services inthe areas o f VCT, treatment o f STIs (with



                                                       - 11 -

promotion o f the syndromic approach) and HIV/AIDS opportunistic infections; and (b) the provision o f
grants to Civil Society Organizations (CSOs), includingNGOs and the private sector, to undertake
community based initiatives in HIV/AIDS care and support and; (c) support the disposal o f medical waste
relatedto the project.

Due to the complexity o fthe logistical and organizational requirements for anti-retroviral drugs, this
project, with its regionalnature and type o f target groups, will not provide these drugs to the target groups.
However, patients who will be identifiedduring project implementation, as potential beneficiaries o f these
drugs, will be referred to the national HIV/AIDS programs, which are better positioned to organize the
logistics and follow-up required for anti-retroviral treatment. The project will also support the collection
and analysis o f information (not including private patient identifiable information) on pattems o f utilization
o f HIV/AIDS treatment, care and support services along the corridor.


a) Strengthening ofpublic andprivate (where applicable) health carefacilities identiJied along the
corridor toprovide services in the areas of VCT, treatment of STIs and HIV/AIDS opportunistic
infections:
A number o fpublic andprivate health facilities have been identifiedalong the transport corridor. The
component will support the strengthening o f these facilities so that they become centers where VCT and
other basic HIV/AIDS relatedtreatment and care and safe emergency bloodtranfusion services (in
collaboration with nationalhealth services) for accident victims along the corridor, can be carried out. This
support will include the financing o fbasic equipment, pharmaceuticals, andrenovation o f facilities. The
component will support development and distribution o f HIV/AIDS relatedtreatment and care guidelines
with relevant training to the health care staffalong the Corridor. The above mentioned activities will be
carried out in close collaboration with the local and national authorities responsible for provision o f health
services.
b) The provision of grants to CSOs (including NGOs and the private sector) to undertake community
based initiatives in HIV/AIDS care and support:
CSOs have an important role inthe provision o f community based HIV/AIDS care and support services.
This component will support civil society organizations by channeling funds directly to these organizations
so that they can quickly provide community based HIV/AIDS support and care services. Particular
attention will be given to any PLHWA organizations along the transport corridor.

(c) Support the disposal of medical waste related to theproject:
The health care facilities and other stakeholders that will be involved in the implementation o f project
activities will be supported by this component to implement medical waste disposal requirements as
outlinedinthe medical waste management plan.

Component 3: Project coordination, capacity building andpolicy development.

This component will support: (a) the development o f strong HIV/AIDS inter-country coordination and
partnerships among the governments and other project stakeholders o fthe five participating countries; (b)
capacity buildingamong implementingpartners and (c) the implementation o f transport sector policies
favorable to arresting the erosion o f social capital, including for smooth movement o f commercialtraffic
along the corridor.

a) The development of strong HIV/AIDS inter-country coordination andpartnerships among the
governments and other project stakeholders of theJiveparticipating countries:

The component will support the coordination and facilitation activities o f the Executive Secretariat o f the


                                                        - 1 2 -

project. It will also finance activities aimed at increasing collaboration between the five countries fighting
HIV/AIDS along the Abidjan-Lagos transport corridor. The activities o fthe Governing Body that are
relatedto the achievement o f the objectives o f the project, including advocacy, the development o f policies,
including those that encourage the respect o fhumanrightso f people livingwith HIV/AIDS (PLWHA) and
partnerships will also be supported by this component. Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) i s expected to
feature as a major element o f capacity buildingand coordination under the project. The Executive
Secretariat will undertake a range o f core functions inM&E covering both financial and operational
dimensions o f program activities. Specific services will be outsourced to cover areas that are crucial for
determining program impact, particularly on behavioral and biological surveillance. Training inM&Ewill
be providedto CBOs and other implementingagencies as the generation o f basic data andanalysis will
start from subproject level, reflected inperiodic reporting from these agencies.

b) The implementation of policies and programs for smooth movement of commercial trafic along the
corridor:
The component will support the agreement among the countries inthe corridor to adopt policies and actions
to expedite formal customs clearance and immigrationprocedures as well as to address informal barriers to
the movement o fpeople and goods. This will help inreducing the development o f commercial sex markets
at the border towns and the associated HIV/AIDS risks. The project will work closely with the regional
economic integration policy o f ECOWAS, andwill identify necessary measures either to develop simplified
procedures or to enforce the implementation o f the existing legislature for fast track customs and
immigration clearance. This work will build on comparable exercises on addressing barriers to smooth flow
o f commercial traffic along the Abidjan-Ouagadougou and Lome-Ouagadougou corridors. The project may
also provide support for the development o f appropriate national level responses to the HIV/AIDS costs
being imposed on the transport sector. The development and implementation o f well designed transport
sector HIV/AIDS policies will complement physical investments and IEC activities along the corridor.
Specific measures that will be supportedby the project include:

0    provision o f information to the public on documentation required, locations, fees and fares normally
     collected along the corridor;
0    small infrastructure work at border posts where it can assist infast flow o f traffic along the corridor;
0    training o f officials inboth Englishand French to enhance understanding o f travel documents between
     border officials;
0    assessment and harmonization o f operations o f border posts through implementation o f local
     committees that could propose measures (for example time closure harmonization);
0    studies to better understand, inorder to reduce, the delays and costs to traffic along the corridor,
     including support to an observatory o f traffic delays along the comdor.

c) Capacity building among implementingpartners:
The component will support capacity buildingmeasures amongst the various implementers o f the project,
includingthe public sector and civil society organizations. Many NGOswill need significant capacity
enhancement, especially infinancial management and procurement, inorder for them to be able to
effectively deliver on project objectives while providing acceptable accountability. The newly formed
Executive Secretariat may also need capacity enhancement to deliver on its coordination and facilitation
role. Most o f the health facilities inthe corridor do not presently have the capacity to deal with the
proposed HIV/AIDS related services envisaged inthe project. It will be necessary to train the health
professionalsworking inthese facilities in order for them to effectively carry out project related functions.
Training will also be extendedto various other service providers who will be expected to provide services
duringproject implementation.




                                                       -13-

 1. HIV/AIDS prevention services for the targeted populatior           2.20          12.3       2.20         13.3

 2. HIV/AIDS treatment, care and support services for the              7.90          44.1       7.80         47.0
 targeted population

 3, Project coordination, capacity buildingand policy                  6.60          36.9       5.60         33.7
 development.

 Physical contingencies                                                0.60           3.4       0.50           3.0

 Price contingencies                                                   0.60           3.4       0.50           3.O


                                                                                                0.00           0.0
                                                                                                            100.0
                                     Total Financing ReauiredI        17.90 I      100.0 1     16.60        100.0


2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
While essentially a pioneer operation to be implemented over a period o f four years, the project i s expected
to make a contributionto the development o fpolicy and institutionalreforms intwo areas. The first one i s
inthe area o fcoordinated policies for HIViAIDS along the Abidjan-Lagos transport corridor, which
involves five countries. These countries have different administrative systems which will needto be
harmonized interms o f HIV/AIDS project implementation along the corridor. The project will support
coordination o f HIV/AIDS policies along the transport corridor covering the five countries. The second
area i s that o f improved regional transport policies and administrative procedures required at the border to
address the current formal and informal constraints to the cross border flow o f passenger and cargo traffic.
The analyses carried out duringproject preparation and to be carried out during implementation are
expected to influence the implementation o f national polices on transport o f passengers and freight along
the transport corridor as well as to facilitate the effective implementation o f regional agreements on transit
and traffic.

3. Benefits and target population:
The proposedproject i s expected to provide the following benefits:

1) Increase access to HIV/AIDS preventive services among the target population, that would otherwise
have been difficult to reach with regular national programs;

2) Increase access to HIV/AIDS related treatment, care and social support services to the target population,
that would have been poorly accessible through regular nationalprograms;

3) Strengthen cross-country cooperation and coordination on HIVIAIDS among the five member countries



                                                       - 1 4 -

along the Abidjan-Lagos transport corridor;

(4) Provide an opportunity for innovating cross-country HIV/AIDS interventions within the MAP, which
can benefit other future sub-regional HIV/AIDS projects, especially along other transport corridors;

(5) Contribute to the overall reduction o f HIV/AIDS transmission, socio-economic impact and related
deaths in the five transport corridor countries with particular emphasis on transport sector workers.

(6) Contribute to the improvement o f flow o f commercial andpassenger traffic along the Abidjan-Lagos
transport corridor, by facilitating the implementation o fregulations designed to speed up traffic at border
crossings.

Target population
The project is designedto target the HIV/AIDS vulnerable populations along the Abidjan-Lagos transport
corridor, with particular attention to: a) commercial vehicle drivers; b) People Living with HIV/AIDS
(PLWHA); c) commercial sex workers; d) migrants; e) customs, police and immigration employees based
at border towns along the corridor; f) localresidents along the transport corridor, with particular attention
to those resident at border towns.

4. Institutionaland implementationarrangements:
The project i s to be undertakenby five countries - Nigeria, Benin, Togo, Ghana and Cote d'Ivoire.
Representatives o f these countries agreed inNovember 2002 to establish an Abidjan-Lagos Corridor
Organization (ALCO) for the fight against HIV/AIDS based on the April 30, 2002 declaration o f the
Heads of State, The text of an international treaty has been agreed but has yet to be ratifiedby the
competent authorities in each o f the countries. On ratification, ALCO, which will have a legal personality,
will assume all responsibilities for the implementation ofthe project. Itwill also be the vehicle for
continued operations once the project has come to completion. Inthe intervening period, the Government of
Benin has agreed to assume responsibility for the project, including signature o f contracts with Executive
Secretary staff and service providers. As previously decided, the Government o f Benin is the designated
recipient o fthe IDA grant insupport o f the project. As detailed below, implementation o f the project will
be inthe hands o f a Goveming Body which has already been mandatedby the Heads o f State. The
composition and role o f the GoverningBody, as it currently stands, is filly consistent with the governance
and management provisions o f the ALCO treaty.

There are five key institutional arrangements agreed upon among the 5 countries for the duration o f project
implementation: (i)  a Goveming Body with the participationo f the heads o f national HIV/AIDS programs
and the ministries o ftransport in each country; (ii) an Executive Secretariat o f the Goveming Body,
supported by a management consultant firm, to coordinate and facilitate project implementation; (iii)     an
inter-country committee (advisory body) to advise the GoverningBody on policy and implementation
issues; (iv) involvement o f public and non-public sector implementing agencies; and (v) adoption o f
operational directives for the project. A detailed description o f the roles of the institutions mentionedabove
i s presented inthe operational manual for the project, key elements o f which form the basis o f the
operational directives o f the project, which have been adopted by the five member countries. The figure
below is an illustrationo f the institutional arrangements mentioned above.

The GoverningBody ofthe project
The ultimate responsibility for the project will be with the Goveming Body o f the project which will be
composed o f representatives o f all the five countries, nominated by the highestpolitical offices o f the



                                                      - 1 5 -

                                                                                                                 I




member countries. The heads o f state o f the five countries have, through ajoint declaration, empowered the
GoverningBody to be responsible for the project. Nominated representatives o f the ministries responsible
for HIV/AIDS andtransport inthe five countries will specifically be members o f the Goveming Body. The
Governing Body i s responsible for overseeing: (a) adoption o f the work program and approval o f annual
plans; (b) the preparation and execution o f the multi-country HIV/AIDS transport corridor strategy and
plan o f action; (c) reviewing progress on implementation; and (d) liaisonwith each member country's
respective national HIV/AIDS programs.

The five countries have agreed that, Nigeria holds the Presidency o f the Governing Body, Ghana holds the
Vice Presidency, while Beninhosts the Executive Secretariat with the Executive Secretary being a national
o f Cote d'lvoire (who will be located at the Secretariat inBenin) and that Togo will chair the Inter-Country
Advisory Committee, which i s outlinedbelow. This allocation o f lead roles may be subject to further
review once the project is underway, but is designed to ensure shared responsibilities among all the member
countries.


                                         Institutionalarrangementsfor the proiect



                                          1        GoverningBody


                     Inter-CountryAdvisory
                               Committee



                                                                                       Subprojects Technical
                                               (Coordinatingbody)                      Evaluation Team




The Executive Secretariat
The Executive Secretariat will be responsible for: (a) overall coordination and management; (b) preparation
o f quarterly progress reports; (c) coordinating the appraisal and approval o f subprojects; and (d) project
monitoring and evaluation. The Executive Secretary, who will lead the Executive Secretariat, will report to
the President o f the Goveming Body. It is envisagedthat the Executive Secretary will be responsible for the
daily coordination and facilitation o fthe project, which will be implemented through both public and
private sector implementingpartners. The Executive Secretariat will be a small institution staffed with


                                                     - 16-

mainly core staff, which may include, among others, an office assistant and a professional translator to
cater for the two official languages (French and English) used among corridor member countries. Many o f
the fimctions for which the Secretariat will be responsible, including financial management and
procurement review, will be contracted out to a Management Consultant (firm).

The ManagementConsultantwill have staffwith strong financial management, procurement, monitoring
and evaluation skills, including skills inmonitoring and evaluation or the capability to manage any o f such
services which may be contracted out. Inparticular, the Management Consultant will be responsible for: (a)
financial management anddisbursement; (b) procurement management; (c) monitoring andevaluation; and
(d) participation inappraisal o f community subprojects.

The Inter-CountryAdvisory Committee
An Inter-Country Advisory Committee will be established under the GovemingBody with members
selected from the five member countries and will report to the Goveming Body. The committee will provide
technical andpolicy advice on the implementation o f the project to the Goveming Body. Members o fthe
committee will be from both the public and non-public sectors but with a halfo f its members being
representatives o f the non-public sector. The five member countries have agreed that the chair o f this
committee will be from Togo while the Secretary o f the committee will be the Executive Secretary. The
committee will be responsible for: (a) provision o f technical andpolicy advice to the Goveming Body; (b)
review o fprogress reports in order to give advise on progress; and (c) identificationo f implementation
issues and recommendation o f their solutions.

The SubprojectsTechnicalEvaluationTeam
The Executive Secretary will constitute a team which will be responsible for review and approval o f
subprojects submitted to the Executive Secretariat. This team will have the permanent membership o f the
Executive Secretary and the relevant specialists from the Management Consultant. The team can invite any
technical experts that may be needed for it to effectively function, depending on the particular nature o f
subprojects being reviewed. The Executive Secretary will report progress o f the team to the Goveming
Body and to the Inter-Country Advisory Committee.

Community-basedBorderHIV/AIDS Committees
HIV/AIDS committees with membership from both local civil society and local public sector
representatives will be formed at border areas along the corridor for purposes o f coordinating the local
response to HIV/AIDS at the border areas. The border HIV/AIDS committees will be responsible for
coordinating local initiatives that are to be financed by the project. Such initiatives will be transformed into
proposals that are forwarded to the Executive Secretariat o f the corridor project for approval and financing.
Indue course, it is expected that these committeesmay evolve into cross-border committeesto ensure local
coordination o f interventions on both sides o f a givenfrontier. A number o f intermediaryCSOs or similar
organizations(Intermediary ImplementationPartners)will be selected by the Executive Secretariat for
purposes o f establishing the community-based border HIV/AIDS committees and givingthe communities
support insubproject planning and implementation. The intermediary implementation partners will also
play a local facilitationrole between the communities andthe Executive Secretariat.

The implementingagencies
(a) Civil Society Organizations (CSOs)
CSOs (community organizations, NGOs and the private sector) will be key implementingpartners for the
project. They will carry out two distinct implementation tasks: (i)  mobilizationand empowerment o f
communities along the comdor to address HIV/AIDS; and (ii)        providing HIV/AIDS related services to



                                                      - 17-

various community groups along the corridor. Eligibility criteria for the CSOs, and mechanisms inwhich
CSOs will be able to obtain and account for project finds are detailed inthe operational manual o fthe
project.
(b) Public-sector implementingpartners
The project will be implemented in close collaboration with public sector partners. Key public sector
agencies that will be involvedinthe implementation o f the project include, the local border agencies o f the
ministries responsible for HIV/AIDS, transport, health, the police, immigration and customs. Local
governments at border towns/districts will also be key public sector implementingpartners for the project.
The operational manual has details o f the mechanisms by which these public sector agencies will be able to
obtain and account for project funds. Inparticular, these public sector agencies will be involved inthe
development and implementation o f HIV/AIDS related comdor-wide transport policies, health policies,
work-place policies andpolicies regarding the rights o f people livingwith HIV/AIDS.

The recipientof the grant:
The five Governments, through the declaration o f their heads o f state, have agreed that the Government o f
Benin, on their behalf, will be the recipient o f the grant for the Abidjan-Lagos corridor project.

Operationalarrangements

An Operations Manual for the project has been prepared inclose collaboration with the Governments and
civil society representatives o f the five countries. The manual includes the project's institutionaland
implementation arrangements, the respective responsibilities and mandates o f each participating entity, and
the functional relationships between actors. It defines procedures and eligibility criteria for review and
approval o f project proposals, as well as providing guidelines for the preparation, implementation, and
supervision o f project proposals. It includes the contractual arrangements between the Executive
Secretariat and implementingagencies and standard contracts for a broadrange o f activities. It contains
procurement arrangements and financial management requirements, including accounting norms and
reportingrequirements for both public sector and civil society implementers. Its use and contents as well as
modalities for any fiture amendments will be to a level satisfactory to IDA, and will be part o f the grant
agreement. Disbursement o f funds for CSOs will be inaccordance with the eligibility criteria and terms
specified inthe operational manual.

To mitigate the riskthat there may be inadequate implementation capacity during the first year or two o f
project implementation, the Executive Secretariat may directly hire, through a process acceptable to IDA,
capacity to assist both the public sector and civil society to prepare and implement their respective
HIV/AIDS interventions financed by the project. Such hired capacity will complement that providedby the
intermediary implementionpartners (to be hired by the Executive Secretariat to assist communities).

Monitoring and evaluation arrangements

Project monitoring andevaluation (M&E) arrangements will be based on a broad range o f measures,
including specified indicators and process and output measures to capture project performance. An M&E
Manual will be producedwithin three months o f project effectiveness andthereafter, implementation o f the
manual will be in form and substance satisfactory to IDA.


Project outcomes will be measured employing data from HIV surveillance, baseline, and end-point
population-based surveys on knowledge, attitudes, practices, and behavior. Service utilization and special


                                                       -18-

studies commissioned to assess outcome inspecific areas not easily addressed by population-based surveys
will also be used. Monitoring o fthe project will be carried out usingproject-baseddata, beneficiary inputs,
and program reviews.

The Executive Secretariat (through contracting) will monitor overall project implementation, assessingthe
performance o fproject implementation as well as the effectiveness and efficiency o f implementation. The
activities o f civil society organizations and community-based organizations will be monitoredbased on
their contract performance.

The Executive Secretariat will, on behalf o f the Governing Body, supervise overall project implementation.
Staff from the Secretariat will make regular visits to the field to monitor the performance o f the project in
the five countries. The Executive Secretariat will organize annual project reviews and project completion
review to assess the performance o f the project, its components and its contributionto the achievement o f
project objectives. Project reviews will be carried out ina participative manner, under the coordination and
facilitation o f the Executive Secretariat and will culminate instakeholder meetings that will form a basis
for planning for the next project period. Much o f the required activities will be carried out by the
Management Consultant under terms o f reference which have already been developed andagreed with the
Governing Body.

The Executive Secretariat and IDA will organize ajoint project launchworkshop within one month of
project effectiveness. One mainpurpose o f the workshop will be to complete the arrangements regarding
the monitoring andreportingrequirements.

Procurement

Procurement o f works, goods and services inrelation to the project, will be inaccordance with the Bank's
'Guidelines: Procurement under IBRDLoans and IDA Credits' (January 1995 and revised inJanuary and
August 1996, September 1997,and January 1999),including Section 3.15, Community Participation in
Procurement. Consulting services by firms, organizations, or individuals financed by IDA will be
contracted inaccordance with the Bank's "Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers" (January 1997, revised in September 1997,January 1999 and May 2002). Inthe event
o f co-financing o f the project activities, the procedures o f these specific agencies will have to be employed
and the Executive Secretariat capacity enhanced accordingly.

A GeneralProcurement Notice (GPN) has already beenpublished as well as a specific procurement notice
(SPN) for expressions o f interest for management consultancy services.

The Executive Secretariat will ensure that services o f a Procurement Specialist are at its disposalprior to
finalizing the first year program, in order to effectively oversee the procurement process. Such a specialist
is included inthe core team to be providedby the Management Consultant (agency).

For community sub-projects the communities, through their representatives committees, would be
responsible for the procurement process inaccordance with the simplified procurement procedures as
described inthe project Operations Manual. Communities will use the Bank's simplified "Procurement and
Disbursement Procedures for Community-Based Investments" to procure goods or services needed to
implement their respective community HIV/AIDS initiatives. Communities andNGOs are expected to use
'local shopping' as a standard procurement method.




                                                       - 19-

To facilitate expeditious import o f goods which may be urgently needed for diagnosishreatment and
institutional strengthening, contracts may be made based on international shopping and national shopping
procedures, respectively, or through procurement from the UnitedNations system. Otherwise, a national
competitive bidding(NCB) procedure - with advertisement inall corridor countries - will be employed.

Minor civil works will be included under the project andthese will be carried out depending on the value
under: either a national competitive bidding (NCB) procedure - with advertisement in all corridor countries;
or for works under US$ 50,000, at least three quotations received for a given specification.

Consultancy services will generally be procured on the basis o f quality and cost based (QCBS) selection
procedure employing the Bank guidelines, with specified exceptions applying to the procurement o f
particular services (selection on the basis o f consultant's qualifications). Below US$ 100,000, selection
may be from short lists composed only o f nationals or firms o f the corridor countries.

A procurement plan will be preparedfor the first year o fproject operations, to be includedinthe project
Operations1 Manual before credit effectiveness and procurement plans will subsequently be prepared
annually.

Procurement performance (including sub-project procurement activities) will be assessedat least on an
annual basis (inthe form o fprocurement andphysical audits by an external agency). Inadditionto the
formal annual audits, ad-hoc procurement reviews will be conducted periodically.

Accounting, Financial Reporting andAuditingArrangements

The Executive Secretariat o f the Goveming Body, through contracting out arrangements with the
Management Consultant, will be responsible for project financial management, including the preparation
and production o f the annual financial statements inaccordance with internationally accepted accounting
principles. The Secretariat will make arrangements for certificationo f financial statements by an audit firm
under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA.The Executive Secretariat, through the Management
Consultant, will monitor all disbursements under the project and ensure that they conform to IDA
requirements. Implementing agencies will submit annual and quarterly reports on the progress o f
implementation o f their respective activities. Before effectiveness, the project financial management system
will be reviewedfor compliance with Bank procedures. The financial management systemwill allow for the
proper recording o f all project-related transactions as well as timely monitoring o f expenditures per
category, implementingagency, and component. Internal accounting controls for the project will be set out
indetail inthe financialprocedures ofthe project's Operations Manual, andwill be satisfactory for
providing reasonable assurancesthat accounts will be properly recorded and resources safeguarded. The
chart o f accounts for the project will be designed to allow reportingto requirements o f any other donors
who may eventually participate inthe financing o fthe project.

The records andaccounts o f all the components o fthe project will be audited annually inaccordance with
international audit standards by experienced an intemationally recognized audit fmacceptable to IDA. In
addition to a standard short form report with the audit opinion, the auditors will be required to
comprehensively review all the SOEs and the management and utilizationo f the accounts as well as the
internal control procedures governing preparation o f accounts for the relevant periodunder audit, to
express a separate opinion thereon, andto review the management and utilizationo f the special accounts
and express a separate opinion thereon as well. The auditor will complete an in-depth review o f the internal
control system o f the programwith a view to identify the major weaknesses and shortcomings and
proposing practical recommendations for improvement. The results o f this review will be documented in a


                                                      - 20 -

management letter to be submitted along with the audit reports. The appointment o f the project auditor
according to terms o f reference acceptable to IDA will be one o f the conditions o f effectiveness.

The Executive Secretariat will prepare the following reports: (a) quarterly progress reports; (b) an annual
report and a proposed financing plan no later than the last month o f the current year; (c) a detailed progress
report on technical and financial program activities (not later than four weeks before the end o f the second
year o fproject effectiveness); (d) relevant sections o f the implementation completionreport (ICR) three
months before the closing date; and (e) a report on a plan designed to ensure future achievement o f
objectives o f the project, not later than six months after the closing date o f the project or such later date as
may be agreed upon with IDA. The implementing agencies will submit consolidated quarterly financial
reports with supporting documentation to the Executive Secretariat which will consolidate the financial
reports o f the operational components. The first FMR shall be fumishedto IDA not later than 45 days after
the end o f the calendar quarter after the effective date o f the project. Thereafter, each FMR shall be
fumished to the association not later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover
such calendar quarter. The annual financial statements o f the project will include at least a statement o f
sources o f funds, a statement o freconciliationo f the special accounts, a balance sheet and required notes to
the financial statements.

D. Project Rationale
1. Projectalternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Underproject preparation, three sets of issueswere encountered which required choices to bemade out of
altematives, that is: why a regional operation as opposed to (better coordinated) national programs; choice
o f institutional arrangement for the project; choice o f Bank instrument to support the project.

An alternative to the proposedproject that was consideredwas that which envisagedthe national AIDS
programs only taking charge o f the HIV/AIDS challenges presented along the Abidjan-Lagos transport
corridor. This option was rejected for a number o f reasons:

     the HIV/AIDS vulnerable populations targetedby the project are hard-to-reach populations that would
     not easily be accessedby nationalprograms;
     some o f the countries along the transport corridor do not yet have active and operational national
     HIV/AIDS programs and would therefore not be ina positionto deal effectively with regional
     HIV/AIDS issues along the transport corridor through national programs;
     there is no established andfeasible mechanism o f coordination between the nationalprograms that
     would allow for effective response to cross-border HIV/AIDS issues along the corridor;
     the proposed regional project has additional benefits interms o f givingopportunity to focus on and test
     its validity invulnerable populations as well as assess the feasibility o f a multi-national undertaking in
     the mediumterm;
     the regional approach also serves as an advocacy mechanism at the political level for a regional
     approach to HIV/AIDS.

The institutional arrangements for the project have been arrived at after the examination o f a number o f
options. The July 2001 inter-country workshop reached agreement on the broad framework and the
underlying need for the corridor project, but referred back the question o f the appropriate institutional
framework for further study. The options for examination at that time were: the (preferred) option o f
locatingunder ECOWAS or its health arm WAHO; the option o f locatingunder the WAI. The review was
carried out respectively by a Bank consultant and a UNAIDS consultant with reports submitted on each for



                                                      -21   -

consideration. This work gave rise to a third option to be subsequently tabled for consideration, a
'conference o f ministers' approach based on what hadbeen tried for the West Africa agricultural ministers.
Options were assessedinthe October 2001 meeting on the basis of: the pioneering nature o f the project;
rapidity and flexibility inestablishing institutional arrangements; the efficiency o f the arrangements during
implementation; and the legal feasibility. The ECOWAS option was rejected on the grounds of: location
(headquarters outside the corridor); and incompatibility o f the internal operational and financial
management procedures with the needs o f the project. The WAI option was rejected on the grounds o f an
inadequate legal framework. The third option was retained as the basis for developing a specific and
tailored arrangement to suit the five countries andthe specific purpose o f the project. Support to the
conclusions o f the October 2001 meeting are includedinthe presidential declaration on the project dated
April 30,2002.

An alternative instrument to a Sector Investment Loan (SIL) wouldhave been a LearningandInnovation
Loan (LIL). The LIL is to support small, experimental risky andor time sensitive projects inorder to test
promising initiatives and buildconsensus around them. The LIL normally supports projects o f $5 million or
less into which category the current project does not fit. While the project is intended to be the first to adopt
a regional approach to develop appropriate institutional models and experiences for regional collaboration
and to have a quite intensive monitoring andevaluation (M&E) orientation, there i s for example
experimentation inregard neither to epidemiology andthe search and application o ftechnical solutions nor
to operational procedures and the use o f civil society and NGOs in implementation. Thus the SIL option
has been retained and the LIL option rejected.

No alternative form o f financial support from the Bank Group to an IDA grant was considered. The MAP2
operation (Report No. P7497 AFR) for which the Board approved the first tranche in January 2002
contains the provision that sub regional HIV/AIDS activities would be considered for support provided
certain specified access criteria were met. The Abidjan-Lagos Corridor was cited as a first such proposal,
with the understanding that it would be presentedto the Board at the time it s preparation would be
complete.




                                                      - 22 -

2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).


                                                                                      Latest Si ervision
              Sector Issue                  I             Project                        W R )     itings
                                                                                 (Bank-finance1 vojects only)
                                                                                 Implementation     Development
                                                                                  Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
 HIV/AIDS - Multisectoral
 Bank-financed
                                            AIDS Response Project                      S                 S
                                             (GARFUND),(Ghana);
                                            PO71617
                                                                                       S                 S
 HIViAIDS - Multisectoral                    HIV/AIDS Response Project,
                                             (Nigeria); PO70291
                                                                                        S                S
 HIV/AIDS - Multisectoral                    HIV/AIDS Multi-Sector
                                             Project, (Benin); PO73118

 HIV/AIDS - Multisectoral                    HIV/AIDS Emergency
                                             Response Project (Togo: under
                                             preparation); PO71634

 HIV/AIDS - Multisectoral                    HIViAIDS Multi-Sector
                                             Response Project (CBte d'Ivoire
                                             under preparation); PO71631
 Other development agencies
 USAID                                       Family Health and AIDS
                                             Project
 CIDA                                        AIDS I1Project
 KfW                                         Social Marketing o f Condoms
                                            I
 PlDO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)

The Bank i s currently supporting the transport sector inthree o f the five countries o f the corridor: Cote
d'Ivoire (Transport Sector Adjustment Credit); Ghana (Road Sector Development Program); and Nigeria
(Lagos Urban Transport Project). InCote d'Ivoire, a specific HIV/AIDS prevention initiative for the
transport sector i s being supportedunder the IDA credit, modeled on a program launched inNiger
(Transport Infrastructure RehabilitationProject). Transport sector HIV/AIDS programs are at various
levels o f development and implementation inthe following countries: Cameroon, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Ghana,
Niger, Malawi, Mali, Senegal, Uganda and Zambia.

3. Lessonslearned and reflected in the project design:


The design o f this project reflects international experience with HIV/AIDS especially regional experience
from countries like Uganda and Senegal, HIV/AIDS control efforts o f the West Afi-ican Initiative (WAI)
along the Abidjan-Dakar and Abidjan-Niamey transport corridors and the experience so far obtained inthe


                                                       - 23 -

Africa region indesigningand implementing the M A P projects under MAP1. Key lessons learned from all
this experience are outlined below and have been incorporated inproject design.

HIV/AIDS and regionalimplications.International experience on HIV/AIDS over the last two decades
has shown that HIV/AIDS spreads across nationalboundaries. National HIV/AIDS programs have
repeatedly had to look beyondtheir national borders in order to be able to address cross-country HIV/AIDS
issues that are beyond the reach o f one national programalone. There is, therefore, a gap inthe fight
against HIV/AIDS that cannot be filled by national programs alone.

Politicalleadershipandcommitment.International experience has shown that political leadership and
commitment are key to mobilizing stakeholder resources for the fight against the HIV/AIDS epidemic. The
five Governments along the transport corridor have indicated their commitmentto the fight against
HIV/AIDS along the transport corridor. Effective action requires political leadership and commitment at
the highest levels which has so far been demonstrated by the political leadership inthis case.

Vulnerability factors are key drivers ofthe epidemic. The HIV/AIDS epidemic is nourishedby
underlying vulnerabilities among populations. The combination o f poverty, gender disparities, and
information asymmetry provide very fertile soil on which the seed o f HIV can rapidly grow andblossom,
Any attempt at controllingthe epidemic will have to address vulnerability factors. This project targets
HIV/AIDS vulnerable groups along the transport corridor which includes, among others, commercial
vehicle drivers, commercial sex workers, migrants, border town employees o f customs, police and
immigration departments and the local populations living along the border towns.

Communityparticipation as a processof empowerment.The communities affected by the HIV/AIDS
epidemic find themselves facing multifaceted challenges, and have very few resources and little capacity to
respond. Inaddition, short term focused strategies may not meet the need for longer term rehabilitation and
healinginthose communities. Community participation engages the people ina partnership to fight the
epidemic. With external resources andthe buildingo f local capacity, the communities will be more
empowered intheir response to HIV/AIDS. Such a response i s also more likely to be sustainable inthe long
term. This project has the provisions for civil society organizations, including organizations o f PLWHA to
actively participate inproject development and implementation in their respective communities.

Multisectoralapproach.Ithas beenwidely recognizedthat the HIViAIDSepidemic extends far beyond
the narrowly defined health sector. The multidimensionalnature o fthe epidemic and its impacts warrant a
change inparadigm from a biomedicalto a development one. Inthis cantext, the multisectoral approach in
HIVprevention, care, andmitigationoffer the best chance of success.This project will involve the active
participation o f different sectors including transport, health, internal affairs (border police and immigration)
finance (border customs) and local affairs (local authorities along the transport corridor and especially at
the border).

Complexityof supervisionof MAP projects. Giventhe innovative MAP approach andthe multitudeo f
stakeholders andpartners, supervision o f MAPprojects deserves more attention and resources than average
projects (see Annex 12). The experience so far gained suggests that supervision teams for MAP projects
should draw on the resources o f partners, particularly bilaterals and other stakeholders. The composition o f
the supervision teams should also be multisectoral. The transport corridor project, because o f its pioneering
nature, will needeven more intensive supervision andthe supervison planfor the project acknowledges
these realities.




                                                      - 24 -

Robust M&E. The key features o f M A P are the scaling up o f multisectoral programs and effective
interventions, which require robust monitoring and evaluation systems. The M&E planneeds to be
developed through a participatory process as a number o f partners will be involved inmonitoring and
evaluation activities according to their areas o f expertise. Sufficient resources and skills should be made
available for monitoring and evaluation of projects inthe MAP. This project envisages the contracting out
of M&E to ensure adequate attention to the issue.

Facilitation and coordination vs command and control. Review o fpreparation and implementation o f
M A P 1suggest that there i s an inherent danger o fNational HIV/AIDS Council Secretariats empowering
themselves. Recommendations include retaining inthe NAC Secs only the tasks o f coordination and
facilitation. The current project envisages extensive contracting out by the Executive Secretariat which will
reduce the risk of the Secretariat becoming a command andcontrol institution.

Sequencing of key interventions. Experience from MAP1 suggests that there i s value in sequencing key
project activities to match the developing capacity inthe countries. It takes time to buildthe capacity
required to implement the full spectrum o fplannedproject activities, and the first year o fproject
implementation should put emphasis on buildingthe foundations for expansion insubsequent years o f
project implementation. This lesson was taken into consideration inthe design o f this project.

Need to hire capacity to assist public and civil society interventions. Experience from implementation o f
MAP1 projects suggests that there i s needto hire capacity to assist both public sector and civil society
organizations to prepare and implement their respective HIV/AIDS activities, particularly during the first
year of project implementation. An agreement has to be reachedwith the central authority responsible for
the MAP project ina country, to finance such capacity building, which may involve financing operational
costs and investing in administrative capacity inthe key fiduciary areas o f financial management,
disbursement, procurement, monitoring and evaluation.

4. Indications of recipient commitment and ownership
Representatives o fthe govemments of the five corridor countries agreed in ajoint commitment on August
2,2001 to the following: (i) develop and coordinate HIV/AIDS prevention and care policies and
                               to
strategies inthe cross-border areas; (ii) develop a multisectoral HIV/AIDS program targeting the
                                           to
vulnerable population inthat corridor; and (iii)   to strengthen STI/HIV/AIDS care and health social
-infrastructure in corridor.
                   that corridor andto commit themselves to develop an HIV/AIDS project along the Abidjan
  Lagos transport             InOctober 2001, these representatives, now organized as members ofthe
GoverningBody, approved the detailed institutional arrangements for the project, with a view that the exact
legal status o f the different bodies created would have subsequently to be determined. The presidents o f the
five countries subsequently confirmedtheir commitment to joint action inthe corridor to fight HIV/AIDS
and to put inplace the said institutional arrangements inajoint declaration signed April 30,2002. Since
then, the five countries have continued to work together with the Bank, inthe preparation o f this project.

5. Value added of Bank support inthis project:
One o f the priority areas for World Bank support to the development o f Sub- Sahara Africa i s helping to
fight against HIV/AIDS. The Bank's support bringsa number o f addedvalues: a) global knowledgeon
policies on the overall development agenda; b) expertise from various sectors that can be combined ina
multi-country and multi-sector approach as requiredinthe fight against HIV/AIDS ina regional context; c)
experience with project implementation to help expedite project launchbut not at the expense o f fiduciary
and other safeguards; and d) bridgingthe resource gap which i s critical inmany African countries which
are committed to fighting HIV/AIDS. Inthis project, the World Bank was instrumental inputtingtogether


                                                      - 25 -

the WAI which has been a pioneer indeveloping regional approaches to combating HIV/AIDS inWest
Africa. The World Bank has developed a strong working relationship with UNAIDS (The World Bank i s a
member o fUNAIDS), leveraging UNAIDS' technical resources and expertise for the proposed project.

E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessmentsare inthe project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
0 Costbenefit           NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
0 Costeffectiveness
0 Other(specify)
The detailed economic analysis on HIV/AIDS has beencarried out under the umbrellaproject (See Annex
5 o f the Project Appraisal Document for the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Programfor the Africa
Region-Report No. 20727 AFR, paragraphs 76-78). The analysis includes an overall assessment o fthe
impact o f HIV/AIDS on economic development and poverty and shows that a reduction inAIDS-related
deaths would increase growth o f GDP.

2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Paragraph 79 o f the project appraisal document for the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program for the Africa
Region (Report No. 20727 AFR) states that, "for each o fthe physicalworks components, the operation and
maintenance costs will be calculated and commitment required from Government to finance and carry out
effective O&M on an annual basis. An annual review o f O&M for physical works will be carried out three
months prior to the beginningo f each fiscal year." This process will be carried out inthe case o f this
project.

Fiscal Impact:
The fiscal impact o f the project is not expected to be significant. The amount to be disbursed annually,
when spread across the budgets o f the five countries, includingNigeria, will represent a small proportion o f
the total budgets o f the five countries. Works are expected to represent a small proportion o f the project
costs as civil works will mainly involve rehabilitation of health and Voluntary Counseling and Testing
(VCT) centers, and small transport infrastructure works. The actual fiscal impact i s fiu-therminimized
since a significant portion o f the project will be implemented directly by NGOs, private sector
organizations, and CBOs.

3. Technical:
The project has incorporated the best internationally accepted practices for HIV/AIDS response as defined
inthe MAP and is consistent with UNAIDS guidance on HIV/AIDS indeveloping countries. These
international practices have been tailored to the West African context o f the five countries along the
Abidjan-Lagos transport corridor and the project i s designed in such a way as to enable incorporationo f
new practices that may prove effective inthe future.




                                                      - 26-

4. Institutional:


4.1 Executing agencies:
The Executive Secretariat i s newly created under the project. The effectiveness o f the Executive Secretariat
i s crucial for the smooth implementation o f the project. Inorder to make this happen, the govemingbody o f
the project has established clear selection criteria for the recruitment o f employees o f the Executive
Secretariat and ensure its proper staffing and organization. Under the assumption that most o f the
procurement and disbursement will be provided on a contracted out basis, the task o f Executive Secretary
will be oriented more towards coordination and facilitation o f the implementation o f the project.

Some civil society organizations, especially the large organizations, may have good management and have
experience inmanaging substantial financial resources for development purposes. Others (inmost cases
small organizations) need support incapacity-building to enable them to manage substantial financial
resources. Small civil society organizations will be encouraged to work inpartnershipwith larger
organizations, which usually have organizational capacity to manage substantial amounts o f development
resources. Capacity-building, within the civil society organizations, will also be supportedby the project.
4.2 Project management:
Procurement and financial management o f the project i s to be outsourced to a project Management
Consultant services provider. The terms o f reference for the project management services provider have
beenprepared andinclude the evaluation and selection o f the proposals coming from eligible implementing
units, Inthis context, it is necessary that the project Management Consultant provider has the capacity to
cany out the above services. This aspect will be an important element o f technical evaluation duringthe
selection of the Management Consultant whihc will be completed before effectiveness.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Procurementmanagement: The procurement under the project will mainly be managedby the Management
Consultant through contractual arrangements with the Executive Secretariat. The selection o f the provider,
as well as the carrying out o fprocurement under the project, will be in accordance with the Guidelinesfor
Procurement under IDA credits. See Annex 6 for details.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The nature o f the regional operation requires that special attention be given to financial management
arrangements and to accountability for the use o f grant resources made available to implementingagencies
along the transport corridor. The main issue infinancial management would be to establish a system that i s
compliant with World Bank procedures not later than the time o f effectiveness o f the grant.

5. Environmental:                           Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMPpreparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The project i s not expected to generate substantial adverse environmental effects. Possible environmental
risks include inappropriate handlingand disposal o f medical waste and inadequate management o f the
respective disposal sites inurban or peri-urban areas, where domestic and medical waste may be mixed.
The medical waste management plan for the project has been prepared and disclosed and includes a plan to
mitigate these potential risks. Inline with the provisions o f the medical waste managementplan, the project
will finance training o fhealthcare professionals andcommunity workers delivering care to HIV/AIDS


                                                      - 27 -

patients. This training will include instruction on appropriate separation, transport, and disposal o f
hazardous medical waste.
5.2 What are the main features o f the EMP and are they adequate?
The regionalproject creates an opportunity to review national plans and upgrade them. The information
and recommendations that are provided inthe medicalwaste management planfor the corridor will enable
the project to adequately address the project's medical waste management issues ina comprehensive
manner, involving all key stakeholders.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status o f EA:
                      Date o f receipt o f final draft: 08/15/2002
The elaboration o f a medical waste management plan for the corridor, its submission to the Bank and its
subsequent disclosure prior to appraisal are the requirements for the category B rating o f the project. These
requirements have been met for this project.

5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage o f (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts andproposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
o f consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?


The medical waste management plan outlines stakeholder participation requirements duringthe
implementation o f the plan. Different stakeholders were consulted duringthe preparation o fthe plan,
including the agencies responsible for environmental issues inthe five countries along the corridor.
Furthermore, the medical waste management plan envisages a public awareness process that will include
members o f the general public, and more specifically, health care workers and members o f the civil society,
including NGOs.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact o f the project on the
environment? D o the indicators reflect the objectives and results o f the EMP?
The medical waste management planincludes a monitoring plan, which will involve key stakeholders and
reflect the objectives and results o f the EMP.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The project i s expected to have positive social effects for particular HIV/AIDS vulnerable groups (female
sex workers, truckers, female cross-border traders, out-of-school youth, etc.) who are targeted by the
project. The project will support HIV/AIDS prevention, treatment, support and care activities along the
transport corridor, which i s expected to positively influence social development along the transport
corridor. People living with HIV/AIDS andtheir families along the transport corridor will have an
opportunity to receive better social support from their communities, civil society organizations, andpublic
sector agencies. The project is as well expected to positively affect social development objectives o f
inclusion, security and empowerment. A study along the transport corridor shows that: (i)     HIV/AIDS
aggravates gender inequities and discrimination; (ii)     the impact o f HIV/AIDS differs markedly along gender
lines: the stigma against HIV infected women i s stronger than for men, reducing their access to social
services; and (iii)the epidemic increases women's economic vulnerability, multiplies their responsibilities
inthe households and dismantles their social network. The projectwill support activities that mitigatethese
HIV/AIDS gender-related issues.




                                                         - 28 -

6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating inthe project?
Stakeholders from all the five countries, including civil society andpublic sector representatives, have
participated inthe preparation o f the project through a series o f stakeholder workshops andmeetings.
Duringproject implementation, the communities will be able to express their needsthrough community-led
HIV/AIDS initiatives and to participate as active partners inproject implementation, adding ownership,
transparency and accountability to the project. Inparticular, the project has a provision for grants to Civil
Society Organizations to undertake community based initiatives inHIV/AIDS care and support which will
strengthen stakeholder participation inthe project.
6.3 H o w does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Civil society organizations, includingNGOs, were consulted duringproject preparation and will execute a
significant part o f the project, supporting government agencies and community-ledinitiatives. Civil society
organizations will also be consulted inthe annual project reviews and during the summary evaluation o f the
project. There will be clear contracting arrangements between the civil society organizations and the
Executive Secretariat. The project will also support HIV/AIDS related capacity buildingfor civil society
organizations, includingNGOs.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The project envisages the creation o f an inter-country advisory committee. It i s expected that this
committee will have representatives fi-om civil society organizations who will pay particular attention to the
social development outcomes o fthe project. This mechanism is thus expected to reflect the voices o f the
local people with whom the civil society organizations work. To address gender issues, and social issues in
general, the project will encourage the creation o f network o fPLWHA, women's associations, and other
social-interest groups between the five countries. The Executive Secretariat, preferably through contractual
arrangements with the Management Consultant, will have a team which includes a person with
responsibility for social development issues o f the project.
6.5 H o w will the project monitor performance interms o f social development outcomes?
Monitoring o f social development outcomes will be part o f overall project monitoring and evaluation
system, Some NGOs and communities will cany out their situation analysis following the model o f
participatory diagnosis and they will include simple social indicators consistent with the project monitoring
and evaluation framework.

7. Safeguard Policies:


I   EnvironmentalAssessment(OP 4.01. BP 4.01. GP 4.01)                   I         0Yes 0No                    I
    NaturalHabitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                                    0Yes 0No
    Forestrv (OP 4.36. GP 4.36)                                                    0Yes 0No
                                                                                   0Yes 0No
     ~      u \
    Pest Management(OP 4.09)
     CulturalProperty (OPN 11.03)                                                  0Yes 0No
    IndigenousPeoples(OD 4.20)                                                     0Yes 0No
    InvoluntaryResettlement(OP/BP 4.12)                                            0Yes 0No
    Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                              0Yes 0No
    Projects inInternationalWaters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)                     0Yes 0    No
    ProjectsinDisputedAreas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*                           0Yes 0No


                                                     - 29 -

7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies,
A medical waste management plan for the project was preparedand disclosed, ensuring that the project is
compliant with the applicable safeguard policies.

F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project i s the first one within MAP to address HIV/AIDS from the regional perspective. M A P
supported national programs in each o f the countries inthe corridor are being implemented or inthe
process o fbeingprepared, allowing this project to selectively address vulnerable locations and populations
across the borders o f the five countries. As far as fmancial sustainability i s concerned, it i s unlikely that the
Governments along the transport corridor will be able to fully finance the program inthe mediumterm. It is
realistic to expect that bilateral and multilateraldevelopment agencies will continue to finance HIV/AIDS
activities along the corridor beyondthe four year implementation period o fthe project. However, to ensure
commitment o fthe corridor countries to the arrangements which are being set up, contributions will be
made from the outset by each country to help cover a portion o f operating and overhead costs. This policy
has been endorsed by the Governing Body at appraisal.

The corridor countries have nonetheless signalled their intention to provide an institutionalbasis for the
fight against HIV/AIDS inthe corridor through the agreement to establish the Abidjan-Lagos Corridor
Organization (ALCO). The countries will need to make contributions additional to those proposedunder
the project to ensure its mediumterm sustainability. It is very likely that there will be future continuity in
regional interventions o fboth a policy andprogramnature. It is however possible that the balance between
national andregional interventions may shift over time, but this is difficult to predict at thisjuncture. The
capacity o f the national programs i s likely to increase over the project period and a greater proportion of
corridor services could be provided that way. Onthe other hand, the project may demonstrate economies of
scale and other benefits to coordinated programmingwhich would argue for a large regionalprogram.

It is expected that the lessons learned from the experience o fthis project will be taken into account when
consideration is given to cross-country HIV/AIDS interventions in other transport corridors inAfrica. The
overall project risk is highbecause o f its pioneering and cross-country nature.




                     Risk                          Risk Rating                   Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Strong commitment and support o f the                   H           The Governing Body and its Executive
higher authorities of the countries                                 Secretariat to continue engagement o f the
concerned wanes.                                                    highest authority o f the five countries during
                                                                    project implementation.

Improvedawareness o f HIV/AIDS among                    S           Use different approaches for IEC/BCC that
the corridor population does not leadto                             address the root causes to behavior change.
desired change inbehavior.

No effective linkage o fprevention                                  Close coordination with the national HIV/AIDS



                                                      - 30 -

activities to care and treatment activities                        programs.
established.

Linkage between the Executive Secretarial               H          Executive Secretariat to organize regular
and the National HIV/AIDS programs i s                             coordination meetings with the national
weak.                                                              HIV/AIDS programs, intheir respective
                                                                   countries.
From Components to Outputs
Support to the Executive Secretariat from                          Establish regular meetings for the Governing
the national HIV/AIDS programs                                     Body.

                                                                   Ensure that the inter-country advisory
                                                                   committee meets regularly to advise the
                                                                   Goveming Body.

Poor cooperation from local communities                            Involvement o f local level committees inproject
and key stakeholders.                                              implementation and supervision.

                                                                   Ensure that the intermediary implementation
                                                                   partners, selected by the Executive Secretariat,
                                                                   have a good record o f working with
                                                                   communities.




Lack o f capacity inNGOs and CBOs to                    H          Capacity buildingamong NGOs. Encourage
implement project activities.                                      mentoring arrangements between NGOs.


                                                                  I
Overall Risk Rating                                     H
Risk Rating H (High Risk), S (Substantial Ri$ ), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligib1e or Low Risk)
             -
The project has an overall "high risk" rating. This i s because, on top o f the riskusually associated with
multisectoral HIV/AIDS projects, there i s the additional risk associated with the pioneering nature o f
addressing the regional dimension with a substantial degree o funcertainty with regard to the effectiveness
o f institutionalarrangements. This is mitigatedto some extent by emphasis on monitoring and evaluation
activities and the flexibility o f MAP projects which allows for proactive fine tuning o f the project during
implementation.

3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
No controversial aspects are foreseen for the project.

G. Main Grantconditions
1. Effectiveness Condition

0    The grant recipient has adopted a) the project Operations Manual; b) the financial, administrative and
     accounting manual; and c) a procurement plan for the first project year; all in form and substance
     satisfactory to IDA.


                                                     - 31 -

0   The grant recipient has, inaccordance with terms o f reference agreable to IDA, appointed a firm to be
    responsible for the carrying out o fproject audits.
0   The grant recipient has adopted a financial and accounting system for the project and has provided
    satisfactory evidence to IDA that FMRs can be produced.
0   The grant recipient has hired, inaccordance with terms o f reference and process acceptable to IDA, the
    Management Agency, including a procurement specialist, to support the Executive Secretariat.

2. Other [classify accordingto covenant types used in the LegalAgreements.]

0   Monitoring and evaluation manual furnished to IDA by the grant recipient, no later than three months
    after effectiveness date, andthereafter implementation o f the manual inform and substance satisfactory
    to IDA.

H. Readinessfor Implementation
0 1.a) Theengineeringdesigndocumentsforthefirstyear's activitiesarecompleteandreadyforthe             start
        o fproject implementation.
Ixi1.b)Notapplicable.

02. Theprocurementdocumentsforthefirstyear's activitiesarecompleteandreadyforthe startof
      project implementation.
   3. The Project ImplementationPlan has been appraised and found to be realistic and o f satisfactory
      quality.
c] 4. The following items are lacking andare discussed under loan conditions (Section G):




1. Compliancewith Bank Policies
ixI 1.Thisproject complies with all applicable Bankpolicies.
0 2.Thefollowingexceptions toBankpoliciesarerecommendedforapproval. Theprojectcomplieswith
      all other applicable Bank policies.




Stephen J. Brushett
                                                                                 Hansen    /
Team Leader                              Sector ManagedDirector                  Country Director




                                                    - 32-

                                  Annex I:Project Design Summary
 WESTERN AFRICA: HIVIAIDS PROJECT FOR ABIDJAN LAGOS TRANSPORT CORRIDOR -
                                  KeyIndicators
                                       Performance             Data CollectionStrategy
 Hierarchyof Objectives                                                                      CriticalAssumptions
iector-related CAS Goal:     Sector Indicators:               sector/ country reports:    [fromGoal to Bank Mission)
(eduction inthe spread o f   Prevent an increase inthe        'eriodic reports from the   rhereis sufficient and
1IV/AIDS infection and       HIV/AIDSinfectionrates of iationalHIV/AIDS                   sustained commitment and
nitigation of the adverse    countries along the              xograms                     :ffort to fight HIV/AIDS in
ocio-economic impact o f     transport corridor.                                          the countries along the
W / A I D S inthe countries                                                               kansport corridor.
.longthe transport corridor.
'roject Development          Outcome I Impact                 'roject reports:            [fromObjective to Goal)
)bjective:                   Indicators:
ncreasedaccess to            By end of 2006, at least         I dhoc report on survey of  4ssociations o f commercial
IIV/AIDS prevention,         90% o f the commercial           :ommercial vehicle drivers  vehicle drivers support
lasic treatment, support and vehicle driversworking                                       HIVIAIDS IEC among their
are services by              along the transport corridor                                 members.
lnderservedvulnerable        can identify at least two
~oupsalong the              ways inwhich to prevent
ibidjan-Lagos transport     HIV/AIDS.
.orridor,with particular                                      I dhoc report on
.itentionto transport       By endof 2006, at least           :omunity survey o f         Local community leaders
vorkers, the migrant        90% o f the local population ,esidents along the transport along the transport corridor
iopulation, commercial sex residingalong the corridor         :orridor (two surveys)      are involved inHIV/AIDS
vorkers andthe local         can identify at least two                                    IEC efforts for their
iopulations.                ways inwhich to prevent                                       communities.
                            HIV/AIDS     .

                            By end of 2006, at least          I dhoc report on survey o f Interventions for
                            90% o f commercial sex            :ommercial sex workers      commercial sex workers are
                            workers along the transport       dong the corridor           ledby civil society
                            corridor can identify at least                                organizations andother
                            two ways inwhich to                                           organizations with
                            prevent HIV/AIDS.                                             experienceindealing with
                                                                                          this target group.
                                                              I dhoc report onthe survey
                            By endo f2006, reduce by          )fthecommercial vehicle     Urethritisinfections act as
                            30%, comparedwith the             irivers(two surveys)        markers for HIV andother
                            first year o f the project, the                               sexually transmitted
                            incidence o f reported                                        infections.
                            sexually transmitted
                            (urethritis) infections among
                            male commercial vehicle
                            driversworking along the
                            corridor.

                            By endo f 2006, reduce by
                            xt least 50%, compared            I dhoc report onthe survey Gonorrhea infections act as


                                                         - 33 -

                         with the first year o f the       )fthe commercial sex         iarkers for HIV andother
                         project, the prevalence of        vorkers (two surveys)        exually transmitted
                         gonorrhoea among                                               ifections.
                         commercial sex workers
                         along the corridor.


jutput from each         Output Indicators:                'roject reports:             from Outputs to Objective)
:omponent:
.HIV/AIDS    prevention  By 2006, increaseby at            i dhoc report on survey of   2ommercial vehicle drivers
ervices provided for the least 50%, compared with          hecommercial vehicle         videly accept the use o f
ugetedpopulation.        the first year ofthe project,     fivers (two surveys)         ondoms.
                         the proportion of
                         commercial vehicle drivers
                         who report usinga condom
                         intheir last act ofsexual
                         intercourse with a
                         non-regular partner inthe
                         previous 12 months.

                         By end of2006, at least
                          80% o f commercial sex            9d hoc report on survey o f jome commercial sex
                         workers along the transport        :ommercial vehicle drivers  vorkers are trained as
                          corridor report using             :two surverys)              eaders for promoting the
                          condoms with their clients                                    ise o f condoms.
                          o f the previous week.

                          By endof2006, increaseby
                          50%,comparedwith the
                          first year o f the project, the
                          numberof condoms
                          distributedthrough social         Semi-annual project reports
                          marketingalong the                                            2ondomsbecome
                          transport corridor.                                           icceptable inthe targeted
                                                                                        iopulations.
                          By 2006, eachborder
                          crossing point along the
                          transport corridor annually
                          organizes a rally to mark
                          World AIDS Day with the
                          participation o f residents,
                          commercial truck drivers          Semi-annual project reports rhere is coordination on
                          and civil society                                              HIV/AIDS activities
                          organizations from both                                        3etweenlocal authorities on
                          sides o f the border                                           :ither side of the borders.




                                                       - 34 -

!. HIV/AIDStreatment,       By endof2006, eachborder                                     Services are provided in a
:are and support services   crossing point o fthe            Semi-annualproject reports :onfidential manner, with
irovided for the targeted   corridor has at least one                                    :espect to the individual
iopulation.                 voluntary counseling and                                     ?rivacy o f clients.
                            testing (VCT) center on
                            either side of the border.

                            By end of 2006, increaseby
                            50%, compared with the
                            first year of the project, the                               The VCT centers get wide
                            number ofpeople who use          Semi-annualproject reports support andresponse from
                            voluntary counseling and                                     ihe targeted populations.
                            testingcenters along the
                            transport corridor.

                            By endof2005, at least
                            90% of the health facilities
                            along the corridor report
                            adequate supply of                                           Antibiotic supplies act as a
                            antibiotics for the treatment Semi-annualproject reports marker for pharmaceuticals
                            o f antibiotic-sensitive                                     supplies for the managemeni
                            sexually transmitted                                         o f HIV/AIDS related
                            infections, over the previous                                opportunistic infections.
                            six months.



I.Project coordination,     By endof2006, average                                        Top border officials of the
:apacity buildingand policy time for commercial                                          corridor countries take keen
ievelopment services       vehicles to clear border          4d hoc survey of border     interest inreducingtime
Irovided.                  formalities along the entire      Keas (at least one)         taken to clear border
                            corridor is reducedby at                                     formalities.
                           least 20% compared with
                           the first year o fthe project.

                           By endof2006, average
                           time for commercial                                           The Nigerianand Benin
                           vehicles to clear border                                      border officials are targeted
                           formalities at the                4d hoc survey o fborder     and are receptive to
                           Nigeria-Benin border post         treas (at least one)        intensive project activities tc
                           (both sides) is reducedby at                                  shorten waiting times at the
                           least 50% compared with                                       border crossing.
                           the first year o f the project.

                           By end o f2006, numbero f
                           informalchecks along the                                      National and local law
                           entire comdor reduced by at                                   enforcement authorities
                           least 50%, compared with          i dhoc survey oftransport   along the comdor take
                           the first year o f the project.   iector operations and       responsibility for reducing
                                                             :onstraints (at least one)  informal checks.


                                                        - 35 -

A project progressreport is
preparedat least once every                                  The Executive Secretariat
six months                        3emi-annual project reportswill involve all stakeholders
                                                             inthe discussion ofthe
                                                             reports.
Process Indicators:
By the endof2004, all the
countries along the
transport corridor have                                      A common HIV/AIDS
adopted a common                  4dhoc survey inall         strategy leads to better
HIV/AIDS strategy for the         :ountries                  Zoordination.
transport corridor.


By end o f 2006, train at
least 500 residents of border                                Trained residents will be
towns along the transport                                    focal-points for HIV/AIDS
corridor as key community         Semi-annualproject reports [EC among
HIV/AIDS IEC activists.                                      border communities.

By 2006, increaseby at
least 50%, compared with
first year o f the project, the                              HIVIAIDScounselor
number of trained                                            training i s tailored to the
HIV/AIDS counselors               Semi-annualproject reports requirements of the
working involuntary                                          counseling centers along the
HIVIAIDS counseling and                                      transport corridor.
testing centers along the
transport comdor.

By end of 2005, at least
40% of total disbursements                                   Disbursementsthrough civil
to sub-projects will have                                    society organizations will be
been through civil society        Semi-annualproject reports,usedto provide HIV/AIDS
srganizations.                    wdit                       related services at
                                                             community level.
By 2005, at least fifty
?eoplefrom civil society
srganizations, working on                                    The people trained will
HIVIAIDS along the                                           strengthen financial
:orridor, have beentrained        Semi-annualproject reports management capacity of
3n financial management of                                   civil society organizations
sub-projects.                                                implementing the project.

By 2005, at least fifty
ieople from civil society
irganizations, working on                                    Training will strengthen
3IV/AIDS along the                semi-annual project reportscivil society organizations in


                             - 36 -

                             corridor, have beentrained                                 community HIV/AIDScare
                             on community HIV/AIDS                                      and support.
                             care and support.

                             By 2005, at least fifty staff
                             of health facilities along the
                             transport corridor, have                                   Trained staff will act as
                             beentrained on basic                                       focal-points for care o f
                             management of PL-.              Semi-annual project reportsPLWHA intheir respective
                                                                                        health facilities.
aroject Components I         Inputs: (budget for each        Project reports:           (from Componentsto
sub-components:              component)                                                 Outputs)
1. HIV/AIDS prevention       US$2.20 million                 Project management
;ervices for the targeted                                   reports, audit
)opulation.

l. HIV/AIDStreatment,        US$7.90 million                 Project management
:are and support services                                    reports, audit
'or the targeted population.

3. Project coordination,                                     Project management
:apacity buildingand policy US$6.50 million                  reports, audit
ievelopment.




                                                        - 37 -

                                 Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
        WESTERN AFRICA: HlVlAlDS PROJECT FOR ABIDJAN                         - LAGOS    TRANSPORT
                                                 CORRIDOR

This project, like many ofthe projects within MAP, is basedon a demand-basedapproach, with action
plansto be developed on abottom-up rather than top-down approach. The project has the following three
components: (i)   HIVIAIDSpreventionservices for the targetedpopulation (ii)      HIVIAIDS treatment, care
and support services for the targetedpopulation (iii) coordination, capacity buildingandpolicy
                                                        Project
development. Bothpublic sector and civil society organizations are key implementers o f the project.

Component I: HIV/AIDSprevention servicesfor the targeted population

This component will support: (a) the implementation of anintegrated HIV/AIDS IECBCC policy alongthe
transport corridor; and (b) the social marketing of condoms in the 8 geographic border communities and
along the entire corridor.

a) Implementation of an integrated HIV/AIDSIEC/BCC policy along the transport corridor:
The component will finance information, education and communication (IEC)/behavioral change
communications (BCC) activities to be targeted at differenttarget groups inthe border areas. These target
groups will include: (i) the providers o f transport services (the workers, including inparticular commercial
vehicle drivers andthe management o f transport companies); (ii)    the users oftransport services, (iii)
                                                                                                       the
localpopulation having contact with travelers and migrants (iv) commercial sex workers along the corridor
(v) the migrant population; and (vi) the locally basedgovernment border employees (immigration, police,
customs). Different approacheswill be usedthat will be tailoredto the requirements o f each target
population but there will be coherence along the corridor interms o f quality andtechnical content o f
IECBCC. National HIVIAIDSprograms o fthe five coun!ries along the corridor will be involved during
the development ofthe corridor IECBCCpolicy.
b) Social marketing of condoms along the corridor:
While condoms are an effective preventiontool to fight HIV/AIDS, populations frequently needto be
assistedto develop a culture o fusingthem. Social marketingo f condoms has been shown to be an effective
method o f increasing use o f condoms in different communities. The component will support activities
associatedwith the entire social marketingeffort for condoms along the transport corridor, including
procurement and distribution o fthe condoms. Inaddition to the general social marketingo f condoms along
the corridor, particular attention will be paidto social marketing o f condoms among the most vulnerable
populations along the corridor, that includes commercial sex workers and commercial vehicle drivers.
Contracting-out arrangementsfor social marketingo f condoms, as with many other activities o fthe project,
will be encouraged.

Component 2: HIVIAIDS treatment, care and support servicesfor the targeted population

This component will support: (a) strengthening o f public and private (where applicable) health care
facilities identified along the corridor to provide services in the areas o f VCT, treatment o f STIs (with
promotion of the syndromic approach) and HIV/AIDS opportunistic infections; (b) the provision o f grants
to Civil Society Organizations (including NGOs and the private sector) to undertake community based
initiatives in HIV/AIDS care and support; and (c) support the disposal of medical waste related to the
project.




                                                      - 38 -

Due to the complexity of the logistical and organizational requirements for anti-retroviral drugs, this
project, with its regional nature and type of target groups, will not provide these drugs to the target groups.
However, patients who will be identifiedduringproject implementation, as potentialbeneficiaries o f these
drugs, will be referredto the nationalHIVIAIDS programs, which are better positionedto organize the
logistics and follow-up requiredfor anti-retroviral treatment. The project will also support the collection
andanalysis o finformation (that does not include privatepatient identifiable information) onpattems of
utilizationo f HIV/AIDS treatment, care and support services along the corridor.

a) Strengthening ofpublic andprivate (where applicable) health carefacilities identified along the
corridor toprovide services in the areas of VCT, treatment of STIs and HIV/AIDS opportunistic
infections:
A numbero fpublic andprivatehealthfacilities havebeenidentifiedalong the transport corridor. The
component will support the strengthening of these facilities so that they become centers where basic
HIV/AIDS relatedtreatment and care and safe emergency blood tranfusion services ( in collaborationwith
national health services) for accident victims along the corridor, can be carried out. This support will
include the financing of basic equipment, pharmaceuticals, and renovation of facilities. The component will
support development and distribution o f HIV/AIDS related treatment and care guidelines with relevant
training to the health care staff along the corridor. The above mentionedactivities will be carried out in
close collaboration with the local andnational authorities responsible for provision o f health services.
b) The provision of grants to Civil Society Organizations (including NGOs and the private sector) to
undertake community based initiatives in HIV/AIDS care and support:
Civil society organizations have an important role inthe provision o f community basedHIV/AIDS care and
support services. This component will support civil society organizations by channeling fimds directly to
these organizations so that they can quickly provide community based HIV/AIDS support and care
services. Particular attention will be given to any organizations o f People Living With HIV/AIDS
(PLWHA) along the transport corridor.

(c) Support the disposal of medical waste related to theproject:
The health care facilities and other stakeholders, that will be involved in the implementation o f project
activities, will be supported by this component to implement medical waste disposal requirements as
outlined inthe medical waste managementplan.

Component 3: Project coordination, capacity building andpolicy development.

This component will support: (a) the development o f strong HIV/AIDS inter-country coordination and
partnerships among the governments and other project stakeholders o f the five participating countries; and
(b)the implementation ofpolicies for smooth movement of commercialtraffic along the corridor; and(c)
capacity buildingamong implementing partners.

a) The development of strong HIVIAIDS inter-country coordination and partnerships among the
governments and other project stakeholders of thefive participating countries:

The component will support the coordination and facilitation activities o f the Executive Secretariat o f the
project. It will also finance activities aimed at increasing collaboration between the five countries fighting
HIV/AIDS along the Abidjan-Lagos transport corridor. The activities o f the Governing body. that are
related to the achievement o f the objectives o f the project, including advocacy, the development o f policies,
including those that encourage the respect of human rights o f people living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA) and
partnerships will also be supported by this component. The monitoringand evaluation (M&E) functions o f
the project, including biological, behavioral and fmancial, will as well be fmanced from this component of
the project.


                                                      - 39 -

b) The implementation ofpolicies for smooth movement of commercial traflc along the corridor:
The component will support the agreement among the countries inthe comdor to adopt policies andactions
to expedite formal customs clearance andimmigrationprocedures as well as to address informalbarriers to
the movement ofpeople andgoods. This will helpinreducingthe development of commercial sex markets
at the border towns. The project will work closely with the regional economic integration policy o f
ECOWAS, and will identifynecessarymeasureseither to develop simplifiedprocedures or to enforce the
implementationo f the existing legislature for fast track customs andimmigration clearance. This work will
buildoncomparable exercises on addressingbarriers to smooth flow of commercialtraffic along the
Abidjan-Ouagadougou and Lome-Ouagadougou corridors. The project may also provide support for the
development o f appropriate national level responsesto the HIV/AIDS costs beingimposedon the transport
sector. The development and implementationo f well designedtransport sector HIV/AIDS policies will
complement physical investments and IEC activities along the corridor. Specific measuresthat will be
supportedby the project include:

0   provision o f information to the public on documentation required, locations, fees andfares normally
    collected along the corridor;
0   small infrastructure work at border posts where it can assist infast flow o f traffic along the corridor;
0   training o f officials inboth EnglishandFrench to enhance understanding o f travel documents between
    border officials;
0   assessmentandharmonizationo f operations o f border posts through implementationo f local
    committees that could propose measures(for example time closure harmonization);
0   studies to better understand, inorder to reduce, the delays andcosts to traffic along the corridor,
    including support to an observatory o f traffic delays along the corridor.

c) Capacity building among implementingpartners:
The component will support capacity buildingmeasures amongst the various implementersofthe project,
including the public sector andcivil society organizations. Many NGOs will need significant capacity
building,especially infinancial management, inorder for themto be able to effectively deliver onproject
objectives while providing acceptable accountability. The newly formed Executive Secretariat may also
needcapacity buildingto deliver on its coordination and facilitation role. Most ofthe healthfacilities inthe
corridor do not presently have the capacity to deal with the proposed HIV/AIDS related services envisaged
intheproject. Itwill benecessaryto train the healthprofessionals working inthese facilities inorder for
themto effectively carry out project related functions. Training will also be extended to various other
service providers who will be expected to provide services during project implementation.

                           Selected examples of activities that implementers can do

Public Sector
The Public sector agenciesthat are expectedto beparticularly important inthe implementation ofthe
project include those responsible for border security, immigration and customs functions inthe five
countries. Local Governments along the transport corridor will as well be important in the implementation
of the project. Some o f the activities that can be expected from these organizations include, but are not
limitedto:

0   provision o f HIV/AIDS IEC to employees o fthe respective public sector agencies;
0   formation of HIV/AIDS social support networks for employees o f the respective public sector
    agencies;
0   promotion o f safe sex practices, including the use o f condoms, among employees o f the respective



                                                      -40-

    public sector agencies;
0   sensitization o f the employees o f the respective public sector agencies on the HIV/AIDS related
    benefits o f faster processing o f travellers and traffic along the transport corridor.

Civil society organizations
Some o f the HIV/AIDS related activities that civil society organizations can do along the corridor include,
but are not limitedto the following:

0   community-based IEC targeted at commercial sex workers, migrants, commercial vehicle drivers and
    communities living along the corridor;
0   support to families along the transport corridor affected by HIV/AIDS includingthe support o f revenue
    generating activities;
0   home-based care o f local residents living with HIV/AIDS along the corridor;
0   targeted support, along the corridor, to orphans, guardians o f poor orphans, and AIDS-stricken
    impoverishedhouseholds, including those headedby women, youth andthe elderly;
0   promotion o fthe use o f condoms at the border crossing points, among the commercial sex workers ,the
    truck drivers, migrantsandthe local border communities.

                                           Institutionalarrangements

The Govemment ofBeninwill be the representativeofthe five countries untilthe legalratification ofthe
Abidjan-Lagos Corrdior Organization (ALCO) has beencompletedinthe five countries. The Governing
Body has beenmandated by the Heads o f State to act andwill report intially through the government o f
beninpendingthe formal establishment ofALCO. The GovemingBody is supportedby an Executive
Secretariat based inBenin.

There are five key institutional arrangements agreeduponbetweenthe 5 countries for the duration o f
project implementation: (i)  establishment o f a goveming body with the participationo f the heads o fnational
HIV/AIDS programs and the ministries o f transport ineach country; (ii)      establishment o f an Executive
Secretariat o f the governingbody, supported by a management consultant fm,to coordinate and facilitate
project implementation; (iii) establishment o f an inter-country committee (advisory body) to advise the
goveming body on policy andimplementation issues; (iv) involvement o fpublic and non-public sector
implementing agencies; and(v) adoption o f operational directives for the project. A detailed description o f
the roles o fthe institutionsmentioned above is presentedinthe operational manual for theproject, key
elements of whichform the basis of the operational directives o f the project, which have been adopted by
the five membercountries. The figure below is an illustration o fthe institutional arrangementsmentioned
above.

The GoverningBody of the project
The ultimate responsibilityfor the project will bewith the GovemingBody ofthe projectwhich will be
composed o f representativeso f all the five countries, nominatedby the highest political offices o f the
membercountries. The headsof state ofthe five countries have, through ajoint declaration, empowered the
Governing Body to be responsible for the project. Nominated representatives o fthe ministries responsible
for HIV/AIDS andtransport inthe five countries will specifically be members o fthe Goveming Body. The
Governing Body i s responsible for overseeing: (a) implementation o f overall sub-regional coordination,
policy review and adoption; (b) the preparation and execution o f the multi-country HIV/AIDS transport
corridor strategy and plan o f action; (c) reviewingprogress on implementation; and (d) liaison with each
membercountry's liaisonofficers, who will bethe officers responsible for the respective national
HIV/AIDS programs.


                                                       -41  -

The five countries have agreedthat, Nigeriaholds the Presidency of the Goveming Body, Ghana holds the
Vice Presidency, while Beninhosts the Executive Secretariatwith the Executive Secretary beinga national
of Cote d'Ivoire (who will be located at the Secretariat inBenin) andthat Togo will chair the Inter-Country
Advisory Committee, which i s outlinedbelow. This allocationo f leadroles may be subject to M e r
review once the project i s underway, but is designedto ensure sharedresponsibilities among all the member
countries.


                                 Institutionalarrangementsfor the project




                    Inter-CountryAdvisory




                                                                                      Subprojects Technica1
                                                                                      Evaluation Team




The Executive Secretariat

The Executive Secretariatwill beresponsible for: (a) overall coordinationandmanagement; (b)preparation
of quarterly progress reports; (c) coordinating the appraisal and approval o f subprojects; and (d) project
monitoring andevaluation. The Executive Secretary, who will leadthe Executive Secretariat, will report to
the President o f the Goveming Body. It is envisaged that the Executive Secretarywill be responsible for the
daily coordination andfacilitation of the project, which will be implementedthrough both public and
private sector implementingpartners. The Executive Secretariat will be a small institution staffed with
mainly core staff, which may include, among others, an office assistant anda professional translator to
cater for the two official languages (French and English) usedamong corridor member countries. Many o f
the functions for which the Secretariatwill be responsible, including financial management and
procurement review, will be contracted out to a Management Consultant (firm).




                                                    - 42 -

The ManagementConsultantwill have staffwith strong financialmanagement, procurement, monitoring
andevaluationskills, including skills inmonitoring and evaluation or the capability to manage any of such
services which may be contracted out. Inparticular, the Management Consultant will be responsible for: (a)
financial management and disbursement;(b) procurement management; (c) monitoring and evaluation; and
(d) participation inappraisal of community subprojects.

The Inter-CountryAdvisory Committee
An Inter-Country Advisory Committee will be establishedunderthe Goveming Body with members
selected from the five member countries and will report to the GoverningBody. The committee will provide
technical andpolicy advice on the implementation o f the project, to the Governing Body. Members o fthe
committee will be from both the public and non-public sectorsbut with a half o f its members being
representatives o f the non-public sector. The five membercountries have agreedthat the chair o fthis
committee will be from Togo while the Secretaryo f the committee will be the Executive Secretary of the
Executive Secretariat. The committee will be responsible for: (a) provision o ftechnical and policy advice to
the Governing Body; (b) review ofprogressreports inorder to give advise onprogress; and (c)
identification o f implementationissues andrecommendation of their solutions.

The SubprojectsTechnicalEvaluationTeam
The Executive Secretariat will constitute a team which will beresponsible for review and approval of
subprojects submittedto the Executive Secretariat. This team will have the permanent membershipo f the
Executive Secretary andthe relevant specialists from the Management Consultant firm. The team can invite
any technical experts that may be neededfor it to effectively function, depending on the particularnature of
subprojects being reviewed. The Executive Secretarywill report progress o f the team to the Governing
Body and to the Inter-Country Advisory Committee.

Community-basedBorder HIV/AIDS Committees
HIV/AIDS committees with membershipfrom bothlocal civil society andlocal public sector
representatives will be formed at border areas along the Corridor, for purposes o f coordinating local
responseto HIV/AIDS at the border areas. The border HN/AIDS committees will be responsible for
coordinatinglocal initiatives that are to be financed by the project. Such initiatives will be transformed into
proposals that are forwarded to the Executive Secretariat o f the corridor project for approval and financing.
Indue course, it is expectedthat these committees may evolve into cross-border committees to ensure local
coordination o f interventions on both sides o f a given frontier. A number o f intermediaryCSOs or similar
organizations(Intermediary ImplementationPartners)will be appointed by the Executive Secretariat
for purposeso f establishingthe community-based border HIV/AIDS committees and giving the
communities support in subproject planningand implementation. The intermediary implementationpartners
will also play a local facilitation role between the communities and the Executive Secretariat.

The implementingagencies
(a) Civil Society Organizations (CSOs)
CSOs (community organizations, NGOs andthe private sector) will be key implementingpartners for the
project. They will carry out two distinct implementationtasks: (i)   mobilization and empowerment o f
communities along the corridor to address HIV/AIDS; and (ii)       providingHIV/AIDS related services to
various community groups along the corridor. Eligibilitycriteria for the CSOs, andmechanisms inwhich
CSOs will be able to obtain and account for project funds will be detailed inthe operational manual o f the
project.




                                                      - 4 3 -

(a) Public-sector implementingpartners
The project will be implementedinclose collaboration with public sector partners. Keypublic sector
agenciesthat will be involved inthe implementation o fthe project include, the local border agencies o f the
ministries responsible for HIV/AIDS, transport, health, the police, immigration and customs. Local
governments at border towns/districts will also be key public sector implementingpartners for the project.
The operational manual will have details o f the mechanisms inwhich these public sector agencieswill be
able to obtain and account for project funds. Inparticular, these public sector agencies will be involvedin
the development andimplementation o f HIV/AIDS related corridor-wide transport policies, healthpolicies,
work-place policies and policies regarding the rights o fpeople living with HIV/AIDS.

The recipientofthe grant
The five Governments, through the declaration oftheir heads of state, have agreedthat the Government o f
Benin, on their behalf, will be the recipient o fthe grant for the Abidjan-Lagos corridor project. Once the
legal documents have beenratified by the appropriate bodies of the five countries, the legal responsibility
for the grant will be formally transferred to ALCO.     '




OperationalArrangements

An Operations Manualfor the project has been prepared inclose collaboration with the Governments and
civil society representatives o f the five countries. The manual includes the project's institutional and
implementation arrangements, the respective responsibilities and mandateso f each participating entity, and
the finctional relationships between actors. It defines procedures and eligibility criteria for review and
approval o f project proposals, as well as providing guidelines for the preparation, implementation, and
supervision o f project proposals. Itincludes the contractual arrangementsbetween the Executive
Secretariat and implementingagencies and standard contracts for a broadrange o f activities. It contains
procurement arrangementsand financial management requirements, including accounting norms and
reporting requirements for bothpublic sector and civil society implementers.Its use and contents as well as
modalities for any future amendmentswill be to a level satisfactory to IDA, and will be part o f the grant
agreement. Disbursementof funds for civil society organizations will be inaccordancewith the eligibility
criteria andterms specified inthe operational manual.

Monitoring and evaluationarrangements

Project monitoring and evaluation (M&E) arrangementswill be based on a broadrange o f measures,
including specified indicators and process and output measuresto capture project performance. An M&E
manual will be produced within six months o fproject effectiveness and thereafter, implementationo f the
manual will be inform and substance satisfactory to IDA.

Project outcomes will be measuredemploying data from HIV surveillance, baseline, andend-point
population-based surveys on knowledge, attitudes, practices, and behavior. Service utilization and special
studies commissioned to assess outcome inspecific areas not easily addressedby population-based surveys
will also beused. Monitoringo fthe project will be carriedout usingproject-based data, beneficiary inputs,
andprogram reviews.

The Executive Secretariat(through contracting) will monitor overall project implementation, assessingthe
performance o fproject implementation as well as the effectiveness andefficiency o f implementation. The
activities o f civil society organizations and community-based organizations will be monitored based on



                                                      - 44 -

their contract performance.

The Executive Secretariatwill, on behalfofthe Governing Body, supervise overall project implementation.
Staff from the Secretariat will make regularvisits to the fieldto monitor the performance of the project in
the five countries. The Executive Secretariat will organize annual project reviews andproject completion
review to assess the performance o f the project, its components andits contribution to the achievement of
project objectives. Project reviews will be carried out ina participativemanner, under the coordination and
facilitation o f the Executive Secretariat andwill culminate in stakeholder meetingsthat will form a basis
for planning for the next project period. Much o fthe requiredactivities will be carried out by the
Management Consultant under terms o freference which have already beendeveloped andagreedwith the
GoverningBody.

The Executive Secretariat and IDA will organize ajoint project launchworkshop within a month o fproject
effectiveness. One mainpurpose o f the workshop will be to make further progress on project monitoring
and reporting requirements.

Procurement

Procurement o f works, goods and services inrelation to the project, will be in accordancewith the Bank's
'Guidelines:Procurement under IBRDLoans andIDA Credits' (January 1995 and revisedinJanuary and
August 1996, September 1997,and January 1999),including Section 3.15, Community Participationin
Procurement. Consulting services by f m s , organizations, or individuals financed by IDA will be
contracted inaccordance with the Bank's "Guidelines: Selection andEmployment o f Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers" (January 1997, revised in September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002). Inthe event
o f co-financing o f the project activities, the procedures o fthese specific agencies will have to be employed
andthe Executive Secretariatcapacity enhancedaccordingly.

A General Procurement Notice (GPN) has already beenpublishedas well as a specific procurement notice
(SPN) for expressions o f interest for management consultancy services.

The Executive Secretariat will ensure that services o f a Procurement Specialist are at its disposal prior to
drawing up the first year program, inorder to effectively oversee the procurement process. Such a
specialist i s includedinthe core team to be providedby the Management Consultant (agency).

For community sub-projects the communities, through their representatives committees, would be
responsible for the procurement process inaccordancewith the simplifiedprocurement procedures as
described inthe project ImplementationManual. Communities will use the Bank's simplified "Procurement
andDisbursementProcedures for Community-Based Investments" to procure goods or servicesneededto
implementtheir respective community HIV/AIDS initiatives. Communities andNGOs are expectedto use
'local shopping' as a standardprocurement method.

To facilitate expeditious import o f goods which may be urgently neededfor diagnosis/treatment and
institutional strengthening, contracts may be made basedon international shopping and national shopping
procedures, respectively, or through procurement from the UnitedNations system. Otherwise, a national
competitive bidding (NCB) procedure        - with advertisement inall comdor countries will be employed.
                                                                                         -

under: either a national competitive bidding(NCB) procedure - with advertisement inall corridor countries;
Minor civil works will be included under the project andthese will be carried out depending on the value

or for works under US$50,000, at least three quotations received for a given specification.


                                                       - 45 -

Consultancy services will generally be procured on the basis o f quality and cost based(QCBS) selection
procedure employing the Bank guidelines, with specified exceptions applying to the procurement o f
particular services (selection on the basis o f consultant's qualifications). Below US$ 100,000, selection
may be from short lists composed only of nationals or f m s o fthe corridor countries.

A procurement planwill be prepared for the first year ofproject operations, to be includedinthe project
operational manual before credit effectiveness andprocurement plans will subsequentlybe prepared
annually.

Procurement performance (including sub-project procurement activities) will be assessedat least on an
annual basis (inthe form o fprocurement and physical audits by an external agency). Inaddition to the
formal annual audits, ad-hoc procurement reviews will be conducted periodically.

Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements

The Executive Secretariat of the GoverningBody, through contracting out arrangementswith the
Management Consultant, will be responsible for project financial management, including the preparation
and production o f the annual financial statementsinaccordance with internationally acceptedaccounting
principles. The Secretariat will make arrangements for certification o f financial statementsby an audit firm
underterms and conditions acceptableto IDA.The Executive Secretariat, through the Management
Consultant, will monitor all disbursementsunderthe project and ensurethat they conform to IDA
requirements.Implementingagencieswill submit annual and quarterly reports onthe progress of
implementationo f their respective activities. Before effectiveness, the project financial management system
will be reviewed for compliance with Bank procedures.The financial management systemwill allow for the
proper recording of all project-related transactions as well as timely monitoring o f expenditures per
category, implementing agency, and component. Internal accounting controls for the project will be set out
indetailinthe financial procedures ofthe project's operational manual, andwill be satisfactory for
providingreasonable assurances that accountswill be properly recordedandresources safeguarded. The
chart o f accounts for the project will be designedto allow reporting to requirementsof any other donors
who may eventually participate inthe financing o f the project.

The records and accountso fall the components o fthe project will be audited annually inaccordancewith
international audit standardsby experienced and internationally recognizedaudit firms acceptable to IDA.
Inadditionto a standardshort form report with the audit opinion, the auditors will berequiredto
comprehensively review all the SOEs andthe management and utilization o f the accounts as well as the
internal control procedures governing preparation o f accounts for the relevant period under audit, to
express a separate opinion thereon, and to review the management andutilization o f the special accounts
and express a separate opinion thereon as well. The auditor will complete an in-depthreview o fthe internal
control system o f the program with a view to identifythe major weaknesses and shortcomings and
proposing practical recommendations for improvement. The results o f this review will be documented ina
management letter to be submitted along with the audit reports. The appointment o f the project auditor
according to terms o freference acceptableto IDA will be one o f the conditions o f effectiveness.

The Executive Secretariatwill prepare the following reports: (a) semi-annual progress reports; (b) an
annual report and a proposed financing planno later than the last month o f the current year; (c) a detailed
progressreport on technical andfinancial program activities (not later than four weeks before the end o f the
secondyear o fproject effectiveness); (d) relevant sections o f the implementation completion report (ICR)
three months before the closing date; and (e) a report on a plandesigned to ensure future achievement o f


                                                      - 46 -

objectives o f the project, not later than six months after the closing date o f the project or such later date as
may be agreed upon with IDA. The implementing agencies will submit consolidated quarterly financial
reports with supporting documentation to the Executive Secretariat which will consolidate the financial
reports of the operational components. The first FMR shall be furnished to IDA not later than 45 days after
the end of the calendar quarter after the effective date of the project. Thereafter, each FMR shall be
furnished to the association not later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover
such calendar quarter. The annual financial statements o f the project will include at least a statement o f
sources o f funds, a statement of reconciliation o f the special accounts, a balance sheet and required notes to
the financial statements.

By Component:

Project Component 1 US$2.20 million
                       -

Project Component 2    - US$7.90   million



Project Component 3    - US$6.50   million




                                                      -47  -

                                            Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
WESTERN AFRICA: HlVlAlDS PROJECT FOR ABIDJAN LAGOS TRANSPORT CORRIDOR                     -
                                                                                                  Local                                           Total
                         Project Cost By Component                                              US $million                                  US $million
 1,HN/AIDS prevention services for the targetedpopulation                                           0.85                    1.39                    2.24
 2. HIV/AIDStreatment, care and support services for the                                            6.51                    1.34                    7.85
 targeted population
 3. Project coordination, capacity buildingand policy                                               5.19                    1.41                    6.60
 development
 Total Baseline Cost                                                                               12.55                    4.14                   16.69
  Physical Contingencies                                                                            0.44                    0.14                    0.58
  Price Contingencies                                                                               0.44                    0.14                    0.58
                                          Total Proiect Costs'                              I      13.43          1         4.42         I         17.85
                                   Total Financing Required                                        13.43                    4.42                   17.85

                                                                                                  Local                 Foreign                   Total
                          Project Cost By Category                                              US $million           US $million            US $million
 Works                                                                                                 0.72                     0.00                    0.72
 Consultant Services                                                                                   1.70                      1.10                   2.80
 Training                                                                                              1.34                     0.25                    1.59
 Equip. Drugs and Condoms                                                                              0.49                     2.01                    2.50
 Grants                                                                                                5.20                     0.00                    5.20
 Operating Cost                                                                                        2.95                     0.58                    3.53
 PPF                                                                                                   0.15                     0.20                    0.35
 Contingencies                                                                                         0.88                     0.28                    1.16
                                                          Total Project Costs1                        13.43                     4.42                   17.85
                                                 Total Financing Required                             13.43                     4.42                   17.85

    I
     Identifiable taxes and duties are0 (US$m)andthe total project cost, net of taxes, is 17.9 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharingratio is 92.74% oftotal
   projectcost net oftaxes.




                                                                     -48 -

                               Annex 4: Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
WESTERN AFRICA: HIV/AIDS PROJECT FOR ABIDJAN                       - LAGOS     TRANSPORT CORRIDOR



Introduction
The M A P i s based on the assumption that rapidproject preparation without extensive ex ante technical
analysis i s possible ifeffective M&E systems are urgently establishedas a managementtool to guide
project adjustments. This places great onus on effective M&E,particularly inthe Abidjan-Lagos transport
corridor project, which i s being implemented on a innovative basis, with the expectation o f clear
documentation o f lessons to be learnt.

M&E Components
M&Ecomprises (a) surveillance; (b) epidemiologicalresearch; (c) financial management; and(d) Program
activities.

Surveillance. This encompasses both biological and behavioral surveillance. The Abidjan-Lagos transport
corridor, because it covers a numbero f countries and does not follow national boundaries, will have to
devise a surveillance systemwhich collects data from a representative sample ofthe populations targeted
by the project. There will beneedto establish regular, annual HIV surveillance. The Executive Secretariat
o f the GovemingBody will implement surveillance based on a number o f sites along the transport corridor
and havingrepresentatives from the groups targeted. Inparticular, surveillance will examine STI/HIV
prevalence among female commercial sex workers, a key sentinel or "tripwire" population. Intensive
interventions andcontinuing STI andHIV surveillance will also be conducted among this cohort to assess
intervention impact. Technical assistance will be sought by the Executive Secretariat and contracting
arrangements can be arrangedwith technical agencies to provide sentinel surveillance.

Behavioral surveillance will be managed by the Executive Secretariatusingcontracting out arrangements.
Comprehensive manuals andrigorous procedures for questionnaire adaptation andtranslation, interviewer
training and supervision, sampling, data management, and quality assuranceare available from technical
agencies, for behavioral surveillance. Populations to be considered for behavioral surveillance should
include female commercial sex workers, commercial vehicle drivers, border customs, police and
immigrationofficials along the transport corridor.

Epidemiological research. The focus will be on three major areas: (a) STI prevalence, aetiology and
sensitivity studies; (b) TB culture capacity and sensitivity studies; and (c) evaluation o fHIV interventions
among priority groups, including sex workers, commercial vehicle drivers andborder employees.

Financial and program monitoring. This will focus on the Executive Secretariat'scontracting and
coordinating capacity andthe relevance, quantity, quality, and economy o fpublic sector andcivil society
services. Project monitoring will be combined with financial monitoring and outsourced to a management
consultant. The Executive Secretariat will assume a major grant-making role, supporting numerous
HIV/AIDS sub-projects across the transport corridor. The Executive Secretariat will develop systems and
procedures for budget transfers and grant-making, includingsystems for identifyingepidemiological
priorities and soliciting compliant applications, publicizinggrants, developing and publicizingstructured,
transparent selection procedures, publicizing recipients, monitoring program performance o f recipients and
communicating achievements.
The project will finance a Consultant for the Executive Secretariat, who will provide the Secretariat with a
generic M&E manual which will be reviewed andadapted by the Consultant to ensure it meet's the


                                                    - 49 -

project's distinctive needs.

M&E Structure
The project will managethe above M&E components as follows. Biological surveillance will be
undertaken incollaboration with the national HIV/AIDS programs o f the five countries along the transport
corridor, and may be contracted out to a competent organization. Behavioral surveillance will be directed
by the Executive Secretariatand contracted to aresearcldconsulting agency or anNGO. Epidemiological
research will also be conductedjointly with the national HIVIAIDS programs o f the five countries along
the transport corridor. Financial and program activities monitoring will be outsourced to a management
consultant. There are severalreasons why it is preferable to combine financial and program activities
monitoringand outsourcing it to a single unit.

        Since the same personnel and operations can be usedfor both fmancial and project monitoring,
        combining financial andproject monitoringmakes monitoring economical. Project monitoring may
        be addedto financial monitoring at marginal cost.
        Combining financial and project monitoring provides a basis to corroborate financial andactivity
        data and to ensure sound finance-project data cross-verification. This improves both fmancial and
        project accountability.
        Project monitoring entails complex data gathering managementcapacities. It i s often more feasible
        to purchase establishedcapacity than to establish it afresh.
        Financial managementmonitoring systems andproceduresare almost always the most developed
        sub-component o fmonitoring. Financial data are more likelyto be collected, filed, andpreserved
        than project data. Itmakes sense to linkproject monitoring to the stronger process o f financial
        monitoring.
        Linkingproject reportingto financial management and further disbursementswill improve project
        reporting.
        Outsourcing financial and program activities monitoring to a singleunitensures that financial and
        project reports are linkedand provides a comprehensive picture. Equippedwith comprehensive,
        verified data, the Executive Secretariat's M&E staff are free to focus on the strategic project
        implications o f monitoring.

Executive Secretariat Actions
The Executive Secretariatwill undertake the following actions to effectively coordinate project monitoring:

        Itwill clarify its coordinationrole and increaseits capacity to coordinate, not implement, M&E.
        Itwill outsourceM&E functions to ensure technical competence inthe area.
        The Executive Secretariat and stakeholders will undertake aparticipatory process, to prepare an
        M&E plan andmanual andto buildcommitment and ownership for M&E.
        Each partner will agree its key targets with the Executive secretariat, using a simple, structured
        targetsform.
        Eachpartner will report results monthly using a simple, structured reportingform.
        Resultswill be verified semi-annually by the management consultant.
        The managementconsultant will collate, analyze and submit to the Executive Secretariat summary
        reports o f aggregate activities semi-annually, usinga simple summaryform.
        The Executive Secretariatand key stakeholderswill meet semi-annually to reviewmonitoring
        reports andto identifykey lessons.
        The Executive Secretariat and key stakeholders will update their Operations and M&Emanuals
        andproceduresbasedon lessonsleamed.



                                                     - 50 -

Key Covenants

Action                              Completed
Transportcorridor M&E planandM&E    Within three months ofproject effectiveness
manualproducedthrough stakeholder
consultativemeeting




                                     - 51 -

                               Annex 5: Financial Summary
WESTERN AFRICA: HlVlAlDS PROJECT FOR ABIDJAN LAGOS TRANSPORT CORRIDOR
                                                     -
                                     Years Ending


                         IYear1 I year2    I  Year3   IYear4   IYear5  I Year6  I   Year 7
Total Financing
Required
 ProjectCosts
  Investment Costs           2.9       4.9        4.1      2.1      0.0      0.0        0.0
 Recurrent Costs             0.9       1.o        1.o       1.o     0.0      0.0        0.0
Total Project Costs          3.8       5.9        5.1      3.1      0.0      0.0        0.0
Total Financing              3.8       5.9        5.1      3.1      0.0      0.0        0.0
Financing
   IBRDllDA                  3.5       5.5        4.8      2.8      0.0     0.0         0.0
  Government                 0.3       0.4        0.3      0.3      0.0      0.0        0.0
       Central               0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0
       Provincial            0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0
   Co-financiers             0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0
User FeeslBeneficiaries      0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0
Other                        0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0
Total ProjectFinancing       3.8       5.9        5.1       3.1     0.0      0.0        0.0



                                  Year2    I  Year3   I Year4  I Year5  I Year6    1 Year 7
Total Financing
Required
ProjectCosts
   Investment Costs         2.9       4.9         4.1      2.1      0.0     0.0         0.0
   Recurrent Costs          0.9       1.o         1.o      1.o      0.0     0.0         0.0
Total ProjectCosts          3.8       5.9         5.1      3.1      0.0     0.0         0.0
Total Financing             3.8       5.9         5.1      3.1      0.0     0.0         0.0

Financing
   IBRDllDA                 3.5       5.5         4.8      2.8      0.0     0.0         0.0
   Government               0.3       0.4         0.3      0.3      0.0     0.0         0.0
       Central              0.0       0.0         0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0         0.0
      Provincial            0.0       0.0         0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0         0.0
   Co-financiers            0.0       0.0         0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0         0.0
User FeeslBeneficiaries     0.0       0.0         0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0         0.0
Other                       0.0       0.0         0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0         0.0
Total Project Financing     3.8       5.9         5.1      3.1      0.0     0.0         0.0


Main assumptions:



                                          - 52 -

                             Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
WESTERN AFRICA: HIV/AIDS PROJECT FOR ABIDJAN                       - LAGOS    TRANSPORT CORRIDOR

Procurement

   General
   1. The Executive Secretariat for the project, whichwill beresponsible for procurement andfinancial
   management arrangements for the project, will be located inBenin.For all practicalpurposes, the
   Executive Secretariat will be influencedby Benin'sprocurement codes. The Country Procurement
   Assessment Report (CPAR) for Beninwas completed inApril 1999. Despite the findings o f some
   discrepancies, inconsistencies, anddelays reported inthe procurement process, no special exceptions,
   permits, or licenses need to be specified inthe Credit Documents for Intemational Competitive Bidding
   (ICB), because the Republic o f Benin'sprocurement practices allow IDA procedures to take
   precedenceover any contrary provisions inlocal regulations. Inrecognition o f the regional character o f
   the project, special attention has to be given to ensure opportunities are available equally to all five
   corridor countries regardless o f the location at which services etc. are to be delivered so that under
                                                                                            -
   national competitive bidding(NCB) for example, advertisement will be mandatory inall five countries.

   Use of WorldBankGuidelines

   2. IDA will finance civil works, goods, consultancies, training, and other local activities necessaryto
   implementthe project basedon guidelines outlinedbelow.

   Procurement of worh and goods

   3. Procurement o f works and goods for all IDA-financed activities will be carried out inaccordance
   with the BankS Guidelinesfor Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995 and
   revised in January andAugust 1996,September 1997,and January 1999).The Bank's standard
   biddingdocuments for works and goods, the standardprequalification document (ifapplicable) andthe
   standardbid evaluation form will be usedinthe process. Where the national standardbidding
   documents exist, they should ensure that the procedures are acceptable to IDA. Where the national
   standardbiddingdocuments do not exist, the Bank'sStandardBiddingDocuments for works andgoods
   shall be adopted inthe form satisfactory to IDA for all NCB procurement packages. The principles o f
   economy, transparency, efficiency and fair participation will be verified for all procurement actions.
   Suchbiddingdocuments for NCB procedures will ensure that : (i)        bidswill be advertised innational
   and regional newspaperswith wide circulation; (ii)    the biddocument clearly explains the bidevaluation
   and award criteria; (iii)bidders are given adequateresponse time (minimumfour weeks) to prepare and
   submit bids; (iv) bidswill be awardedto the lowest evaluated bidder; (v) eligible bidders, including
   foreign bidderswill not be precluded from participating; and(vi) no domestic preference margins are
   applicable to domestic manufacturers or suppliers or contractors.

   4. Requirementsfor large scale items such as civil works for the repairs o f heath centers, medical
   supplies andvehicles will be consolidated andthe procurement administrationwill be carriedout by the
   Executive Secretariatusingthe intemational competitive bidding(ICB) or NCB methods. Procurement
   will be grouped where feasible into packagesvalued at US$lOO,OOO equivalent or more for goods.
   Deliveryof goods to the enduserswill either be done directly by the suppliers or through separate
   distribution contracts that will ensure timely delivery o f the goods. It will be necessary to ensure that
   adequate procurement capacity i s available at the center (Executive Secretariat) to organize the


                                                     - 53 -

procurement and distribution.

Selection of consultants

5. The selection of consultantsnecessaryfor the execution of the project will take place inaccordance
with the Bank's Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
(January 1997, revised in September 1997,January 1999 and May 2002). The Bank Standard
Request for Proposals will be usedandForms o f Contracts as needed(lump-sum, time-based, andor
simplifiedcontracts for short term assignmentsand individual consultants) as well as the Sample Form
of Evaluation Report for the Selection o f Consultants. The normal methodwill be quality and cost
based (QCBS) selection. Shortlists o f contracts estimated under US$lOO,OOO may be comprised only
of national consultants from the corridor countries (inaccordancewith paragraph 2.7 o fthe
Guidelines) provided that sufficient numbers of qualified firms (at least three) are available at
competitive costs. Contracts for training institutions for workshopshraining shouldbe based on a
competitive process, using consultant's Qualification Method o f selection.

Essentially, communities would receive andmanage small grants. Participationby communities in
procurement would be basedon Simplified Procurement andDisbursementProcedures for
Community-Based Projects (February 1998).

Advertising

6. A General Procurement Notice (GPN) has already been published as well as a SPN for expressions
of interest for management consultancy services. Any subsequentupdate of the GPN will be advertised
inthe UNDevelopmentBusiness and innationalnewspapersofthe five transport corridor countries.
The GPN will list all ICB works contracts (above US$200,000 equivalent or more), goods contracts
(above US$lOO,OOO or more) and large contracts for selection o f consultants services (above
US$lOO,OOO equivalent or more) to obtain expressions o f interest and to draw-up a pool of solid
candidate f m s from which to compile the short list.

7. The relatedpre-qualification (ifany) or the biddingdocuments, as applicable, will not be released,
andthe short list for consultant services will not be prepared before eight weeks after the GPN has
beenpublished. The GPN will be updated annually for those contracts still outstanding. The GPN will
also be issued inthe national and any regional press or official gazettes o fthe five countries along the
Abidjan-Lagos transport corridor, for contracts to be let underNCB. A Specific Procurement Notice
(SPN) for all goods and works to beprocuredunder ICB and Expressions of Interest (EOI) for all
consulting services with a value inexcess o f US$lOO,OOO will be advertised inthe national press o f
wide circulation inthe five countries along the Abidjan-Lagos transport corridor, and internationally
for large contracts (ICB).

Procurement Capacity

8. Since the Executive Secretariati s not fully operational, and the Management Agency has not yet
been contracted to carry out project procurement functions, it is not possible to assess full procurement
capacity at this stage. As soon as key staff are recruited and the Management Agency has been
contracted, the Executive Secretariat, together with the Management Agency, will be evaluated to
determine whether all conditions are inplace to procure incompliance with World Bank procedures.
Untilthen, procurement for the project will be carried out bythe Executive Secretariatofthe Benin
MAP, which has all the capacity to procure incompliance with World Bank procedures. The


                                                 - 54 -

contracted Management Agency for the project, will include inthe staff composition, a Procurement
Specialist who should be familiar with World Bank's procurement procedures andwould work closely
with each o f the implementing agencies under the project to ensure efficient andtimely project
execution through compliance with the procurement schedules agreed with the Bank. The Procurement
Specialist will: (a) prepare and update the procurement plan for the project; (b) monitor the progress o f
procurement; (c) assist the implementing agencies inthe preparation o fbiddingdocuments and
advertisements for goods and works contracts and request for proposals for consulting assignments;
and (d) be responsible for bidopening and evaluation. The Procurement Specialist will also advise the
implementing agencies on procedural matters. H e will prepare quarterly reports on procurement
administration. These reports will include information about: (i)  complaints/disputes; (ii)performance
o f contractors/consultants; procurement issues; (iii)
                                                     revisedcost estimates for contracts; (iv) revised
timingo fprocurement actions andcompletion times; updatedprocurement planfor the year; and (v)
compliance with aggregate limitson specified procurement methods.

9. For community sub-project, the communities, through their representatives committees, would be
responsible for the procurement process using the simplified procurement procedures as described in
the project Operations Manual. The adoption o f the manual satisfactory to IDA is a condition o f
effectiveness. Sub-projects from communities would indicate how procurement would be organized. In
order to ensure that participating agencies are familiar with Bank's procurement guidelines in general
and the procurement procedures in this project in particular, the Executive Secretariat, with the
assistance o f IDA, will provide a series o f workshops, with the first workshop organized immediately
after effectiveness. The subsequent workshops will be organized, whenever feasible, so as to coincide
with IDA supervision missions so that the procurement specialist can be a resource person for the
workshops as part o f the supervision missions. The costs o f these workshops will be covered under the
project costs. These workshops will also act as forums to review procurement problems experienced
duringproject implementation with a view to identify measures that would address these problems. The
Executive Secretariat, as well as annual external technical audits, will play a critical role in providing
assistance to participating agencies in carrying out their activities in accordance with the project
Implementation Manual.

ProcurementPlan

10. A global procurement plan for the whole project anda detailedprocurementplanfor the first year
o f the project will be prepared andfinalized before effectiveness. The procurement planincludes
relevant information on all goods, works and services contracts under the project as well as the timing
o f each milestone inthe procurement process. The procurement schedule will be updated every six
months and submitted to IDA. The Procurement Specialist would monitor the progress o f procurement
andimplementation o feach contract under the project andwould ensure effective andtimely project
execution.

OperationsManual

11. The operational manual has been drafted and is expected to be finalized after the Governing Body
has reviewed the content. The section o f this manual related to procurement will be incompliance with
the procurement arrangements described inthis annex. Specifically, subprojects identified and executed
byNGOs or other civil society organizations will be carried out inaccordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank as described inthe operational manual.




                                                -55  -

ProcurementImplementationArrangements

12. The organizations that will be involved inthe implementation o fthe procurement activities are:

13. TheManagement Consultant on behalfof the Executive Secretariat. Itwill handle all procurement
activities for vehicles, office equipment, and all large items which can be grouped inbigpackages for
the public sector implementingagencies.

14. TheNGOs and theprivate sector (including CBOs). These will follow simple procurement
procedures acceptable to the World Bank (a decentralized procurement process usingthe Bank's
simplifiedprocurement & disbursement for community-based investments). Inany case, the principles
of transparency, equity, efficiency, and economy must be respected.

Procurement Methods

15. The methods to be usedfor procurement are describedbelow. The estimated amounts for each
method are summarized intable A. The threshold contract values for the use o f eachmethodare shown
intable B.

Goods (US$2.5million)

16. Giventhe urgency of the program, inorder to facilitate speedy procurement o f itemsrequired
urgently, some o fthe critical requirements could be obtained on a fast-track basis using appropriate
procurement methods directly from UnitedNations agencies (UNFPA, UNICEF, WHO, UNAIDS,
UNDP, IAPSO). Immediate requirements o fvehicles and office equipment specifically for the program
could be acquired from IAPSO or by local shopping (preferably ex-bonded warehouses on a
competitive basis) or internationalshopping. Furniturefor the Executive Secretariat could be procured
through local shopping. Where feasible, procurement agents could be used, including UNFPA for
procurement and distribution o f condoms, andpossibly other UnitedNations agencies for procurement
and distribution o f pharmaceuticals.

17. All procurement actions will follow standardIDA procurement guidelines and annual general
procurement notices (GPN) will be prepared and advertised inthe UnitedNations' Development
Business. The distribution to the final users can be done through the NGOs, or the CBOs. Inorder to
facilitate the procurement process, the thresholds will be established as statedbelow for essential
goods: (i)  ICB: equal or above US$lOO,OOO equivalent for drugs; (ii) Less than US$lOO,OOO up
                                                                            NCB:
to a total amount o f US$490,000; (iii) or international shopping: US$50,000 up to a total
                                             National
amount o f US$200,000.

18. The project will finance community sub-projects related to HIV/AIDS activities such as
IEC-related activities andmaterials, minor repairs or works, purchase o f generic drugs, care and
support for AIDS patients and orphans, awarenesscampaigns, income generating activities for people
livingwith HIV/AIDS andtheir dependants. Fundingthese activities will be inthe form of grants.

19. Financingwill depend on applications received from communities, NGOs and private organizations
against positive lists o f activities. It is not possible to determine the exact mix o f goods, small works,
and services to beprocuredunder these activities due to their demand driven nature. Therefore, the type
of activities to be financed andtheir procurement details will depend on the needidentified by the


                                                     - 56 -

communities. Procurement o f items for the implementation o f sub-projects will be carried out in
accordance with simplified procurement procedures referred to in section 3.15 of the guidelines and in
accordance with the project ImplementationManual. The manual contains a special chapter describing
the procedures andtools inaccordancewith those found inthe Bank's Guidelinesfor simplified
Procurement and Disbursementfor Community-based Investments (February 1998). The Executive
Secretariat will be responsible for ensuring compliance with these guidelines. Ex-post reviews o f
random sub-projects will be conducted periodically by the Bank andthrough independent technical
audits.

Civil Works (US$ 0.72 million)

20. Regardingcivil works, for example inrehabilitation o ffacilities, the procurement procedures will
be as follows: (i)NCB: Equalor more than US$ 100,000 upto a total amount of US$480,000, and (ii)
Procurement of small works: Less than US$50,000 up to a total amount o f US$240,000 on the basis o f
at least three quotations received on the basis o f specifications prepared.

Consulting Services (US$2.80 million)

21. Selection and appointment o f consultants for studies, technical assistance, promotion o f the project
activities, and support ofproject execution would be carried out inaccordancewith the Guidelines: Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997, revisedin September 1997, January 1999,
and May 2002 (Consultant Guidelines). As a rule, consultant services would be procuredthrough
Quality and Cost-based selection (QCBS) methodology. All consultancy assignments estimated to cost
the equivalent ofUS$100,000 or more would be advertised innationalnewspapersofthe five countries
andinDevelopment Business(UNDB).Inaddition, the contracts may be advertised inan international
newspaper or a technical magazine seeking "expressions o f interest." Inthe case o f assignments
estimated at US$lOO,OOO or less, the assignment may be advertised nationally inthe five corridor
countries andthe shortlist may be made up entirely of national consultants from the five corridor
countries (inaccordancewith paragraph 2.7 o f the consultants Guidelines). Consultant services
estimated to cost less than the equivalent o f US$50,000 may be contracted by comparingthe
qualifications o f consultants who have expressedan interest inthe job or who have beenidentified.
Selection o f individual consultant services for small studies and specialized advisory services will be
based on comparison o f Curriculum vitae inaccordancewith paragraph 5.1 through 5.3 o f the
Guidelines

22. Single Source Selection. Services may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in
accordancewith the provisions o fparagraphs 3.8 through 3.11o f the Consultant Guidelines. This will
bereviewed at the point at which the procurement planfor the fxst year is finalized and any potential
examples o f where this could be viewed as efficient and economic will be assessed.

23. CommercialPractices. Services to assist beneficiaries incarrying out subprojects and estimated to
cost less than US$ 10,000 equivalent, may be procured inaccordance with commercialpractices
acceptableto the Association.

24. Operational costs. Operating costs include incrementaloperating costs incurredon account o f
project implementation, management andsupervision, including office supplies, communication costs,
travel allowance o f project staff but excluding salaries o f the grant recipient's civil service.




                                                 - 57 -

Prior Review Thresholds.

25. Goods and Works: Contractsfinancedby IDA, above the threshold value of US$ 100,000
equivalent for civil works andgoodswill be subject to IDA prior reviewas per paragraph2 of
Appendix Iof the Guidelines. For individualcontracts for goods andworks however, the first three
contract packagesregardlessof size shall be subject to IDA prior review as per paragraph 2 o f
Appendix Iofthe Guidelines. This appliesto bothcontracts awaredthrough NCB andthrough
shoppingin each case.

26. Consulting services: For consultancy contracts with firms with an estimatedvalue of US$lOO,OOO
or more, and US$50,000 or more inthe case ofindividuals, the draft request for proposals (RFP) and
the shortlistof consultants must be clearedby IDA prior to inviting proposals from consultants.

 PostReviewThreshold

27. Contracts that are not subject to prior reviewwouldbe selectively reviewedby the Bank during
projectimplementationandwouldbe govemedby theproceduresset forth inparagraph4 of Appendix
Itotheguidelines

Readinessfor Implementation

28. Draftsof the documents requiredfor the effectivenessof the grant will be preparedand finalizedby
effectiveness as follows: (a) A draft Operations1manualhas beenpreparedduringproject preparation
andwill be discussedwith the mainactors includingthe NGOs; (b) A draft of the generalprocurement
planfor the whole project anda detailedprocurementplanfor the first year will be preparedandwill
be finalizedinterms ofpackagingfor goods anda few cases of consultant selectionmethods; (c) A first
updateofthe GPNand a SPN for expressionof interestfor any largevalue contracts expectedto be
issuedduringthe first year of the programwill bepreparedandpublished.

  Procurementmethods(Table A)


                             Table A: Project Costs by ProcurementArrangements
                                               (US$ million equivalent)


                                                                Procurement Method'
     Expenditure Category                      ICB                  NCB              Othei             N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                                       0.00                  0.48              0.24              0.00          0.72
                                              (0.00)                (0.42)            (0.23)            (0.00)       (0.65)
2. Goods                                       1.97                  0.49              0.04              0.00         2.50
                                              (1.94)                (0.47)            (0.03)            (0.00)       (2.44)
3. Services                                    0.00                  0.00              4.39              0.00         4.39
and training                                  (0.00)                (0.00)            (4.39)            (0.00)       (4.39)
4. Grants for Subprojects                      0.00                  0.00              5.20              0.00          5.20
                                              (0.00)                (0.00)            (5.20)            (0.00)       (5.20)
5. Operating Costs                             0.00                  0.00              3.54              0.00          3.54
                                              (0.00)                (0.00)            (2.48)            (0.00)       (2.48)
PPF                                            0.00                  0.00              0.35              0.00          0.35
                                              (0.00)                (0.00)            (0.35)            (0.00)       (0.35)
    Total                                      1.97                  0.97              13.76             0.00         16.70
                                              (1.94)                (0.89)           (12.68)            (0.00)       (15.51)

  I'Figures inparentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant. All costs include contingencies.

 21 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services o f
    contracted staff o f the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating
    costs relatedto (i) managing the project, and (ii)re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                          - 59 -

Prior reviewthresholds(TableB)

                Table B: Thresholdsfor Procurement Methodsand Prior Review'

                               Contract Value                                         Contracts Subject to
                                 Threshold                   Procurement                   Prior Review
  Expenditure Category         (US$ thousands)                 Method                     (US$ millions)
1. Works                          =or >200                       ICB                            All

                                 50 to <200                      NCB                    Firstthree contracts
                                                                                    (irrespective ofvalue) and
                                                                                        all contracts above
                                                                                             $100,000

                                                                                        Firstthree contracts
                                     <50                  (Three Quotations)       (irrespective ofvalue). All
                                                                                        others: Post-Review



2. Goods                          = or > 100                     ICB                            All

                                  50 to <IO0                     NCB                    Firstthree contracts
                                                                                    (irrespective ofvalue). All
                                                                                        Others: Post-Review

                                                                                        Firstthree contracts
                                     <5 0                      Shopping             (irrespective ofvalue). All
                                                                                        Others:Post-Review
3. Services
Iirms                             =or > 100                      QCBS                           All

                                                           Various Methods
                                    <IO0              to be agreed annuallybased            Post-Review
                                                          on the Annual Work
                                                               Program)
ndividuals                                                       3 cvs
                                  =or>50                                                        All
                                                                 3 cvs
                                     < 50                                                   Post-Review
1. Training and                Regardlessof value               CQ/IC                           All



               Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$4.00million
                       Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:        High
      Frequencyof procurementsupervisionmissionsproposed: One every six months
                                                                   (includes specialprocurement supervisionfor
                                                                   post-reviewlaudits)



                                               -60 -

Post-...
     reviewswill apply to one (1) contract out of five (5) not subject to prior-review.
          .-.-.....-    .-
I\Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult "Assessment o f Agency's Capacity to Implement
 Procurement" and contact the RegionalProcurementAdviser for guidance.




                                                      -61 -

             Annex 6(B): Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
       WESTERN AFRICA: HIVIAIDS PROJECT FOR ABIDJAN                        - LAGOS     TRANSPORT
                                                 CORRIDOR

FinancialManaPement
1. Summary ofthe FinancialManagementAssessment

The management consultant (agency) which will have the responsibility for the project's financial
management under the direction o f the Executive Secretary (ES) i s yet to be recruited. Therefore, it i s not
possible at this stage to assess: (a) the financial management capacity o f the management consultant; (b)
and the compliance of its financial management system with Bank procedures. The project's financial
management system will be assessed as soon as the management consultant i s recruited. This should
include explicit opinions on the status of the financial management system in place at the time of
assessment (accounting and reporting systems, intemal control system), including any financial
management risk. Eventually, an action plan to strengthen the financial management system will be
provided. An operational manual is beingprepared and a draft i s already available. This manual covers the
operational and financial aspects o f project management.

2. Audit Arrangements
Independent and qualified auditors will carry out the audit o fproject accounts (local andforeign currency
accounts). The selection o f auditors will be on a competitive basis inaccordancewith the World Bank's
guidelines. There will be two audits requiredunder this project:
0       Audit ofthe project accountsmanaged by the Executive Secretariat; and
0       Audit o f any subproject accounts.
The project financial statements, SOEs and the Special Accounts will be audited by the selected
auditors. The auditors' reports and opinions inrespect o f each o f these statements o f accounts will
be submitted to IDA within six months following the closure o f each fiscal year. To complement the
financial audit, a technical audit of gooddequipment purchased by the project, or the procedures used to
approve community proposals will be undertakento assess their quality and efficiency.

3. DisbursementArrangements
The management consultant (agency) the head ofthe team will be a Financial Managment Specialist will
                                       -                                                                 -
be entrusted with the project's overall financial management and reporting through a contractual
arrangementwith the Executive Secretariat andwill serve as the principal contact for Bank disbursement.
Implementing agencies (public sector and civil society) will be accountable for reporting on their activities.
Payments to the beneficiaries will be disbursed from the Special Accounts or sub special accounts
following predetermineddisbursementschedules specified inthe respective project proposals andbe
effected expeditiously when due. Fundmanagement will follow transparentprocedures that will be
standardized across implementing agencies and detailed inthe project operational manual.

Flow of Funds
The project will opentwo special accounts (SA-A inFCFA andSA-B indollar) ina credible commercial
bank inBeninto finance project expenses. The SAs will be managed by the management consultant under
the responsibility ofthe Executive Secretary. Sub-special accounts (also known as secondgeneration
special accounts) canbe opened inthe project countries to finance community proposals approved at
country level by the technical intermediary ofthe project. The management modalities for those sub special
accounts will be specified inthe project operational manual.



                                                     - 62 -

(i) thepurchaseofmedicalequipment,medicalsupplies,laboratoryreagents,condoms,IECequipment,
    For
consultant services, coordination expenses etc, the establishedprocedures for financing activities with IDA
funds will be applied inorder to enhance efficiency and economies of scale, following the related
established procurement requirements, resulting ineither Direct Payment or payment from the Cotonou
based Special Accounts.

(ii) communitylevel,theprojectwillgiveprioritytoproposalssubmittedbythebordercommunitiesand
    At
civil society organizations. There will be two channels: Larger proposals to be submitted directly, smaller
through intermediary agents who will be selectedon a competitive basis. Approval o f larger proposals will
be done at the Executive Secretariato fthe project based inBenin.Once approved, funds to fund the
proposals will be sent from the special accounts inBeninto the local communities' or NGO's banking
accounts. After ensuring that border areas are adequately served, priority will be given to proposals
targeting other areas along the corridor. Intermediarypartners can also act on behalf of communities.

The corridor project may also conclude agreement with a local MAPproject or any acceptable fidagency,
which has capacity for this kindo f operation, to channel funds to the communities. The choice will be
based on the comparative advantages o f such anundertaking. The sub special accounts (SSA) or advance
account may be openedand managedby the respective country MAP Executive Secretariat or the
fidagency selectedwhich will channel funds to communities for financing community activities. The SSA
fund will be exclusively usedfor the financing of subprojects initiatedby communities, registered
associations (social, occupational, professional, religious), NGOs, and private sector unions.

Allocation of grant proceeds (Table C)

                                 Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds

           ExpenditureCategory                 Amount in US$million              FinancingPercentage
 1. Civil works                                          0.65                              90%
2. Consultant services and audit                         2.80                              100%
3. Training                                              1.60                             100%
4a. Goods: vehicles and office equipment                 0.34                    100%foreign, 90% local
4b Goods: drugs, tests and medical                       2.10                             100%
supplies
5. Grants                                                5.20                   100% o f amounts disbursed
6. Operating Costs                                       2.48                              80%
7. PPF                                                   0.35
Unallocated                                              1.06
Total ProjectCostswith Bank                              16.58
Financing
Total                                                    16.58




 Use of statements of expenditures(SOEs):
Use o f SOEs will be contingent upon a satisfactory assessment o f the Executive Secretariat's financial
management capacity, including the maintenance o f proper accounts, the preparationo fproject progress


                                                     - 63 -

reports, the ability to processand maintain SOE documentation, and satisfactory annual auditing
arrangements. Provided these conditions are met, SOEs will be used for all expenses. Furthermore, all
expensesrelated to contracts below prior-review thresholds will be claimed on the basis of SOEs and the
supporting documentation underlying all SOEs will be made available for reviewby Bank supervision
missions at any time. Supporting documentation will be retained by the Executive Secretariat.The primary
responsibility o f maintaining the records rests on the Executive Secretariat through its contracting
arrangements with the management consultant. A satisfactory assessment o f the financial management
systemwill be one o f the conditions for effectiveness. SOE thresholds will be: US$lOO,OOO for works and
goods; US$lOO,OOO for consultant services-firms; and US$50,000 for consultant services-individuals.
SOEs will also be usedfor civil society organizations' subprojects, training and operating costs.

Special account:
The grant recipient will open two special accounts (One special account inFCFA and another special
account inUnited States Dollars) inthe name ofthe project ina credible commercial bankinBenin, as
Beninhasbeenagreedupon as the recipient for the grant for five project countries. Project h d swill be
deposited to these special accounts which will be managedby the Executive Secretariat, on behalfo f the
five countries. Most ifnot all project funds will be disbursedthrough these accounts, with the Executive
Secretariat relyingas little as possible on direct payments from Washington. Only amounts exceeding 20%
o f the amount advanced to the special accounts can be claimedthrough the direct payment procedure. The
project will receive an initial advance to commence operations. The advance will be kept initially to a
limitedamount (FCFA350 million and US$350,000 respectively) while the project activities get underway,
butthe amount will be increased(FCFASOO millionandUS$500,000 respectively) once full execution
begins and cumulated disbursementsreach apredeterminedthreshold (SDR5 million equivalent). For
subsequent disbursements,the Executive Secretariatwill submit appropriate justification on the use o f
amounts disbursed earlier (bank reconciliation statementsand other reasonable documentation) to IDA.

Second generation special accounts:
There will be two secondgeneration special accounts denominated inFCFA (one basedinBeninto cater
for project activities inBeninand Togo and another, basedinCote d'Ivoire, to cater for project activities in
Cote d'Ivoire). There will be two second generation special accounts denominated inUnitedStates Dollars
based in Ghana and Nigeriarespectively, to cater for project activities inthese two countries.


       Special Accounts             Second generation special accounts
      Special Account A:           1.BasedinBeninfor project activities inBeninand
            (FCFA)                 Togo (FCFA120 million).
                                    2. BasedinCote d'Ivoire for project activities inCote
                                    d'Ivoire (FCFA80 million)
      Special Account B:           1.BasedinGhana for project activities inGhana
             (US$)                 (US$150,000).
                                    2. BasedinNigeria for project activities inNigeria
                                    (US$150.000).                                                  I
The special accounts and secondgeneration special accounts will be audited annually by an external
auditor acceptable to IDA.At the time o f replenishment o f the special accounts, the Executive Secretariat
will indicate on a reconciliation statement, the location and amounts outstanding inany other project
account.



                                                     - 64 -

                                Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
WESTERN AFRICA: HlVlAlDS PROJECT FOR ABIDJAN LAGOS TRANSPORT CORRIDOR
                                                                 -


\Timetaken to prepare the project (months)          I       12                      I         24               I
 First Bank mission (identification)                       05/30/2001                         05/30/2001
 Appraisal mission departure                                10/20/2002                        11/07/2002
 Negotiations                                               11/18/2002                        03/24/2003     -
 Planned Date of Effectiveness                             07/01/2003                         0313112004

Prepared by:
The core preparation team includes StephenBrushett (Task Team Leader), John StephenOsika (Senior
Health Specialist - Consultant), Jocelyne do Sacramento (Language Program Assistant), Antoine Lema
(Senior Social Scientist - Consultant), Leopoldine de Soma Padonou (Interim Executive Secretary),
 SubhashSeth (Operations Officer), Sic16 Silue (Regional Coordinator), Linda Patnelli (Language Program
Assistant), Hugues Agossou (Financial Management Specialist), Bella Diallo (Financial Management
Specialist), Asha Ayoung (Senior Procurement Specialist), Mamadou Sevede (Procurement Specialist        -
Consultant), Luc Lapointe (Procurement Specialist - Consultant), Nadeem Mohammad, Sr. Operation
Officer, Sheila Dutta (Senior Health Specialist), Bachir Souhlal (Lead Operations Specialist), Karen Hudes
(Senior Counsel), Claudine Morin (Previous Senior Counsel), Agnes Albert-Loth (Finance Officer),
 Serigne Omar Fye (Senior Environmental Specialist), Hitoshi Shoji (Previous Co-TTL), Pierre Mpele
(UNAIDSACT), Mamadou Sakho (UNAIDSACT), Jean Claude Courau (Consultant on Cost Estimate and
Analysis), David Wilson (Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist - Consultant).

 Preparation assistance:
0    A PHRD Grantby the Government o fJapan for US$440,000 (TF# 050515) was receivedandassisted
     inthe preparationofthe project.

0    UNAIDS ICT provided bothhuman and financial resources to support project preparation, including
     financial support for the operations of the InterimExecutive Secretariat and for some meetings o f the
     Governing Body.

0    USAID helped fund the July 2001workshop which launched project preparation.




                                                     - 65 -

3ank staff who worked on the projec included:

Stephen Brushett                           TeamLeader
John Stephen Osika                         Senior Health Specialist - Consultant
Jocelynedo Sacramento                      Language Program Assistant
Subhash Seth                               Operations Officer
Side Silue                                 Regional Coordinator
Linda Patnelli                             Language Program Assistant
Antoine Lema                               Senior Social Scientist Consultant
                                                                  -
HuguesAgossou                              Financial Management Specialist
Bella Diallo                               Financial Management Specialist
Mamadou Sevede                             Procurement Specialist
Luc Lapointe                               Procurement Specialist Consultant
                                                                  -- Consultant
Asha Ayoung                                Senior Procurement Specialist
NadeemMohammad                             Senior Operation Officer
Sheila Dutta                               Senior Health Specialist
Bachir Souhlal                             Lead Operations Specialist
KarenHudes                                 Senior Counsel
Agnes Albert-Loth                          Finance Officer
Serigne Omar Fye                           Senior Environmental Specialist
Hitoshi Shoji                              Previous Co-TTL
Claudine Morin                             Previous Senior Counsel


Peer reviewers were: JonathanBrown (Operations Advisor), George Tharakan (Lead Transport Specialist),
Jerry Lebo (Senior Transport Specialist), Iraj Talai (Lead Financial Management Specialist), Shimwaayi
Muntemba (Senior Social Scientist), Marie-Francoise Marie-Nelly (Program Manager).




                                                   - 66 -

                             Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
WESTERN AFRICA: HIV/AIDS PROJECT FOR ABIDJAN                 - LAGOS   TRANSPORT CORRIDOR


A. ProjectImplementationPlan
Draft Project Operational Manual, June 2002


B. Bank Staff Assessments
Back-to-Office Reportsdated: June 2001; August 2001; November 2001; February2002; May 2002;
December 2002; February2003
ProjectAppraisal Documentfor the SecondMulti-Country HIV/AIDS Program(MAP2) for Africa region
(IDAm2002-0004 datedJanuary 15,2002)
Quality EnhancementReview - PanelReport dated January 2002

C. Other
Analysis of the Situation and Responsein the Abidjan-Lagos Migration Corridor, July 2001 (UNAIDS
Inter-Country Team)
DocumentationFolder from ProjectPlanningWorkshop, July/August 2001 (Cotonou)
Report on ECOWAS Institutional Option, September2001(Jean-Claude Courau)
DocumentationFolders from the GoverningBody meetingsheld: October 2001(Cotonou); February2002
(Abidjan);April 2002 (Cotonou), November2002 (Cotonou)
MedicalWaste ManagementPlan, August 2002 (Mbaye MbengueFaye)
Analysis of the Elementsimpeding the SmoothCirculation of Traffic, August 2002 (Aoufa Ezzine, Sylvia
Asare, Joseph Mendy)
Coordination andImplementationPolicy Framework, July 2002 (Ikwo Ekpo)
Update of Situational Analysis andDraft Three Year Work Program, September2002 (Idrissa Ouedraogo,
Sadio Traore)
Agreement on ther Estabslishmentofthe Abidjan-Lagos Corridor Organizationfor the Fightagainst
HIV/AIDS, November 2002 (Robert Dossou)

*Including electronic files




                                                - 67 -

                                           Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
        WESTERN AFRICA: HlVlAlDS PROJECT FOR ABIDJAN LAGOS TRANSPORT CORRIDOR      -
                                                             Benin 12-Dec-2002
                                                                                                                          Difference between expected
                                                                                                                                   and actual
                                                                    Original Amount in US$ Millions                              disbursements'
 Project ID   FY   Purpose                                      IBRD         IDA                  GEF     Cancel.  Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
P072503      2002 Cotton Sector Reform Project                     0.00      18.00                  0.00     0.00     18.60        2.42      0.00
PO73118      2002 HIV/AIDSMULTISECTOR                              0.00      23.00                  0.00     0.00     22.80        1.33      0.00
PO61577      2001 PERAC (PublicExpend.Adjust. Credit)              0.00      10.00                  0.00     0.00     10.16       -0.03      0.00
P070204      2000 LABOR FORCE DEVELOPMENTPROJECT                   0.00       5.00                  0.00     0.00      4.08        2.27      0.00
PO67329      2000 BJ DistanceLearningProject LIL
                                             ~                     0.00       1.83                  0.00     0.00      0.58       13.38      0.22
P039882      2000 PRIVATESECTOR                                    0.00      30.40                  0.00     0.00     15.47      -13.38      5.46
PO37580      2000 NAT PARKSCONS.&MGT                               0.00       0.00                  6.00     0.00      4.23       -2.36      0.00
PO35648      1999 IST DECEN.CIlY MGMT.                             0.00      25.50                  0.00     0.00     10.31       11.11      0.00
PO35645      1998 SOCIAL FUND                                      0.00      16.70                  0.00     0.00      1.55       -1.37      -4.23
PO00118      1995 POPULATIONAND HEALTH                             0.00      27.80                  0.00     0.00      2.08        6.46      6.46

                                                       Total:     0.00      158.23                6.00       0.00     89.86       19.84       7.92




                                                          WESTERNAFRICA
                                                        STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                     HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                                              Jun 30 2002
                                                                       -
                                                          InMillions USDollars

                                                                                Committed                                  Disbursed
                                                                             IFC                                       IFC
     FY Approval                Company                              Loan     Equity       Quasi      Partic     Loan     Equity       Quasi      Partic
     1991193195                AEF BOAB                              0.00        0.02      0.00         0.00      0.00      0.02         0.00      0.00
     1995                      AEF UnionBenin                        0.00        0.08      0.00         0.00      0.00      0.08         0.00      0.00
     1999                      AEF Vision     +                      0.01        0.00      0.00         0.00      0.01      0.00         0.00      0.00
     1994                      Equipbail-Benin                       0.00        0.10      0.00         0.00      0.00      0.10         0.00      0.00
     2000                      FINADEV                               0.00        0.34      0.00         0.00      0.00      0.34         0.00      0.00
                                       Total Portfolio:              0.01        0.54       0.00        0.00       0.01       0.54       0.00       0.00

                                                                         ApprovalsPendingCommitment
     FY Approval              Company                                   Loan        Equity         Quasi       Partic
     2000                     FINADEV                                    1.41          0.00          0.00        0.00

                             Total PendingCommitment:                    1.41          0.00          0.00        0.00




                                                                  - 68 -

                                              Statement of Loans and Credits
                                                            GHANA:
                                                            05-Sep-2002

                                                                                                                    Differencebetweenexpected
                                                                                                                             and actual
                                                                 OriginalAmount in US$ Millions                           disbursements'


ProjectID  FY    Purpose                                     IBRD        IDA                  GEF    Cancel. Undisb.       Orig  Frm Rev'd


P067685    2002 GEF- NorthernSavanna TF050723
                                    -                           0.00      0.00                  7.90    0.04     7.95       -0.29      0.00
PO50623    2002 ROADSECTOR DEVELOPMENTPROGRAM                   0.00     220.00                 0.00    0.00  227.53       17.50       0.00
P000968    2001 AGRIC SERVICES                                  0.00     67.00                  0.00    0.00   64.92       66.15       0.00
PO71617    2001 Ghana AIDS ResponseProject(umbrella)            0.00     25.00                  0.00    0.00   23.40        -2.50      0.00
PO50616    2000 COMMUNITYWATER I1                               0.00     25.00                  0.00    0.00   19.76        -4.92      0.00
PO50624    2000 URBAN5                                          0.00     10.83                  0.00    0.00     8.23       6.14       0.00
PO69465    2000 RURALFINANCIALSERVICESPROJECl                   0.00      5.13                  0.00    0.00     4.90      10.30       0.00
PO00970    1999 TRADE GATEWAY& INV.                             0.00     50.50                  0.00    0.00   33.67       20.83       0.00
P000974    1999 NAT FUNCLIT PROG                                0.00     32.00                  0.00    0.00   26.65        12.52      1.10
PO50615    1999 PUBSECTOR MNGT.PROG                             0.00     14.30                  0.00    0.00     4.91        5.39      0.00
PO40659    1999 COMMUNITYDEV.                                   0.00      5.00                  0.00    0.00     4.59        3.87      0.87
P040557    1999 ERSOII                                          0.00     178.20                 0.00   18.41   27.40         0.45      0.00
PO45188    1998 FOREST BIODIVERSITY                             0.00      0.00                  8.90    0.00     6.68        3.77      0.00
PO00946    1998 NAT.RES.MANAGEMENT                              0.00      9.30                  0.00    0.00     1.45        1.77      0.00
PO41150    1997 VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE                          0.00     30.00                  0.00    0.00   12.61         9.72      0.00
PO45588    1997 PUB. FIN. MGMT. TAP                             0.00     20.90                  0.00    0.00     6.35        8.17      0.00
PO00973    1996 URBAN ENVIRONMENTALSANITATION                   0.00     71.00                  0.00    0.00     8.83       16.50      5.14
P000975    1996 BASIC EDUCATION                                 0.00     50.00                  0.00    0.00     1.26        5.80      0.00
PO42516    1996 PUBLICENTERPRISE/PR                             0.00     26.45                  0.00    0.00     9.20       11.36      0.00
P000926    1995 GH THERMAL(P-VII)                               0.00     175.60                 0.00    0.00   27.77        33.06     32.35
P000962    1995 FISHERIES                                       0.00      9.00                  0.00    0.00     0.90        1.56      0.00
P000936    1994 LOCALGOVT DEV.                                  0.00     38.50                  0.00    0.00     2.48        3.68      0.00



                                                     Total:    0.00    1063.71               16.80     18.45   531.43      230.81      39.45




                                                               - 69   -

                                       WESTERNAFRICA
                                       STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                     HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                          Jun30 - 2002
                                        InMillions USDollars

                                                         Committed                        Disbursed
                                                       IFC                              IFC
F Y Approval    Company                          Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic  Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1993            AEF Afariwaa                     0.16     0.00     0.00     0.00   0.16   0.00    0.00  0.00
1995            AEF Antelope Co.                 0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00  0.00
2000            AEF Computer Sch                 0.23     0.00     0.00     0.00   0.23   0.00    0.00  0.00
2001            AEF GPPI                         1.70     0.00     0.00     0.00   1.70   0.00    0.00  0.00
1998            AEF NCS                          0.00     0.00     0.53     0.00   0.00   0.00    0.53  0.00
1997            AEF PTS                          0.00     0.00     0.3 1    0.00   0.00   0.00    0.31  0.00
1999            AEF PharmaCare                   0.28     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.28   0.00    0.00  0.00
1994            AEF Shangri-la                   0.93     0.00     0.00     0.00   0.93   0.00    0.00  0.00
1996            AEF Tacks Farms                  0.43     0.00     0.00     0.00   0.43   0.00    0.00  0.00
1989191/93      Cont Acceptances                 0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00  0.00
2001            DiamondCement                    5.00     1.oo     0.00     0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
2000            ELAC                             0.00     0.10     0.00     0.00   0.00   0.10    0.00   0.00
                GAGL                             0.00     0.00     3.26     0.00   0.00   0.00    3.26   0.00
1990191I96      GHANAL                           0.00     0.44     0.00     0.00   0.00   0.44    0.00   0.00
1991            Ghana Leasing                    0.00     0.15     0.00     0.00   0.00   0.15    0.00   0.00
                MFISSLC                          0.00     0.48     0.00     0.00   0.00   0.48    0.00   0.00
1992193         Wahome Steel                     0.23     0.00     0.00     0.00   0.23   0.00    0.00   0.00
2001
1989192

                       Total Portfolio:          8.96     2.17      4.10     0.00   3.96   1.17    4.10  0.00



                                                     Approvals Pending Commitment
F Y Aaoroval    Comaanv                            Loan      Eauitv     Ouasi    Partic


                Total PendingCommitment:            0.00       0.00      0.00     0.00




                                               - 70 -

                                      Statement of Loans and Credits
                                             COTE D'IVOIRE:


                                                                                                       Difference between expected
                                                                                                                and actual
                                                      Original Amount in US$ Millions                         disbursements'


Project ID  FY    Purpose                         IBRD         IDA        SF        GEF Cancel. Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd


PO55073     2000 ADULT LITERACY                      0.00       5.08                       0.00     5.08        0.02      0.00
PO37588     1999 AGRIC. SVCS. II                     0.00      50.81                       0.00   48.34        16.43      0.00
PO01187     1993 ECNMGMTTA                           0.00       16.88                      0.00     1.06        0.32      0.00
P035655     1998 EDUC.& TRG SUPPORT                  0.00      54.23                       0.00   51.90        13.14      0.00
PO37581     1995 EXPORTPROMOTIONAND                  0.00       5.07                       0.00     2.59        2.42      0.71
PO01214     1996 INTEGHLTHSERV DEVP                  0.00      38.28                       0.00   29.54       25.27       0.60
PO01186     1994 LABORFORCETRAINING                  0.00      16.62                       0.00     5.70        6.01      5.09
P037575     1995 MUNICIPALSUPPORT                    0.00      37.39                       0.00   24.03       26.44       0.00
PO01184     1995 PRIVATE ELECTRICITY                 0.00      69.56                       0.00   25.52        35.11      0.00
PO43736     1998 PSD TA                              0.00       12.30                      0.00   11.26         4.03      0.00
PO40115     1996 RAILWAYS REHAB                      0.00       18.52                      0.00     6.76        8.06      0.00
PO01194     1997 RURAL LAND (PNGTER)                 0.00      40.91                       0.00   33.82         1.80      0.00
PO01210     1994 RURALSAVINGS                        0.00       2.06                       0.00     0.97        0.91      0.00
PO01177     1998 TRANSPSECTORADJ                     0.00      205.78                      0.00   126.28       63.26     52.39
PO44912     1998 URBAN LAND MGMT                     0.00       10.02                      0.00     9.29        0.82      0.00



                                          Total:    0.00      583.51                       0.00   382.14      204.04      58.79




                                                    - 71 -

                                                   WESTERNAFRICA
                                                  STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                Heldand DisbursedPortfolio

                                                   InMillions US Dollars

                                                                        Committed                               Disbursed
                                                                      IFC                                    IFC
    FYApproval              Company                          Loan      Equity     Quasi     Partic     Loan    Equity        Quasi     Partic



                                  Total Portfolio:           0.00        0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00        0.00       0.00



                                                                  Approvals PendingCommitment
    FYApproval             Company                              Loan        Equity         Quasi     Partic


                           TotalPendingCommitment:               0.00          0.00        0.00        0.00

                                         Statement of Loans and Credits
                                                       TOGO:
                                                       02-Oct-2002

                                                                                                                Difference between expected
                                                                                                                         and actual
                                                            Original Amount in US$ Millions                            disbursements'

Project ID  FY    Purpose                               IBRD         IDA                        Cancel.  Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd


PO52263     1999 SOCIAL FUND                               0.00       5.00                         0.00      3.51        3.29      0.00
PO02891     1998 NAT.AGRICULTURE SERV                      0.00      26.20                         0.00     19.92       19.44      0.00
PO02865     1994 LOME URBAN DEVELOPMENT                    0.00      26.20                         0.00      1.17        2.06      0.00



                                                Total:    0.00       57.40                         0.00     24.60       24.79      0.00




                                                           - 72 -

                                                          WESTERN AFRICA
                                                        STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                       Held and Disbursed Portfolio
                                                             J u ~30 - 2002
                                                          InMillions USDollars

                                                                                Committed                               Disbursed
                                                                             IFC                                     IFC
    FY Approval                Company                              Loan      Equity      Quasi     Partic     Loan    Equity        Quasi     Partic
     1999                      W. Africa Cement                     3.83         0.00      1.23      0.00      3.83       0.00        1.23       0.00

                                        Total Portfolio:            3.83         0.00      1.23       0.00      3.83       0.00        1.23       0.00



                                                                         Approvals Pending Commitment
    FY Approval               Company                                  Loan        Equity         Quasi     Partic


                              Total Pending Commitment:                 0.00          0.00        0.00        0.00

                                                 Statement of Loans and Credits
                                                             NIGERIA:
                                                              02-Oct-2002

                                                                                                                        Difference between expected
                                                                                                                                 and actual
                                                                   Original Amount in US$ Millions                             disbursements'


Project ID  FY    Purpose                                      iBRD         IDA                        Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd


PO71494     2003 Universal Basic EducationProject                 0.00      101.00                        0.00     100.78        0.00      0.00
PO72018     2002 Nigeria:TransmissionDevelopmentProject           0.00      100.00                        0.00     102.67        8.82      0.00
PO70291     2002 HIVIAIDS ResponseProject                         0.00      90.30                         0.00     92.75        11.99      0.00
PO70290     2002 Health Systems                                   0.00      127.01                         0.00    134.92        0.00      0.00
PO69901     2002 Community Based Urban Development                0.00      110.00                         0.00    116.51        0.00      0.00
PO70293     2001 NG PRIVATIZATIONSUPPORTPROJECT                   0.00      114.29                         0.00    113.92       15.02      0.00
PO69086     2001 Community Based PovertyReduction                 0.00      60.00                          0.00    56.55         8.28      2.28
PO66571     2000 SECONDPRIMARYEDUCATIONPROJECT                    0.00      55.00                          0.00    48.19        48.99      0.00
PO65301     2000 ECON.MGMT.CAP.BLDG.                              0.00      20.00                          0.00     11.15        1.03      0.00
PO64008     2000 SMALL TOWNS WATER                                0.00       5.00                         0.00       3.69       -1.07      0.00



                                                       Total:    0.00      782.60                         0.00     781.12       93.06      2.28




                                                                  - 73 -

                                     WESTERN AFRICA
                                     STATEMENTOF IFC's
                                   HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                        J u ~30 - 2002
                                      InMillions USDollars

                                                       Committed                      Disbursed
                                                     IFC                            IFC
FY Approval   Company                          Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic  Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic
1998          AEF Ansbby                       0.10     0.00    0.00     0.00  0.10   0.00    0.00   0.00
1996198       AEF BaileiBridg                  0.32     0.00    0.00     0.00  0.32   0.00    0.00   0.00
1996          AEF Courdeau                     0.07     0.00    0.00     0.00  0.07   0.00    0.00   0.00
1997          AEF Ekesons                      0.10     0.00    0.00     0.00  0.10   0.00    0.00   0.00
1999          AEF GlobalFabri                  0.32    0.00     0.00     0.00  0.32   0.00    0.00   0.00
1999          AEF Hercules                     1.30    0.00     0.00     0.00  1.30   0.00    0.00  0.00
1999          AEF Hygeia                       0.29    0.19     0.00     0.00  0.29   0.19    0.00  0.00
1996          AEF Mid-East                     0.00     0.00    0.12     0.00  0.00   0.00    0.12   0.00
1997          AEF Moorhouse                    1.07    0.00     0.00     0.00  1.07   0.00    0.00   0.00
2000          AEF Oha Motors                   0.84     0.00    0.00     0.00  0.84   0.00    0.00   0.00
1997          AEF Radmed                       0.25     0.00    0.00     0.00  0.25   0.00    0.00   0.00
2001          AEF SafetyCenter                 0.50     0.00    0.00     0.00  0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
1997          AEF Telipoint                    0.08     0.00    0.00     0.00  0.08   0.00    0.00   0.00
1995          AEF Vinfesen                     1.oo     0.00    0.00     0.00   1.oo  0.00    0.00   0.00
1994          AbujaIntl                        1.75     0.71    0.00     0.00   1.75  0.71    0.00   0.00
1964166189    Arewa Textiles                   0.00     0.12    0.00     0.00  0.00   0.12    0.00   0.00
2000          CAPEFLJND                        0.00     7.50    0.00     0.00  0.00   3.75    0.00   0.00
2000          Citibank(Nig)                   39.20     0.00    0.00     0.00  9.20   0.00    0.00   0.00
2001          DeltaContractor                 15.00     0.00    0.00     0.00  0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
2000          DiamondBank                      0.00     0.00    18.00    0.00  0.00   0.00    18.00  0.00
2000          FSB                              4.50     0.00    18.00    0.00  0.00   0.00    18.00  0.00
1992          FSDH                             0.00     0.86    0.00     0.00  0.00   0.86    0.00   0.00
2000          GTB                             20.00     0.00    0.00     0.00  5.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
2000          IBTC                            20.00     0.00    0.00     0.00  20.00  0.00    0.00   0.00
1981/85/88    IkejaHotel                       0.00     0.25    0.00     0.00  0.00   0.25    0.00   0.00
1993          TouristCoNir                     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00  0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
2001          UBA                             30.00     0.00    0.00     0.00  0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00

                     Total Portfolio:        136.69    9.63     36.12    0.00  41.69   5.88   36.12  0.00



                                                   ApprovalsPendingCommitment
FYApproval    Company                            Loan     Equity     Quasi    Partic
2000          AEF SafetyCenter                    0.00      0.00      0.08    0.00
2002          MTNN                               75.00      0.00     25.00    0.00
2002          NTEF- SCB                          20.00      0.00     0.00     0.00
2001          FCMB                               10.00      0.00     0.00     0.00
2001          NovotelHotel                        2.50      1.50      0.00    0.00
2001          NTEF - ANZ
              CitibankflFCJV                     30.00      0.00     0.00     0.00
2002                                             10.00      0.00     0.00     0.00
              Total PendingCommitment:          147.50      1.50     25.08    0.00




                                             - 74 -

                                                    Annex IO: Country at a Glance
WESTERN AFRICA: HIVIAIDS PROJECT FOR ABIDJAN                                               - LAGOS           TRANSPORT CORRIDOR

                                                                      Sub-
 POVERTYand SOCIAL                                                  Saharan        LOW.
                                                            Benin     Africa     income      Developmentdiamond.
 2000
 Population,midyear(miliionsl                                  6.3      659        2,459                   Life expectancy
 GNI per capita (At/as method, US$)                           380       480         420
 GNI (At/asmethod, US$biliionsj                                2.4      313        1,030                           T

 Average annual growth, 1994.00
 PopulationI%)                                                 2.8       2.6         1.9
 Labor force (%)                                               2.9       2.6         2.4    GNi                                  Gross
                                                                                            per                                 primary
 Most recent estimate (latest year available, 199600)                                       capita                            enrollment
 Poverty(% ofpopulationbelownationalpoveflyline)               33
 Urbanpopulation(% oftota/populationJ                          42        34           32
 Llfe expectancyat birth (yearsl                               53         47          59
 Infantmortalitv (per 1.000 iive b1rfh.s)                      87         92          77
 Childmalnutrition(% of childrenunder5)                        29                                 Access to improvedwater source
 Access to an improvedwater source (% of Dopuiationj           63         55          76
 Illiteracy(% ofpopuiation age 15+j                            80         38          38
 Grossprimaryenrollment (% of school-agepopulation)            78         7a          96
     Male                                                      98         85         102     -Benin           - - - Low-incomegroup

     Female                                                    57         71          86

 KEY ECONOMICRATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                   1980      1990     1999         2000
 GDP (US$ billions)                                  1 4       1 8       2.4         2.3     Economic ratios'

 Grossdomestic investmenVGDP                        152       14.2     17.6         19.0
 Exports of qoods and serviceslGDP                  158       14.3     16.7         15.6                         Trade

 Grossdomestic savinnslGDP                          -6 3       2 2       6.4         6.3
 Gross nationalsavinqslGDP                           1 1       5.8     11.7         11.6
 Current accountbalancelGDP                        -14 0      -5.1      -5.9        -7.6
 InterestPaymentsIGDP                                0 2       0.8       0.8         0.6
 TotaldebUGDP                                       302       70.0     71.2         70.7
 Totaldebt servicelexports                           4 9       8 0     14.6         17.2
 Presentvalue of debtiGDP                                             40.1
 Presentvalue of debtiexports                                         198.1
                                                                                                            Indebtedness
                                         1980.90 1990-00     1999     2000       2000-04
 (avaraqe annualgrowth)
 GDP                                         2 5     4 7       5.0       5.0         6.0      -
 GDP per capita                             -07      1 8       2.1       2.2         3.2              Benin -       Low-incomegroup

 Exportsof qoods and services               -43      4 3      24.7     -2.4         24.5


 STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY
                                                   1980      1990     1999         2000
 (% of GDP)                                                                                 Growth of investmentand GDP (%)

 Aqriculture                                        35.4      38.1     37.9         37.1    loo1
 Industry                                           12.3      13.2     13.8         13.8
    Manufacturinq                                    8.0       7.8       8.3         8.3
 Services                                           52.3      50.7    48.3          49.1
 Private consumption                                97.7      88.8     83.5         82.3
 General qovernmenlconsumDtion                       8.6      11.0     10.1         11.3
 Imports of qoods and services                      37.3      26.3    28.0          28.2

                                                 1980-90 1990-00      1999         2000
 (average annualgrowth)                                                                    IGrowthof    exports and imports (%)
Agriculture                                          5.1      5.3       4.7          5.0    50
 Industry                                            3.4      3.9       3.2          7.4    25
    Manufacturing                                    5.1      5.6       6.5          7.0
 Services                                            0.7      4.5       5.8          4.3     0

 Private consumption                                 1.9      4.0       0.8          3.2   -25

Generalgovernmentconsumption                        0.5       4.2     11.6          19.8
 Gross domestic investment                          -5.3      5.3     11.1           9.7
 Importsof goods and services                       -6.2      2.5       8.3          3.0

 Note:2000 data are preliminaryestimates.
This table was producedfromthe DevelopmentEconomicscentraldatabase.
* The diamonds show four key indicatorsin the country(in bold)comparedwith its income-groupaveraqe. If data are missinq,the diamondwill




                                                                        - 75 -

                                                                                                                               Benin
                                                ~




PRICESand GOVERNMENTFINANCE
                                               1980    1990        1999    2000       Inflation(%)
Domesticprices
(% change)                                                                             T
Consumer prices                                          1.1         0.3     3.5
ImplicitGDP deflator                            10.2     1.6         2.1     5.1

Government finance
(% of GDP, includes currenf grants)
Currentrevenue                                           9.2        16.1    15.9
Current budget balance                                  -5.4         5.1     3.6    1          ---GDPdeRalor          l o l C P l    I
Overall surDlus/deficit                                -10.8        -1.2    -3.5

TRADE
                                              1980     1990        1999    2000
(US$millions)                                                                        Export and import levels (US$ mill.)

Total exports(fob)                                      118         236     246      son-
 Ginned Cotton                                           80         194     208
 Crude Oil                                               26
 Manufactures
Total imports (cifl                                     298         461     453
 Food                                                    78         141     139
 Fueland energy                                          31          59      80
 Capitalgoods                                           157         256     254
                                                                                                                            99   00
Exportpriceindex (1995=100)                                                                94     95     96    97    98

Importpriceindex (1995=100J                                                                        Exports        llmports
Terms of trade (1995=700J

BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                              1980     1990        1999    2000     1 Current
(US$ millions)                                                                                account balance to GDP (%)

Exportsof goods and services                     306    402         397     360
Importsof goods and services                     608    563         665     651
Resourcebalance                                -302    -161        -267    -290

Net income                                        -3    -39         -18      -17
Net currenttransfers                             107    105         145     136

Currentaccount balance                         -197     -95        -141    -172

Financingitems (net1                             178    205         148     164
Changesin net reserves                            19   -110          -7        7

Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$millions)
Conversionrate (DEC, /ocal/US$)               211.3   272.3       615.7    712.0

EXTERNALDEBT and RESOURCEFLOWS
                                              1980     1990        1999    2000
(US$ millions)                                                                        Composition of2000 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstandingand disbursed              424  1,292       1,686    1,599
  IBRD                                             0      0           0        0
  IDA                                            52     326         574     578                     F : 3 a 7 2


Total debt service                               20      38          70      77
  iBRD                                            0       0           0        0
  IDA                                             0       3          10       10          E:493

Compositionof net resourceflows
  Official grants                                41     110          98
  Official creditors                             56     102          35      17
  Private creditors                               0       0           0       0
  Foreigndirect investment                        4       1          31
  Portfolioequity                                 0       0           0                             D:369

World Bank program
  Commitments                                    10       3          56        7     A IBRD
                                                                                       -                                 E Bilateral
  Disbursements                                  12      56          49      37      B- IDA       D- Othermultilateral   F Private
                                                                                                                            --
  Principalrepayments                             0       1           6        6     C IMF
                                                                                       -                                 G -Short-term
  Netflows                                       12      55          43      30
  Interestpayments                                0       2           4       4
  Net transfers                                  12      53          39      26


Note:This table was producedfrom the DevelopmentEconomicscentral database.                                                     11/1/01

                                                                       Sub.
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                                   Saharan         Low-
                                                           Ghana      Africa      income      Developmentdiamond'
2000
Population, mid-year(millionsl                                19.2       659        2,459                  Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                             340       480         420     1
GNI (Atlas method, US$ bi/lions)                               6.6       313        1,030                         -

Average annual growth, 1994-00

Population(%)                                                  2.4       2.6          1 9
Laborforce 1%)                                                 2.6       2.6          2 4     GNI                                    Gross
                                                                                              Der                                   primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 199400)                                                                              enrollment
Poverty (% ofpopulation belownationalpoveityline)
Urbanpopulation(% of totalPOPUlatiOn)                           38        34          32     I                    I
Lifeexpectancy at birth (years)                                 58        47          59                         i
Infantmortality(per 1,000live births)                           57        92          77
Child malnutrition(% of childrenunder 5)                        25                                 Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)              64       55           76
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                             29        38          38
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-agepopulation)            79        75          96
    Male                                                        84        85          102                   Low-incomeorouo
    Female                                                      74        71          86

KEYECONOMICRATIOS and LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                 1980         1990     1999         2000
                                                                                              Economicratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                                  4.4        5 9       7 8          5 2
Grossdomestic investmenVGDP                         5.6       144       21 0         23 7                        Trade
Exports of qoods and services/GDP                   8.5       169       319          49 2
Currentaccount balance/GDP                         -1.2        -7 3   -11 5          -8 8
Total debVGDP                                     31.5        658       902         1294
Total debt service/exports                         13.1       233       208          194
Presentvalue of debVGDP                                                 49 1         76 2
Presentvalue of debVexports                                           1524          1624

                                     1980-90 1990-00          1999    2000       2000-04                       Indebtedness
(averageannualgrowth)
GDP                                       3 0      41          4 4       3 7          4 8             -Ghana
GDP per capita                           -05        14         2 1       1 4          2 2                     Low-incomegroup
Exports of goods and services             2.5      10.8        7 8       1 8          2 7


STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY
                                                 1980         1990     1999         2000
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                       57.9        44.8      35.8         35.3
industry                                          11.9        16.8      25.4         25.4
   Manufacturing                                    7.8        9.8       9.0          9.0

Privateconsumption                                83.9        85.2      82.7         81.4
Generalgovernment consumption                     11.2         9.3      13.6         15.3
Importsof goods and services                       9.2        25.9      49.2         69.6               -GDI            - 0 - G O P



                                               1980-90 1990-00         1999         2000
(averageannualgrowth)                                                                         Growth of exports and imports (%)

Agriculture                                         1.0        3.4       3.9          2.1    6oT                                            I
Industry                                           3.3         2.8       4.9          3.8
   Manufacturing                                   3.9        -3.3       4.6          3.7
Services                                           5.7         5.3       4.7          5.1

Privateconsumption                                 2.8         3.9       9.3         -3.2
Generalgovernment consumption                      2.4         5.4      -5.4         20.1
Grossdomestic investment                           3.3         2.3      -3.3        .19.1
Importsof goods and services                       0.6        11.2      10.9        .17.3



Note: 2000 data are preliminaryestimates.
*The diamonds show four key indicatorsin the Country(in bold) comparedwith its income-groupaverage.If data are missing,the diamondwill
    be incomplete.




                                                                      - 77 -

                                                                                                                Ghana
                                            ~~




PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                        1980    1990    1999    2000
Domestic prices                                                         Inflation(%)

(%change)                                                               6o T                                          I
Consumerprices                                   37.3    12.4    25.0   60
implicitGDP deflator                     51.1    31.2    14.0    27.2   40

Governmentfinance                                                       20
(% of GDP, includescurrent grants)                                       0
Current revenue                           7.5    12.5    17.1    18.6            95   96      97       98     99     00
Current budget balance                   -7.9     1.7     0.7     0.1
Overallsurolusldeflcit                           -5.7    -9.1    -9.1           -GDP      deflator   ' O I C P I


TRADE
                                        1980    1990    1999    2000
(US$ millions)                                                          Exportand import levels(US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                               897   2,006   1,898                                                 I
                                                                         ,000 T
 Cocoa                                            361     552    437
 Timber                                           119     174    175
 Manufactures
Total imports(cif)                              1,290   3,523  2,973
 Food                                              39
 Fuel and energy                                  205     342    533
                                                                                                                   "I
 Capitalgoods                                     226
Export price index (1995=100)                      91      89      80          94   95   96     97     90    99

Import price index (1995=100)                     100      90    101                  Exports           Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                          91      99      79

BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                        1980    1990    1999    2000
(US$ millions)                                                          Current accountbalanceto GDP (%)

Exportsof goods and services            1,210     982   2,473  2,402
Importsof goods and services            1,175   1,505   3,826  3,362
Resource balance                           36   -522   -1,353   -960

Net income                                -86   -111    -163    -147
Net currenttransfers                       -3     202     620    650


Currentaccount balance                    -54   431     -895    457

Financingitems (net)                      -42    550      793    261
Changesin net reserves                    96    -118      102    196

Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$millions)      330     272     419     224
Conversionrate (DEC, locallUS$)           9.6   326.3 2,647.0 5,231.7

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                        1980    1990    1999    2000
(US$millions)                                                           Compositionof 2000 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed    1,398   3,873   7,010  6,714
  IBRD                                   114      113      18       9
  IDA                                     99    1,310  3,099   3,167                 G:579 A:9


Total debt service                       159     231     522     472
  IBRD                                     11     20       10      9
  IDA                                       1      10     41      47
Compositionof net resourceflows
  Officialgrants                          83     214      159    165
  Officialcreditors                      185     335      177    186
  Privatecreditors                        4 2     28      -51     -57
  Foreigndirect investment                16      15      46      59
  Portfolioequity                           0      0       19

WorldBank program
  Commitments                             55     297     282     158    4 - IBRD                         E Bilateral
  Disbursements                           29     205     223     204    3 -IDA     D other multilateral  F Private
                                                                                                           --
  Principal repayments                     3      13      28      33    3-IMF                            G- Short-term
  Netflows                                26     192     195     171
  Interestpayments                         9      17      23      23
  Nettransfers                            17     175     172     148


DevelopmentEconomics                                                                                            10/2/01


                                                        - 78 -

                                                              COTE D'IVOIRE:
                                                                         Sub-
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                               CBte  Saharan         Low-
                                                             d'lvoire   Africa      income       Developmentdiamond'
1998
Pooulation mid-vear (millions1                                   145       628        3 515
GNP Der caoita (Atlas method. US$)                               700       480          520                    Lifeexpectancy

GNP (Atlas method. US$ billions1                                 10 1      304        1844                           T

Averaae annual arowth. 1992-98
Poouiation I%)                                                    2 6       2 6         17
Laborforce (%I                                                    3 5       2 6         1 9      GNP                                      Gross

Most recent estimate (latest vear available. 1992-981                                            per                                   primary
                                                                                                 2apita                             enrnllmant
Povartv 1%of oooulationbelownationaloovem iinel                   34
Urbanoooulation I%of total oooulation)                            45        33          31
Lifeexoectancv at birth (vearsl                                   47        51          63                           1
Infant mortalitvher I000livebirths1                               87        91          69              -
Child malnutritionI%of childrenunder51                            24                                         Access to safe water
Access to safe water I%OfOOOUlatlOnl                              72        47          74
illiteracv1% ofoooulatlon aoe 15+1                                57        42          32
Gross orimarv enrollment (% ofschool-aoeoooulationl               71        77          106                     Cote d'lvoire
    Male                                                          82        84          113                     Low-income orow
    Female                                                        61        69          103

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                    1977        1987     1997         1998
                                                                                                 Economlc ratios.
GDP IUS$ billions1                                    6 3       10 1      103          110
Gross domestic InvestmenffGDP                        27 3       123       160          182
Exoorts of ooodsand seNlcesIGDP                      42 6       33 4      46 8         43 0                        Trade
Gross domestic savinos1GDP                           33 6       16 I 23 0              24 2
Gross nationalsavinaslGDP                            25 7         3 7     109          128

Current account baiancelGDP                          -2 8        -7 9      -5 1        -48
InterestDavmentsIGDP                                  1 8        4 7       4 0          5 8      Domestic                           Investment
Total debffGDP                                       41 1      1346     152 3         1297       Savings
Total debt servicelexoorts                           109        36 9      28 2         29 4
Presentvalue of debUGDP                                                 1682          1247
                                                                                                                                               I
Present value of debffexoorts                                           358 0         278 9
                                                                                                                 Indebtedness
                                     1977-87 1988-98            1997     1998      1999-03
faveraoe annualorowth)
GDP                                        -03        26         6 0       5 7          5 6               lipIpI  Cote d'lvoire
GNP oer caoita                             -46        0 1         3 9      3 7          3 4                     . Low-incomegroup
Exoorts of ooods and services               6 8       43         4 6      -1 7          59


STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY
                                                    1977        1987     1997         1998       Growth ratesof output and investment("A)
1%of GDPl
Aoriculture                                          24.3       29.2      27.3         25.4      401

lndustrv                                             15.2       22.4      21.2         22.5      y1

  Manufacturino                                       7.6       18.6      17.6         18.6      a
Services                                             60.6       46.5      51.5         52.1      10
                                                                                                 0
Private consumotion                                  52.7       67.6      65.3         65.0                                                    I
                                                                                                -10
General oovernment consumotion                       13.6       16.3      11.6         10.8
lmoorts of ooods and servicas                        36.3       29.6      39.6         37.0                 -GDI             ~   G    D      P


                                                1977-87     1988-98     1997          1998
iaveraoeannualorowthl                                                                           Growthratesof exports and imports     ( O h )

Aoriculture                                           0.2        2.7       4.4         -2.2     30 T
lndustrv                                              5.2        3.3       9.3         11.6     20
  Manufacturino                                       3.4        2.2       6.5         12.1
Services                                             -2.1        2.2       5.5          8.2     10

                                                                                                 0
Private consumotion                                  -0.5        1.1       3.8          5.9
General oovernmantconsumotion                        -1.6       -0.7       2.0         -0.8    -10

Gross domestic investment                          -12.6        11.1     28.0         33.5     -20
imoorts of aoods and sewicas                         -2.0        3.4       6.0          3.2    I
Gross national Droduct                               -0.9        3.1       6.6          6.2               -Exports          -Imports


Note: 1998data are preliminaryestimates.
* The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv fin bold)comoaredwith Its income-orouo averaoe. If data are missino.the diamondwill
   be incomolete.




                                                                        - 79 -

PRICESand GOVERNMENTFINANCE
                                         1977  1987    1997    1998
Domesticprices                                                           Inflation (Oh)

(% change)                                                               50 T
Consumer prices                          27.4     7.0     3.0    3.0     40

ImplicitGDP deflator                     28.8    -4.1     3.2    3.0     30
                                                                        20
Government finance                                                       10
(% of GDP, includescurrentgrants)                                                  -
                                                                           0
Currentrevenue                                  26.2    22.2    21.3   . l o 1     93    94    95       96     91     96
Currentbudgetbalance                             -4.4     3.4    4.4
Overailsurpiusldeficit                          -8.5     -2.8   -2.5                     GDPdeflator -CPI


TRADE                                                                                                                   I
                                        1977   1987    1997    1998
(US$millions)                                                            Exportand import levels(US$ millions)

Totalexports (fob)                      2,412  3,091   4,076   4,114    i.000 T
 Cocoa                                           987   1,201   1,254
 Fuel                                              3     168     106
 Manufactures                                    959   1,210   1,171
Total imports(cif)                             2,242   3,243   3,223
 Food                                            508     530    541
 Fuel and energy                                 336     624    530
 Capital goods                                   559     740    776

Exoort orice index /1995=1001              49     55      98      98            92    93          95    96    97

imoortorice index /1995=1001               24     47     115     109                   Exports          Imports
Terms of trade 11995=1001                 205    116      85      90

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                        1977   1987    1997    1998
/US$millions1                                                           Current accountbalanceto GDP ratio (Oh)

Exports of goods andsewices             2,737 3,670    4,777   4,895
Imports of goods and services           2,420 3,214    4,054   4,157
Resourcebalance                           317   457      723    738

Net income                              -194   -891    -811    -794
Net currenttransfers                    -300   -358    439     -472

Current account balance                 -177   -792    -527    -528

Financingitems (net)                      295   698      809    472
Changes in net reserves                 -119      94     -82      56    16

Memo:
Reserves includinooold IUS%millions1      186     30    630     740
Conversion rate (DEC. local/US$l        245.7 300.5    583.7   590.0

EXTERNALDEBT and RESOURCEFLOWS
                                        1977   1987    1997    1998
/US$ millionsl                                                           Compositionof total debt, 1998(US$ millions
Total debt outstandingand disbursed     2,573 13,577  15,609  14,323
  IBRD                                    120 1,872    1,043    942
  IDA                                       7      7   1,097   1,337 I                   G:501 A: 942

Total debt service                       304  1,368    1,360   1,451
  IBRD                                     10   198     245     209
  IDA                                      0       0       8       9

Compositionof net resourceflows
  Officialgrants                           17     40    134     158        F 6,354
  Officialcreditors                      167    430       70      8
  Private creditors                      558   -217      -21     -18
  Foreigndirect investment                15      88    219     197
  Portfolioequity                          0      0       68      69

WorldBankprogram
  Commitments                             88    183        0    321    A IBRD                             E Bilateral
                                                                                                           -
  Disbursements                           41    365     140     190    B IDA
                                                                           ---       D Olhermultilateral
                                                                                      -                   F Private
                                                                                                           -
  Principalrepayments                      2      75    158     140    C IMF                              G- Short-term
  Netflows                                39    290      -18      50
  Interestpayments                         8    123       95      78
  Nettransfers                            31    167    -112      -27


DevelopmentEconomics                                                                                             9/9/99




                                                       - 80 -

                                                              TOGO:
                                                                 Sub-
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                              Saharan   LOW-
                                                         Togo   Africa income     Developmentdlamond"
2001
Population, mid-year (millions)                            4 7    674    2,511                Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method. US8                         270     470      430
GNI (Atlasmethod, US$bilhons)                              1 3    317    1069                        T


Average annual growth, 1995-01
Population (%)                                             2 9     2 5     1 9
Laborforce (%)                                             2 9     2 6     2 3   GNi                                 Gross
                                                                                 per                                primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 199501)                             capita                           enrollment
Poverty (% ofpopulationbelow nationalpovertyline)
Urbanpopulation (% of tota/pOpu/atiOn)                      34      32     31
Life expectancyat birth (yearsl                             49      47     59                       1
infantmortality (per 1,000live births)                      75      91     76
Child malnutrition (% of childrenunder5)                    25                         Accessto improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source (% OfPOPU/at/On)          54      55     76
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 75+)                         42      37     37
Gross pnmaryenrollment (% of school-agepopulation)        124       78     96
    Male                                                  141       85     103    ---.Togo            Low-incomegroup

    Female                                                107       72     88

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                 1981    1991    2000    2001     Economic ratios"
GDP (US$ billlons)                                0.96     1 6     1 2     1 3
Gross domestic investmenVGDP                              17 1    20 9    20 7
Exportsof goodsand serviCesiGDP                   46.2    33 4    32 6    32 6                     Trade

Gross domestic savinqslGDP                        17.1     9 0     4 1     3 6
Gross national savinqsIGDP                        19.0    134      6 8     4 8                       T


Current account balancelGDP                               -3 7   -14 1   -15 9
Interest payments1GDP                              2.1     1 2     0 4     0 4
Total debt/GDP                                   104.5    84 3   1173    1117
Total debt servicelexports                        17.8     9 2     6 5     6 8
Presentvalue of debVGDP                                           83 4
Presentvalue of debVexports                                      220 8
                                                                                               indebtedness
                                      1981-91 1991-01    2000    2001  2001-05
(average annualgrowth)
GDP                                       2.2      27     -1 9     2 7     4 1
GDP per capita                           -1 0     -0 I -49        -0 1     2 1     -Togo               Low-incomegroup




                                               1981-91 1991-01   2ooo
(averageannualgrowthJ                                                            Growth of exports and imports (Oh)

Agriculture                                        5.7    4.0     -4.6     4.8   45
Industry                                           2.6    3.3      5.0     0.2   30
   Manufacturing                                   3.1    4.8    21.7      5.8
Services                                          -0.1     1.1    -3.0     2.0   l5


Private consumption                                4.3    3.7     -2.8     7.2    0

General governmentconsumption                      0.0    -1.5    -9.6    -9.5  -15
Gross domestic investment                          2.6    5.3      3.2     2.5          -Exports          -Imports
1rnDort.sof goodsandservices                       2.8    3.3     -2.7     5.5




                                                                -81 -

                                                                                                               Togo

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                        1981   I991   2000   2001
Domesticprices                                                        Inflation (%)                                I
(% change)                                                           20 T

Consumerprices                           19.7    0.3    1.9    3.9
ImplicitGDP deflator                     12.6   2.7     1.3    3.4

Government finance
(% of GDP, includescurrentgrants)
Current revenue                          26.8  17.5    13.3   13.8
Currentbudgetbalance                      5.5   -3.8   -3.1    0.0
OverallsurDlus/deficit                          -8.3   -5.9   -2.6

TRADE                                                                                                              I
                                        1981   1991   2000   2001
(US$ millions)                                                        Exportand import levels (US$ mill.)

Total exports (fob)                             393    327    349
 Phosphates                                     126     49     47
 Cotton                                          65     42     52
 Manufactures                                   145     65     73
Total imports(cif)                              535    533    542
 Food                                           156    166    132
 Fuel and energy                                 35     71     93
 Capitalgoods                                   113     92    102

Exportpriceindex (1995=100)                      44     66     69            95   96       97  98   99    00

Importpriceindex (1995=100)                      48     77      75                     Exports     W lmpcrts
Terms of trade f1995=100)                        91     67      92

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                        I981   1991   2000   2001
(US$millions)                                                         Current account balanceto GDP (%)            1
Exportsof goods and sewices              475    536    399    411      0
importsof goods and sewices              560    665    604    627
Resourcebalance                           -65  -130   -205   -216      5

Net income                               N/A    -35     -29    -24
Net currenttransfers                       69   106     62      39   -10

Current accountbalance                   N/A    -59   -172   -201
                                                                    -15
Financingitems(net)                              69     197   181
Changesin net reserves                   N/A     -9     -25     20   -20

Memo:
ReservesincludingRold (US$ millions)      156   365    152       0
Conversionrate (DEC, local/US$)         271.7 282.1   712.0  733.0

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS                                   I
                                        1981   1991   2000   2001
(US$ millions)                                                        Composition of2001 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed    1,005 1,351   1,432  1,406
  IBRD                                      3     0      0       0
  IDA                                     51    444    604    585  I                   G: 146

Total debt service                        89     53     30     32
  IBRD                                      0     6       0      0
  IDA                                       0     4      6      15                                        8:585

Compositionof net resourceflows                                            E:449
  Officialgrants
  Officialcreditors                        -8    52      15    21
  Privatecreditors                         -7     0      0       0
  Foreigndirect investment                10      7     30
  Portfolioequity                          0      0      0

World Bankprogram
  Commitments                              0     14      0       0    A IBRD                          E Bilateral
                                                                                                       -
  Disbursements                            0     48     15      12    B IDA       D Othermultilateral  --
                                                                                      ~               F Private
  Principalrepayments                      0      7      5      10    C IMF
                                                                        ---                           G Short-term
  Netflows                                 8     41     10       1
  Interestpayments                          1     3      3       5
  Nettransfers                             7     38      7      -4

Deveiopment tconomics                                                                                       Y/I 1/02




                                                      - 82 -

                                                                             NIGERIA:
                                                                                      Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                                 Saharan       Low-
                                                                    Nigeria          Africa   income          Development diamond'
2001
Population, mid-year (millions)                                       1299             674       2,511
GNI per capita (Aflas method, US$)                                      290            470                                    Lifeexpectancy
                                                                                                  430
GNI (Atlas method, US$billions)                                         37 1           317       1,069
Average annual growth, 1995-01
Population (%)                                                           2 6            2 5        1 9
Laborforce (%)                                                           2 7            2 6        2 3        GNI                                      Gross

Most recent eotlmate (latest year available, 1995-01)                                                                                                  primary
                                                                                                              capita                                nrollment
Poverty (% ofpopulafionbelow nationalpovertyline)
Urbanpopulation (% of totalpopulation)                                    45            32         31
Lifeexpectancyat birth (years)                                            47            47         59
Infantmortality (per 1,000live births)                                    84            91         76
Childmalnutrition(% of children under5)                                   27                                        Access to improvedwater source
Accessto an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)                         57            55         76
Illiteracy(% ofpopulation age 15+)                                        35            37         37
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-agepopulation)                      82            78         96                 -Nigeria
    Male                                                                  89            85        103                          Low-incomegroup
    Female                                                                74            72         88

KEY ECONOMICRATIOS and LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                           1981       1991           2000        2001
GDP (US$billions)                                           59.9        27 3          41 1       41 2         Economic ratios'

Grossdomestic investmentlGDP                                            23 4          22 7        27 6
Exportsof goods and sewiceslGDP                             22.5        37 2          52 3       48 3                             Trade
Grossdomestic savingslGDP                                   192         29 3          34 0        26 9
Grass national savmaslGDP                                   76 1       20 5           27 6       23 6
Currentaccount balance1GDP                                 -10.1        -3 6           4 8         0 0
Interestpayments1GDP                                          1 1        75            5 0
Total debtlGDP                                              19 1      1228            83 1        77 9
Total debt sewicelexports                                     9.1      23 4           15 5       20 4
Presentvalue of debUGDP                                                               66 2                                          1
Presentvalue of debuexports                                                          1254
                                                                                                                               Indebtedness
                                          1981-91 1991-01             2000           2001     2001-05
(average annualgrowth)
GDP                                             3 3          24         3 8            3 9         3 4                 ~ N i g e r i a
GDP per capita                                 0 3          -0.3         1 3           1 5         1 2                          Low-incomegroup
Exportsof goods and services                    3 1           37        -16            5 6        2 8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY




                                                       1981-91 '991-01
(average annualgrowth)                                                                           "01         Growth of exports and imports (%)
Agriculture                                                  4.6        3.8            5.2        5.1        30
Industry                                                     0.9        0.9            6.7        1.4
  Manufacturina                                              1.6        1.2            4.9        4.2        '5

Services                                                     5.1        2.6           -0.3        5.1
Private consumption                                         -2.5        9.1          -17.9        0.6
Generalgovernmentconsumption                                -3.2       10.7          86.2        14.7       -15
Gross domestic investment                                   -3.8        8.2          39.7        18.5
Importsof goods and services                                                                                          -Exports            -imports
                                                          -12.2         6.1           16.0       18.9

Note:2001data are preliminary estimates.
*The diamonds show four key indicatorsin the country (in bold) compared with its income-groupaverage.ifdata are missing, the diamondwill be incomplete.




                                                                                    - 83 -

                                                                                                             Nigeria

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                         1981    1991    2000   2001
Domesticprices
(% Change)
Consumer prices                           20.8    13.0     6.9   18.9
implicit GDP deflator                     16.2    20.2    25.4    6.0

Government finance
(% of GDP, includes Cuff8nf
Currentrevenue                               ..   17.7    46.1   47.5
Currentbudget balance                      6.2     0.7    24.0   19.8
Overall surplus/deflcit                                    2.4   -3.0

TRADE                                                                                                                I
                                         1981    1991    2000   2001
(US$ mi/lions)                                                           Exportandimport levels (US$ mill.)

Total exports(fob)                      17,718  12,127  20,441 18,700
 Fuel                                   17,162  11,665  19,550 17,621
 Liquiflednaturalgas                                       623   735
 Manufactures                                ..     85      30    45
Total imports (cifl                     22,013   8,736  13.718 15,544
 Food                                   3,604      760   1,761  2,044
 Fuel and energy                           301      44     178    197
 Capitalgoods
Export price index(1995=100)               219     117     160    146           95   96   97     98    99   00

Importprice index (1995=100)                66      86      95    99                  Exports          Imports
Terms of trade (1995=1001                  332     136     169    147

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                         1981    1991    2000   2001
(US$ millions)                                                          Currentaccount balanceto GDP (Oh)            I
Exportsof goods and services            18,511  12,324  21,409 19,694
Importsof goods and services            21,839  10,376  16,813 18,327
Resourcebalance                         -3,327   1,948  4,596   1,367

Net income                              -2,147  -2,978  -4,343 -3,155
Netcurrenttransfers                          ..     50   1,724  1,803

Currentaccount balance                  -6,042   -980    1,977     15
Financingitems (net)                     -158    1,267   1,982  1,008
Changesin net reserves                   6,200   -287   -3,959 -1,023

Memo:
Reservesincludinggold  (us$miiiions)     3,923   4,150   9,400 10,423
Conversionrate (DEC, /oca//Us$)            0.8    12.0   101.7  111.6

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                         1981    1991    2000   2001
(US$ millions)                                                         I Composition of 2001debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstandingand disbursed     11,421  33,528  34,134 32,130
  IBRD                                     562   3,297   1,625  1,337
  IDA                                       37      59     644    621               G 1440 A


Total debt service                       1,789   2,945   3,362  4,082        F 5879,-'
  IBRD                                      72     582     376    285
  IDA                                        1       1       9     13
Compositionof netresourceflows
  Official grants
  Officialcreditors                        87       43
  Privatecreditors                       1,715   -120                              7
  Foreigndirect investment                   ..    588   1,374  1,800
  Portfolioequity                           0        0       0      0             E:14,480
World Bank program
  Commitments                             388      566     140    305   A - iBRD                         E Bilateral
                                                                                                          -
  Disbursements                            74      255      86    27     B IDA
                                                                          -                               -
                                                                                                          -
                                                                          ~        D -Othermultilateral  F Private
  Principalrepayments                      29      276     277    215    C IMF                           G Short-term
  Netflows                                 45      -21   -191   -188
  interestpayments                         44      308     108    83
  Nettransfers                              2    -329    -299   -271




                                                         - a4 -

                  Additional Annex 11: Civil Society and Social Assessment
WESTERN AFRICA: HIVIAIDS PROJECT FOR ABIDJAN                        - LAGOS TRANSPORT         CORRIDOR

Civil Society and HIV/AIDS activities along the corridor
Based on two decades o fHIV/AIDS activities inAfrica, there will be a significant role for civil society
organizations to play inthe implementationo f the Abidjan-Lagos corridor project. Civil society
organizations are particularly effective intargeting vulnerable groups that are not usually adequately
covered by public sector organizations. Such groups include people leaving with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA),
commercial sex workers, truck drivers, migrants andother vulnerable groups who are targeted by this
project.

Civil society organizations at border posts along the corridor, are potential agents for HIV/AIDS
prevention, care and support inthe community, with particular attention to such issues as provision o f
medico-social care, support to families, orphans and the provision o f home-based care. Communities and
community leaders, including traditional healers, traditional leaders andreligious leaders can play an
important role inthe fight against HIV/AIDS. Civil society organizations which includes associations,Non
Government Organizations (NGOs), local communities and the private sector have participatedin
stakeholder meetingsand workshops for the preparation of the project. Such participationwill continue
duringproject implementationas there are specific provisions inthe project for fundingof subprojects
presentedby civil society organizations through grants to these organizations.

A partial assessment ofcivil society organizations has shown that there are few civil society organizations
currently working on HIV/AIDS along the corridor and most o fthose organizations are focused on
HIV/AIDSInformation Educationand Communication (IEC). Their activities include: the distribution of
HIV/AIDSeducation leaflets, brochures andposters; discussionson local radio stations, workshops,
drama, social marketing or distribution o f condoms andother activities aimed at changing behavior and
encouraging safe sex practices. Many o f the civil society organizations will needcapacity buildingto
deliver on project activities andthe project will support such organizations to develop the necessary
capacity as part o f their work plans for HIV/AIDSactivities at the border posts or along the transport
corridor. The project will also support the full range o f HIV/AIDS preventive, care and support services
that can be effectively deliveredby civil society organizations. The project will inparticular support the
scaling up by civil society organizations of: (a) HIV/AIDSprevention and sensitization interventions; (b)
home basedcare for people living with HIV/AIDS and their families; and (c) HIV/AIDS collaboration and
learningamong grassrootsgroups.

The process for civil society organizations to receive fundingthrough the project, which is detailed inthe
project operational manual, will be based on the subproject proposals presented by the civil society
organizations. These proposals can be sent for approval and financing by the Executive Secretariat, either
directly to the ExecutiveSecretariat or through intermediaryNGOs or similar organizations who will be
competitively selected under the project to act as facilitating partners between communities andthe
Executive Secretariat.

Social Assessment
The project is expectedto positively contribute to the social development objectives o f inclusion, security
and empowerment. Project activities will have positive effect on the core elements o f social diversity and
gender, will reinforce social institutions, stakeholder and community participation, mitigate social risks and
strengthencommunity social capacity to respond to HIV/AIDS. Itis expected that the project will have
positive social effects on the HIVIAIDS vulnerable groups that are targeted by the project (female sex



                                                     - 85 -

workers, truckers, female cross-border traders, out-of-school youth, etc.). The project will support
HIV/AIDS prevention, treatment, support and care activities along the transport corridor, which will
positively influence social development along the transport corridor. People living with HIV/AIDS andtheir
families along the transport corridor will have an opportunity to receive better social support from their
communities, civil society organizations and public sector agencies.

Inclusion.Itis expected that the followingwill bethe activities ofthe project that will positively affect the
social development objective o f inclusion: (i) social assistance to women, orphans, and sex workers; (ii)
targeted activities to the vulnerable groups (e.g. out-of-school youth living around the borders, PLWHA,
families affected by HIV/AIDS); (iii)   reduction o f stigmatization of PLWHA.

Security.The project activities will contribute to: (i)  reduction o f HIV/AIDS infections along the transport
corridor among the targeted groups andthe communities living along corridors; and (ii)    improve
employment opportunities for youths and female informal traders and sex workers, through income
generation subprojects that can be supported by the project.

Empowerment.The project will reinforcethe capacity ofpeople, groups, communities, andthe whole
population living around the borders o f the five countries or traveling along the transport corridor, to
protect themselves andtheir families against HIV/AIDS.

Gender issues.Gender issues related to this project are addressedseparately inannex 13 ofthis document.




                                                      - 86 -

                              Additional Annex 12: Supervision Plan
WESTERN AFRICA: HIVIAIDS PROJECTFOR ABIDJAN                          - LAGOSTRANSPORT              CORRIDOR


The project will require intensive supervision givenits pioneering nature, the cross-country nature of
stakeholders, large span o f activities across the five countries o f the corridor, its blendo f public, private
andcivil society implementation agencieswhose experiencewith HIV/AIDS programs varies considerably,
andits multi-sectoral nature. The range of activities inprevention, care, treatment, andmitigationis
complex andwill be implementedby many entities whose capacity will needstrengthening. The Bank's
supervision effort inthe first year will focus on the following strategic areas:

Comprehensiveapproachto HIV/AIDS. Fundingandexecuting abroadrange ofHIV/AIDS activities
across many sectors by multipleimplementationagencies across the five countries, with a particular
emphasis on scaling up existing programs andbuildingcapacity, will require consistent and sustained
support and coordination, including learning from other M A P andHIV/AIDSprograms from around the
world.

Ownership and stakeholders.Experience has shown that the commitment andenthusiasm shownby
stakeholders duringproject preparation needsto be maintained during early project implementation by
accelerating funding o fprojects inboth the public sector and civil society. While the draft operational
manualhas beenprepared with involvement o f some stakeholders, this needs to be expanded and
supervision should focus on constantly adjusting the operational manual basedon realities on the ground.

New institutions. Executive Secretariat is designed to facilitate and coordinate rather than to control and
implement. Any new institution, however, implementsits mission through actions. Supervision will focus,
inparticular, on assisting the Executive Secretariatto: (a) contract out key administrative and fiduciary
services work; and(b) empower the implementing agencies inthe public sector and civil society by
allowing them to make decisions on program activities andto participate in adjusting project processes
basedon the early lessons o f implementation.

Fiduciary architecture.Financialmanagement,procurement, monitoring andevaluation, and
implementationchannels represent the core fiduciary responsibilities that needto be assessedand enhanced
during supervision. The principle that program monitoring andevaluation is part ofthe fiduciary
framework o fthe MAP approach is new for the five participating countries (although some have experience
though country programs supported by MAP) andfor the Bank and will require special attention during
implementation.

Objectives andschedule of supervisionmissions
Duringthe first twelve months o fimplementation, the project will have three formal supervision missions in
addition to ad-hoc visits by Bank staff working on national HIV/AIDS programs that are receiving M A P
support. The UNAIDS InterCountry Team and national program offices, may also assist with supervision
on an ad-hoc basis inaddition to: (a) assisting public sector and civil society organizations to enhance
project preparation to access M A P funding; and (b) improvingthe efficiency and effectiveness o f
HIV/AIDS interventions through specialized technical expertise.




                                                      - 87 -

The Bank's supervisioneffort
Thejoint UNAIDSiWorldBankprogressreviewof MAP1inmid-2001 concluded that MAP projects
require intensive supervision usingmulti-sectoral teams that can provide implementationassistancein a
variety of sectors. The extensive Bank preparation effort will be carried over into the first year o f
supervision, enhancedby: (a) increasedreliance on the West African UNAIDSgroup; and(b) support from
other stakeholders inthe region including bilateral andmultilateral development partners. Beinga regional
andpioneer project, it is expected that the supervision budgetfor the first twelve months will exceedthe
Banknormfor national MAP projects which is currently at US$ 200,000.

Eachmission i s expected to last for up to two weeks and comprise at least six team members. At least 40
total staff weeks will be requiredfor the first three supervision missions, inaddition to approximately eight
non-mission staff weeks. Technical skills requiredby a mission will dependon relevant implementation
issues each time. It i s expected that the gradually increasing proportion o f the Bank effort will come from
field basedstaff to facilitate regular interaction with the project management team. The necessary
specialists are llkely to include:

Firstsupervision mission:          Task Team Leader, procurement, financial, health, NGO, M&E, social
Second supervision mission:        Task Team Leader, NGO, health, social, institutional, procurement
Thirdsupervision mission:          Task Team Leader, health, social, financial, procurement, NGO

Budgetedcost of supervisionfor the first 12 monthsof the project: US$250,000.




                                                      - 88 -

                                 Additional Annex 13: Gender Issues
WESTERN AFRICA: HIVIAIDS PROJECT FOR ABIDJAN                        - LAGOS    TRANSPORT CORRIDOR


Women are more susceptible to HIV for biological, social, cultural and economical reasons. Factors
facilitating HIV infection among the female population include: (a) a greater efficiency o fmale to female
transmission; (b) a highprevalence of other sexually transmitted infections; c) a limitedaccess to services
for sexual andreproductive health; (d) the lack of adequatefemale preventive method, apart from a female
condom; (e) a low access to information and education which limitawareness and sensitization on
HJY/AIDS pandemic; (f) poverty and economic dependency forcing women to commercial sex work for
financial survival; (g) socio-cultural factors, especially traditional customs (polygamy and wife
inheritance); and(h) macho attitudes and gender basedviolence.

Along the corridor, female groups at riskare: (1) women working inthe public andprivate transport sector;
(2) the spouses and partners of drivers and transport employees; (3) women involvedinoccupational
activities related to transport (hotels, restaurants, lodges, shops and markets); (4) women inthe local
communities along the corridor; (5) female travelers particularly traders; (6) female migrants; and (7)
female commercial sex workers.

AIDS aggravates gender inequities and discrimination. The impact of HIV/AIDS differs markedly along
gender lines: the stigma against HIV infected women i s stronger than for men, reducingtheir access to
social services. The epidemic increaseswomen's economical vulnerability, multipliestheir responsibilities
inthe households anddismantles their socialnetwork.

The main corner stones o f gender sensitive activities along the corridor include: (1) a multisectoral
collaborative approach between the public and civil society organizations; (2) a gender-differentiated
analysis of risk, vulnerability and the impact of the pandemic; (3) gender-appropriate targeting o f
interventions; (4) gender-inclusion inactivities' implementation; (5) gender-inclusion ina participatory
process at all levels, especially at local level through female social networks; and (6) representative
gender-inclusion inHIV/AIDS activities.

Project interventions will be built on existing knowledge andcapacity, on local examples andgood
practices inaddressing women issues. Activities that involve the female population will simultaneously
 include: (a) advocacy; (b) prevention; (c) care; and (d) HIV/AIDS impact mitigation.

Advocacy activities will aim at reducingstigma and alienation among HIV infectedwomen. They will
mobilize menandwomen on gender issues, to increasewomen participationinthe design, implementation,
monitoring and evaluation o f subproject and project activities. Involvement with PLWHA organizations
will be highlyencouraged.

 Prevention activities will aim at changing women's knowledge andbehaviors, especially safe sex
practices. IEC activities will adapt messagesto women status andto specific gender issues. Interventions
will focus on the use o f condoms, particularly on the acceptability and availability of female condoms.
 Emphasis will be put on access to sexual andreproductive health services, treatment o f STIs andvoluntary
 HIVcounseling andtesting.




                                                        - 89 -

Care andHIV/AIDSimpactmitigationactivitieswill facilitate accessby women to treatment andcare
services for people affectedby HIV/AIDS.Programs will strengthen the safety net for women andwill help
to render them less vulnerable to HIV (poverty reduction and women's right interventions).

Involvementofmen inthe improvement o f the status o fwomen andhelping them to protect themselves is
an important prerequisite for successful gender sensitive activities. Programs for women are muchmore
effective when they are accompanied by parallel efforts directed at men. The potential synergy between
these two complementary sets o f activities will be emphasized during the implementation o f the project.




                                                    - 90 -





