24393
ISDS
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Section I - Basic Information
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 06/11/2002
A. Basic Project Data (from PDS)
I.A.1. Project Statistics
Country: WESTERN AFRICA                         Project ID: P074850
Project: ABIDJAN-LAGOS TRANSPORT CORRIDOR       Task Team Leader: Stephen J. Brushett
Authorized to Appraise Date: September 23, 2002  IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: January 30, 2003                 IDA Amount ($m): 25.00
Managing Unit: AFTTR                            Sector: HA - HIV/AIDS; TY - Other Transportation
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)  Theme: HEALTH/NUTRITION/POPULATION;
Status: Lending                                 TRANSPORT
I.A.2. Project Objectives (From PDS):
Project Objective
The project's objective is to increase access to HIV/AIDS prevention, basic treatment and care services
along the Abidjan-Lagos transport corridor to presently underserved, vulnerable groups, with particular
attention to commercial vehicle drivers, migrants and populations living along the transport corridor. It is
expected that the project will contribute to the reduction of the spread of HIV/AIDS and mitigation of the
social and economic impact of HIV/AIDS along the transport corridor. The project is designed to
complement the national HIV/AIDS programs of the five participating countries along the transport
corridor.
I.A.3. Project Description (From PDS):
1.    Project components:
The project has the following five components: (i) developing a framework for the coherent and
coordinated implementation of HIV/AIDs policies in the corridor; (ii) carrying out HIV/AIDS prevention
programs for the targeted populations, (iii) providing improved care and support services for the targetecl
population (iv) building capacity of the key service providers and (v) addressing constraints to the
smooth and timely flows of passenger and freight traffic in the corridor.
Component 1: Frameworkfor coherent and coordinated implementation of HIV/AIDS policies
This component aims to set up the common policy framework to be applied all the way through the
corridor. In order to provide a framework for measuring the effectiveness of the intervention, a base line
study is programmed. The policies to be adopted include the provision of the same slogans and logos for
the preventive action and the same materials and explanatory documents in both English and French. It is
intended that all the health facilities in the corridor would provide the same standardized VCT services
for the targeted population. This component also intends to support the establishment of a network of
exchange of information on HIV/AIDS, the promotion of best practices, as well as the putting in place
appropriate and common monitoring and evaluation mechanisms. The development of coordinated
strategies for the project require a single administrative framework which will specifically work on it.
The governing body of the project, composed of the representatives of the national HIV/AIDS programs
of the five countries, will adopt and monitor implementation of the coordinated policy for the project.



2
ISDS
Component 2: HIV/AIDS prevention programs for the targeted population
This component is to finance information, education and communication (IEC) activities to be targeted to
the different target population groups. These are principally: (i) the transport services providers
(management as well as workers, such as truck and long distance buses, taxis), (ii) the users of transport
services, (iii) the local civil population having contact with the migrants (small merchants in the truck
and bus stations, commercial sex workers,etc.) (iv) the migrant population itself and (v) the locally based
government officers (immigration, police, customs officers). It will be necessary to employ several
different approaches according to the target population. For example, the IEC for the transport services
providers will be done by the work place intervention. The IEC for the users of the transport services, it
is intended to use flyers, panels, stickers, and the diffusion of the images and messages within the
passenger vehicles. For the local civil population, the main methods to be used are the panels and kiosk
for animation. The government officers are expected to benefit from atendance at group education
classes.
Component 3: Provision of improved care and support for the targeted population
9 public and II private health facilities including hospitals have been identified in ythe target
gerographical areas within the corridor. Among these facilities, except a few hospitals such as in Aflao in
Ghana and in Aneho in Togo, there is presently no capacity. to deal with HIV/AIDS. It is intended that
those health clinics will be equipped at least with VCT equipment and will have the capacity to provide
associated counseling services as well as appropriate guidance for the further treatment either in that
country or in the home country of the migrants.
Component 4: Capacity buildingfor key service providers
As most of the health facilities in the corridor do not presently have the capacity to deal with the
proposed VCT services under the project, it will be necessary to train the medical professional working
in these facilities. Training will also be extended to various other groups of service providers who are or
will be expected to provide support to the communitiesin the provision of provision of counseling
services and the carrying out of advocacy for behavior change.
Component 5. Addressing constraints to the smooth and timelyflows of passenger andfreight traffic in
the corridor
This component seeks to support the agreement among the countries in the corridor to adopt policies and
actions to expedite formal customs clearance and immigration procedures as well as to address informal
barriers to the movement of people and goods - this with a view to countering one key factor in the
development of commercial sex markets at the border towns. This component will work closely with the
regional economic integration policy of ECOWAS, and will identify necessary measures either to
develop simplified procedures or to enforce the implementation of the existing legislature for fast track
customs and immigration clearance. The work in the corridor will build specifically on comparable
exercises on addressing barriers to transport and transit in the Abidjan-Ouagadougou and
Lome-Ouagadougou corridore.
Components:



ISDS
1. Frameworkfor the coherent and coordinated implementation of HIV/AIDs policies
(a) Functioning of the project management unit
(b) Monitoring and evaluation
(c) Baseline studies
2. HIV/AIDSprevention programs to the targetedpopulation
(1) Hotels, bars, restaurants, commercial sex workers, officers and students
(2) Transport service industries
(3) Travellers
(4) Social marketing of condoms
(5) Support to community initiatives
(6) Diffusion of messages in the local media
3. Provision of improved care and support services
4. Capacity buildingfor service providers
5. Addressing constrainst to smooth transportflows
1.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments:
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered (from PDS)
(click on [ for a detailed desciption or click on the policy number for a brief description)
Policy                                 Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)         0 Yes     No     TBD
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                   Yes * No       TBD
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                    Yes * No       TBD
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      Yes 0 No       TBD
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                  Yes 0 No       TBD
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   Yes 0 No       TBD
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                          Yes * No       TBD
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                              Yes 0 No       TBD
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)   Yes 0 No       TBD
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*        Yes * No       TBD
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
II.D. 1 a. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.



4
ISDS
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
II.D. Ic Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
Through preparation of a medical waste management plan and through the subsequent implementation of
the findings and recommendations, the project will comply with the safeguard provision for
environmental assessment
NA
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
IEC activities are planned to be conducted either by the NGOs or by the interlocutors of the local
communities. It is expected that the local leaders of the border towns will take a leading role in all the
activities taking place in their administrative areas. The representatives of the local communities are
expected to participate in the process of the annual programming through local committees.
E. Safeguards Classification (select in SAP). Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy.
Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is
triggered the provisions of that policy apply.
] SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
[ ] S3. - No safeguard issues
[ ] SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:          Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the Executive
Directors (For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                         Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure



5
ISDS
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:             Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan.                                      Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Siened and submitted by      Name                                       Date
Task Team Leader:            Stephen J. Brushett                        05/10/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1: Nina Chee/Person/World Bank           05/10/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                 Name                                       Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Charlotte S. Bingham                   05/10/2002
Sector Manager/Director      Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard                05/10/2002



