Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H066 BEN 
 
Development Grant Agreement 
 
(HIV/AIDS Project for Abidjan-Lagos Transport Corridor) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF BENIN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated November 18, 2003 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H066 BEN 
 
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated November 18, 2003, between REPUBLIC OF BENIN (the 
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
(the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Heads of States of the Republics of Benin, Cote d’Ivoire, 
Ghana, the Federal Republic of Nigeria, and the Minister of Health of the Republic of 
Togo have signed a Joint Declaration in Cotonou on April 30, 2002, acknowledging the 
importance of a multi-sectoral and regional approach to the HIV/AIDS epidemic, 
establishing a Project Governing Body (the “Project Governing Body”) for preparation, 
supervision, and monitoring activities, and designating the Republic of Benin as 
Recipient of the Grant on behalf of the five countries of the Abidjan-Lagos corridor;  
 
(B) 
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to 
assist in the financing of the Project; 
 
(C) 
the Executive Directors of the Association approved, on December 20, 
2001, the Second Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program for the Africa Region estimated in 
the amount of US$500,000,000 over a period of three years;  
 
(D) 
the Project is part of the Second Multi-Sectoral HIV/AIDS Program for 
the Africa Region; and 
 
WHEREAS (E) the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the 
foregoing, to extend the Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in 
this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
2
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“AIDS” means acquired immune deficiency syndrome; 
(b) 
“Beneficiary” means a community, group or person, including an NGO 
(as hereinafter defined), religious organization or private enterprise who or which has met 
the eligibility criteria set out in the Project Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined) 
and the requirements of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and as a result, has received, or is 
entitled to receive, a Sub-Grant (as hereinafter defined) for the carrying out of a Sub-
Project (as hereinafter defined); 
(c) 
“CFA Francs” or “CFAF” means the currency of the Recipient; 
(d) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(e) 
“First Project Year” means the first period of twelve (12) months 
following the Effective Date of the Project  (First Project Year); 
(f) 
“HIV” means the human immuno-deficiency virus; 
(g) 
“Member State” means any of the signatories to the Additional Protocol 
to the Joint Declaration of April 30
th
 2002 Relating to the Abidjan-Lagos Corridor 
Organisation for the Fight Against STIs/HIV/AIDS (currently the Republics of Benin, 
Cote d’Ivoire, Ghana, the Federal Republic of Nigeria, and the Republic of Togo); 
(h) 
“NGOs” means nongovernmental organizations established and 
operating under the laws of the Recipient, the Republics of Cote d’Ivoire, Ghana, Togo, 
and the Federal Republic of Nigeria; 
(i) 
    “PLWHA” means People Living With HIV/AIDS; 
(j) 
“Project Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in paragraph 
3
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time in 
agreement with the Association, and such term includes any schedules to the Project 
Operational Manual; 
(k) 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Recipient pursuant to the letter agreement signed on 
behalf of the Association on January 29, 2002 and on behalf of the Recipient on February 
12, 2003; 
Page  4
-
3
-
3
(l) 
 “Second Generation Special Accounts” means any of the accounts in 
local correspondent banks referred to in Section 2.02(b) of this Agreement, and 
denominated in either CFAF or Dollars; 
(m) 
“Special Accounts” mean the accounts referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement; 
(n) 
“STI” means a sexually transmitted infection;  
(o) 
“Sub-Grant” means a sub-grant made, or to be made, out of the proceeds 
of the Grant to finance a Sub-Project (as herein after defined); 
(p) 
“Sub-Grant Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into between  
the Recipient and a Beneficiary for the provision of a Sub-Grant in accordance with 
paragraphs 3 and 8 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(q) 
“Sub-Project” means any activity under Part B of the Project, in respect 
of which a Sub-Grant has been, or may be, provided; and 
(r) 
“Waste Management Plan” means the biomedical waste management 
plan, adopted November 13. 2002, setting out the measures and arrangements necessary 
to ensure proper management of hazardous waste under the Project. 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Grant 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to twelve million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 12,200,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for:  
(i) expenditures made (or if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant; or (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so 
agree, amounts to be paid) by the Recipient on account of withdrawals made in 
accordance with a Sub-Grant Agreement for the benefit of a Beneficiary to meet the 
reasonable costs of goods, works and services required for Sub-Projects to be financed 
under Part B (2) of the Project, and in respect of which the withdrawal from the Grant 
Account is requested.  
(b) 
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
CFA Francs (the “Special Account A”) and in Dollars (the “Special Account B”) two 
Page  5
-
4
-
4
separate special deposit accounts in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. The Recipient may also open and maintain in Dollars, for project activities in 
the Republic of Ghana, and the Federal Republic of Nigeria, and in CFAF, for project 
activit
ies in the Republics of Benin and Cote d’Ivoire, Second Generation Special 
Accounts, in local correspondent banks or branches of the commercial bank referred to 
above, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and pay to the Bank the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 1, 2007 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of such 
later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Recipient shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.05 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Member States; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.   
 
Section 2.05. (a) Commitment charges shall be payable semiannually on June 1 
and December 1  in each year.  
Page  6
-
5
-
5
(b) 
The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and public health practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
good
s, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Association, a 
plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Recipient on said plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a
format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
6
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Accounts and Second Generation Special Accounts for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report 
of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning 
said auditors, as the Association may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one year after the Association has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Grant Account was made; and 
 
(iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records. 
 
Section 4.02.  (a) The Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Association a 
financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
 
(i)  
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Grant, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
Page  8
-
7
-
7
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation ; and 
 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(
b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter.  
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date 
 
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Grant Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
 
(a)
 
the Recipient has established a financial management and accounting 
system for the Project, satisfactory to the Association, and has provided satisfactory 
evidence that financial management reports can be produced; 
 
(b) 
the Recipient has adopted a Project Operational Manual including a 
Project implementation plan; a financial management manual; and a procurement plan for 
the implementation of the Project during the First Project Year, all in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association; 
 
(c) 
the Recipient has appointed an independent auditor referred to in Section 
4.01 (b) of this agreement; and 
 
(d) 
the Recipient has appointed a management agency to support the 
Executive Secretariat pursuant to Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
8
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Economics of the Recipient is 
designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Recipient: 
 
Ministère des Finances et de l’Economie 
 
B.P. 302 
 
Cotonou 
 
Republic of Benin 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Telecopy: 
 
MINFINANCES 
5009 or 5289 MINFIN  229315356301851 
 
Cotonou   
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
9
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF BENIN 
 
By 
/s/  Cyrille S. Oguin 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
/s/  Nils O. Tcheyan 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
10
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Grant Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) Works 
 
500,000 
90% 
 
 
(2) 
Consultants’ Services and 
2,050,000 
 Audits 
 
100% 
 
 
(3) Training 
1,200,000 
 
(4) (a) Vehicles and  
250,000 
100% of foreign 
 Equipment 
 
expenditures 
and 
 
90%
of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(b) Drugs, Tests and 
1,540,000 
100% 
 Medical 
Supplies 
 
(5) 
Sub-Grants for Sub-Projects 
3,800,000 
100% of amounts  
 
under Part B(2)  
 
disbursed 
 
of the Project 
 
(6) Operating 
Costs 
1,820,000 
80% 
 
(7) 
Refunding of 
260,000 
Amount due  
 
Project Preparation 
 
pursuant to Section  
 
Advance 
 
2.02 (c) of this  
 
Agreement 
 
(8) Unallocated 
780,000 
 
___________ 
 
TOTAL 12,200,000 
 
==========  
Page  12
-
11
-
11
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of Member States for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of Member States;  
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of Member 
States; provided, however, that, if the currency of Member States is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such 
currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”; and 
 
(c) 
the term “operating costs” means incremental costs incurred under the 
Project on account of fuel and maintenance for vehicles, equipment operation and 
maintenance, utilities, office supplies, communication expenses, staff travel, subsistence, 
workshops, salaries for contractual and temporary staff, management fees, but excluding 
salaries of officials of Member States’ civil service. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
 
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 1 
000,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after November 1, 2002; and 
 
(b) 
payments for Sub-Grants unless such Sub-Grants have been made in 
accordance with the eligibility criteria, procedures and terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in the Project Operational Manual and paragraphs 6, 7, and 8 of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 
 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods and 
works costing less than $100,000; (b) services for consulting firms costing less than 
$100,000; (c) services for individual consultants costing less than $50,000; (d) Sub-
Grants for Sub-Projects under Part B (2) of the Project; and (e) operating costs, all under 
such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
12
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) contribute to the prevention and reduction 
of the spread of the HIV/AIDS epidemic along the Abidjan-Lagos corridor; (b) increase 
access of underserved vulnerable groups along the Abidjan-Lagos corridor to HIV/AIDS 
prevention, basic treatment, support and care services; and (c) strengthen the capacities of 
institutions along the Abidjan-Lagos corridor to implement integrated HIV/AIDS 
information, education and communication and behavioral change policies. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A
:
HIV/AIDS Prevention
1. 
Development of integrated information policies, principally concerning 
education, communication and behavioral change for the eight border communities along 
the Abidjan-Lagos corridor targeted to providers of transport services; users of transport 
services; local population in contact with travelers and migrants; professional sex 
workers, immigrants, and immigration, police and customs officials.  
 
2. 
Procurement and distribution of condoms along the Abidjan-Lagos corridor 
among the most vulnerable populations, including providers of transport services; users 
of transport services; local population in contact with travelers and migrants; professional 
sex workers, immigrants, and immigration, police and customs officials.  
 
Part B
:
HIV/AIDS Treatment, Care and Support
1. 
Strengthening of public and private health care facilities along the Abidjan-Lagos 
corridor to provide services in voluntary counseling, and treatment of sexually 
transmitted infections, and HIV/AIDS opportunistic infections. 
 
2. 
Implementation of community-based Sub-Projects, aimed at HIV/AIDS 
prevention, counseling, training, and support to associations of PLWHA, through 
provision of Sub-Grants to Beneficiaries. 
 
3. 
Strengthening the capacity of the public sector in HIV/AIDS prevention, 
counseling, training, and support to associations of PLWHA. 
 
4. 
Carrying out the Medical Waste Management Plan to dispose of medical waste 
resulting from Project activities. 
 
Part C:
Project Coordination, Capacity Building and Policy Development
Page  14
-
13
-
13
1. 
Coordination of activities and facilitation of partnerships along the Abidjan 
Lagos corridor, consisting of advocacy, development of policies affecting PLWHA, 
monitoring and evaluation. 
 
2. 
Addressing customs and immigration barriers to smooth flow of commercial 
traffic along the Abidjan Lagos corridor, including carrying out of studies to understand 
delays and costs to traffic, provision of information to the public on documentation 
required, small infrastructure works at border posts, and assessment and harmonization of 
customs and immigration operations. 
 
3. 
Strengthening the capacity of public sector and civil society organizations to 
develop, carry out, and coordinate local activities, facilitate social mobilization, develop 
and implement HIV/AIDS prevention.     
 
 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by January 1, 2007.
Page  15
-
14
-
14
SCHEDULE 3
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999  (the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following Parts of this Section. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B: 
 
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $490,000 equivalent, and goods estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $470,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
 
2. 
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
Page  16
-
15
-
15
3. Community 
Participation
Goods and works required for Subprojects may be procured in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Association and described in the Project Implementation 
Manual. 
 
4. 
Procurement from UN Agencies
Contracts for goods required urgently during the first Project Year may be 
procured from the specialized United Nations Agencies, including United Nations 
Development Programme, Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office, United Nations 
Children’s Fund Procurement and Assembly Center, United Nations Population Fund, 
UNAIDS, or World Health Organization  in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
3.9 of the Guidelines. 
 
5. 
Procurement of Small Works 
 
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $240,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified 
domestic contractors of the Member States in response to a written invitation. The 
invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, 
the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, 
and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and 
resources to complete the contract successfully. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to the first three contracts each contract for goods and 
works, and all contracts for goods and works estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 
Page  17
-
16
-
16
or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply. 
(b) 
With respect to the first three contracts procured under shopping 
procedures, the following procedures shall apply: 
 
(i) 
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, 
the Borrower shall provide to the Association a report on the 
comparison and evaluation of quotations received; 
 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Association a copy 
of the specifications and the draft contract; and 
 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of this Section. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants from the Member States in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
Page  18
-
17
-
17
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Single Source Selection
Services may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. Commercial 
Practices
Services to assist Beneficiaries in carrying out Subprojects and estimated to cost 
less than $10,000 equivalent may be procured in accordance with commercial practices 
acceptable to the Association. 
 
4. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval prior to the issuance to 
consultants of any requests for proposals.  Such plan shall be updated every 6 months 
during the execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall 
have been approved by the Association. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, and for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures 
set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  19
-
18
-
18
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants to be selected on a sole source basis, or estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$50,000 or more, the report on the comparison of the qualifications and experience of 
candidates, the qualifications, experience terms of reference and terms of employment of 
the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  
The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.  The 
provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to 
such contracts. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
Page  20
-
19
-
19
SCHEDULE 4
 
Implementation Program 
 
A. 
Overall Project Implementation Oversight
1. 
The Project Governing Body shall be responsible for supervision and monitoring 
of Project implementation, and shall consist of representatives of the Ministries 
responsible for HIV/AIDS and transport of the Recipient, and the Republics of Ghana, 
Cote d’Ivoire, Togo and the Federal Republic of Nigeria.  A representative from Nigeria 
shall be chair of the Project Governing Body, and a representative from Ghana shall be 
vice-chair.  The Project Governing Body shall meet annually. 
 
2. 
The Recipient shall host the Executive Secretariat with functions satisfactory to 
the Association.  Staff of the Executive Secretariat shall be appointed by, and under the 
supervision of the Project Governing Body, with experience and qualifications 
satisfactory to the Association.  
 
3. 
The Executive Secretariat shall prepare and furnish to the Association a Project 
Operational Manual in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, setting out 
details of: (a) the Project implementation plan; (b) a financial management procedures; 
(c) Project procurement arrangements; (d) procedures for preparation, appraisal, 
impelementation and supervision of Community Action Plans; (e) standard formats for 
Sub-Grant Agreements and Implementation Agreements; and (f) such other 
administrative, financial, technical  and organizational arrangements as shall be required 
for the Project.  
 
4. 
Except as  the Association shall otherwise agree, the Executive Secretariat shall: 
(a) apply the criteria, policies, procedures and arrangements set out in the Project 
Operational Manual and the Biomedical Waste Management Plan; and (b) amend the 
Project Operational Manual and the Biomedical Waste Management Plan with the 
consent of the Association.   
 
5. 
The Executive Secretariat shall supervise and coordinate the overall 
implementation of the Project in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and 
the Project Operational Manual. 
 
B. 
Procedures and Eligibility Criteria for Sub-Projects
6. 
The Executive Secretariat shall approve the provision of Sub-Grants to finance 
community-based Sub-Projects in accordance with procedures and criteria set forth in the 
Project Operational Manual it being understood that: (a) the work plan has been designed 
in a participatory approach; and (b) the proposed Sub-Project fits into the overall work 
plan. 
Page  21
-
20
-
20
7. 
Sub-Grants shall be provided to Beneficiaries through Sub-Projects to 
community HIV/AIDS initiatives meeting the criteria set forth in the Project Operational 
Manual.   
 
8. 
Sub-Grant Agreements shall include the following terms and conditions:  
 
(a) 
the obligation of the Beneficiary to carry out the Sub-Project in 
accordance with the Project Operational Manual, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with sound technical, financial, environmental and managerial standards and 
to maintain adequate records to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Sub-Projects; 
 
(b) 
the requirement that: (i) the goods, works and services to be financed 
from the proceeds of the Sub-Grant shall be procured in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Association; and (ii) such goods, works and services shall be used 
exclusively in carrying out the Sub-Project; 
 
(c) 
the right of the Executive Secretariat to inspect by itself, or jointly with 
the Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods, works, sites, plants 
included in the Sub-Project, the operations thereof and any relevant records and 
documents; 
 
(d) 
the right of the Executive Secretariat to obtain all information, as it or the 
Association shall reasonably request, regarding the administration, operation and 
financial management of the Sub-Project; 
 
(e) 
the right of the Executive Secretariat, to suspend or terminate the right of 
the Beneficiary to use the proceeds of the Sub-Grant upon failure by the Beneficiary to 
perform any of its obligations under the Sub-Grant Agreement; and 
 
(f) 
the rights and obligations of any agency which shall execute the Sub-
Project on behalf of the Beneficiary. 
 
C. Work 
Plans
9. 
The Executive Secretariat shall cause all public and private institutions 
participating in the Project to prepare and furnish annual work plans in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association. 
 
Page  22
-
21
-
21
E. Reports
10. The 
Recipient 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about November of each year, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to subparagraph (a) 
of this paragraph, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by December of each year, or such later 
date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
Page  23
-
22
-
22
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Special Accounts 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “CFAF Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
CFAF 500,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into Special 
Account A and the term “Dollars Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$
500,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into Special Account B 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the CFAF Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to CFAF 350,000,000 and the Dollars Authorized Allocation shall be 
limited to an amount equivalent to $350,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals 
from the Grant Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall 
be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 5,000,000.  
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made either: (a) for Eligible 
Expenditures; or (b) into a Second Generation Special Account, exclusively for payments 
of Eligible Expenditures, all in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.   
 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Accounts have been duly opened, withdrawals of the respective Authorized Allocations 
and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Accounts shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the respective Authorized Allocations, the Recipient 
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective 
Special Accounts of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of 
the respective Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and 
deposit into the Special Accounts such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have 
requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Accounts, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Accounts at such intervals as the Association shall specify. 
Page  24
-
23
-
23
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant 
Account and deposit into the respective Special Account such 
amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid out of the respective Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Grant Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Accounts or a Second 
Generation Special Account, the Recipient shall, at such time as the Association shall 
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Accounts: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals 
from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the respective Authorized 
Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Page  25
-
24
-
24
Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Accounts as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Accounts: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) 
deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof 
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Association into the respective Special Account shall be made until the 
Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Accounts or any Second Generation Special Account will not 
be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding 
amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts or any 
Second Generation Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
7. 
(a) 
At no time, shall the amount held in the Second Generation Special 
Account for Benin exceed the equivalent of CFAF 120,000,000; for the Cote d’Ivoire 
exceed the equivalent of CFAF 80,000,000; for Ghana exceed the equivalent of 
$150,000; and for Nigeria exceed the equivalent of $150,000. 
 
(b) 
Any withdrawal from a Second Generation Special Account must be 
justified to the Recipient by the same documentation and other evidence regarding 
eligible expenditures provided for under paragraph 3 of this Schedule. 
 
(c) 
If the Association or the Recipient shall have determined at any time that 
any amount outstanding in any Second Generation Special Account will not be required 
to cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, such amount shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Association or Recipient, be refunded to the Special Account. 
 
Page  26
-
25
-
25
SCHEDULE 6
 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows: 
 
1. 
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04 (a), 3.04 (b), 3.05, 6.05, Article VII, are deleted in their 
entirety. 
 
2. 
Wherever used in the General Conditions, the following terms are modified to 
read as follows: 
 
(a) 
The term “Borrower” is modified to read “Recipient.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Credit” is modified to read “Grant.” 
 
(c) 
The term “credit” is modified to read “grant”; except that where used in 
Sections 6.02 (a) (ii) and 6.02 (c) (i), as modified below, the term “credit” shall continue 
to read “credit.” 
 
(d) 
The term “Credit Account” is modified to read “Grant Account.” 
 
(e) 
The term “Development Credit Agreement” is modified to read 
“Development Grant Agreement.” 
 
3. 
(a) 
Article IV, Section 4.02 (a) and the heading of Section 4.02 are modified 
to read as follows: 
 
“
Section 4.02.  Currencies in which Commitment Charges are Payable
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall pay the commitment charge on the Grant in 
the currency specified in the Development Grant Agreement or in such 
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be 
designated or selected pursuant to paragraph (c) or (e) of this Section.” 
 
(b) 
Wherever used in Section 4.02 (c) and (e) of the General Conditions the 
words “principal and service charges” are modified to read “commitment charge.”
 
