                                   Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR0000615




              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                   (IDA-H0660)




                                      ON A

                                     GRANT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 12.2 MILLION
                        (US$ 16.6 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

    REPUBLIC OF BENIN ON BEHALF OF THE FIVE WESTERN AFRICAN STATES

                                      FOR A

          HIV/AIDS PROJECT FOR ABIDJAN/LAGOS TRANSPORT CORRIDOR


                                  June 25, 2008




Transport Sector
Country Department AFCRI
Africa Region

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective January 31, 2008)

                           Currency Unit = CFA franc
                             1 CFAF = US$ 0.002268
                                US$1 = 441CFAF

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1 ­ December 31


                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AIDS:    Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
ALCO:    Abidjan-Lagos Corridor Organization
ARV:     Antiretroviral drug
BCC:     Behavior change communication
CAS:     Country Assistance Strategy
CBO:     Community-Based Organization
CSO:     Civil Society Organization
ECOWAS:  Economic Community of West African States
EU:      European Union
FCFA:    Franc of West African Monetary Union
GTZ:     Gesellschaft für Technische Zusammenarbeit (German Agency for International
         Cooperation)
HIV:     Human Immunodeficiency Virus
IEC:     Information, Education and Communication
IEG:     Independent Evaluation Group
ISR:     Implementation Status Report
MAP:     Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program
M&E:     Monitoring and Evaluation
MTR      Mid-Term Review
NGO:     Non-governmental Organization
OI:      Orphans Infected
OVC:     Orphans and Vulnerable Children
PAD:     Project Appraisal Document
PHRD:    Japan Policy and Human Resources Development Trust Fund
PDO:     Project Development Objective
PLWHA    People Living with HIV/AIDS
PPF:     Project Preparation Facility
RAP+AO:  Réseau Africain des Personnes vivant avec le VIH/SIDA en Afrique de l'Ouest
         (Network of Africans living with HIV/AIDS in West Africa)
RIAS:    Regional Integration Assistance Strategy
STI:     Sexually Transmitted Infection
UNAIDS:  Joint United Nations Program on HIV/AIDS
VCT:     Voluntary Counseling and Testing

     Vice President: Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
   Country Director: Joseph Baah-Dwomoh/Mark Tomlinson
    Sector Manager: C. Sanjivi Rajasingham
Project Team Leader: Siélé Silué
  ICR Team Leader: Nadeem Mohammad

                                                   AFRICA
            HIV/AIDS PROJECT FOR ABIDJAN-LAGOS CORRIDOR
                                       TABLE OF CONTENTS
Data Sheet
A. Basic Information......................................................
B. Key Dates..................................................................
C. Ratings Summary......................................................
D. Sector and Theme Codes ..........................................
E. Bank Staff..................................................................
F. Results Framework Analysis.....................................
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ...................
H. Restructuring (if any)................................................
I. Disbursement Profile.................................................
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 3
3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 7
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 11
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 12
6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 14
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 15
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 16
Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 17
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 21
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 22
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 24
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 25
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 26
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 28
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 30
Annex 10: Statistical Annex ......................................................................................... 31
Annex 11: Key Lessons Learned from ALCO Experience ............................................ 1

A. Basic Information

                                                                    HIV/AIDS PROJECT
                                                                    FOR ABIDJAN -
Country:                Africa                Project Name:
                                                                    LAGOS TRANSPORT
                                                                    CORRIDOR
Project ID:             P074850               L/C/TF Number(s):     IDA-H0660
ICR Date:               06/26/2008            ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                    GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:
                                                                    BENIN
Original Total
                        XDR 12.2M             Disbursed Amount:     XDR 12.2M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
EXECUTIVE SECRETARIAT
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        07/19/2001    Effectiveness:       02/18/2004         02/18/2004
Appraisal:             11/18/2002    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              11/13/2003    Mid-term Review:     01/23/2006         01/23/2006
                                     Closing:             07/01/2007         12/31/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:           Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:      Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:          Satisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators            (if any)                 Rating

Potential Problem Project Yes                  Quality at Entry
                                                                     None
at any time (Yes/No):                          (QEA):
Problem Project at any                         Quality of
                          No                                         None
time (Yes/No):                                 Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                              Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                               27                 13
General transportation sector                                                       8
Health                                                          41                 60
Other social services                                           32                 19


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
HIV/AIDS                                                       Primary           Primary
Other communicable diseases                                   Secondary         Secondary
Regional integration                                          Secondary         Secondary
Social risk mitigation                                        Secondary         Secondary
Trade facilitation and market access                          Secondary         Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili        Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:         Mark D. Tomlinson                 Antoinette M. Sayeh
Sector Manager:           C. Sanjivi Rajasingham            C. Sanjivi Rajasingham
Project Team Leader:      Siele Silue                       Stephen J. Brushett
ICR Team Leader:          Siele Silue
ICR Primary Author:       Jerome F. Chevallier



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The PDO is to increase access along the Abidjan # Lagos Transport Corridor to
HIV/AIDS prevention, basic treatment, support and care services by underserved



                                              ii

vulnerable groups with particular attention to transport workers, the migrant population,
commercial sex workers and the local populations living along the corridor, especially at
the border towns. It is expected that the project will contribute to the reduction of the
spread of HIV/AIDS and to the mitigation of the adverse social and economic impact of
HIV/AIDS along the transport corridor.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The objective was not revised

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target       Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from        Revised          Achieved at
                                                 approval          Target        Completion or
                                               documents)          Values         Target Years

Indicator 1 :   By end of 2006, at least 90% of the corridor commercial vehicle drivers can
                identify at least two ways in which to prevent HIV/AIDS
Value
quantitative or 68 percent                 At least 90 percent                 82.7 percent
Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/15/2005                   07/30/2007                          12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        92 percent of the target value achieved. To address the issue of target population

achievement)    high mobility, the project initiated special information days.

Indicator 2 :   By the end of 2006, at least 90% of local population residing along the corridor
                can identify at least two ways in which to prevent HIV/AIDS
Value
quantitative or 50 percent                 At least 90 percent                 84.4 percent
Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/15/2005                   07/30/2007                          12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        94 percent of the target value achieved due to many changes among the local

achievement)    population residing along the corridor during the various surveys.

Indicator 3 :   By end of 2006, at least 90%, of the sex workers along the transport corridor can
                identify at least two ways in which to prevent HIV/AIDS.
Value
quantitative or 59.5 percent               90 percent                          87.9 percent
Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/15/2005                   07/30/2007                          12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        98 percent of the target value achieved. The project led many IEC activities for

achievement)    sex workers, including training for peer educators.

                By end of 2006, reduce by 30%, compared with the first year of the project, the
Indicator 4 :   incidence of reported sexually transmitted (urethritis) infections among male
                commercial vehicle drivers working along the corridor.
Value
quantitative or 6.7 percent                4.7 percent                         11.5 percent
Qualitative)



                                                 iii

Date achieved 02/15/2005                   07/30/2007                        12/31/2007
Comments       -244 percent of the target value achieved. The STI incidence has gone up because
(incl. %       of improved diagnostics and availability of treatment may have attracted more
achievement)   utilization of those infected with STIs.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from                        Achieved at
                                                approval         Revised       Completion or
                                              documents)     Target Values      Target Years
               By 2006, increase by at least 50%, compared with the first year of the project, the
Indicator 1 :  proportion of commercial vehicle drivers using a condom in their last act of
               sexual intercourse with a non-regular partner in the previous 12 months.
Value
(quantitative  59.3 percent                90 percent                        78.8 percent
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/15/2005                   07/30/2007                        12/31/2007

Comments       88 percent of the target value achieved. The condom distribution benefited a

(incl. %       large number of highly mobile people and also the restrictive interpretation

achievement)   given by commercial vehicle drivers to what is a non-regular partner can explain
               this result.

Indicator 2 :  By end of 2006, at least 80% of commercial sex workers along the transport
               corridor report using condoms with their clients of the previous week.
Value
(quantitative  58.8 percent                80 percent                        70.5 percent
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/15/2005                   07/30/2007                        12/31/2007
Comments       88 percent of the target value achieved. The sex workers move very frequently
(incl. %       from an area to another with lot of new arrivals. These movements can explain
achievement)   this result.
               By end of 2006, increase by 50%, compared with first year of the project, the
Indicator 3 :  number of condoms distributed through social marketing along the transport
               corridor.
Value
(quantitative  0.97 million                1.46 million                      8.8 million
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/15/2005                   07/30/2007                        12/31/2007
Comments       602 percent of the target value achieved. The project has produced its own
(incl. %       condom #The MIGRANT# distributed in the kiosks put in place by the project
achievement)   along the corridor.

Indicator 4 :  By end of 2006, each border crossing point of the corridor has at least one
               voluntary counseling and testing (VCT) center on either side of the border.
Value
(quantitative  3                           8                                 16
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/15/2005                   07/30/2007                        12/31/2007
Comments       200 percent of the target value achieved. The project undertook strong IEC



                                                iv

(incl. %       campaigns. To satisfy the huge number of people interested by the test, the
achievement)   project doubled the number of the VCT centers.
               By end of 2006, increase by at least 50%, compared with first year of the project,
Indicator 5 :  the number of people who use voluntary counseling and testing centers along the
               transport corridor.
Value
(quantitative  1,000                       1,500                                27,639
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/15/2005                   07/30/2007                           12/31/2007
Comments       1,856 percent of the target value achieved. The successful IEC campaigns led by
(incl. %       the project, including traditional chiefs, religion leaders, transport unions,
achievement)   PLWHA to promote VCT.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                     Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                DO                           IP                 Disbursements
                                                                                 (USD millions)
  1     12/12/2003           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                        0.00
  2     06/02/2004           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                        1.24
  3     12/03/2004           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                        1.76
  4     05/11/2005           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                        3.18
  5     10/15/2005           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                        5.72
  6     03/17/2006           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                        8.81
  7     10/12/2006           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      12.79
  8     03/25/2007           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      15.75
  9     11/30/2007           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      17.41



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                v

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.       In West Africa, major regional travel routes extend along the north-south directions
between land-locked and coastal countries on one hand, and east-west directions (mainly the
Abidjan-Lagos corridor) between the coastal countries on the other hand. National borders often
divide populations from the same ethnic group. About 30 million people live along the Abidjan-
Lagos corridor and 14 million people travel on the corridor annually. Travel along the major
transport routes in the region is an essential requirement for its socioeconomic well-being; it also
offers opportunities for faster transmission of sexually transmitted infections (STIs), including
Human Immunodeficiency Virus/Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (HIV/AIDS), among
the people in the region. Commercial vehicle drivers, commercial sex workers, migrants and the
people, who live in border areas along the major transport routes, are among the vulnerable
groups that may be affected by HIV/AIDS. According to the social assessment done in 2001,
about 300,000 HIV positive people were traveling along the corridor every year.

2.       UNAIDS estimated that the HIV prevalence rates among the adult population in the five
countries along the Abidjan-Lagos corridor ranged from 9.7 percent in Côte d'Ivoire and 3
percent in Ghana in 2001 (see Annex 10, Table 1). High prevalence rates among truck drivers and
commercial sex workers were reported in the large cities along the corridor. For instance, 33
percent of the truck drivers and 80 percent of commercial sex workers in Lomé, the capital of
Togo, were reported to be infected with HIV in 1992. Long delays in clearing border formalities
along the corridor led to risky behavior by truck drivers. Experience demonstrates that prevention
is more effective when it is carried out in places, where such risky behavior occurs.

3.       The Country Assistance Strategies (CAS) of the five countries concerned (interim CAS
or progress report as applicable) identified HIV/AIDS as an issue requiring Bank support.
Country-specific programs for combating HIV/AIDS in the five countries were either being
supported by ongoing projects under the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program (MAP) or were
being prepared. The transport corridor project was designed to complement national efforts by
addressing cross-boundary issues, such as HIV/AIDS, and targeting vulnerable groups that are
not easily covered through country projects because they are highly mobile. The central focus of
the regional integration assistance strategy for West Africa (RIAS), reviewed by the Board in July
2001, was the creation of a West African open, unified, regional economic space. Its secondary
focus was on addressing issues that span borders, such as preventing communicable diseases,
where there can be gains from greater regional cooperation. The project was fully aligned with
the RIAS. It would complement national efforts in HIV/AIDS prevention and make a contribution
to facilitating trade along the corridor.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

4.       The objective of the project was to increase access along the Abidjan-Lagos transport
corridor to HIV/AIDS prevention, basic treatment, support and care services by underserved
vulnerable groups. Particular attention would be given to transport sector workers, migrant
population, commercial sex workers and local populations living along the corridor, especially at
border towns. The project was expected to contribute to the reduction of the spread of HIV/AIDS
and the mitigation of the adverse social and economic impact of HIV/AIDS along the transport
corridor.

5.      Five outcome indicators were proposed. The first three had to do with knowledge about
HIV/AIDS (at least 90 percent of the local population, the commercial vehicle drivers and the
commercial sex workers residing and working along the transport corridor could identify at least
two ways to prevent HIV/AIDS). The last two had to do with the reduction of the incidence of
Sexually Transmitted Infections (STIs): reduce by 30 percent the incidence of STIs among male
commercial vehicle drivers, and by 50 percent the prevalence of gonorrhea among commercial
sex workers. Nine output indicators were proposed, including the establishment of one voluntary
counseling and testing center on either side of each border, attendance at these centers; the use of
condoms by commercial vehicle drivers and sex workers; and the reduction of the average time
for clearing border formalities and of the number of informal checkpoints along the corridor.

1.3 Revised PDO The objective was not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

6.      The project targeted the vulnerable populations along the Abidjan-Lagos transport
corridor, with particular attention to: a) commercial vehicle drivers; b) People Living with
HIV/AIDS (PLWHA); c) commercial sex workers; d) migrants; e) customs, police and
immigration employees based at border towns along the corridor; f) local residents along the
transport corridor, especially those in border towns. Public sector entities in the health, transport
and trade sectors were expected also to benefit from the project.

1.5 Original Components

7.      The project included three components, prevention, care and support, and project
implementation and capacity building.
    · The first component, HIV/AIDS prevention, included two sub-components: a)
        implementation of an integrated Information, Education and Communication (IEC) and
        Behavior Change Communication (BCC) program, and b) social marketing of condoms
        in the eight border communities and along the transport corridor.
    · The second component, HIV/AIDS treatment, care and support services, included three
        sub-components: a) strengthening public and private health care facilities along the
        corridor to provide Voluntary Counseling and Testing (VCT) services and treatment of
        STIs and HIV/AIDS opportunistic infections; b) provision of grants to Civil Society
        Organizations (CSOs, including Community-Based Organizations - CBOs) to undertake
        community-based initiatives in HIV/AIDS care and support; and c) safe disposal of
        medical waste related to the project.
    · The third component (project coordination, capacity building and policy development)
        included: a) the development of strong HIV/AIDS inter-country coordination among
        governments and other stakeholders; b) capacity building among participating partners; c)
        implementation of transport sector policies aimed at expediting border crossing and
        removing informal barriers to the movement of people and goods, which would in turn
        help reduce the importance of sex markets at border towns.

1.6 Revised Components. The components were not revised

1.7 Other significant changes

8.      Two reallocations of funds were approved in July 2006 and in July 2007. Allocations to
categories 2 (consultant services and training) and 4 (equipment and drugs, tests and medical
supplies) have been increased to take account of (a) key studies to address waste management
issues and adopt the HIV/AIDS regional strategy, and (b) the need to provide medical supplies to
a larger number of health facilities than initially envisaged.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

9.      The project was fully consistent with the MAP2 eligibility criteria for sub-regional
projects. It was consistent with the HIV/AIDS strategies of the five countries concerned and
addressed cross border HIV/AIDS issues, which were beyond the reach of national programs. It
was endorsed by the five heads of state, through a joint declaration. During project preparation,
appropriate procedures were put in place to enable sub-regional and national stakeholders to
participate effectively in project implementation and to ensure that IDA's safeguards
requirements were met.

10.     The project was also fully aligned with the RIAS. It was designed to complement
national HIV/AIDS programs by mitigating a negative cross border externality and focusing on
people not reached by national programs. It would also complement ongoing transport sector
operations in three of the five countries concerned (Cote d'Ivoire, Ghana and Nigeria, which had
all HIV/AIDS components). To facilitate trade and transport, the project included the surveillance
of abnormal practices at borders, the effective application of Economic Community of West
African States (ECOWAS) agreements governing transit and movement of goods and people, and
the dissemination of information to commercial vehicle drivers. Transport facilitation was not
mentioned as an objective of the project, however, even though indicators were proposed to
measure improvements to the flow of traffic along the Abidjan-Lagos corridor.

11.     The background analysis on the transport corridor was adequate. In the framework of the
West Africa Initiative, an UNAIDS team carried out extensive assessments of vulnerable groups
along the corridor and more specifically in border towns, which had high HIV prevalence rates
and almost no services. A number of alternatives were considered, including relying on national
programs to address the specific issues of the transport corridor. A range of options were explored
concerning the institutional arrangements for project implementation, in close consultation with
ECOWAS.

12.     Lessons learned from international experience in fighting HIV/AIDS, and especially,
country specific MAP1 projects, were fully incorporated in the project design. These lessons
included addressing the regional implications of HIV/AIDS, insisting on strong political
leadership and commitment at the highest levels, focusing on vulnerability factors, empowering
local communities, designing a multi-sectoral response to HIV/AIDS, recognizing the complexity
of MAP project supervision and the need to put in place a robust Monitoring and Evaluation
(M&E) system, avoiding a culture of command and control in HIV/AIDS Secretariats, providing
assistance to help CSOs prepare and implement their interventions and sequencing interventions
to match the development capacity in the countries.

13.      The objective of the project was well defined. Its design was straightforward. In addition
to the complexity of MAP projects, the regional dimension of this project made it more complex
than national projects.

14.      The institutional framework for project implementation was elaborate. An assessment of
the ECOWAS Secretariat showed that it did not have the capacity to implement the project. The
Abidjan-Lagos Corridor Organization (ALCO) was established for that purpose. A Governing
Body, including the heads of the national HIV/AIDS programs and the Transport Directors from
each country, was responsible for the adoption of annual action plans, the supervision of their
implementation and liaison with national HIV/AIDS programs. The Executive Secretariat,
supported by a management consultant firm, was responsible for coordinating project
implementation by CSOs and public sector organizations. An Advisory Body, with half of its
members from private sector organizations, was also created to provide technical and policy
advice to the Governing Body. It made comments on the draft annual work programs before their
review by the Governing Body. Community-based border HIV/AIDS committees were created
for coordinating the local response to HIV/AIDS in border areas. Finally, Inter-country
Facilitation Committees, with representatives from all stakeholders, were established at the four
border towns. An operational manual was prepared and adopted before Board presentation.

15.      The commitment of the five governments to the project was strong. Stakeholders from all
five countries, including civil society and public sector representatives, participated in project
preparation through a series of workshops. In August 2001, representatives of the five
Governments agreed to the basic principles of the project, and, in October 2001, the detailed
institutional arrangements for the project. In April 2002, through a joint declaration, the
presidents of the five countries confirmed their commitment to joint action to fight HIV/AIDS in
the corridor, and to put in place the institutional framework for project implementation. They also
agreed to a distribution of responsibilities among the five countries as follows: Nigeria would
hold the Presidency of the Governing Body and Ghana the Vice Presidency. Benin would host the
Executive Secretariat, which would be headed by an Ivorian. Togo would chair the Advisory
Body. Finally, they agreed that Benin would be the recipient of the grant on their behalf.

16.      The risk analysis, including mitigation measures, was adequate. The project was
considered as high risk, because, on top of the risks usually associated with multi-sectoral
HIV/AIDS projects, there was the additional risk stemming from the need to maintain a strong
commitment from five governments throughout project implementation. All risks, including weak
capacity of CSOs, poor cooperation among stakeholders, weak support from national HIV/AIDS
programs to the Executive Secretariat, limited behavior change despite improved awareness of
HIV/AIDS among the corridor population, and waning support from one or more governments
concerned were rated as high or substantial.

2.2 Implementation

17.      The Grant was declared effective 3 months and five days after Board approval, which
underlines the commitment of the governments and of ALCO to the project. All effectiveness
conditions were met on time, thanks to the preparatory work financed by a Project Preparation
Facility (PPF) advance, PHRD grant and grants from other sources. Effective start up of project
activities was delayed, however, because it took time and training to establish local organizations,
which could participate in project activities and build capacity in border towns.

18.     Project implementation took place in a difficult context. A severe political crisis was
unfolding in Côte d'Ivoire and Togo, which hampered project implementation and supervision in
these two countries, which were on non accrual status.

19.     Procurement, involving a number of organizations in five countries with different
procedures, was complex. Procurement officers in the Bank country offices provided well
appreciated support.

20.     The financial management of the project was rated unsatisfactory by the November 2004
Implementation Status Report (ISR), because the project was unable to ensure that participating
CSOs would receive payment for their activities within a reasonable period of time (three months
maximum). However, it is important to underline that these delays were mostly due to the
absence of banking agencies in project sites and these problems were overcome. The
unsatisfactory rating was changed after the next supervision mission.

21.     Counterpart funding was contentious. The five countries agreed that they would each
provide counterpart funding in an amount of US$50,000 per annum. The contribution amount in
US$ was translated into national currency value at the time of the grant agreement. At the end of
2004, only Benin had paid its contributions for 2003 and 2004. Côte d'Ivoire, Ghana and Togo
had paid their contribution for 2003, but not for 2004. Nigeria had not started paying. From 2005
to the closing date of the credit, the five countries paid all their dues, including Côte d'Ivoire and
Togo, despite their non-accrual status. With the devaluation of the dollar, the three FCFA
countries complained that they were paying more than the other two countries (US$80,000
equivalent, versus US$50,000 equivalent for the Anglophone countries). Eventually, it was
agreed that the US$50,000 would be converted to local currency at the rate prevailing at the time
of payment. The total contribution by the five countries to project cost amounted to US$1.41
million.

22.     Initially, National programs were considered better positioned to provide anti-retroviral
(ARVs) drugs. But during the Mid-Term Review (MTR) of the project attended by many donors,
PLWHA associations requested that the project finance the ARVs and opportunistic infections
drugs as well. The Bank agreed to that request in order to provide ARVs, principally to
commercial vehicle drivers who tested positive in the health centers rehabilitated at border towns
and ensure also the continuity of drug provision along the corridor. National programs would
provide ARVs and be reimbursed by the project. The Bank's agreement facilitated the decisions
made successively by all five countries, in 2006 and 2007, to make ARV available to PLWHA for
free (Ghana continues to impose a nominal price, however).

23.     The grant amounts were reallocated two times in line with the recommendations made
during the MTR and the closing date was also extended by six month to December 31, 2007, to
take account of the delays in launching actual implementation of project activities.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

24.     A M&E manual was prepared during the first year of project implementation. Project
outcomes were to be measured employing data from HIV surveillance, baseline, and end-point
population-based surveys on knowledge, attitudes practices and behavior. Regular surveys were
to be carried out to assess progress in reducing the time required for border crossing and
harassment of commercial vehicle drivers along the transport corridor. The baseline survey was
completed in 2005 only due to the fact that two calls for bids were unsuccessful.

25.     The Executive Secretariat was responsible for monitoring overall project implementation
through the management consultant, according to terms of reference agreed upon before Board
presentation. The Secretariat was expected to organize annual reviews in a participative manner.
Activities of CSOs and CBOs were to be monitored taking into account their contractual
obligations. Adequate indicators were selected to monitor progress towards the development
objectives of the project.

26.     A strong M&E system was put in place led by the M&E specialist in the Financial
Management Agency. The 87 agencies involved in project implementation produced monthly
reports on their activities, which were used in the planning process. Five NGOs, one in each
country, were recruited to monitor the activities of local NGOs supported by the project, and to
prepare monthly and annual reports to the Executive Secretariat. During the mid-term review of
the project in January 2006, it was agreed that M&E specialists in each of the national HIV/AIDS
programs would provide support to the collection and analysis of data. A total of 141 people were
trained in M&E in the project implementation agencies. Two consulting firms were selected to
monitor progress for (i) the HIV/AIDS program; and (ii) the transportation facilitation component.
The first consulting firm carried out three surveys at the eight border crossing points during one
week each, in February 2005, December 2005 and in August 2007. The second consulting firm
collected data on transport issues seven times from July 2005 to September 2007.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

27.     During project preparation, it was agreed that the new agency responsible for
coordinating project implementation would not handle procurement and financial management.
These activities would be outsourced to a management consultant. The recruitment of the
consultant was a condition of grant effectiveness. On February 12, 2004, an international
consultant was appointed but his performance in financial management was weak in the first year
and a half of project implementation under difficult circumstances. Reporting was late and
inadequate, in part because of the difficulty of working in both an Anglophone and Francophone
environment. With Bank prodding, the consultant changed its management process, and its
performance improved and was eventually considered as fully satisfactory, by both the Executive
Secretariat and Bank supervision missions.

28.     The project was not expected to generate substantial adverse environmental effects. It
was classified in category B. Possible environmental risks included inappropriate handling and
disposal of medical waste. A medical waste management plan was prepared in consultation with
different stakeholders before project appraisal. The third sub-component of project component 2
included the implementation of medical waste disposal requirements for all health facilities
supported under the project, the training of health care professionals and community workers, and
a public awareness campaign. The Executive Secretariat recruited an environment specialist to
monitor implementation of the medical waste management plan.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

29.     During project implementation the five governments concerned contributed to the
financing of the project but it was clear from the outset that they would not be able to fully
finance the HIV/AIDS program after project completion. Therefore contacts were established
with a number of external partners for additional financing. As a result, based on the satisfactory
achievements of the project, in May 2007, the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and
Malaria agreed to provide US$45.6 million to finance a five-year follow-up program. The
transport facilitation component of the project needs to be continued also. A comprehensive

project is being prepared under the well established corridor approach, which combines physical
investment to bring road conditions to acceptable standards and a package of transport facilitation
measures. The personnel employed by the management consultant for the fiduciary and M&E
aspects of the project have been transferred to the Executive Secretariat. Local capacity generated
by the project will be used for implementation of the new HIV/AIDS program.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

30.     The objective of the project is highly relevant today, as it was when the project was
approved. HIV/AIDS along the Abidjan-Lagos corridor remains a major threat to the vulnerable
populations, which benefited from the project. The fight against HIV/AIDS remains a high
priority in the five countries along the corridor, as well as in the Bank's country assistance
strategies for these countries. The design of the project was sound and its main features have been
adopted under the new project financed by the Global Fund. Activities financed under the project
will continue and expand with assistance from the new project, which will consolidate and
amplify the results already achieved.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

31.     The project has achieved its objective. Access by underserved vulnerable groups along
the Abidjan-Lagos transport corridor to HIV/AIDS prevention, basic treatment, support and care
services has considerably increased. Access to prevention and basic treatment services increased
much beyond original targets, as shown in three output indicators (number of condoms distributed,
number of VCT centers and number of people using the services provided in these centers). On
the other hand, out of four "outcome indicators", four were under target, slightly below for the
three indicators concerned with identification of ways in which to prevent HIV/AIDS, well below
for the incidence of STDs among truck drivers, but above for incidence of STDs among sex
workers (see paragraph 33, below). These achievements are clearly attributable to the project, as
national programs were not active in border areas. It is important to underline that increased
access to services was the project's objective, accordingly, outcome indicators should have
focused on that dimension, not on the impact of better services.

32.     The project was expected to contribute to the reduction of the spread of HIV/AIDS.
Prevalence rates are no longer used as indicators of success in HIV/AIDS project for a variety of
reasons. It is useful, however, to provide information on this important dimension of the
pandemic. Prevalence rates have been on a declining trend during the project implementation
period (see table 1 Annex 10). The HIV prevalence rate observed among commercial vehicle
drivers and sex workers, who voluntarily tested for HIV when the three surveys were carried out,
is on a declining trend (see Table 3, Annex 10). The samples used are small, however, and the
results should be taken with caution. The prevalence rate in the population who underwent
voluntary testing during 2006/07 in project-rehabilitated health facilities was 7.4 percent. The
project did not monitor new HIV infections. It is important to underline the difficulties to do so in
a static population and almost impossible in a cohort of highly mobile population. However,
ALCO agreed to track this indicator within Global Fund project and the Bank follow up project
under preparation.

33.     Three indicators were used to measure the impact of prevention messages. In the Project
Appraisal Document (PAD) it was expected that at least 90 percent of commercial vehicle drivers,

sex workers and the local population residing along the corridor would be able to identify at least
two ways in which to prevent HIV/AIDS. The baseline value for these indicators, which came out
of the February 2005 survey was respectively, 68 percent, 60 percent and 50 percent. In August
2007 the percentages were 83 percent, 88 percent and 84 percent respectively (local population
aged 15 to 24). Two other impact indicators had to do with the reduction by at least 30 percent of
the incidence of reported STIs among male commercial vehicle drivers, and by at least 50 percent
of the prevalence of gonorrhea among commercial sex workers. While the second indicator was
achieved beyond expectations, the first one was not. The incidence of STIs among male
commercial vehicle drivers is reported to have increased by over 70 percent. The worsening of
the indicator does not mean that the health situation has deteriorated, however. It may reflect the
improvement of quality of diagnostics and health services available to commercial vehicle drivers
at border towns with project's assistance. It may also be the result of differences in sampling.

34      As shown in Table 2 in Annex 10, most process indicators and several output indicators
(number of condoms distributed, number of VCT centers and number of people using VCT
services) are much higher than targeted. Two output indicators gauged behavioral change among
the target population. The proportion of commercial vehicle drivers and commercial sex workers
using condoms (with non-regular partners in the previous 12 months for the former and with their
clients of the previous week for the latter) was expected to increase by 50 percent for the former
and by 80 percent for the latter. These targets were set during appraisal without the benefit of a
baseline survey. Actually, the proportion increased by 33 percent in the case of the drivers and 20
percent for the sex workers. This increase was achieved in less than two years, which is quite
remarkable.

35.     Indicators used to gauge the success of the first component (HIV/AIDS prevention)
included the use of condoms by commercial vehicle drivers and clients of commercial sex
workers, the number of condoms distributed through social marketing along the transport corridor,
and the holding of an annual rally at each border crossing point to mark World AIDS Day.
Progress in this area is somewhat paradoxical. Indeed, while the number of condoms distributed
has soared far beyond expectations during project implementation (it was multiplied by a factor
of about 6 instead of a doubling), the two indicators concerned with the use of condoms (see
paragraph 34 above) were lower than targeted. On the other hand, the proportion of people aged
15 to 24 using condoms increased by 80 percent. The apparent paradox can be explained by three
factors: condom distribution benefited a large number of highly mobile people, the restrictive
interpretation given by commercial vehicle drivers to what is a non-regular partner, and the
success of the condom brand designed for the project.

36.     Three indicators were proposed to measure progress under the second component,
(HIV/AIDS treatment, care and support services) including the existence of at least one voluntary
counseling and testing (VCT) center at each border crossing point, the increase by 50 percent of
people using VCT services, and adequate supply of antibiotics for the treatment of STIs in 90
percent of health facilities along the corridor. These indicators have been met beyond
expectations. Indeed, the project has rehabilitated and/or equipped 16 centers close to the border
crossing points to enable them to provide VCT services. The number of people who benefited
from HIV testing increased from a negligible number (about 1,000) at project's inception to
27,639 in 2007. With the project's assistance 36 health facilities, including 8 hospitals, have
received an adequate supply of drugs and equipment for treatment of STIs and opportunistic
infections. All facilities continue to be adequately supplied thanks to the synergies developed
between national programs and the project.

37.     Three indicators, all addressing transportation facilitation issues, were proposed to gauge
progress under the third component (project coordination, capacity building and policy
development services). Following the recommendations made during the mid-term review, the
formulation of indicators proposed in the PAD changed, but not the substance. The first two had
to do with the reduction of average time for commercial vehicles to clear border formalities along
the entire corridor for the first, and, more specifically, at the Nigeria-Benin border for the second.
The reduction of the number of informal checks along the corridor was the third indicator.

38.     The average time for clearing border formalities at one crossing point by a heavy truck
declined from 162 minutes during the mid-term review to 128 at project completion. While this is
a substantial progress, it is still higher than the objective of 90 minutes. In any event, this
indicator does not convey the full picture, because, for various reasons, which remain to be
adequately analyzed, the time spent for clearing border formalities is a small fraction of the time
wasted by truck drivers in front of a border. Parking spaces at borders are saturated and waiting
trucks clog the roadway. At the Benin/Nigeria border several hundred trucks are stranded in
chaotic conditions for weeks and even months. Police forces are overwhelmed and helpless. The
target of 3 checkpoints every 100 km has not been reached, but the total number has been reduced.
Authorities in the five countries are reluctant to remove controls on the ground that it might
threaten their security by facilitating the trafficking of weapons and drugs. This situation
contributes to increase the costs of transport in the corridors.

3.3 Efficiency

39.     Funds provided under the project by the Bank and the five governments concerned were
managed with due consideration to results and efficiency. All implementing agencies which
received funds under the project for activities at community level submitted quarterly technical
and financial reports to the Executive Secretariat. These reports were reviewed by the five
country accountants, who systematically visited all implementing agencies each quarter. The
management consultant reviewed all reports provided by the implementing agencies to check that
funds were used for project purposes, with due consideration to economy and efficiency. Overall,
operating costs remained below initial allocations

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

40.     The project achieved its objective. Access by the beneficiary populations to HIV/AIDS
prevention, care and support services has considerably increased. Most people along the corridor
have been sensitized. The social marketing of condoms was highly successful. The gains
achieved are clearly attributable to the project, which focused sharply on the beneficiary groups
identified at appraisal. As a result, knowledge on HIV transmission and prevention improved
substantially, risky behaviors (unprotected sexual relations among young population) are
changing and the incidence of STIs declined sharply among sex workers. The PLWHA reported
that discrimination against them is being reduced. The increase of STI among commercial vehicle
drivers does not indicate a worsening of the STI situation among truck drivers, however, as
explained earlier.

Rating: Satisfactory

Outputs by component

41.     HIV/AIDS prevention services. The project supported 66 implementation agencies for
the development and implementation of IEC/BCC activities at the community level. An

integrated IEC/BCC strategy was formulated, validated by the five countries and widely
disseminated. Messages were broadcast through 32 radio networks. The AIDS world day was
celebrated by the eight border AIDS committees, and, with support from the Coca-Cola
Foundation, two itinerant information and sensitization campaigns on HIV/AIDS (called Love
Life Caravans) were organized along the corridor. A large number of information materials were
disseminated. The social marketing of condoms was contracted out. The project established 625
sales points along the corridor, including at the 8 border posts. Commercial sex workers were
given preference in manning these sales points. A new brand of condoms (called Migrant and
Femigrant) was established, mostly because each country had licensed a brand of condoms and
did not accept that condoms in use in other countries be imported in their countries. As indicated
above, the number of condoms distributed far exceeded expectations.

42.      HIV/AIDS treatment, care and support services. The project supported the adoption and
dissemination of a common reference document on the continuum of care and the policy for
access to STI/HIV/AIDS treatment. As indicated above, 36 public, private and community-based
health facilities were upgraded, equipped and provided with an adequate supply of drugs and
other pharmaceuticals. Staff in these facilities was trained. The project renovated 16 facilities
close to the 8 border posts to provide VCT services. In close coordination with the five
HIV/AIDS national programs, it financed antiretroviral (ARV) drugs for about 100 PLWHA in
each of the five countries concerned. In partnership with the West African Network of People
Living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA), the project provided grants to a total of 21 organizations for
community support to PLWHA and Orphans and Vulnerable Children (OVC). Finally, under this
component, the project prepared and implemented a medical waste management plan. Nine
incinerators and nine skeptic tanks were installed at the health centers located close to border
points, and the staff was trained.

43.      Project coordination, capacity building and policy formulation. The Executive Secretariat
established strong HIV/AIDS inter-country coordination and partnerships with a large number of
organizations and community leaders. It organized training sessions for customs and security
agents for an effective application of ECOWAS transport regulations. It established an
Observatory of Abnormal Practices along the Corridor, to monitor obstacles to the free movement
of people and goods. It also helped establish the Association of Professional Truckers and Drivers,
which played an important role in disseminating messages on HIV/AIDS prevention and transport
facilitation. Training sessions were organized for uniformed agents and commercial vehicle
drivers, and information materials on border crossing were widely disseminated. A large number
of training sessions was also organized for building the capacity of implementing agencies in
project management, IEC, health issues, and transport (see Annex 2, table 1 for details). The
project helped local organizations build capacity.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

44.      (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development: The project's
objective was to improve access to HIV/AIDS prevention and care services by underserved
vulnerable groups, with particular attention to commercial sex workers, truck drivers, out of
school youth and the migrant population. A study along the transport corridor showed that (i)
HIV/AIDS aggravated gender inequities and discrimination; (ii) the impact of HIV/AIDS differed
markedly along gender lines: the stigma against HIV infected women was stronger than for men,
reducing their access to social services; and (iii) the epidemic increased women's economic
vulnerability and dismantled their social network. The decline of the HIV prevalence rate among
commercial sex workers during project implementation is significant, and is expected to continue
under the follow-up project. Such decline has a substantial impact on poverty reduction.

45.     People living with HIV/AIDS and their associations received support from the project, as
well as orphans and other vulnerable children. ARVs were made available to 539 people; this
number is expected to increase under the follow-up project. PLWHA associations are in place and
prepared to expand their activities.

46.     (b) Institutional Change/Strengthening:. The project helped establish an institutional
framework, which has demonstrated its effectiveness, and is being used under the follow-up
project. A large training program has been implemented under the project, in particular to help
participating civil society organizations deliver services to their members and manage projects.
Local associations have been empowered. This is the case in particular of the Association of
Professional Truckers and Drivers, which will continue to play a key role in HIV/AIDS
prevention and transport facilitation.

47.     (c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative): A positive
outcome of the project is the establishment of a regional capacity to undertake activities of
common interest to the five countries concerned. The project made the demonstration that
regional programs can work when countries are highly committed to their success, take
appropriate measures to ensure that the implementing agency receive adequate support, and do
not interfere in its management. Similar corridor projects in other parts of Africa and the world
have been prepared. The Great Lakes Initiatives on AIDS (GLIA) and Southern Africa Transport
Corridors HIV/AIDS Project (SATCA) have benefited from the experience learned from the
Abidjan ­ Lagos corridor project.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

48.     A completion workshop was held in early February 2008 with representatives from main
project organizations. It endorsed the completion report prepared by the Executive Secretariat and
stressed that the results achieved were due in large part to extensive community mobilization
efforts, a strong appropriation of the project by all participating organizations and a highly
efficient Executive Secretariat. Further support is required for strengthening local capacity,
however. The workshop recommended that local authorities in border towns be closely involved
in providing support to and monitoring project activities, and national and local budgets gradually
increase their contribution to the project's budget. The workshop stressed that the high turnover
of agents at borders is a problem. Finally it emphasized that a regional program should
complement, not substitute national programs. Annex 6 provides more details on the workshop.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

49.     Lack of adequate funding for the continuation of project activities, including the
operation of health facilities rehabilitated under the project and of civil society organizations
involved in HIV/AIDS prevention and care, would undermine the sustainability of results
achieved. This risk is small, however, as the five governments concerned have confirmed their
strong commitment to the project, and the Global Fund has agreed to finance a follow-up
operation to support the continuation and expansion of activities undertaken with assistance from

the Abidjan-Lagos corridor project under review. The Bank new transport facilitation project
under preparation will include a HIV/AIDS component1.
50.     Continuous support from the national HIV/AIDS programs to the transport corridor is
dependent on these programs receiving adequate funding from the international community and
being strengthened. This is the case for the national programs in Benin, Ghana and Nigeria, which
are financed by the Bank, and Togo, which is financed by the Global Fund. A project is being
prepared in Cote d'Ivoire for Bank financing. Table 1 in Annex 10 provides information on HIV
prevalence rates and availability of funds for HIV/AIDS programs in the five countries concerned.

51.     A weakening of the capacity built under the project would sap the momentum obtained
with project support in fighting HIV/AIDS along the corridor. GTZ and ALCO did a good job in
capacity building. Their project staff was trained in procurement, financial management and
M&E. The GTZ contract ended in June 30, 2007 and since then, its staff has been successfully
transferred to ALCO. As a result, the momentum obtained has been maintained.

Rating: low

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

52.     (a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry: The project was seen as an
excellent entry point for promoting regional cooperation on two critical issues, HIV/AIDS
prevention and transport facilitation. Project issues were correctly identified. The objective of the
project was well defined and the indicators selected were appropriate, with the reservation noted
in paragraph 31 above. Measuring progress during project implementation would have been
easier; however, had the baseline indicators been available before appraisal. The baseline survey
was delayed, however, due to two failed attempts to contract a firm to do the work under the
PHRD funding provided for the project. The lessons from experience were fully incorporated in
the design of the project. The preparation team worked extensively with the governments
concerned to reach agreement on basic principles and establish the institutional framework before
project approval. It insisted that the project coordination unit remained a lean organization. The
operational manual was adopted before project approval, but project implementation was delayed
because there was little capacity on the ground for initiating project activities. The risk analysis
was fully adequate.

Rating: Satisfactory

53.     (b) Quality of Supervision: Supervision missions visited the countries at regular
intervals. They were issues and results oriented. Their focus on fiduciary and environment issues
was fully adequate. Bank managers were proactive. Despite the fact that the project was managed
by the Transport Sector, the issues were correctly identified and actions taken on time to address
them. The mid-term review in January 2006 was well prepared and was carried out in a highly
participative manner. It focused in particular on all activities required to complete the project and
achieve its objective, on measures to ensure the sustainability of the operation and on



1 The five countries agreed to contribute about US$1 million each to finance the activities of this
component.

strengthening the M&E system. In retrospect, more efforts should have been invested in
improving the quality of the surveys carried out by consultants for monitoring project's outcomes.
The Bank should have also insisted that the time required for border clearance formalities be
placed in the broader context of the time wasted in front of a border. There was a remarkable
continuity in the Bank's core team from inception to completion. Country offices provided
valuable support.

Rating: Satisfactory

54.      (c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance: The project was innovative.
It combined fighting HIV/AIDS with transport facilitation. The Bank saw an opportunity to
support progress on these two fronts along the Abidjan-Lagos transport corridor, a major link
between key ECOWAS members. It emphasized the establishment of an appropriate institutional
framework for program implementation. It provided strong support to implementing agencies to
ensure that the objective of the project would be achieved in an efficient way and on time. Bank
management provided the budget required for a thorough preparation and intensive supervision of
the project.

Rating: Satisfactory

5.2 Borrower Performance

55       (a) Government Performance: The five governments concerned were highly committed
to a regional approach to HIV/AIDS prevention and care, but less so to removing obstacles to the
free flow of people and goods along the Abidjan-Lagos transport corridor. The five governments
provided adequate support to the Executive Secretariat for project implementation through the
Governing Body and paid regularly their counterpart funding after initial delays. Their national
HIV/AIDS secretariats were closely involved in project activities in their respective countries.
Benin played a leadership role by agreeing to provide the facilities required for the Executive
Secretariat and making commitments on behalf of Cote d'Ivoire and Togo, which were in non-
accrual status. The Governing Body played a most useful role in ensuring continued support from
the five governments concerned and coordination with national HIV/AIDS programs. The
Ministers of Health and Transport of the five countries were closely involved in project
supervision, particularly during the mid-term review. Heads of States participated in the project
activities, particularly in the two caravans organized jointly with the Coca Cola Foundation.

Rating: Satisfactory

56.      (b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance: The Executive Secretariat was
able to coordinate the implementation of an impressive work program by a large number of
public and private sector organizations and ensure its completion within the agreed upon
timeframe. It managed to establish and maintain a consensus among the five countries concerned
on priorities, common policies and operational programs. It remained a lean organization.
Contrary to the situation found too often elsewhere, its actual operating cost was lower than
initially allocated. It prepared a well documented completion report on time and best practice
toolkit which can help in the preparation of similar projects.

Rating: Satisfactory

57.      (c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance: The five governments
and the institutions established for project coordination and implementation performed well. The
governments provided strong support to the Executive Secretariat and greatly facilitated project
implementation at border crossing points. The Executive Secretariat identified a large number of
public and private organizations for implementation of project components and organized a large
capacity building program to help them deliver results. Thanks to the strong institutional
arrangements set up, the complexity of the project was overcome.

Rating: Satisfactory


6. Lessons Learned

58.      Complementarily with national AIDS programs: Regional HIV/AIDS programs are most
useful when they complement national programs and focus on border areas and target vulnerable
groups associated with the trucking industry. They should not substitute national programs.
Developing synergies between 5 national AIDS programs and a sub-regional program was
challenging, particularly in the areas of operational level harmonization of clinical aspects,
referral system, and communications strategy. The Governing Board greatly facilitated the
process. A program combining the fight against HIV/AIDS with trade facilitation offers strong
opportunities for synergies, though it is easier to reach a consensus among governments on the
former than on the latter, as emphasized in the Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) assessment
of regional programs.

59.      Design of the project: There was no precedence of a sub-regional HIV/AIDS project
addressing the threat of HIV on the transport sector and transport sector's contribution in
checking the spread of the epidemic. The project design was innovative and heavily relied on a
participatory process that engaged a variety of stakeholders. This approach resulted in strong
ownership from the heads of states down to the community levels. The project design was
realistic, simple and based on the key results to be delivered. The beneficiaries were clearly
identified and the project kept its focus on the target groups throughout implementation. The
project incorporated the five design features, which the IEG found vital to regional programs'
success, namely - strong commitment to regional cooperation, objective matching regional
capacity, clear delineation and coordination of the roles of national and regional institutions,
accountable governance arrangements and planning for sustainability of project outcomes.

60.      Sustainability, Bank's role and partnership. The Bank played a catalytic role in
supporting an innovative initiative by taking high risks. The project documents indicate that at
initiation, with the exception of UNAIDS, other development partners did not show interest in
joining the project. On the other hand, UNAIDS, on behalf of other UN agencies, provided a solid
technical and financial support to bring the project concept to fruition. Strong partnership
between the Bank and UNAIDS was a critical factor in the design and delivery of the project. It is
critical that strong partnership is built prior to initiating the project design.

61.      Institutional arrangements: Establishing the institutional framework for program
implementation is an essential step during the preparation phase, but this requires time,
particularly in the case of a regional program. Government ownership and leadership is a core
requirement for successful institutional arrangements. Participating member governments should
be in the forefront of decisions related to which country would house the headquarters, how its
management would be staffed to ensure openness, transparency and equal opportunity to all
nationalities. The responsibilities of the project were successfully shared by all the five countries.

The offer made by Benin to provide the office space for the Executive Secretariat greatly
facilitated reaching an agreement.

62.      Coordination: Emphasizing the facilitation and coordination role of the Executive
Secretariat was essential for ensuring that civil society organizations be empowered. Contracting
out the fiduciary and M&E aspects of project implementation to a management consultant proved
highly positive. The Executive Secretariat focused heavily on community development, training
staff and disseminating management tools. This was the recipe for success and highly appreciated
by all stakeholders.

63.      Challenge of easing the flow of persons and goods across borders: Accelerating border
clearing formalities may not be sufficient to reduce significantly the time spent by trucks in front
of a border. A comprehensive program, combining physical investment and regulatory and
behavior change, is urgently required to address the root causes of the chaotic conditions
prevailing at some borders, in particular the Benin/Nigeria one. The ministries of transport in all 5
countries recognize the challenge, but they have no responsibilities over key issues, such as
differences in customs duties and security concerns. Other ministries should be associated to the
dialogue and ECOWAS should play a more active role in pushing the regional integration agenda.

64.      Baseline survey: Preparation of the baseline survey was delayed for a variety of reasons,
including two failed attempts to contract consultants before project appraisal and, the delay to set
up the institutional framework for project implementation. In the absence of a survey before
appraisal of the project, it was difficult to set a realistic value for project indicators in the PAD.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

65.      (a) Borrower/implementing agencies: The Executive Secretariat sent written comments
on the draft ICR. It agreed with the assessment, but suggested that more consideration should be
given to the pilot nature of the project and the constraints encountered. It suggested a very
satisfactory rating for the first and second components of the project and a better recognition of
the commitment of the governments concerned and of the role played by the Governing Body.
Most comments have been taken into account in the revised version. See Annex 7 for details.

66.      (b) Co-financiers: The Director of UNAIDS Regional Support Team for West & Central
Africa sent her comments on the project. She indicated that the success of this project was mostly
due to the institutional framework, in which all five countries were equitably involved and also
it's complementary with national HIV/AIDS programs. She also highlighted UNAIDS' role
during the preparation and implementation stages. Finally, she raised five challenges to be
addressed to sustain the achievements of the project, notably information sharing and
development of local response. See Annex 8 for details.

67.      (c) Other partners and stakeholders: Community leaders, traditional chiefs, uniform
personnel, people infected and affected by HIV/AIDS openly testified on the accomplishments of
the project in their lives. The Mayors of Krake Plage and Sanvee Condji, who were closely
involved in the project, underlined the important role played by the corridor project in filling the
gaps of the national programs at the borders. Most stakeholders recommended that the Bank
continue its support to HIV/AIDS programs.

                          Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest
          Components                                                    Percentage of
                                  (USD millions)     Estimate (USD
                                                       millions)         Appraisal

1. HIV/AIDS PREVENTION
SERVICES FOR THE                         2.20               4.60            210
TARGETED POPULATION
2. HIV/AIDS TREATMENT,
CARE AND SUPPORT
SERVICES FOR THE                         7.90               6.90             88

TARGETED POPULATION
3. PROJECT COORDINATION,
CAPACITY BUILDING AND                    6.60               7.60            115
POLICY DEVELOPMENT.
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                   0.60
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                      0.60



             Total Baseline Cost       17.90               19.10            107




(b) Financing
                                                  Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds            Type of      Estimate      Estimate  Percentage of
                                   Cofinancing      (USD         (USD       Appraisal
                                                  millions)     millions)
Borrower                              Grant          1.30         1.40         108
IDA GRANT FOR HIV/AIDS                Grant         16.60        17.70         105

                                 Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Output indicators are in Table 2, Annex 10.

Component 1: HIV/AIDS prevention services for the targeted population

1.      Implementation of an integrated IEC/BCC policy for fighting HIV/AIDS along the
transport corridor. The project supported 66 implementing agencies for the development and
implementation of IEC/BCC activities at the community level. An integrated regional IEC/BCC
strategy was developed, validated by the five countries and widely disseminated. Through the
IRIN Radio station network, partnerships were established with 32 radio stations in the five
countries ­ national radio stations as well as community radios ­ for the production and
broadcasting of radio programs on the project. Over 30 million people were sensitized. All major
events were used as opportunities for mass dissemination of information, including the
celebration of the AIDS World Day by the 8 Border AIDS Commissions in all sites of the project.
In collaboration with the Coca-Cola Foundation, the project organized two itinerant information
and sensitization campaigns on HIV/AIDS along the corridor, called "Love Life Caravan". These
events enabled to reach directly 3 million people along the corridor, and indirectly many more
thanks to the mobilization of national and international media. A large number of IEC/BCC
materials were produced and distributed along the corridor to support and consolidate awareness
raising activities on STI/HIV/AIDS. These included large double-face billboards, leaflets, posters,
stickers, wallets, log books, etc.

2.      Social marketing of condoms along the corridor. The project contracted Moriah Trust
Limited for the implementation of the social marketing of condoms. It established 625 new sales
points along the corridor ­ including 16 kiosks at the 8 border posts, which increased the condom
distribution network to 784 sales points. Moreover, 20 automatic condom dispensers were
installed at the 5 borders of the 3 francophone countries of the corridor. Specific brands of male
condoms (Migrant) and female condoms (Femigrant) have been developed by the project.
Promotional materials were produced and distributed, including: 28,000 leaflets, 158,000 stickers,
3,640 T-shirts, 7,750 calendars, 6,600 posters, 2,810 caps and 1,094 bags. The following IEC
materials were put in place: 8 giant billboards, 8 signboards indication information centers, 400
signposts for sales points and 400 streamers. For mass media, 4 radio commercials and 4 TV
commercials were produced, each of them in French and English. These commercials were
broadcasted on the local and national radio stations and TV channels of the five countries of the
corridor, with a total of 2,978 radio commercials, 54 TV commercials and 18 educational radio
and TV programs broadcasted.

Component 2: HIV/AIDS treatment, care and support services for the targeted population.

3.      Strengthening of public and private health care facilities identified along the corridor to
provide services in the areas of VCT, treatment and HIV/AIDS. The project developed a common
reference document on care and access to STI/HIV/AIDS treatment. Since its validation, this
document became the reference in terms of care and treatment for the whole corridor. It helped 36
health facilities along the corridor improve their capacity to diagnose and provide treatment of
STIs and opportunistic infections. They received drugs and other materials (STI kits, reagents and
audio visual materials). Blood transfusion facilities also received reagents and consumables. In
each off the 36 healthcare facilities selected, health service providers were given pertinent
training in the area STI/HIV/AIDS care. The number of people benefiting from care for STIs

increased from 3,572 in 2005 to 14,202 in 2007. In regards to VCT services, the project renovated
and equipped 8 health centers at border posts and 8 reference hospitals to bring them up to
standard. Staff was trained. The demand for VCT services, which was negligible in these
facilities increased by a factor of 27.

4.       Provision of grants to CSOs to undertake community based initiatives in HIV/AIDS care
and support. Through a partnership with the West African Network of PLWHA (RAP+AO), the
project provided support to a total of 21 organizations: 5 national networks of PLWHA; 6 VCT
organizations and 10 organizations (associations and NGOs), in the five countries of the corridor,
for community support to PLWHA and OVC, and fight against stigma and discrimination on the
8 border sites. Overall, 73 people from these organizations benefited from capacity building in
these areas. These organizations reached 3,177 PLWHA and provided care and support to 1,248
PLWHA and 1,084 OVCs. The project supported a broad range of activities in favor of these two
categories. The project financed the provision of ARVs to 539 PLWHA, in close coordination
with national programs to avoid duplications.

5.       Disposal of medical waste related to the project. The project developed and implemented
a medical waste management plan. All concerned stakeholders were involved in the preparation
of the plan and the drafting of a regional policy document, which was validated by the five
countries. The project developed and disseminated a standardized training plan and a manual for
medical waste management. The project provided appropriate material and equipment to 25
health facilities for appropriate sorting and storage of medical waste and their disposal. The
project established 9 incinerators and 9 skeptic tanks. These incinerators use butane instead of
wood to reduce pollution. In each of these sites, an NGO was selected to take care of the
collection and transport of medical waste. They were provided tricycles for that purpose. At the
end of 2007, each border site had a medical waste management plan, which is implemented by
the community and health centers. A total of 348 people were trained in medical waste
management. The NGOs organized 142 public awareness sessions, which reached over 1,200
people. A total of 12,000 leaflets and 6,000 posters were produced.

Component 3: Project coordination, capacity building and policy development.

6.       Development of strong HIV/AIDS inter-country coordination and partnerships among the
governments and other project stakeholders of the five participating countries. The project
promoted exchanges and dialogue between institutions, professional organizations and NGOs,
particularly during the development of harmonized policies and strategies, but also during the
implementation and monitoring of the activities. Through these activities involving advocacy,
policy formulation and partnership development, the Executive Secretariat established solid links
with the networks and associations of PLWHA, religious and community leaders, trade unions in
the transport sector, as well as national, sub-regional and international institutions. The project
collaborated closely with the health authorities of the five countries concerned. A large number of
studies were produced with project's assistance.

7.       Implementation of policies and programs for smooth movement of commercial traffic
along the corridor. The Executive Secretariat organized training sessions and high-level meetings
with customs, police, immigration and transport directorates and conducted advocacy activities in
the five countries for an effective application of the various ECOWAS regulations. It also pointed
out inconsistencies between national and ECOWAS regulations. The project established an
observatory of practices along the corridor. It is an effective instrument for monitoring obstacles
to the free movement of goods and people along the corridor.

8.      The project established four Inter-border Facilitation Committees; all managed by
officials working at border points, including representatives from police, immigration, transport
unions, etc. These committees helped train 97 persons on HIV prevention and implementation of
ECOWAS regulations concerning the free movement of people and goods. IEC campaigns were
launched to provide information to all concerned on requirements for border crossing. A total of
120,000 leaflets, 35,000 posters, 1,200 folders, 45,000 stickers and 15,000 bags were produced
and disseminated, which have considerably improved the knowledge on rules concerning the free
movement of people and goods. Billboards were installed to facilitate border clearance
formalities. At each of the 8 border crossing point, an information unit was established, including
an office, a meeting room and a shelter with a capacity to accommodate about 100 people. These
units have been extensively used to disseminate information on HIV/AIDS and formalities for
crossing borders.

9.      Capacity building among implementing partners. The project organized a number of
training sessions, which benefited to a total of 3,762 people. Table 1 below shows the number of
people who have benefited from the various training sessions organized by the project.

                          Table 1: Training for capacity building
Area         Content                          Profile                         Number
Coordination Planning and management of
             sub-projects                     Members of focal units          37

                                              Young girls in border areas,
             Training of peer educators       truckers, CSWs, uniform         1,460
                                              personnel
IEC          Capacity building for the
             dissemination of information on  Journalists of partner radios   46
             the media

             Distribution of condoms          Managers of sales points, NACs,
                                              members of NGOs                 625

Health       Syndromic management of
             STIs                             Health center providers         101

             Medical care of OIs              Health center providers         80
             Voluntary Counseling and         Health center providers
             testing                                                          100

             MTCTP                            Health center providers         97
             Psychosocial care and support    Health center providers
             services for PLWHA                                               97

             Laboratory                       Health center providers         35
             Prescription of ARVs             Health center providers         93
                                              Medical doctors, nurses,
             Health Care Waste                pharmacist, lab technicians,
             Management                       traditional birth attendants,   348

                                              artisans
             Psychosocial advisers for
             community care and support       Members of PLWHA                223
             services for PLWHA and OVCs      associations and PEC NGOs

Transport    Principles of free movement of
             goods and people                 Uniform personnel               97

             Observatory of practices at
             borders (data collection &       Youth living in border areas.   100
             management)
Financial    Training on the simplified
management   manual for financial             Members of NACs and NGOs
             management, procurement and      subsidized by the Project       225

             M&E

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
            Not applicable

         Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members

           Names                              Title                Unit  Responsibility/
                                                                            Specialty
Lending
Stephen Brushett             Sr. Transport specialist             AFTTR Former TTL
Siélé Silué                  Sr. Transport Specialist             AFTTR TTL

Bachir Souhlal               Lead Operations Specialist
                             Development                         AFTHV

Hitoshi Shoji               Sr. Transport Specialist              AFTTR Former Co-TTL
Karen Hudes                  Sr. Counsel                         LEGAF
Agnes Albert-Loth           Finance Officer                       LOAG
Jocelyne do Sacremento       Operations Analyst                   AFTTR
Antoine Lema                 Consultant                           AFTTR
John Stephen Osika           Consultant                           AFTTR
Nadeem Mohammad             Sr. Operations Officer               AFTHV
Linda Patnelli               Team Assistant                       AFTTR
Hugues Agossou               Sr. Financial Management Specialist AFTFM
Itchi Gnon Ayindo           Procurement Specialist                AFTPC
Sylvie Charlotte Ida do Rego Team Assistant                      AFMBJ

Supervision/ICR
Siélé Silué                  Sr. Transport specialist             AFTTR      TTL
Hugues Agossou               Sr. Financial Management Specialist AFTFM
Itchi Gnon Ayindo           Procurement Specialist                AFTPC
Ayite-Fily D'Almeida         Sr. Operations Officer               AFTH2
Alexandre K. Dossou          Sr. Transport. Specialist            AFTTR
Assiata Houedanou Soro      Disbursement Assistant                AFMCI
Karen Alexandra Hudes        Sr. Counsel                          LEGST
Pamphile Kantabaze           Sr. Operations Officer               AFTH3
Alain L. Labeau              Lead Specialist                      AFTTR
Nadeem Mohammad             Sr. Operations Officer               AFTHV
Africa Eshogba Olojoba       Sr. Environmental Specialist        AFTEN
Farida Khan                  Operations Analyst                   AFTTR
Pepita Hortense C. Olympio Team Assistant                        AFMBJ
Juliana Victor-Ahuchogu     Monitoring & Evaluation Specialist   HDNGA
Bertille Mapouata            Team Assistant                       AFTTR
Aissata Soro Houedanou      Disbursement assistant                AFMCI
Sylvie Charlotte Ida do Rego Team Assistant                      AFMBJ

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                No. of staff weeks   USD Thousands (including
                                                     travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY02                                 17                       224.38
  FY03                                 25                       157.69
  FY04                                   7                       90.56

                        Total:         49                       472.63
Supervision/ICR
  FY04                                 21                       187.96
  FY05                                 40                       165.85
  FY06                                 37                       127.32
  FY07                                 18                        68.41
  FY08                                 15                        90.11

                        Total:        131                       639.65

                           Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results


1.     A beneficiary assessment was prepared by CEFORP in December 2007. The
survey was carried out in four of the eight border points. Beneficiaries included PLWHA,
commercial sex workers, youth and truckers. In each site four focus groups were
organized, including 8 to 12 participants each. Overall, 17 focus groups were organized
and 12 individual interviews were conducted during the period December 12 to 18, 2007.

2.     Participants were well aware of project activities, mainly those concerning STI
treatment, condom distribution, voluntary testing and support to PLWHA. Most
participants were satisfied with services provided. Despite efforts made by the project,
however, ignorance on HIV transmission and risky behavior persisted, particularly
among truckers. PLWHAs signaled that some delays were incurred by health facilities in
getting drugs. They also indicated that they needed more food aid. Stigma persists,
particularly at border towns. Youth are generally well informed on HIV transmission.
They like the condom dispensers installed at the borders but commercial sex workers
mentioned that, despite prevention campaigns, many men refuse to use condoms.

3.     In the area of transport facilitation, participants indicated that much remains to be
done to reduce time loss, insecurity and racket. They also requested larger parking areas
and recommended that forwarding agents in uniform be present at the borders.

                      Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

1.      A completion workshop was held in Cotonou on February 4 and 5, 2008. Representatives
of main beneficiaries (local authorities, CSOs, PLWHA, commercial sex workers, customs agents,
etc.) were invited, as well as representatives of international organizations (WHO, UNAIDS,
ECOWAS) and Foundations (North Star). The main beneficiaries expressed their satisfaction for
the support received from the project.

2.      Participants emphasized the following positive features of the project. Its objective was
simple. It was a regional project, which complemented national HIV/AIDS programs. Directors
of national HIV/AIDS programs were members of the Governing Body. Border committees were
established to facilitate and monitor project implementation. Civil society organizations were
mobilized. The operating cost of the Executive Secretariat remained below projections.

3.      The project achieved its objective (improved access to HIV/AIDS prevention and care by
vulnerable groups). The workshop reviewed all project indicators. Some of them were below
target value, but the HIV/AIDS prevalence rates in the five countries and among target groups
appear to have declined. ALCO played a major role in improving key indicators. Testimonies by
representatives of vulnerable groups indicated that behavior is changing. A large number of
truckers, commercial sex workers and youth use testing services provided by the project.

4.      Harmonization of treatment protocols is a major achievement. Capacity building was
strongly pursued by the project. Gender was not sufficiently emphasized initially. This was
corrected, however during project implementation. For instance commercial sex workers were
recruited for the sale of condoms and a female condom has been developed and promoted by the
project.

5.      The workshop made a number of recommendations, including the need to (a) improve
coordination with national institutions and programs; (b) ensure that ECOWAS rules be applied
by all states; (c) associate local elected officials to the project as early as possible; (d) increase
gradually counterpart funds provided by national and local governments; and (e) reduce work
mobility of border agents. A single project cannot achieve sustainable results. Follow-up projects
are needed, in particular a transport corridor project to facilitate trade along the corridor.

            Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

1.       In January 2008, ALCO prepared a well documented completion report, which is
available upon request. Its executive summary is here below:

2.       Thanks to the social marketing of condom (SMC), the demand and use of condoms have
greatly increased along the corridor. Another significant result of the project is the improvement
of the availability, functional capacity and quality of the services of diagnostic and STI treatment
and management of OI, and of voluntary counseling and testing (VCT). This is followed by a
significant increase in the attendance of public and private health centers for the treatment of STI
and OI, and for the HIV test.

3.       Through a partnership with the West African Network of PLWHA (NAP+WA), the
Project supported communities activities that enabled to significantly improve the quality of life
of PLWHA and OVC, by reducing discrimination and stigmatization which they suffer. Thanks
to the support of the Project, an innovative, effective and original system of healthcare waste
management has been developed, then applied not only at the 8 border sites of the Project, but
even beyond.

4.       The coordination of the project is one of its major strengths. The project facilitated and
favored at both the inter-country level and intra-country level collaboration and dialogue among
institutions, professional organizations and NGOs. Even if the component related to the
facilitation of transport has not achieved all its objectives, major progress has been made. The
capacity building of implementing institutions and various service providers has been central to
the implementation strategy of the Project. Thus, thanks to the Project the capacities of 3762
people were built in various areas (coordination, IEC, health, transport, fiduciary management).

5.       The project has been implemented between February 2004 and December 2007, at an
original cost estimated at US$17.9, out of which US$16.6 (equivalent to 12.2 million of DTS)
represents the IDA grant amount.

6.       The assessment of the financial performance of the Project is on the overall very positive.
Towards the end of the project, the disbursement rate was very close to 100 percent. On the
whole, the Requests for Funds Withdrawal (RFW) after disbursement were handled in a
satisfactory manner. The level of mobilization of the counterpart of the States has passed the 100
percent bar. The accounting procedures used were conformed to the procedures of the Bank. The
respect of measures taken throughout the project has enabled the finance team to produce all the
expected reports within the required deadline, and the Executive Secretariat (ES) to regularly and
in a transparent manner make report on the use of the funds.

7.       In accordance to the directives related to procurement funded on the IDA Funds,
principles of equity, transparency, equality of opportunities, economy and efficiency governed the
procurement procedures during the implementation of the project. In spite of the multi-country
aspect of the project, the various activities identified for procurement during the period 2004-
2007 were 100 percent achieved.

8.       The different functions which the different stakeholders (IDA, UNAIDS, Governments,
ALCO and its ES) were all satisfactory. Also, their overall performance can be considered as
satisfactory.

9.      The sustainability of the project can be considered as very likely. The interventions and
strategies initiated during the project continue to be of a capital importance to the new paradigm
"Transport/Health". The progress made thanks to this project are a testimony of the anchoring of
this pilot cross-border initiative, and of its added value, hence the need has received funding for
the consolidation and extension of: "Joint Regional STI/HIV/AIDS project in the Abidjan-Lagos
transport corridor". Moreover, in September 2007, ALCO was chosen to implement the new
"Abidjan-Lagos transport and transit facilitation project" (ALTTFP) of the World Bank, under
the supervision of ECOWAS.

10.     The executive secretariat sent written comments on the draft ICR. It agreed with the
assessment, but suggested that more consideration should be given to the pilot nature of the
project and the constraints encountered. It suggested a very satisfactory rating for the first and
second components of the project and a better recognition of the commitment of the governments
concerned and of the role played by the Governing Body. Most comments have been taken into
account in the revised version.

            Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

1.      The following paragraphs are a summary of a note sent by the Director of UNAIDS
Regional Support Team for West & Central Africa, on the project. She highlighted the role of
UNAIDS during the preparation and implementation stages, the key dates of the project and the
challenges to be addressed to sustain the project achievements.

2.      Correlation between migratory movements and STDs: The Abidjan ­ Lagos Transport
Corridor links the major economic centers in West Africa. About 63 percent of economic activity
in ECOWAS takes place in the areas served by the corridor. About 30 million people live along
the corridor and 14 million people travel on the corridor annually. The West African Initiative
identified a high correlation between migratory movements and STDs, including HIV. Travel,
involving long time spent away from home, increases the likelihood of unsafe sex. In 2005, the
HIV prevalence rate among the highly mobile population living at border towns was estimated at
8.8 percent. The high HIV prevalence rate observed among commercial vehicle drivers and
commercial sex workers pointed to the need to strengthen prevention and care services along
transport corridors, including the Abidjan-Lagos one.

3.      The key events of the project: Preparation of the Lagos-Abidjan corridor project was
initiated during a regional workshop organized by UNAIDS in July 2000. Main events were as
follows:

     · July 2000: first meeting with UNAIDS support in Accra

     · May 2001: first Bank preparation mission

     · July 2001: first meeting of the Ministers of Health of the five countries, facilitated by
        UNAIDS, which established a working group and a provisional secretariat in Benin, and
        reached a consensus on the institutional framework for the project

     · April 2002: Joint Declaration of the five Heads of State

     · March 2003: Negotiations of the grant

     · November 2003: Approval of the project by the Board of the Bank

     · December 2003: Launch of the project by the President of Benin

     · February 2004: Effectiveness of the grant

     · August 2004: Signature of the Headquarters Agreement

     · February 2006: Mid-term review

     · July 2006: Mobilization of additional resources with the help of UNAIDS

     · October 2007. Meeting of the representatives of the five countries with the Global Fund
        to agree on the institutional framework

4.       UNAIDS played an important role: The success of the project is mostly due to the
institutional framework, in which all five countries are equitably involved. It was designed to
complement national HIV/AIDS programs. UNAIDS has helped initiate, prepare and implement
the project. It has contributed to the definition of vulnerable people, particularly among mobile
people, through a study conducted in 1997. It has helped design the institutional framework and
supported its establishment. It has contributed to the development of the monitoring and
evaluation system, including the formulation of indicators. It has worked closely with CSOs to
help them participate in project activities. Finally it has provided technical assistance for the
preparation of the project document for Global Fund financing.

5.       Main challenges and opportunities: UNAIDS raised five important issues which need to
be addressed carefully:

    · Sustainability of project achievements at the end of Global Fund financing,

    · Information sharing with national programs in real time,

    · Ensuring that the principles of equity, transparency and project performance are applied,

    · Development of local response, and

    · Extension of the approach to other transport corridors.

                      Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

1. ALCO: Joint Regional Project for STI/HIV/AIDS Prevention, Care and Support along the
   Abidjan-Lagos Transport Corridor. Completion Report, January 2008

2. HIV/AIDS and Transport, Best Practices in the Abidjan-Lagos Corridor, December 2007

3. Arc Ingenierie: Mission de Conception et Mise en Place des Observatoires de Suivi des
   Déplacements le long du Corridor de Migration Abidjan-Lagos, Rapport d'Etude,
   Novembre 2007.

4. CAC : Evaluation de la stratégie IEC/BCC, January 2006

5. CEFORP : Synthèse des études de base, May 2005

6. CEFORP : Evaluation à Mi-Parcours du Corridor, Volet Biologique, January 2006

7. CEFORP : Etude sur la Satisfaction des Bénéficiaires, January, 2006

8. CEFORP : Audit des indicateurs, January 2006

9. CEFORP : Evaluation a Mi-Parcours, February 2006

10. CEFORP : Rapport Final Volet Biologique , December 2007

11. CEFORP: Audit des indicateurs, December 2007

12. CEFORP: Etude sur la Satisfaction des Bénéficiaires, December 2007

13. Global Excel: Evaluation des ONG, January 2006

14. Global Excel: Audit de la gestion des médicaments et condoms, September 2007

15. The Global Fund : Program Agreement, July 2007

16. Kaseka and al: Etude sur le tourisme sexuel le long du corridor, November 2005

17. Moriah Trust : Etude sur les obstacles à l'utilisation du condom féminin, February 2007

                                     Annex 10: Statistical Annex

Table 1: HIV prevalence rates and funding for national HIV/AIDS programs (US$ million)
               HIV prev.                  Global Fund     PEPFAR       World Bank   Total
Country            rate                   2003 - 03/07    2004-2006    2001- 12/08  funding
                  2001           2006
Benin             3.6%           1.8%          39.0           0           58.0        97.0
Cd'I              9.7%           7.1%          51.0          115.3          0         166.3
Ghana             3.0%           2.3%          45.8           0           45.0        90.8
Nigeria           5.8%           3.9%          74.4          344.8        140.3       559.5
Togo              6.0%           3.2%          25.7           0             0         25.7
Source: World Bank. PEPFAR (President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief) is a US
Government initiative

Table 2: Project Indicators
Indicator                                                        Baseline   Target   Value
                                                                  (2005)             (2007)
PDO Indicators
By end of 2006, at least 90% of the corridor commercial            68%       90%     82.7%
vehicle drivers can identify at least two ways in which to
prevent HIV/AIDS
By end of 2006, at least 90% of local population residing         50.4%      90%     84.4%
along the corridor can identify at least two ways in which to
prevent HIV/AIDS (people aged 15 to 24)
By end of 2006, at least 90% of commercial sex workers            59.5%      90%     87.9%
along the transport corridor can identify at least two ways in
which to prevent HIV/AID
By end of 2006, reduce by 30%, compared with the first year       6.7%       4.7%    11.5%
of the project, the incidence of reported sexually transmitted
(urethritis) infections among male commercial vehicle drivers
working along the corridor
By end of 2006, reduce by at least 50%, compared with the         8.9%       4.5%    3.8%
first year of the project, the prevalence of gonorrhoea among
commercial sex workers along the corridor.
Output Indicators
By 2006, increase by at least 50%, compared with the first        59.3%      90%     78.8%
year of the project, the proportion of commercial vehicle
drivers who report using a condom in their last act of sexual
intercourse with a non-regular partner in the previous 12
months.
By end of 2006, at least 80% of commercial sex workers            58.8%      80%     70.5%
along the transport corridor report using condoms with their
clients of the previous week.
By end of 2006, increase by 50%, compared with the first           0.97       1.46    8.8
year of the project, the number of condoms distributed            million   million  million
through social marketing along the transport corridor
By 2006, each border crossing point along the transport             0         16       24
corridor annually organizes a rally to mark World AIDS Day
with the participation of residents, commercial truck drivers

and civil society organizations from both sides of the border
By end of 2006, each border crossing point of the corridor          3            8          16
has at least one voluntary counseling and testing (VCT)
center on either side of the border.
By end of 2006, increase by 50%, compared with the first          1,000        1,500      27,639
year of the project, the number of people who use voluntary
counseling and testing centers along the transport corridor
By end of 2005, at least 90% of the health facilities along the    30%         90%         100%
corridor report adequate supply of antibiotics for the
treatment of antibiotic-sensitive sexually transmitted
infections, over the previous six months
By end of 2006, average time for trucks to clear border            180          90          128
formalities does not exceed 90 minutes on average
By end of 2006, average time for busses to clear border            105          45          81
formalities does not exceed 90 minutes on average
By end of 2006, the number of checkpoints per 100 km along          9            3           5
the entire corridor reduced by at least 50%, compared with
the first year of the project
A project progress report is prepared at least once every six       0            1           1
months
Process Indicators
By the end of 2004, all the countries along the transport           0            5           5
corridor have adopted a common HIV/AIDS strategy for the
transport corridor
By end of 2006, train at least 500 residents of border towns        37          500        1,460
along the transport corridor as key community HIV/AIDS
IEC activists
By 2006, increase by at least 50%, compared with first year         4            8          173
of the project, the number of trained HIV/AIDS counselors
working in voluntary HIV/AIDS counseling and testing
centers along the transport corridor
By end of 2005, at least 40% of total disbursements to sub-         0%         40%         66%
projects will have been through civil society organizations
By 2005, at least fifty people from civil society organizations,    0           50          225
working on HIV/AIDS along the corridor, have been trained
on financial management of sub-projects
By 2005, at least fifty people from civil society organizations,    0           50          223
working on HIV/AIDS along the corridor, have been trained
on community HIV/AIDS care and support
By 2005, at least fifty staff of health facilities along the        0           50          287
transport corridor, have been trained on basic management of
PLWHA
Source ALCO. The three output indicators for transport facilitation are not strictly those of the
PAD.

Table 3: HIV positive rates among truck drivers and commercial sex workers, size of
sample and date of data collection
                             Feb. 2005             Dec. 2005            Aug. 2007
No truck drivers                260                  334.0                  533.0
% HIV positive                   5.0                  2.7                    1.7
No CSW                          93.0                 142.0                  188.0
% HIV positive                  30.1                  12.7                  20.7
Source: CEFORP

                     Annex 11: Key Lessons Learned from ALCO Experience

1.    The following sections highlight key lessons learned from design to the implementation
completion of Abidjan-Lagos HIV/AIDS Transport Corridor Project, financed by the Bank under
its Multi-country HIV/AIDS Program (MAP). These lessons may be useful for other ongoing and
future sub-regional HIV/AIDS projects or programs. The project was a high-risk undertaking
which adopted innovative approaches during its implementation and benefited from the
leadership of the 5 governments. Bank's Transport Sector (AFTTR) demonstrated an exemplary
dedication and ownership of the project. The project greatly benefited from significant technical
and financial support of UNAIDS, ACTafrica (AFTHV), HDNGA and AFTTR during its
preparation and implementation that resulted in overall a better design and impressive
implementation performance.

2.    The PDO, Strategic Alignment and Focus. The project development objective was realistic,
simple and was developed based on evidence and recognition of the complexity of the challenge
to address HIV/AIDS in the mobile settled populations along the Abidjan-Lagos corridor,
especially at the border areas. The foundation of the PDO was based on assessments done in 2001
at the border areas that estimated about 300,000 HIV positive persons traveling across 5 borders
annually and the time to clear cargo trucks at the border areas that resulted in delays from a few
days to months, in some cases. Considering that the corridor provided about 65% of trade facility
to the 5 West African countries, the affect of HIV on the mobile populations and settled
populations along the corridor was enormous. Stakeholders recognized that the traffic flow must
be improved, number of checkpoints should be reduced, and customs clearance procedures be
streamed lined. These challenges were considered during the PDO design. However, considering
that the improvement of traffic flow, customs clearance and border security issues, which
engaged several agencies and sensitive border policies ­ the project design team did not include
traffic facilitation as one of the objectives in the PDO but addressed this challenge in the project
implementation as a project activity. The PDO should be developed based on evidence and
well informed estimates of what can be realistically achieved. Objectives that are critical but
their achievement is too risky can still be part of the project design but do not necessarily be
part of the overall PDO. A wider and earlier stakeholder consultation in the development of
the PDO and KPIs is critical. The project narrowly identified the target groups and
beneficiary populations and kept its focus on the target throughout its implementation.

3.    Project design. There was no precedence of a sub-regional HIV/AIDS project addressing the
threat of HIV on the transport sector and transport sector's contribution in the spread of the
epidemic. The project design was innovative and heavily relied on a participatory process that
engaged a variety of stakeholders. This approach resulted in strong ownership from the head of
the states down to the community levels. The project design was realistic, simple and based on
the key results to be delivered (in prevention, care, treatment and coordination areas). A simple
project design that is focused on outcomes and well defined target beneficiary groups
results in successful implementation including better monitoring. A simple project design
does not warrant less preparation effort and budget, rather much higher preparation fund
that is primarily required for gathering evidence.

4.    Sustainability, Bank's role and partnership. The Bank played a catalytic role in supporting
an innovative initiative by taking high risks. The project documents indicate that at initiation,
with the exception of UNAIDS, other development partners did not show interest in joining the
project. It is well documented that UNAIDS provided an extraordinary technical and financial
support to bring the project concept to fruition. . Strong partnership between the Bank and

UNAIDS was a critical factor in the design and delivery of the project. After the Mid-Term
Review, ALCO qualified to receive $45 million from the Global Fund for 5 years. Fiduciary
management and M&E was contracted out to a management firm on the build-operate-transfer
basis. The BOT approach worked well and by the time project closed, ALCO successfully took
over the fiduciary and M&E roles. It is critical that strong partnership is built prior to
initiating the project design. ALCO project confirms that Bank can play a catalytic role,
undertake high risks, build effective institutions, attract substantial financing and deliver
results. Subcontracting critical but routine tasks pays off in terms of time and money,
especially for a new organization in a complex setting.

5.   Mainstreaming in the Transport Sector. The project sets an impressive example of
mainstreaming HIV/AIDS in the Transport sector in the Bank operations. This has significantly
raised awareness of the impact of HIV on the sector's development and high risk of sector's
contribution to the spread of the epidemic. The ministries of transport in all 5 countries recognize
the challenge and have been fully engaged in the project (evident from stakeholder consultations).
However, evidence of key results delivered by the transport ministries in terms of improved
partnership with the border entities to streamline customs formalities and facilitating traffic flow
has not been significant. It is critical to actively engage the transport sector, customs and
uniformed services to mitigate the impact of stagnant traffic at the borders. Without
adequate parking facilities/infrastructure, access to the basic health services and
information ­ the mobile populations may not only be contributing to the spread of HIV but
other diseases including TB and respiratory illnesses. Bank financed transport
infrastructure operations should address such challenges as a safeguard issue at the borders
as well as in-country main road arteries. Future operations should be designed with critical
thinking that transit facilitation (including infrastructure and customs clearance) are key to
the success in curtailing the epidemic.

6.   Innovative implementation approaches (not envisaged during the project design). It is
evident that the project has been innovative in seeking solutions to various key challenges. The
support of the Governing board (head of the national AIDS program managers) has been
exemplary in supporting such innovations:

    · Establishment of border committees and training them for peer-to-peer learning. Border
        communities were mobilized and trained for community mobilization and awareness.
        ALCO coordinated the training not only to support the community level subprojects but
        also for peer-to-peer learning. This approach proves to be cost efficient and giving a clear
        mandate and operational objective to the committee members.

    · Harmonized communications strategy. Considering 5 countries, two foreign languages,
        several local dialects, multiple cultures, conflict in Cote d'Ivoire, non-accrual status of
        Togo; the project was impressively successful in developing a sub-regional
        communications strategy including standardizing key terms and messages along the
        border. The impact of the harmonized communication strategy is evident from behavioral
        survey and direct observations.

    · Localized radio channels. An integrated regional IEC/BCC strategy was developed,
        validated by the five countries and widely disseminated. At the operational level, various
        approaches were used depending on the targets. Through the IRIN Radio Station,
        partnerships were established with 32 radio stations for the five countries ­ national radio
        stations as well as community radios- for the production and broadcasting of radio
        programs in 17 local languages. In 15 months of activities, over 30 million people were
        sensitized through the radio programming approach. The initiative resulted in significant

        increase in demand for VCTs. The established radio coverage can be used to promote
        other awareness on PMTCT, TB/HIV.

    · Condom social marketing and alternate job opportunities for CSWs. The approach to the
        social marketing of both male and female condoms was innovative. Special brand for the
        corridor was created and registered in all 5 countries, cost were reduced by localizing the
        adverts. CSWs were mobilized to protect themselves as well as to adopt alternate means
        of income by selling the condoms.

    · Observatories at border behavioral monitoring and traffic flow time recording.
        Observatories were installed at all borders for direct monitoring of behavior of various
        target groups as well as sample recording of time required to clear the border formalities.
        Observatories were critical in a constant data flow allowing ALCO management to focus
        on the areas requiring more attention.

    · Subcontracting M&E. M&E was subcontracted to the management firm. Despite initial
        slow start, the M&S system was built, operated and then transferred to ALCO by the end
        of the project. Development of an M&E system from the scratch and ensuring data flows,
        synthesis and its utilization in stakeholder consultations and action planning has been
        impressive. Include the identification and contracting to 5 local NGOs as intermediary
        agents for supervision, quality assurance, M&E and technical assistance to NGOs.

    · ART referral system. The project soon learned that access to ART for non-citizens was a
        challenge. ALCO negotiated with all countries on a referral system. A non-citizen, when
        tested positive was issued a referral slip through which s/he could have access to ART in
        any member country. At the end of each month, the referral records were consolidated
        and ALCO would reimburse the cost to that country where ART was provided. The
        system helped MoH in all countries to harmonize ART for the mobile populations and
        non-citizens. This approach also facilitated the national AIDS programs to better plan for
        the ART needs and services.

    · Waste management. ALCO retroactively developed a corridor waste management
        strategy and plan and hired a fulltime environment and waste management officer.
        Incinerators were installed at all border posts meeting or exceeding WHO standards.
        Community sensitization on waste management was integrated in the IEC programs.

    · Increase in CYP. The annual number of couple year protection (CYP) resulting from all
        condoms distributed through the social marketing component increased from 9,778 in
        2003 to 109,319 by the end of 2007.

7.   Institutional arrangements. The institutional arrangement for the complex implementation
challenge was simple and lean. Having project targets well defined and target groups well
identified it was comparatively easier for the institutions to focus on the deliverables. A lean
management group with routine accounts management, procurement management and
monitoring and evaluation system development contracted out has proven to be cost
efficient and resulted in an efficient management. Government of Benin volunteered, agreed
by all 5 countries, to house the ALCO headquartered and offered to finance the overhead and
housing of the ALCO Secretariat. The government also offered to receive the project funds on
behalf of all 5 countries including Togo (non-accrual) and Cote d'Ivoire (rapidly slipping into
conflict). Government ownership and leadership is a core requirement for successful
institutional arrangements. Participating member governments should be in the fore front
of decisions related to which country would house the headquarters, how its management
would be staffed to ensure openness, transparency and equal opportunity to all nationalities.

8.   ALCO succeeded in developing a strong coalition and partnership among the countries on
HIV/AIDS. This partnership is largely due to early engagement of the political leadership (head
of the states) from all countries. Top level engagement and commitment greatly facilitated in the
preparation and implementation of the project. The governing body members included the head of
the national AIDS programs to ensure synergies between the national programs, respective
ministries of health, transport and uniform services and the sub-regional project. High level
political engagement of participating countries and reaching a broad consensus consumes
time but this is time well spent. Once there is a political level consensus ­ other operational
and institutional aspects of the projects are much easier to develop and implement.

9.   Stakeholder engagement. ALCO management and the approach to the coordination of the
project were highly participatory at all stages from project concept inception to the project
completion. Reviews and action planning were consulted with the stakeholders and agreements
were reached for implementation priorities. It is evident that participatory processes and
stakeholder engagement plays a key role in creating strong ownership and responsibilities
among the stakeholders and partners.

Key challenges were faced during implementation

10. The successes came with challenges. Most of these challenges resulted in innovative
approaches by ALCO mentioned above. The following provide key challenges during the project
implementation:

    · Project coordination was highly labor intensive with significant diplomatic and political
        risk. Coordination among five countries (1022km of corridor) was difficult due to two
        languages, multiple cultures and local dialects, multiple religious believes, and believes
        on traditional and spiritual healings, engagement of 5 Ministries of health, transport and
        uniformed services.

    · Developing synergies between 5 national AIDS programs and a sub-regional program
        was challenging. Although the Governing Board facilitated the process, operational level
        harmonization of clinical aspects, referral system, and communications strategy was
        difficult. Subcontracting fiduciary management and M&E greatly facilitated ALCO to
        focus on programmatic and thematic harmonization.

    · Developing M&E from the scratch for the corridor, considering that only a few countries
        had a national M&E system, was a daunting task. Bringing 5 countries to agree on the
        M&E standards, software, data collection and reporting took time in the beginning.

    · The objective of addressing different border closing policy at different borders and
        several check points on the 1022km corridor (especially in Cote d'Ivoire during the
        conflict) was not achieved. According to the border security agencies, such initiatives
        would have compromised the national security. Nevertheless, the border agencies fully
        cooperated in the dissemination of the IEC interventions.

    · Border areas are estimated to have prevalence as high as twice the national figures.
        Changing behavior in the mobile population is more difficult than the settled population.
        Special strategy and approach is required to make behavioral change interventions in the
        mobile populations.

    · Building grassroots capacities has been exhaustive and should not be underestimated.
        Changing behavior, especially in CSWs, to alternate income generation opportunities is
        equally difficult without a longer term vision and consistent support.

    · It has been very challenging to monitor/surveillance of mobile target groups. In a mobile
        target group it was difficult to have absolute data. Monitoring of new incidents is the
        settled population is doable but in a mobile target group would require high investments,
        an implementable methodology and medium-long term consistent financing.

In order to allow for flexibility, it is better to keep financing expenditure categories to a minimum
in complex projects. Expenditure categories need not be elaborate ­ maximum amounts may be
allocated to an unallocated category so that the project could benefit from the flexibility and
allocate resources based on the previous 12 months of implementation progress, and allocating
costs to the next 12 months of priority interventions.

