Report No. PIC1271
Project Name                   Haiti-Emergency Economic Recovery Credit
Region                         Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                         Non-Sectoral
Project ID                     HTPA31828
Borrower                       Government of Haiti
Implementing Agency            Phillipe Rouzier
Chef de Cabinet
Bureau de Premier Ministre
Port-au-Prince, Haiti
Tel: 011509-2-557
Fax: 011509-2-32121
Date PID Prepared              November 18, 1994
Projected Appraisal Date       September 1993
Post-Appraisal Date            November 1994
Projected Board Date           January 1995
1.    Background.   In the aftermath of a coup d'etat in September 1991,
in which elected President Jean Bertrand Aristide was forced from
office, Haiti has experienced a dramatic deterioration in economic and
social conditions. Three years of military dictatorship have led to
increased economic mismanagement and an international embargo, resulting
in a dramatic decline in living standards, particularly for the most
vulnerable sectors of society. During this period, Haiti did not
service its external debt and IDA suspended its operations. In July
1993, the Governor's Island Agreement was signed to pave the way to a
political resolution of Haiti's constitutional crisis. The breakdown of
this agreement in October 1993 led to a renewed period of
unconstitutional rule in Haiti. On September 18, 1994, following United
Nations Resolution 940, a negotiated solution was reached which finally
allowed President Aristide to return to Haiti on October 16, 1994. It
is expected that Haiti's arrears to the multilateral agencies will be
cleared soon, creating the conditions to effectively address the
emergency.
2.    Today, Haiti is in a state of economic and social emergency.    Over
the last three years, the country's economic performance and social
indicators have worsened dramatically, accentuating the downward trend
of the 1980s. Haiti is characterized by pervasive poverty, alarming
social indicators, debilitated institutions, strong macroeconomic
imbalances, a severely dilapidated infrastructure and depleted
productive assets. Already during 1980-91, the population had suffered
a continuing decline in its standard of living, with real GNP per capita
falling by about 2 percent per year. Between 1992-93, Haiti's real per
capita income declined at a multiple of this rate, and is currently
estimated to have fallen well below US$0 -- making Haiti by far the
poorest country in the western hemisphere.



3.    Project Objective, Description and Financing.    The objective of the
Emergency Economic Recovery Credit (EERC) is to provide urgently needed
balance of payments support to reactivate Haiti's economy and initiate
the economic recovery process in the context of the implementation of
the Government's Emergency Economic Recovery Program (the Program). The
Program was identified in June 1993 and was re-appraised in November
1994 by the International Development Association, the Inter-American
Development Bank, International Monetary Fund, the specialized agencies
of the United Nations, and USAID. The proposed US$40 million EERC is
designed as a quick-disbursing emergency operation which would finance
the CIF value of imports based on a positive list identified as
necessary to the Program. The imports would support emergency
activities in all sectors covered by the Program, as described in detail
in the October 1993 Joint Mission Report on an Emergency Economic
Recovery Program and a November 1994 Updated Report.
4.    Project Implementation.   The EERC  would be implemented under the
auspices of an emergency implementation unit (EIU) linked to the Prime
Minister's office. The EIU would consist of a Central Coordination Unit
(CCU), and include specialized staff for agriculture, economic and
social infrastructure, and power. The Prime Minister, supported by a
Steering Committee, comprised of several Cabinet members, would provide
general oversight of the EERC. The Steering Committee, the CCU, and
donors will meet periodically to review progress. A mid-term review of
the Project will be carried out in June 1995.
5.    Project Sustainability.   The EERC is an emergency operation to
foster the conditions which would lead to a sustainable economic
recovery in Haiti and lay the foundation for addressing the country's
medium-term development objectives.
6.    Lessons Learned from Other Emergency Operations.    The current
crisis in Haiti is comparable to other emergency situations involving
war or civil disturbances for which the World Bank Group has provided
support through emergency recovery operations. The lessons learned from
these operations suggest the need for: (i) simple project design; (ii)
strong government commitment; (iii) frequent communication between the
Borrower and the World Bank Group; (iv) simplified procurement and
disbursement procedures; and (v) maximum use of existing functioning
institutions. Although emergency recovery operations should be designed
with some view to long-term development objectives, reconstruction
itself should not be seen as a mechanism to achieve those objectives.
Countries suffering from disasters have limited institutional and
absorptive capacity, and the focus needs to be on the most immediate
needs. These lessons are incorporated in the design of the proposed
operation, complemented by restructuring of the existing portfolio to
address basic emergency needs in infrastructure rehabilitation, health,
education, and employment creation. Medium-term development issues
would be addressed in follow-up operations, once the critical emergency
needs are met.
7.    Environmental Aspects.   As a quick-disbursing operation, the EERC
has an environmental rating of C and requires no special environmental
assessment. Provision has been made for environmental services to be
funded by UNDP for the implementation of the Program.
- 2 -



8.    Program Objective Category.   The EERC is an emergency operation as
defined in Operational Directive 8.50.
Contact Point:                       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 3 -



