CREDIT NUMBER a6     - HA
Development Credit Agreement
(Emergency Economic Recovery Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                   --  6.   , 199Y


﻿CREDIT NUMBER A  &   HA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                   J,        , 199   between
REPUBLIC OF HAITI (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) a joint mission (the Joint Mission) consisting of
representatives of the United Nations Development Program, the
International Monetary Fund, the Inter-American Development Bank,
the Organization of American States, the United States Agency for
International Development and the Association assembled in Port-au-
Prince during May and June of 1993 to assist the Borrower in
identifying the major components of the Borrower's economic and
social program;
(B)   the Borrower, in conjunction with the Joint Mission,
developed an emergency economic recovery program (EERP), dated
October 1993, aimed at: (a) improving the short-term living
conditions of the Borrower's population, focused on the most
disadvantaged   groups,    employment   creation   and    economic
infrastructure (including environmental works); and (b) facilitating
arrangements to channel effectively external assistance for the
execution of the EERP;
(C)   the Borrower, having satisfied     itself  as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, within the context of the EERP, has requested the
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section   1.01.  The  "General   Conditions  Applicable   to
Development   Credit  Agreements"   of   the  Association,   dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble


﻿-2-
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Central Coordination Unit" means the unit referred to
in Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement;
(b)   "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year, which
begins on October 1 and ends on September 30 of each year; and
(c)   "Steering Committee" means the committee referred to in
Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twenty-six million eight hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 26,800,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the Accrual Date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the Accrual Date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.


﻿- 3 -
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each June 1 and December 1 commencing
June 1, 2005 and ending December 1, 2034. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on December 1, 2014 shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 Dollars for five consecutive years and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the


﻿-4-
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.09. (a) The Director of the Central Coordination
Unit or any person designated by him or her in writing is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
(b)   Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the
Borrower hereby entrusts the Central Coordination Unit with
responsibility for the preparation of withdrawal applications and
for the collection of the documents and other evidence to be
furnished to the Association in support of such applications.
(c)   The withdrawal applications mentioned in subparagraph
(b) above shall, to the extent practicable, be consolidated so as to
apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts of not less than
$2,000,000 equivalent.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and managerial practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-5-
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, at all times
until the completion of the Project, a steering committee with
composition, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the
Association, for the purposes of coordinating and overseeing the
carrying out of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall maintain, at all times during the
execution of the Project, a central coordination unit to assist the
Steering Committee in the carrying out of all its functions and
responsibilities and having, in particular, the following functions
and responsibilities:
(i)   expedite   the  procurement   and   disbursement
activities required under the Project, through a
specialized sub-unit; and
(ii) prepare and present the reports referred to in
Section 3.05 of this Agreement.
(c)   The Borrower shall ensure that the Central Coordination
Unit:
(i)   avails of technical, administrative, economic and
financial autonomy; and
(ii) is exempted from the general rules applicable to
public sector entities in the areas of personnel
recruitment,    procurement     and   budgetary
management,
all in a manner satisfactory to the Association and conducive to the
efficient execution of the Project.
(d)   The Borrower shall ensure that the Central Coordination
Unit is, at all times until completion of the Project, headed by
professionals with qualifications and experience acceptable to the
Association, assisted by qualified staff in adequate numbers.
(e)   Without limitation or restriction to the provisions of
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the discharge of the functions of the Steering
Committee and the Central Coordination Unit.


﻿-6-
Section 3.04. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions, by no later
than January 31, April 30, July 31 and October 31, of each year,
during the execution of the Project, starting in April 30, 1995, the
Borrower, through the Central Coordination Unit, shall furnish to
the Association, for its review and comments, a report on the
progress achieved in the execution of the Project, with regard to
the quarters ending December 31, March 31, June 30 and September 30,
respectively, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
may reasonably request.
Section 3.05. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions, the Borrower
shall:
(a)   by no later than June 30, 1995, review, in conjunction
with the Association, the overall progress in the execution of the
Project, the compliance with the Borrower's obligations under this
Agreement and the achievement of the objectives of the Project; and
(b)   if, as a result of the above review, the Association
determines that the progress in the execution of the Project or in
the achievement of its objectives is not satisfactory, the Borrower,
through the Steering Committee, shall promptly take all such action,
satisfactory to the Association, as shall be necessary for the
efficient execution of the Project or the general achievement of its
objectives.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section for each Fiscal
Year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent   auditors   acceptable    to   the
Association;


﻿-7-
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of
the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at     least  one year   after  the
Association has received the audit report for the
Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account was made, all records (contracts,
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents,   or    customs   certificates,    as
appropriate) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable  the  Association's  representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure   that  such  records  and   accounts  are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such Fiscal Year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   that the Steering Committee and the Central Coordination
Unit shall have been established; and
(b)   that the professionals referred to in Section 3.03 (d)
shall have been appointed.
Section 5.02. The date I4L.-1 46 010/}'.(          is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of Lhe General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Palais des Minist6res
Port-au-Prince
Haiti
Telex:
20347
FINANCE
A date approximately ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement will be inserted.


﻿- 9-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, tlie parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
P77A), Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amount of the Credit to such Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed under such Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
Imports                  26,800,000        100% of foreign
expenditures
TOTAL                26,800,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "Imports" means the goods listed in Schedule 4
to this Agreement; and
(b)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods supplied from the territory of any country other than that of
the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a)   payments made prior to the date of this Agreement for
expenditures, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to
exceed SDR 13,400,000 may be made in respect of the Category of the
table set forth in said paragraph 1, on account of payments made for
such expenditures before that date but after October 15, 1994 or
before October 18, 1993 but after June 4, 1993;
(b)   expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $1,000 equivalent;


﻿- 11 -
(c)   expeyditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency other
than the Association shall have financed or agreed to finance; and
(d)   expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent
to $1,000,000 for foodstuffs.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures under contracts for goods not exceeding $1,000,000
equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to provide urgently needed
support for the reactivation of the Borrower's economy, the
initiation of its economic recovery process and the provision of an
immediate stimulus to economic growth.
The Project consists of the financing of emergency imports for
the key sectoral components of the EERP set forth in Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement of Goods
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines), and in accordance with the following
additional procedures:
(a)   When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to and in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines,
by the minimum amount of time required to complete the evaluation,
obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract.
The bid validity period may be extended a second time only if the
bidding documents or the request for extension shall provide for
appropriate adjustment of the bid price to reflect changes in the
cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension. Such
an increase in the bid price shall not be taken into account in the
bid evaluation. With respect to each contract made subject to the
Association's prior review in accordance with the provisions of Part
C.1 (a) of this Section, the Association's prior approval will be
required for: (i) a first extension of the bid validity period if
the period of extension exceeds sixty (60) days; and (ii) any
subsequent extension of the bid validity period.
(b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part
A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the
Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of
the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Association.
2.    The Guidelines shall be modified as follows:
(a)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:


﻿- 14 -
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder's
invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid;
such advertisements should be placed in at least one newspaper
of general circulation in the Borrower's country and, in
addition, in at least one of the following forms:
(i)    a notice in the United Nations publication,
Development Forum, Business Edition; or
(ii)   an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical journal of wide international circula-
tion; or
(iii) a notice to local representatives of countries
and territories referred to in the Guidelines,
that are potential suppliers of the goods re-
quired."
(b)   The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
used in international trade and specified in the bidding
documents."
(c)   Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
3.    To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped into bid
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more.
Part B:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Subject to the prior approval of the Association, direct
contracting may be used for transactions costing the equivalent of
$3,000,000 or more, pursuant to paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.
2.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $3,000,000 shall be awarded:


﻿- 15 -
(a)   by purchasers required to follow the Borrower's public
procurement procedures for the importation of goods, on the basis of
such procedures, provided that such procedures shall have been found
acceptable by the Association; and
(b)   by other purchasers, in accordance with established
commercial practice, provided that such contracts shall be awarded
on the basis of evaluation and comparison of quotations obtained
from at least two suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, except
that direct contracting procedures, acceptable to the Association,
may be used pursuant to paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.
3.    Subject to the prior approval of the Association, commonly
traded commodities may be procured through organized international
commodity markets or other channels of competitive procurement
acceptable to the Association, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association, provided, however, that in respect of
petroleum imports under existing contracts entered into with oil
suppliers, the Association shall finance out of the Credit:
(a)   an amount not to exceed, per unit, the average between
lower and higher FOB prices reflected in the Platt's Oilgram for the
US Gulf Coast or the Caribbean, as applicable, for the relevant date
of loading (with due adjustment for type and quality of crude or
petroleum product); and
(b)   the cost of the related freight and insurance procured
on a competitive basis from a source eligible under the Guidelines.
Part C:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a)  With respect to each contract referred to in Parts A and
B.1 hereof, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective bids and recommendations for award, a
description of the advertising and tendering procedures followed and
such other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)  With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,


﻿- 16 -
prior to the submission to the Association of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect thereof,
such documentation and information as the Association may reasonably
request to support withdrawal applications in respect of such
contract.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 4
Imports
For Agriculture
.     seeds
.     seed processing and packaging equipment
.     processing equipment and materials for agricultural
products including storage, drying, milling, canning,
and other processing and extraction equipment and
machinery
.     packaging equipment, materials and machinery
.     phytosanitary products, insecticides, fungicides and
fumigation products
.     agricultural equipment and machinery, including trucks
and heavy earth moving equipment and spare parts
.     tools, including hand tools
.     plastic products related to agricultural production,
including bags, specialized films, packaging materials
and containers
.     testing and production control equipment
.     fertilizers
For Industry
.     utility and four wheel drive vehicles and spare parts
.     heavy machinery, boilers and mechanical machines
.     tractors
.     tools, including hand tools
.     miscellaneous
For Power
.     gasoline, fuel-oil, gas-oil and lubricants
.     asphalt
.     tar
.     other petroleum derivatives
.     turbines and parts
.     equipment for generation and transmission of energy


﻿- 18 -
For Roads and Bridges
.     heavy machinery and parts
.     structures
.     concrete iron
.     signalization equipment
.     topographic,  geotechnic, hydraulic   and  laboratory
equipment
.     tools
truck balance
For Ports and Sea Transport
.     equipment and materials for ports and port installations
.     materials and consumables for signalization
.    wharf protection materials
.     boats and boat equipment
For Water Supply, Sanitation and Waste
.     pumps
.     drains and pipes
.     hydrants, valves and plumbing accessories
.     garbage collection trucks and equipment
.     electric control panels
.     fencing materials
.     electro-mechanic equipment -
For Urban and General Infrastructure
.     steel, aluminium and metal products for construction and
maintenance
.     cement
.     wood
.     pipes, tubes and plumbing equipment
.     ceramic products
For Health and Nutrition
.     flour
.     sugar and sugar products
.     oils
.     cereals
.     rice
.     food preparatives


﻿- 19 -
.     residues from the food industry
.     soya beans
.     dairy products
.     fish
.    pharmaceutical products
.     family planning items
.    medical and laboratory equipment
.     training and teaching materials
For Education
.     school building equipment and materials
.     school furniture
.     teaching materials
Other Imports
communications and information
.     computers and accessories
.     radio-telephones,   telephone  switches   and   other
communication equipment and systems
chemical products
refrigeration equipment
packing materials, plastics and rubber
ink, pigments and paints
glass
essential oils, soap, waxes, glues and enzymes
textiles
.     silk and wool
.     cotton
.     other natural and synthetic fibers
leather goods
pulp, paper, wood and wood products
cloth and other raw materials


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


