Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  53664 
Operation Name 
Economic Governance and Recovery Grant III (EGRG III) 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Central government administration (30%); General energy sector 
(25%); Crops (25%); Banking (20%) 
Project ID 
P117281 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF COTE D'IVOIRE 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
March 5, 2010 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
March 22, 2010 
Date of Board Approval 
April 29, 2010 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Côte d’Ivoire, a medium-size country with a population projected to reach 20 million in 
2010, is the largest economy in West Africa after Nigeria and is critical to the overall 
development of the sub-region.
 
Côte d’Ivoire has an important economic influence over the 
rest of the region, given its size (accounting for 40 percent of GDP in the WAEMU), its 
relatively high income per capita (US$1,026 in 2009 as per the Bank’s Atlas methodology), and 
its role in transit trade for landlocked neighboring countries.  With its large immigrant 
population, Côte d’Ivoire has also been an important source of worker remittances for other 
countries in the sub-region.       
Following the signing of the Ouagadougou Peace Accord of March 2007, Côte d’Ivoire is 
gradually emerging from political crisis. 
The country is now at a critical stage in the process of 
post-conflict recovery. Government is making progress towards the reunification of the country 
and preparation of presidential elections, but much remains to be done. With the deterioration in 
governance and transparency during the conflict, the Government is pursuing efforts to restore 
public financial management processes and procedures throughout the country, and improve 
governance and growth prospects in key sectors.  Significant funding is needed to finance the 
demobilization and reintegration of ex-combatants, the rehabilitation of infrastructure, the re-
establishment of social services, the payment of domestic arrears, and the servicing of 
international debt.      
 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
The key objectives of the proposed EGRG III are to support government-owned reforms to 
further improve governance, transparency and efficiency in public expenditure 
management as well as to deepen structural reforms aimed at strengthening governance 
and transparency in key sectors
.
Specifically, it wo
uld focus on supporting the Government’s 
efforts to strengthen budget preparation, execution, controls and accountability, and help enhance 
governance, transparency and efficiency in the energy, cocoa, and financial sectors.   
Page  2
This operation supports continued progress on some critical reforms initiated under 
EGRG I and II. 
These will lay
 
the basis for economic and social recovery
.
Cocoa and oil and 
gas are the major exports and sources of government revenue.  Cocoa involves 23 percent of the 
population and 28 percent of the poor.  Oil and gas account for 19 percent of government 
revenue.  A stronger financial sector will be critical to underpinning the entire economic 
recovery. 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The grant is 
an integral part of IDA’s new Country Partnership Strategy for Côte d’Ivoire 
for the period FY10-FY13 currently under preparation, as it directly supports its first 
pillar, i.e. reforms for economic governance, and is closely aligned with the government’s 
new Poverty Reduction Strategy
.
The proposed reforms are essential to the Government’s 
ability to use public resources effectively to support the country’s economic and social recovery.  
The operation would provide financial support to the Government whose annual debt service to 
the World Bank will remain considerable until attainment of the HIPC completion point. The 
grant is closely coordinated with assistance provided to the Government’s reform program 
through the ongoing Governance and Institutional Development Grant, the Enhanced HIPC 
Initiative, and the IMF-supported ECF program. 
 
4. Financing 
 
Source:  
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
 
IDA Grant                                                                                                
  US$90m 
Total 
  US$90m 
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
In line with the arrangements under the EGRG I and II, the Ministry of Economy and 
Finance will be responsible for overall implementation of the proposed EGRG III.
 
Day-to-
day monitoring and evaluation of the program will be the responsibility of the General Director 
of the Economy (DGE), the General Director of the Budget and Finance (DGBF), and the 
General Director of Planning (DGP).  This economic team will be placed under the supervision 
of the Cabinet Director of the Minister of Economy and Finance.  This arrangement was dictated 
by the strength and continuity of the economic team and the dialogue on policies carried out with 
them.  The arrangement proved satisfactory under the EGRG I and II.   
 
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
 
The proposed operation is of 
high risk.
 The principal risks are: (i) 
political risk
 stemming from 
the fragility of the peace process, the upcoming presidential elections, delays in disarmament, 
demobilization and reintegration, and possible
 
changes of reform-minded ministers after the 
presidential elections;
 
(ii)
 macroeconomic risk
,
if the government fails to adhere to a 
responsible medium-term macroeconomic framework or exogenous shocks negatively affect its 
performance (notably weather, commodity prices and exchange rate volatility); and (iii) 
Page  3
governance and fiduciary risk, 
arising from vested interests and political intervention, notably 
in the cocoa, energy and finance sectors, which remain strong and could stall reforms. These 
risks could be further aggravated by 
a
slower than expected recovery from the
 
global 
economic slowdown,
 which has already had a negative impact on some commodity exports, 
although so far mitigated by the overall economic rebound from the socio-political crisis.    
While addressing the peace and security risks falls outside the scope of this operation, continued 
international support for the peace process, including through the ongoing IDA-financed Post-
Conflict Assistance Project (US$120 million), should help mitigate this risk.  To broaden and 
deepen the coalition for overall reform, IDA, IMF, AfDB, EC and other donors are working 
together to ensure that (i) top priority is given to the proposed reforms in discussions with 
Government; (ii) key basic services are improved; (iii) targeted interventions such as for 
demobilization and reintegration continue; and (iv) Government implements an effective 
communication strategy, with support from the IDA-financed Governance and Institutional 
Development Grant to better inform the public and help build demand for transparency.  IDA 
and other donor partners have also actively supported the Government in the preparation of a 
PRSP which provides a medium-term strategy based on extensive participation. There is 
currently a broad-based constituency for reform of the cocoa sector, including external and domestic 
stakeholders, which has prompted Government to launch a process of substantive reform. The 
Government has implemented the macroeconomic program supported by two IMF EPCAs and a 
three-year ECF program is now under way. The Government is committed to rapid attainment of 
the HIPC completion point and to adjust the macroeconomic program as needed to address 
exogenous shocks. Governance and fiduciary risks are mitigated through the focus on measures 
to improve public financial management and transparency, supported by the recently completed 
PEMFAR and technical assistance and capacity building provided by IDA and other donors.  
Also, this risk is mitigated by the continued intensive attention of the international community on 
budget processes and broad-based consultations with stakeholders, including civil society 
organizations, to strengthen the case for reforms and Government’s commitment to them.  
Finally, the support provided by the Bank through the proposed operation, as well as an 
electricity rehabilitation project and a new private sector development operation, will help to 
stimulate private sector growth and mitigate some of the risks posed by the global slowdown. 
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
The proposed EGRG III is expected to have a significant positive direct impact on poverty 
reduction
.
The EGRG III builds on the findings of the June 2006 World Bank report “Côte 
d’Ivoire – Contributions to the analysis of poverty”,
1
the analysis of the 2008 household budget 
survey in the PRSP, and the recently completed post-conflict Social Assessment.  These found 
poverty increasing against the backdrop of a continued decline in per capita incomes.  The 
emphasis on cocoa reforms is particularly important given the large number of poor rural 
households producing cocoa, which are estimated to account for 28 percent of the poor in Côte 
d’Ivoire. Both partial and general equilibrium analysis confirms that reduced cocoa taxation will 
improve the incomes of cocoa producers.
2
By one estimate, a 10 percent reduction in cocoa 
1
Report No. 36625-CI. 
2
Ibid., and J. McIntyre and P. Varangis, Reforming Côte d’Ivoire’s Cocoa Marketing and Pricing System, World 
Bank Policy Research Working Paper 2081, 1999. 
Page  4
taxes would increase the value of cocoa output by 16 percent.  Furthermore, improvements in the 
cocoa sector will raise the rural wage, thereby benefiting rural laborers who are generally among 
the poorest and most difficult to assist. A new study is being conducted by the authorities with 
support from IDA to assess the degree to which tax and price changes are transmitted to the 
producer in different regions of the country and to recommend ways to improve this transmission 
mechanism. 
Other elements of the proposed grant are also pro-poor. 
There are likely positive 
distributional effects from improved public financial management and key reforms in the energy 
and financial sectors.  Specifically, efforts to improve the capacity of the State to implement its 
budget priorities and strengthen public financial management would enhance efficiency, 
transparency and accountability in public resource use, and increase the country’s absorption 
capacity for external resources. Improving governance and transparency in the energy sector 
should strengthen Government revenues for enhanced expenditures for basic social services.  
Reforming the financial sector would help re-launch small and medium enterprises, which have 
been severely affected by the crisis; strengthening the microfinance institutions should benefit 
the poorer and more vulnerable part of the population. The average deposit in UNACOOPEC is 
CFAF 99,000 compared to the average deposit in the banks of CFAF 277,000.
3
The grant would 
also help increase the fiscal space to fund the provision of basic public services with a beneficial 
impact on the poor.    
Under Operational Policy 8.60 on Development Policy Lending, the Bank is required to 
determine whether specific country policies supported under the operation are likely to 
cause significant effects on the country’s environment
,
and, in the event of such likely effects, 
assess country systems for reducing any such adverse effects and enhancing positive effects.  In 
the event of significant gaps
 
in the analysis,
 
or
shortcomings in the country systems, the Bank is 
required to identify how such gaps or shortcomings would be addressed before or during 
program implementation, as appropriate. 
The specific reforms supported by the proposed development policy grant are not likely to 
have significant negative impacts on the country’s environment, forests and other natural 
resources.  
Any likely adverse effects are expected to be minor and manageable through the 
existing Bank framework. The reforms supported aim primarily to strengthen economic 
governance at the national government level.  However, the operation touches on two sectors, 
energy and cocoa, that have very significant associated environmental risks.   
A
Social and Environmental Assessment (SEA)
 
has been launched with support from the 
ongoing Governance and Institutional Development Grant.
 
It will identify potential negative 
impacts of the energy sector, with particular emphasis on offshore petroleum developments, and 
determine their likely size and probability. It will also examine the institutional capacity to deal 
with such impacts, and propose regulatory, procedural and institutional improvements for the 
prevention and management of the potential social and environmental impact of petroleum 
3
The emphasis on reducing non-performing loans in UNACOOPEC (as an EGRG III prior action) should not have 
an undue impact on the poor as many of the delinquent borrowers are urban non-poor. Furthermore, the bankruptcy 
of UNACOOPEC would have a far greater negative impact on the poor. 
Page  5
operations.  The study will start in February 2010 and a draft final report is expected in May 
2010. 
The Bank is also supporting the preparation of a Strategic Environmental Assessment of 
the cocoa sector
.
The approach will be an institution-centered one and the implications for 
forest-dependent communities, whose welfare may be impacted from intensification and/or 
expansion of cocoa plantations, will be analyzed. The terms of reference have already been 
agreed with the National Environmental Protection Agency. The study will start when there is a 
permanent institutional structure and strategy for the sector, as the existing structure’s mandate is 
due to expire in mid-2010.  
The Bank has recently completed a post-conflict Country Environmental Analysis looking 
at the forestry, mining, urban, and environmental governance sectors.
 The study reveals the 
following challenges: (i) weak or almost non-existent mechanisms for the collection, analysis 
and dissemination of environmental information; (ii) weak inter-sectoral collaboration of the 
Environment Ministry with ministries responsible for water resources, transport, fishing, 
agriculture, and energy; and (iii) low funding available to the sector both from Government, the 
private sector and development partners. The Public Environmental Expenditure Review (PEER) 
of the CEA estimates that the environment sector allocation is around 0.2 percent of the national 
budget. Far reaching recommendations were proposed including assisting the Government to 
develop an action plan for the forestry sector for the period 2008-15 and establishing a national 
environmental information system. 
8. Contact points 
 
Philip English 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: 36483 
E-mail: 
penglish@worldbank.org
Location: Washington, D.C. 
 
Richard Antonin Doffonsou 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: 5331+3418 
Email: rdoffonsou@worldbank.org 
Location: Abidjan, Cote d'Ivoire (IBRD) 
 
9.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Page  6
