Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H563-CI 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Third Economic Governance and Recovery Grant) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF CÔTE D’IVOIRE 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated May 25, 2010 
 
Page  2
2
GRANT NUMBER H563-CI 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT
 dated May 25, 2010, entered into between REPUBLIC OF CÔTE 
D’IVOIRE (“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as 
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Association has decided to provide this 
financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken 
under the Program and which are described in Section I of the Schedule to this 
Agreement, and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic policy 
framework.  The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to fifty 
eight million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 58,800,000) 
(“Financing”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the 
Program in accordance with Section II of the Schedule to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are March 1 and September 1 in each year. 
2.05.  
The Payment Currency is the Euro. 
Page  3
3
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
3.01 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end: 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy 
framework and
 
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request; and 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any 
situation that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives 
of the Program or any action taken under the Program, including any 
action specified in Section I of the Schedule to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that a 
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that 
the Association is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Recipient in 
carrying out the Program and with the adequacy of the Recipient’s 
macroeconomic policy framework. 
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
Page  4
4
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is its minister at the time responsible for finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
P. O. Box V-163 
Abidjan 
Côte d’Ivoire 
Cable: 
  Facsimile: 
MINFIN   225-20-30-25-25 
Abidjan 
  225-20-30-25-28 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
Page  5
5
AGREED at Abidjan, Côte d’Ivoire, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF CÔTE D’IVOIRE 
 
By /s/ Charles Koffi Diby 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By /s/ Madani M. Tall 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
6
SCHEDULE 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
Section I. 
Actions Under the Program
Actions Taken Under the Program
.
The actions taken by the Recipient under 
the Program include the following: 
Public Financial Management
1. 
The Recipient has, not later than December 31, 2009, approved by way of a 
Presidential ordinance its FY 2010 budget, and published in the Official Gazette 
and a major daily news
paper the Recipient’s Cabinet’s communication on such 
budget. 
2. 
The Recipient has submitted for verification to the 
Chambre des Comptes
 the 
draft budget execution bill (
Loi de Règlements
)
for FY 2008. 
Energy
3. 
The Recipient has issued: (a) a decree clarifying 
SOGEPE’s legal status as the 
electricity sector asset holding company, and (b) another decree transferring title 
to all state-owned electricity sector assets to SOGEPE. 
4. 
The Recipient has appointed the EITI national administrator, and finalized the 
EITI FY 2006 report. 
Cocoa
5. 
With effect from the 2009-10 cocoa season, the Recipient has reduced: (a) the 
registration tax on cocoa from 10 percent to 5 percent of the CIF price, without 
having increased other taxes and mandatory levies in the cocoa sector, (b) the 
export tax (
droit unique de sortie
)
on
cocoa from CFAF 220 per kilogram to 
CFAF 210 per kilogram, and (c) quasi-fiscal levies on cocoa from CFAF 31.26 
per kilogram to CFAF 26.26 per kilogram.
 
6. 
The Recipient has completed a preliminary external audit of FIMR’s operations 
and use of resources, as well as final external audits of the bagging, weighing and 
quality control programs for FY 2007-2008.  
7. 
The Recipient has completed the external financial and organizational audits of 
FRC, BCC, ARCC and FDPCC, as well as an inventory of their assets and 
liabilities. 
Page  7
7
Finance
8. 
The Recipient has achieved satisfactory progress in the implementation of the 
Recipient’s restructuring plan for the microfinance sector, as evidenced by: (a) 
the placement of some institutions under enhanced supervision or provisional 
administration, and (b) the recovery of at least 50 percent of UNACOOPEC-CI’s
 
non-performing loans. 
9. 
The Recipient has submitted a revised application for a banking license for 
CNCE, incorporating the write-off of unrecoverable debt, to the 
Commission 
Bancaire
.
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as 
the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient. 
B. Allocation 
of 
Financing 
Amount.
 
The Financing is allocated in a single 
tranche, from which the Recipient may make withdrawals of the Financing.  The 
allocation of the amount of the Financing to this end is set out in the table below: 
Allocation 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
Single Withdrawal Tranche 
58,800,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
58,800,000 
C. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions
 
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the 
Association is satisfied: (1) with the Program being carried out by the Recipient; 
and (2) with the appropriateness of the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy 
framework. 
D. Deposits 
of 
Financing 
Amounts.
 
Except as the Association may otherwise 
agree:  
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable 
to the Association; and 
Page  8
8
2.  
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the 
Financing into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the 
Recipient’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the 
Association. 
E. Audit.
 
Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall: 
1. 
have the account referred to in Section II.D.1 of the Schedule to this 
Agreement audited by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards 
acceptable to the Association; 
2. 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than four (4) months after the date of the Association’s request for such 
audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request; and 
3. 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
account and its audit as the Association shall reasonably request.
 
F. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association 
determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a 
payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to 
the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be 
cancelled.
 
G. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is June 30, 2011. 
Page  9
9
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions 
1. 
“ARCC” means 
Autorité de Régulation du Café et du Cacao
,
the Recipient’s 
Coffee and Cocoa Regulatory Authority, established and operating pursuant to its 
Decree No. 2000-751 of February 10, 2000. 
2. “BCC” 
means 
Bourse du Café et du Cacao
,
the Recipient’s Coffee and Cocoa 
Exchange, established and operating pursuant to its Decree No. 2001-465 of July 
25, 2001. 
3. 
“CFA Franc” or “CFAF” means 
Franc de la Communaut
é
Financière de 
l’Afrique
,
the Franc of the Financial Community of Africa, which is the 
Recipient’s currency. 
4. “
Chambre des Comptes
”
means the Recipient’s chamber of the Supreme Court 
established and operating pursuant to the Recipient’s Constitution of November 
1960 and Law No. 94-438 of August 16, 1994, and vested with the functions of 
Office of Auditor General. 
5. 
“CIF” means cost, insurance, and freight. 
6. “CNCE” 
means 
Caisse Nationale des Caisses d'Epargne
,
the Recipient’s 
National Savings Fund, established and operating pursuant to Order No. 1184 of 
December 10, 2009. 
7. “
Commission Bancaire
”
means the Recipient’s Banking Commission, established 
and operating pursuant to the West African Economic and Monetary Union 
(“UEMOA”) Convention Establishing the Banking Commission of April 24, 
1990, and responsible for the oversight of banks and other financial institutions 
operating in the territories of UEMOA countries, including that of the Recipient. 
8. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or 
loan; 
Page  10
10 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Recipient: 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-
manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear 
reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals 
(except watches and watch 
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
Page  11
11 
 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international 
agreements to which the Recipient is a party; 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the 
Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Association to address such practices when they 
occur. 
9. 
“Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative” or “EITI” means the voluntary 
global compact, launched in June 2003, aimed at improving transparency and 
accountability in the extractives sector, and which comprises a coalition of 
governments, enterprises, civil society groups, investors, and public international 
organizations. 
10. “FDPCC” 
means 
Fonds de Développement et de Promotion des Activités des 
Producteurs du Café et du Cacao
,
the Recipient’s Coffee and Cocoa Producers’ 
Activities Development and Promotion Fund, established and operating pursuant 
to its Decree No. 2001-1512 of August 28, 2001. 
11. “FIMR” 
means 
Fonds d’Investissement en Milieu Rural
,
the Recipient’s Rural 
Investment Fund, established and operating pursuant to its Decree No. 2006-14 
of February 24, 2006. 
12. 
“Fiscal Year” or “FY” means the Recipient’s fiscal year period beginning on 
January 1 and ending on December 31 of the same year. 
13. “FRC” 
means 
Fonds de Régulation et de Contrôle Café-Cacao
,
the Recipient’s 
Coffee-Cocoa Regulation and Inspection Fund, established and operating 
pursuant to its Ordinance No. 2001-666 of October 24, 2001. 
14. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
Page  12
12 
 
15. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty through an 
improvement in public financial management and control and enhancement of 
governance, transparency, and efficiency in the energy, cocoa, and financial 
sectors, and set forth or referred to in the letter dated March 29, 2010, from the 
Recipient to the Association, declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the 
execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in 
support of the Program during its execution. 
16. 
“Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the 
category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Section 
II.B of the Schedule to this Agreement. 
17. “SOGEPE” 
means 
Société de Gestion du Patrimoine du Secteur de l’Electricité
,
the Recipient’s Electricity Sector Asset Management Company, established and 
operating pursuant to its Decree No. 98-727 of December 16, 1998. 
18. “UNACOOPEC-CI” 
means 
Union Nationale des Coopératives d'Epargne et de 
Crédits de Côte d'Ivoire
,
the Recipient’s National Union of Savings and Credit 
Cooperatives of Côte d'Ivoire, established and operating pursuant to the 
Recipient’s Order No. 1266 of August 4, 1998. 
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General 
Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through 
October 15, 2006) are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
Page  13
13 
 
3. 
Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
“Section 2.05.
 Refinancing Preparation Advance 
 
If the Financing Agreement provides for the repayment out of 
the proceeds of
 
the Financing of an advance made by the
 
Association or 
the Bank (“Preparation Advance”), the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Financing Account on or after the 
Effective Date the amount required to repay the withdrawn and 
outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of such withdrawal 
from the Financing Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid charges, if 
any, on the advance as at such date.  The Association shall pay the 
amount so withdrawn to itself or the Bank, as the case may be, and shall 
cancel the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
4. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
5. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient 
shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
7. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
“Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing 
Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by 
the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under 
the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Financing.” 
Page  14
14 
 
8. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
(a) The 
defin
ition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Financing Agreement.” 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in 
support of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” 
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program”. 
(a) 
The term “Program Preparation Advance” (renamed as such pursuant to 
subparagraph 8 (c) above) is modified to read “Preparation Advance” 
and its definition is modified to read as follows:  
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.05.” 
 
