Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
 
Report No.:  AB5237 
Operation Name 
Côte d’Ivoire: Third Economic Governance and Recovery Grant   
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Central government administration (25%); General energy sector 
(25%); Crops (25%); Banking (25%) 
Project ID 
P117281 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF COTE D'IVOIRE 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
November 18, 2009 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
January 15, 2010 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
March 18, 2010 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Côte d’Ivoire, a medium-size country with a population of 18.5 million, is the largest economy in 
West Africa after Nigeria and is critical to the overall development of the sub-region.
 
Côte 
d’Ivoire has an important economic influence over the rest of the region, given its size (accounting for 
40 percent of GDP in the WAEMU), its relatively high income per capita (US$1,000 in 2008 as per the 
Bank’s Atlas methodology), and its role in transit trade for landlocked neighboring countries.  With its 
large immigrant population, Côte d’Ivoire has also been an important source of worker remittances for 
other countries in the sub-region.       
Following the signing of the Ouagadougou Peace Accord of March 2007, Côte d’Ivoire is 
gradually emerging from political crisis. 
The country is now at a critical stage in the process of post-
conflict recovery. Government is making progress towards the reunification of the country and 
preparation of presidential elections, but much remains to be done. With the deterioration in governance 
and transparency during the conflict, the Government is pursuing efforts to restore public financial 
management processes and procedures throughout the country, and improve governance and growth 
prospects in key sectors.  Significant funding is needed to finance the demobilization and reintegration 
of ex-combatants, the rehabilitation of infrastructure, the re-establishment of social services, the 
payment of domestic arrears, and the servicing of international debt.      
 
The grant is an integral part of IDA’s proposed new Country Partnership Strategy for Côte 
d’Ivoire for the period FY10-FY13 as it directly supports its first pillar, i.e. reforms for economic 
governance, and is closely aligned with the government’s new Poverty Reduction Strategy
.
The 
propo
sed reforms are essential to the Government’s ability to use public resources effectively to support 
the country’s economic and social recovery.  The operation would provide financial support to the 
Government whose annual debt service to the World Bank will remain considerable until attainment of 
the HIPC completion point. The grant is closely coordinated with assistance provided to the 
Government’s reform program through the ongoing Governance and Institutional Development Grant, 
the Enhanced HIPC Initiative, AfDB budget support, and the IMF-supported PRGF program. 
 
Page  2
2. Proposed objectives 
 
The key objectives of the proposed EGRG III are to support government-owned reforms to 
further improve governance, transparency and efficiency in public expenditure management as 
well as to deepen structural reforms aimed at strengthening governance and transparency in key 
sectors
.
Specifically, it would focus on supporting the Government’s efforts to strengthen budget 
preparation, execution, controls and accountability, and help enhance governance, transparency and 
efficiency in the energy, cocoa, and financial sectors.   
This operation supports continued progress on some critical reforms initiated under EGRG I and 
II. 
These will lay
 
the basis for economic and social recovery
.
Cocoa and oil and gas are the two major 
exports and sources of government revenue.  Cocoa involves 23 percent of the population and 28 
percent of the poor.  Oil and gas account for 19 percent of government revenue.  A stronger financial 
sector will be critical to underpinning the entire economic recovery. 
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
Under EGRG I and II, substantial improvements have been achieved by the Government in each 
of the four policy areas
 
(public finance management, energy, cocoa and financial sectors) covered 
by this operation
.
Even so, there are still challenges that need to be addressed in these sectors. Thus, 
this operation will continue to support the government’s effort to promote efficiency, transparency and 
accountability in the use of public resources through enhanced public financial management and 
governance in the energy, cocoa and financial sectors. Specifically, in the context of the implementation 
of the PRS and to be in line with the recently adopted PFM action plan, it would focus on the 
government’s efforts to restore credibility, comprehensiveness, and transparency of the budget.  In 
addition, it would contribute to enhancing private sector confidence, investment and growth recovery 
through improved governance and transparency in the energy, cocoa, and financial sectors. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
The specific reforms supported by the proposed development policy grant are not likely to have 
significant negative impacts on the country’s environment, forests and other natural resources.  
The reforms supported aim primarily to strengthen economic governance at the national government 
level.  However, the operation touches on two sectors, energy and cocoa, that have significant associated 
environmental risks.   
A
Social and Environmental Assessment (SEA) of the energy sector as been launched with support 
from the ongoing Governance and Institutional Development Grant.
 
It will identify potential 
negative impacts of the energy sector, with particular emphasis on offshore petroleum developments, 
and determine their likely size and probability. It will also examine the institutional capacity to deal with 
such impacts, and propose regulatory, procedural and institutional improvements for the prevention and 
management of the potential social and environmental impact of petroleum operations.  A draft of the 
study is expected by end-2009.  A separate environmental assessment of the cocoa sector will be 
launched once a permanent institutional structure is in place.  The Bank has recently completed a post-
conflict Country Environmental Analysis which looked at the forestry, mining, urban and environmental 
governance sectors.    
 
Page  3
5. Tentative financing 
 
Source: 
($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
75 
Total 75 
 
6. Contact point 
 
Contact:  
Richard Antonin Doffonsou (co-TTL) 
Title:    
Senior Economist, AFTP4 
Tel:  
 
5331+3418 
Email:   
rdoffonsou@worldbank.org 
Location:  
Abidjan, Cote d'Ivoire (IBRD) 
 
Contact:   
Philip English (co-TTL) 
Title:        
Lead Economist, AFTP4 
Tel:          
(202) 473-6483 
Fax:          
(202) 473-8136 
Email:      
penglish@worldbank.org 
 
