                                  Document of
                              The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR00002252



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-H5630)



                                    ON A

                                   GRANT

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 58.8 MILLION
                       (US$90 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                   TO THE

                   TO THE REPUBLIC OF COTE D’IVOIRE

                                   FOR A

           ECONOMIC GOVERNANCE AND RECOVERY GRANT-3



                               January 31, 2012




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management 4 (AFTP4)
Country Department AFCF2
Africa Region
              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
         (Exchange Rate Effective As of March 2009)

               Currency Unit = FCFA
                   US$ 1.00 = FCFA 481

                       FISCAL YEAR
                   January 1 – December 31

          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ACE      Audits Contrôles Expertises (Audit Control Experts)
ARCC     Autorité de Régulation du Café et du Cacao (Coffee and Cocoa
         Regulatory Agency)
AfDB     African Development Bank
ANARE    Autorité Nationale de Régulation du Secteur de l’Electricité
         (National Authority for the Regulation of the Electricity Sector)
ASTER    Application des Services du Trésor en Réseaux (Treasury Service
         Database)
BCC      Bourse du Café et du Cacao (Coffee and Cocoa Exchange)
BCEAO    Central Bank of West African States
BNI      Banque Nationale d'Investissement (National Investment Bank)
CEA      Country Environmental Analysis
CFAA     Country Financial Accountability Assessment
FCFA     Franc of the African Financial Community
CGRAE    Caisse Générale de Retraite des Agents de l’Etat (Civil Servants’
         National Retirement Fund)
CIE      Compagnie Ivoirienne d'Electricité (Ivorian Electricity Company)
CIF      Cost, Insurance, Freight
CNCE     Caisse Nationale des Caisses d 'Epargne (National Savings Fund)
CNPS     Caisse Nationale de Prévoyance Sociale (National Social
         Protection Fund)
CNW      Central, Northern and Western Zones
CPAR     Country Procurement Assessment Review
CPI      Consumer Price Index
CSO      Civil Society Organization
DAAF     Administrative and Financial Directors
DGBF     Direction Générale du Budget et de Finances (General Directorate
         of Budget and Finance)
DGE      Direction Générale de l’Economie (General Directorate of
         Economy)
DGP      Direction Générale de la Planification (General Directorate of
         Planning)
EC       European Commission
ECF      Extended Credit Facility (IMF)
ECOWAS   Economic Community of West African States
EECI     Energie Electrique de la Cote d'Ivoire (Electrical Energy of Cote
         d'Ivoire)
EGRG     Economic Governance and Recovery Grant
EITI     Extractive Industry Transparency Initiative
EPCA    Emergency Post-Conflict Assistance
ERC     Economic Recovery Credit
FSAP    Financial Sector Assessment Program
FSF     Fragile States Facility
FDPCC   Fonds de Développement et de Promotion des Activités des
        Producteurs du Café et du Cacao (Development Fund for the
        Promotion of Coffee and Cocoa Producers Activities)
FIMR    Fonds d'Investissement en Milieu Rural (Rural Investment Fund)




              Vice President   :   Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili (AFRVP)
            Country Director   :   Madani M. Tall (AFCF2)
             Sector Director   :   Marcelo Giugale (AFTPM)
             Sector Manager    :   Miria Pigato (AFTP4)
        Project Team Leader    :   Phillip English (AFTP4)
           ICR Team Leader     :   Jean-Noël Amantchi Gogoua (AFTP4)
                                  REPULIC OF CÔTE D’IVOIRE

     IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT ON THE
     ECONOMIC GOVERNANCE AND RECOVERY GRANT IIICONTENTS




     Data Sheet
     A. Basic Information
     B. Key Dates
     C. Ratings Summary
     D. Sector and Theme Codes
     E. Bank Staff
     F. Results Framework Analysis
     G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
     H. Restructuring


1.       Program Context, Development Objectives and Design                                                     1
2.       Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes                                                      4
3.       Assessment of Outcomes                                                                                 8
4.       Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome                                                             11
5.       Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance                                                           12
6.       Lessons Learned                                                                                       13
7.       Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners                                  13


List of Annexes
Annex 1: Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes .......................... 14
Annex 2: Beneficiary Survey Results (if any) .................................................................. 15
Annex 3: Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any) .......................................... 16
Annex 4: Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ........................ 17
Annex 5: Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ........................... 18
Annex 6: List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 19


List of Tables
Table 1: ERGG-3 Anticipated Risks and Mitigating Factors ............................................. 7
Table 2: Anticipated results and actual outcomes of the ERGG-3 ................................... 10


MAP……………………………………………………………………………………...20
                                        DATA SHEET

A. Basic Information
                                                                             Economic Governance
Country:                Cote d'Ivoire              Program Name:
                                                                             & Recovery Grant III
Program ID:             P117281                    L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-H5630
ICR Date:               02/07/2012                 ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                             GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     DPL                        Borrower:
                                                                             COTE D'IVOIRE
Original Total
                        XDR 58.80M                 Disbursed Amount:         XDR 58.73M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 58.73M
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Economy and Finance
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

                                                                                  Revised / Actual
     Process              Date               Process              Original Date
                                                                                      Date(s)
Concept Review:       12/03/2009        Effectiveness:             06/16/2010       06/17/2010
Appraisal:            03/25/2010        Restructuring(s):
Approval:             05/04/2010        Mid-term Review:           01/24/2011
                                        Closing:                   06/30/2011       06/30/2011


C. Ratings Summary

C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                          Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                       High
Bank Performance:                                  Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                              Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                Ratings             Borrower                          Ratings
Quality at Entry:          Satisfactory    Government:                            Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision:    Satisfactory                                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                           Satisfactory                                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:

                                                   i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                         Rating:
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                 Quality at Entry
Program at any time        No                                            None
                                                 (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                          Quality of
                        Yes                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Unsatisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes

                                                                Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                   22                  22
Crops                                                               34                  34
General finance sector                                              22                  22
Mining and other extractive                                         11                  11
Power                                                               11                  11


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Corporate governance                                                22                  22
Export development and competitiveness                              11                  11
Other environment and natural resources management                  11                  11
 Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                                    22                  22
procurement
State-owned enterprise restructuring and privatization              34                  34


E. Bank Staff

        Positions                       At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili         Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
Country Director:          Madani M. Tall                     Madani M. Tall
Sector Manager:            Miria A. Pigato                    Miria A. Pigato
Program Team Leader:       E. Philip English                  Mark Roland Thomas
ICR Team Leader:           Jean-Noel Amantchi Gogoua
ICR Primary Author:        Jean-Noel Amantchi Gogoua


                                                ii
F. Results Framework Analysis


Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To support government-owned reforms to improve governance, transparency, and
efficiency in public expenditure management, as well as to deepen structural reforms
aimed at strengthening governance and transparency in key sectors: (i) energy; (ii)
cocoa/coffee; and (iii) the financial sector.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)
N/A

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target       Formally     Actual Value
                                               Values (from         Revised       Achieved at
    Indicator            Baseline Value
                                                 approval            Target      Completion or
                                               documents)            Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :      Budget Implementation
                                             i) Certification of
                                             conformity of the                 The budget
                                             budget execution                  execution report
                                             bill for 2008                     and declaration of
                   Draft budget execution
                                             issued by Chambre                 conformity for
Value              bill for fiscal year 2008
                                             des Comptes.                      fiscal year 2008 has
(quantitative or   submitted to the office                        N/A
                                                                               been issued by the
Qualitative)       of the general auditor
                                             ii) Certification of              office of the general
                   (Chambre des Comptes)
                                             conformity of the                 auditor and
                                             budget execution                  published on its
                                             bill for 2008 is                  web site
                                             made public.
Date achieved      06/30/2009                06/30/2011           06/30/2011   06/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %           100%
achievement)
                   i.       Transparency in the energy sector
Indicator 2 :
                   ii.      Energy sector management
                                           i) SOGEPE has                       i) SOGEPE has not
                   i) SOGEPE is unable to
                                           obtained at least                   obtained any
                   obtain any financing
                                           one announcement                    announcement of
                   beyond its national
                                           of intention to                     intention to finance
Value              budget allocation for
                                           finance investment                  investment in the
(quantitative or   investment in the                          N/A
                                           in the electricity                  electricity sector
Qualitative)       electricity sector
                                           sector
                   ii) EITI reports for 2006
                                             ii) a - EITI reports              ii) a - EITI reports
                   and 2007 completed
                                             for 2006 and 2007                 for 2006 and 2007

                                                  iii
                                           validated and                     validated and made
                                           made public                       public.

                                             ii) b - the EITI                 ii) b - 2008 EITI
                                             report for 2008                  report not yet
                                             validated and                    validated.
                                             made public
Date achieved      02/26/2010                06/30/2011          06/30/2011   06/30/2011
Comments           i.       SOGEPE has not been able to attract investment in the sector. (0%)
(incl. %           ii.      a. The EITI 2006 and 2007 validation report was submitted in October
achievement)       2010. Both modified reports now validated and published. (100%)
Indicator 3 :      Cocoa sector governance
                                                                              i). a - External
                   i) a - Basic, information i) a - The externa1
                                                                              audits and bagging,
                   publicly available on audits for FIMR,
                                                                              weighing and
                   FIMR                      and the bagging,
                                                                              quality programs on
                                             weighing and
                                                                              website.
                                             quality control
                                             programs have
                                             been completed
                                             and made public.
                                                                              ii). b - Management
Value                                                                         Committee made
                   ii) b - No information ii).b - Changes in
(quantitative or                                                 N/A          recommended
                   on bagging, weighing, the institutional
Qualitative)                                                                  changes.
                   quality control;          arrangements have
                   complaints of             been made in
                                                                              i).a.-New structure
                   irregularities and        accordance with
                                                                              launched June 2011
                   bagging company           the findings of the
                                                                              in place early 2012.
                   changed.                  audits.
                   Two temporary
                                                                              ii) b - Audits
                   committees manage
                                                                              published on
                   operations without
                                                                              website after
                   public audits.
                                                                              closing.
Date achieved      06/30/2009                12/30/2010          12/30/2010   07/29/2011
                   i.       a. The external audit of the FIMR has been completed and posted
Comments           online before the completion date. (100%)
(incl. %           i.       b. The management of the FIMR and its reporting mechanisms has
achievement)       improved following the changes made by the cocoa management committee.
                   (100%)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                              Formally
                                             Values (from                        Achieved at
    Indicator          Baseline Value                         Revised
                                               approval                         Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                             documents)                         Target Years




                                                iv
G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs


                                                                           Actual
       Date ISR
No.                          DO                        IP              Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                       (USD millions)
                         Moderately
  1    01/29/2011                            Moderately Satisfactory            86.65
                        Unsatisfactory



H. Restructuring (if any)

Not Applicable




                                         v
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

At project appraisal, Côte d’Ivoire was emerging from political crisis. The
Ouagadougou Peace Accord had been signed in March 2007 and the country was at a
critical point in its post-conflict recovery. Government was working towards the
reunification of the country and preparing for presidential elections. During the conflict,
governance had deteriorated significantly. Government was now working to restore
integrity to public financial management and to improve transparency and growth
prospects in key sectors. The country was also in need of significant funding for the
demobilization and reintegration of ex-combatants, the rehabilitation of infrastructure, the
re-establishment of social services, the payment of domestic arrears, and the servicing of
international debt.

Needs were acute. Poverty had risen from a headcount rate of 38 percent in 2002 to 49
percent in 2008. Manufacturing and services had declined, with the corollary that the
share of agriculture in GDP increased. Health and education also suffered, with rising
child mortality (192 in 2007) and falling life expectancy (47 in 2006, compared with 49
in 1995). Even as primary school enrolment recovered to its pre-crisis level of 74 percent
in 2005-07, from 60 percent in 2002-04, this was 20 percentage points below the sub-
Saharan African average.

Governance and transparency were challenges across many key sectors. Political
instability had fueled a deterioration of governance, transparency and budget execution.
The 2008 public expenditure management and financial accountability review
(PEMFAR) highlighted the deterioration in budgetary discipline, financial management,
and procurement. Health and education had faced declining budgetary allocations since
2000. Moreover, the non-respect of existing procurement laws – particularly for major
public works – led to significant extra-budgetary expenses. In the vital cocoa export
sector, the institutional set-up, a product of entrenched vested interests, hindered the
sector’s development. Corruption and the lack of legitimacy of regulatory and
promotional agencies combined with inadequate producer prices to limit cocoa’s
contribution to rural growth. In the financial sector, several smaller banks suffered weak
governance structures and created contingent liabilities for the public sector, while
microfinance suffered from lack of oversight after the withdrawal of several foreign
partners.

The economy was nonetheless rebounding after the long civil conflict.
Macroeconomic performance had been broadly satisfactory since mid-2007 despite food
and oil price increases in 2008 and the global slowdown thereafter. Ivorian growth picked
up to 2.3 percent in 2008 from 1.6 percent in 2007, helped by high export prices. The
2008 external current account (excluding official transfers) posted a surplus of one
percent of GDP.




                                             1
There was therefore a strong rationale for World Bank assistance. Despite the
challenges Côte d’Ivoire was facing during project preparation, the government was
committed to reforms. Since 2006, the government had addressed weaknesses in public
financial management and in the cocoa, energy, and financial sectors, with the support of
the first and second Economic Governance and Recovery Grants, as well as IMF-
supported programs (EPCA and ECF). The EGRG-3 operation, part of IDA’s Country
Partnership Strategy for Côte d’Ivoire for the period FY10-13, aimed to help the
government continue to make reform progress at a difficult and important moment.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
    approved)

The development objective of the EGRG-3 was to support government-owned reforms to
improve governance, transparency, and efficiency in public expenditure as well as to
deepen structural reforms aimed at strengthening governance and transparency in the
energy, the coffee-cocoa and financial sectors.
Key Outcomes indicators
There were seven outcome indicators in the results framework:
Outcome 1: Improved budget implementation process, as measured by:
   (i)    Certification of conformity of the budget execution bill for fiscal year 2008
          issued by the office of the general auditor and made public;

Outcome 2: Transparency and management of the energy sector improved, as measured
by:
    (ii) SOGEPE obtained at least one announcement of intention to finance
         investment in the electricity sector;
   (iii)   EITI reports for 2006, 2007 and 2008 validated and made public;

Outcome 3: Governance and efficiency of cocoa sector improved, as measured by:
   (iv)  External audits for FIMR, and the bagging, weighing and quality control
         programs made public; and changes in the institutional arrangements made in
         accordance with the findings of the audits;
   (v)     A new institutional structure for the cocoa sector put in place reflecting the
           recommendations of the audits, including a process of annual audits; and the
           audits completed in early 2010 made public;

Outcome 4: Financial sector strengthened, as measured by
   (vi)  UNACOOPEC losses reduced to FCFA 4 billion; and
   (vii)   Government gross subsidies to CNCE reduced from FCFA8.4 billion in 2009
           to FCFA5.4 billion in 2010.




                                           2
1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
    and reasons/justification

PDOs and results indicators remained unchanged.

1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)

The EGRG-3 kept focus on policy reforms initiated under EGRG-1 & 2. The
EGRG-3 program structure included prior actions in line with the priorities of the
government reform program. These prior actions were designed in light of the results of
the previous EGRG-1 & 2. The four policy areas covered by this operation (PFM, energy,
cocoa, and the financial sector) had been included – and seen improvements in
performance – under the two previous grants.

The PFM reforms took stock of the findings of the 2008 PEMFAR. This had
identified a number of reforms critical for the PFM and procurement to converge to
international standards. Designed within a three-year action plan, these reforms were
expected to strengthen budget preparation and execution and internal and external
oversight. One issue had been the incapacity to publish the Budget execution bill within
the deadline legally specified.

EGRG-3 also aimed to strengthen transparency and efficiency in three key sectors
of the economy: energy, finance, and cocoa:
       a. Improving the capacity of the state enterprise SOGEPE to attract investment
          into the electricity sector; and improved transparency in oil and mining
          through the publication of EITI reports for 2006 and 2007;
       b. Improving governance and efficiency in the cocoa sector with the publication
          of the external audits of the rural investment fund (FIMR) and the four pre-
          existing entities (FRC, BCC, ARCC, FDPCC), along with the implementation
          of a new institutional framework reflecting the recommendations of these
          audits;
       c. Strengthening the financial sector through the reduction of UNACOOPEC
          losses as well as cutting annual public subsidies to CNCE.

1.5 Revised Policy Areas

Policy areas were not revised.

1.6 Other significant changes

There were no changes in design, scope, scale, implementation arrangements and
schedule, or funding.




                                           3
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1. Program Performance

Despite difficult conditions, many outcomes have been achieved. The details of
achievement are enumerated in the results framework analysis, which compares
performance against targets. This highlights that the EGRG-3 achieved many of its
development objectives despite the fragile political situation and the high-risk
environment that followed effectiveness. Furthermore, progress in many areas has
continued since closing.

      a. The improvement of governance, transparency and efficiency in public
         expenditure management was expected, according to the program document,
         to manifest itself through an improved budget implementation process. In
         particular, the draft budget execution bill for fiscal year 2008 has, as required,
         been issued by the office of the general auditor (Chambre des Comptes), but
         was made public one month later than envisaged at effectiveness. This
         measure has nonetheless allowed a return to a normal budget cycle, after years
         without.

      b. The energy sector has progressed within the framework of the program. In
         particular the EITI national committee has delivered country reports for the
         years 2006 and 2007 and made them public (three months after the targeted
         date). The authorities have stated their strong commitment to EITI. Following
         recommendations of the International Secretariat to improve data quality and
         expand the scope of the report to include mining, the national committee has
         launched the 2008-09 report, although this has not been published at the date
         of the present ICR. The National Committee has confirmed that this report
         will be made public by end-February 2012, such that there will be a 2 months
         delay in regards to the commitment of the government to get this bi-annual
         report available by end-December 2011. In line with the HIPC trigger on the
         EITI criteria, the National Committee has already launched the 2010 report,
         also to be published by end-February 2012, two months before the announced
         deadline. Within the framework of this operation, the Government has
         tackled the lack of consistency and clarity of the institutional framework of
         the electricity sector. Particularly, two ministerial decrees have been issued
         that clarified the legal status of SOGEPE (as the electricity sector asset
         holding company) and consolidated its responsibility for the management of
         the previously state-owned assets in the electricity sector. This measure aimed
         to improve the capacity of SOGEPE to mobilize investment in the electricity
         sector in line with the strategic objective of the authorities to increase
         investment in the sector. SOGEPE was not able to mobilize private
         investment by the completion date, given the breakdown of peace in 2010 and
         investors’ wait-and-see response. Nonetheless, the Chinese company
         SinoHydro Corporation Ltd has expressed interest in the Soubre dam with
         financing from China Exim Bank.



                                           4
       c. On cocoa sector governance and efficiency improvement, the external audit of
          rural investment funds has been realized as envisaged and the audit published.
          Following this audit, the Cocoa management committee made several
          improvements to the management of the fund, as well as to the operation of
          the bagging, weighing and quality control. Particularly on the investment
          programs, the new authorities have sought involvement of local authorities, as
          well as taken on board the views of farmers for the choice of the rural roads to
          repair. In addition, the Administrator of the FDPCC now runs all the
          procurements through open bids to ensure effectiveness of FIMR resources
          and their traceability as requested by the audit. The need to increase the FIMR
          resources resulted in ongoing analysis on the possibility of expanding fees to
          fund road maintenance beyond the cocoa sector, through levies on the rubber
          and palm oil sectors.

       d. The anticipated results for the financial sector were in microfinance and
          banking. Reforms aimed to build financial-sector soundness and transparency
          and expand financial services to the poor. The continued weakness of the
          microfinance sector was addressed through improving financial management
          of the major entity in the sector, UNACOOPEC, which was expected to
          reduce its annual losses to FCFA 4 billion at end 2010, from FCFA 6.5 billion
          in 2009. Under the restructuring plan, 50 percent of the non-performing loans
          of UNACOOPEC have been recovered and 16 non-performing decentralized
          centers closed. Losses have been reduced to about FCFA 2 billion, well below
          the target. Following the prior action specified for CNCE, this institution has
          been converted into a fully licensed bank. Weak capacity still needs to be
          monitored and addressed (a recommendation of the most recent FSAP). The
          commitment of the Government to reduce subsidies to CNCE to FCFA 5.4
          billion in 2010 was satisfied; FCFA 5 billion were transferred to CNCE in
          2010.

2.2. Major Factors Affecting Implementation
Factors outside the control of the Government

The 2011 post-election crisis was precipitated by political deadlock and thus outside
the control of most government actors. The crisis and associated violence resulted in
the closure of the central bank (BCEAO) offices in Cote d’Ivoire, leading in turn to the
closure in mid-February 2011 of commercial banks representing 80 percent of banking
system assets. The economic situation worsened further with the imposition of economic
sanctions by the EU. These combined situations resulted in the previously approved IMF
ECF-supported program going off track. The unstable situation led to the suspension of
many of the reform activities that the program had supported; in effect, in addition to the
great human cost of the conflict, about a year of progress was lost.

Factors generally subject to government control

Government implementation capacity has been sustained and commitment has not
wavered. This operation benefitted from the institutional arrangements set up under the


                                            5
EGRG-1 & 2 (stand-alone operations rated satisfactory at ICR stage). The Inter-
Ministerial Economic Committee which led the implementation of this operation was
able to lead reform implementation before and after the outbreak of the 2010-11 crisis.
The composition of the committee has ensured sustained commitment from government.
Soundness of the background analysis

The design of the EGRG-3 benefited from several Bank reports and a close policy
dialogue with the government. For example, background analysis for the cocoa-related
measures included a 2002 study of cocoa taxation, analytical papers prepared in 2004 on
long-term growth performance and competitiveness, a 2006 poverty assessment which
included the impact of cocoa taxation, a 2006 EC report on optimal taxation in the cocoa
sector, and a post-conflict Social Assessment completed just before the operation. Inputs
on the financial sector included a 2009 FSAP, which provided understanding of issues in
microfinance and rural access to financial instruments. On PFM, the 2008 PEMFAR
provided a diagnostic of strengths and weaknesses.
Assessment of the operation’s design

Degree of complexity: The operation, as a stand-alone development policy grant with
only seven prior actions focused on governance in public financial management and key
economic sectors, was not complex. The Ministry of Economy and Finance had entire
responsibility of the PFM reforms, simplifying this component. The Inter-Ministerial
Committee, which had been instrumental in the previous EGRG-1 & 2, was the only
single contact with government on the remaining components.

Realism: The operation retained a limited number of prior actions based on strong
diagnostics of priority sectors and on progress under earlier related DPOs. This operation
also benefited from activities under a Governance and Institutional Development Grant,
which focused on the same areas. The overall design of the operation took stock of an
assessment of prevailing risks, and with measures where possible. Outcome targets were
narrowly linked to the actions in each area and were realistic. The fact that many
indicators were achieved despite unfavorable exogenous developments speaks to the
realism of the operation at appraisal.
Relevance of the risks identified at appraisal and effectiveness of mitigation measures

The operation acknowledged a high degree of risk. The program document
acknowledged three sources of risk: political, notably the fragility of the peace process,
macroeconomic, encompassing factors both within and outside government control, and
governance/fiduciary, arising from vested interests that might resist reforms politically.
Both political and exogenous macroeconomic risk did materialize, speaking to their
relevance. Between closing and ICR, the main risks relating to government performance,
either macroeconomic management or governance or fiduciary performance, have proven
less damaging. The program document stated that the latter risks were mitigated by the
continued attention of the donor community on budget processes and broad-based
consultations with civil society; this risk does appear to have been somewhat mitigated
and, as mentioned above, the Inter-Ministerial Committee remains a strong proponent of
the reform agenda.


                                            6
                  Table 1: ERGG-3 Anticipated Risks and Mitigating Factors
                        Risk                                                Mitigating factors
Political risk: stemming from the fragility of the        Outside Bank operational scope in terms of
peace process, the upcoming presidential elections,       mitigation, this risk did materialize as the end-2010
delays in disarmament, demobilization and                 elections resulted in a military crisis that lasted well
reintegration, and possible changes of reform-            into 2011.
minded ministers after the presidential elections.
Macroeconomic risk: if the government fails to            The IMF and the World Bank monitored closely the
adhere to a responsible medium-term                       agreed macroeconomic framework. The IMF ECF-
macroeconomic framework or exogenous shocks               supported program combined with the impetus of
negatively affect performance.                            government to attain HIPC Completion point
                                                          effectively mitigated this risk. Exogenous shocks
                                                          were far from uniformly negative: viz. high prices
                                                          for Côte d’Ivoire’s main exports.
Governance/fiduciary risk: arising from vested            Continued assistance from IDA and other donors to
interests and political intervention.                     support public financial management was expected
                                                          to mitigate this risk. Broad-based consultations with
                                                          stakeholders, including civil society organizations,
                                                          were also expected to strengthen commitment. This
                                                          mitigation strategy appears to have been realistic.

2.3. Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

     M&E design

The design of the M&E system was simple and focused on measuring program
performance indicators as identified in the Results Framework. Based on the structure of
the M&E system used in the previous EGRG-1 & 2, M&E was under the responsibility of
the Ministry of Finance through the Inter-Ministerial economic team appointed by the
MEF included the Director General of Economy (DGE), the Director General of Budget
and Finance (DGBF), and the Director General of Planning (DGP), and was chaired by
the Chief of Staff of the Minister of Economy and Finance. Regular IDA missions and
staff resident in the Abidjan office monitored the implementation of the program and the
macroeconomic framework. The co-TTL, based in the Country office, maintained a
continuous dialogue with the authorities and followed up on the implementation of the
agreed measures.

M&E implementation and utilization

M&E implementation was effective until the late 2010 crisis and became effective again
in mid-2011 after its resolution. Staff was evacuated from the Abidjan office, and all
missions suspended, between December 2010 and early May 2011. The Inter-Ministerial
Committee was effective both at ensuring execution of all prior actions and also in
reporting on indicators in the results framework.




                                                      7
2.4. Expected Next Phase/Follow up Operation

EGRG-3 was the third stand-alone DPO in a non-programmatic series of such operations.
Following the crisis and the resumption of Bank activities in Côte d’Ivoire, a Post-
Conflict Reconstruction and Recovery Grant (PCRRG) was approved by the Board of
IDA on September 15, 2011. This operation aimed at providing rapid support to the new
government in a context of fragility and uncertainty. The PCRRG supported essential
reforms, echoing the themes of EGRG-3: governance, transparency, and efficiency in
public expenditure management and in the key sectors of cocoa, energy, and finance. At
the time of writing the current ICR, a programmatic series of operations is in the early
stages of preparation, likely to maintain focus on many of the same areas.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation (to current country and
    global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy):

Consistency with Government priorities: The Letter of Development Policy clearly stated
the objectives of the government. These objectives were part of the country’s PRSP and
reflected in the design of the operation.

Program Design: Program design was simple and tailored to the circumstances facing
Côte d’Ivoire, namely continued uncertainty about the political process and upcoming
elections. Hence the need for a stand-alone operation focused on core priorities, with
objectives closely tied to prior actions in each area.

Relation with Bank strategy: The EGRG-3 was presented to the Board in April 2010
together with the Country Partnership Strategy. The EGRG-3 was designed under the
first pillar of the Bank strategy: strengthening economic governance.

Complementarities with other Bank activities: This operation was aligned with several
IDA-financed operations and advisory services. The Governance and Institutional
Development TA Grant (US$13 million) supported efforts to strengthen Government’s
capacity to: (i) enhance efficiency and transparency in the use of public resources; (ii)
manage the development of its hydrocarbon resources in an environmentally and socially
sound and sustainable manner; and (iii) foster governance and efficiency in the cocoa
sector. This grant provided financial and technical support for the financial and technical
support for the cocoa audits and the EITI report preparation that were prior actions for the
EGRG-3. The operation was also complementary with an IDA supported program for
governance strengthening and post-conflict planning under a LICUS grant (US $6.4
million approved in June 2006). The Post-Conflict Assistance Project (US$ 120 million
provided support for the redeployment of the administration in the previous Center-
North-West areas of the country. The Urgent Electricity Rehabilitation Project (US$50
million, approved in June 2009) supported improvement of the sector’s operational
efficiency while the SME Revitalization and Governance Project (US$ 15 million,
approved in October 2009) supported private-sector development.



                                             8
Alignment with Good Practice Principles on Conditionality: The EGRG-3 was well
aligned with the Bank’s five Good Practice Principles on Conditionality.
        Reinforce Ownership: The EGRG-3 was fully aligned with the government’s
        reform agenda and the Inter-Ministerial committee in charge of leading this
        program was strongly linked to the Ministry of Finance, with effective working
        links with line ministries (e.g., the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of
        Mines and Energy), as well as with the EITI National Committee and the office
        of the General Auditor.

       Agree upfront with the Government and other financial partners on a
        coordinated accountability framework: The components of this operation were
        discussed widely with the Government’s other development partners. IMF and
        IDA staffs also work closely on HIPC debt relief issues. The previous IMF ECF-
        supported program was also closely aligned with the EGRG-3, with non-
        overlapping, complementary performance criteria and benchmarks. The
        operation also coordinated closely with the AfDB and the EU on their main areas
        of focus, public financial management and governance. Nonetheless,
        accountability for actions in the EGRG-3 program remained entirely with the
        government.

       Customize the accountability framework and modalities of Bank support to
        country circumstances: The accountability framework was kept simple to reflect
        the country’s circumstances in 2009. The operation took benefit of the country
        development challenges at the moment. Enriched by the various analytic
        studies available, the program chose components that allowed a concentration
        on the key elements of the Government program as stated in its Letter of
        Development Policy and the country’s PRSP.

       Choose only actions critical for achieving results as conditions for disbursement:
        The program was parsimonious, with a set of only seven prior actions in only
        four areas. These prior actions could be subdivided into 12 ―sub-prior actions‖
        That were closely tied to the indicators in the results framework.

       Conduct transparent progress reviews conducive to predictable and
        performance-based financial support: Reviews were regular, including an ISR
        completed in December 2010. Stand-alone designs had enables reliable and
        regular financial support in the form of DPOs, even in the context of unstable
        politics and a fragile peace process.




                                            9
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

               Table 2: Anticipated results and actual outcomes of the ERGG-3
             Anticipated result                                         Actual Outcome
Budget Implementation process
                                                       The budget execution report and declaration of
   Certification of conformity of the budget           conformity for fiscal year 2008 has been issued by
   execution bill for fiscal year 2008 has been        the office of the general auditor (Chambre des
   issued by the office of the general auditor         Comptes) and published on its web site.
   (Chambre des Comptes) and made public.
Transparency and management of the Energy
sector
                                                           SOGEPE has obtained no announcement of
   SOGEPE has obtained at least one                        intention to finance investment in the electricity
   announcement of intention to finance                    sector.
   investment in the electricity sector.
                                                           EITI reports for 2006 and 2007 validated and
   EITI reports for 2006 and 2007 validated and            made public, while the 2008-2009 report is
   made public, and the EITI report for 2008               being finalized and will be made public by end
   validated and made public.                              February 2012.



Governance and Efficiency of the cocoa sector
                                                          The externa1 audits for FIMR, and the bagging,
   The externa1 audits for FIMR and the bagging,          weighing and quality control programs have
   weighing and quality control programs have             been completed and posted on the government
   been completed and made public, and changes in         website, and the Cocoa Management Committee
   the institutional arrangements have been made in       has made some appropriate institutional changes
   accordance with the findings of the audits.            The new government launched the preparation of
                                                          the new institutional structure in June 2011 and
   A new institutional structure has been put in          formally adopted the strategy document in
   place reflecting the recommendations of the            November 2011. The new institutional structure
   audits, including a process of annual audits, and      is expected to be put in place in early 2012. The
   the audits completed in early 2010 have been           audits completed in early 2010 had not been
   made public.                                           made public at the completion date. They were
                                                          published on the MoF web site (during the
                                                          preparation of the PCRRG).
Financial sector Management
   UNACOOPEC losses reduced to FCFA 4 billion          UNACOOPEC losses reduced to below FCFA 2.2
   Annual gross public subsidies to CNCE have          billion. For the fiscal year 2010, CNCE has received
   been reduced to FCFA5.4 billion.                    an annual public subsidy of FCFA 5 billion.


3.3 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating (combining relevance, achievement of
    PDOs):

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Despite the post-election conflict in 2011, which affected implementation of the program
and caused the Bank to curtail its operational presence in the country, all prior actions
were enacted and none have been reversed. Moreover, weighting each of the seven prior
actions equally leads to the assessment that 75 percent of target outcomes have been


                                                   10
achieved by the time of the ICR, (or 5.25/7 outcomes): highly creditable under the
circumstances. Of the areas where outcome indicators have not yet been achieved, one
(related to EITI) remains the focus of government effort and is highly likely to be
achieved by February 2012. Regarding the attraction of investment interest by SOGEPE,
it is clear that the new Government is handling the issue of business climate investment
improvement in the electricity sector. In addition, the institutional adjustment that the
Ministry of Energy is currently implementing along with the ongoing work to address the
financial disequilibrium in the sector provide a basis for stronger involvement of new
investors in the electricity sector.
3.4 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts (if any, where not
    previously covered or to amplify discussion above):

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The operation provided financing which contributed to clearing domestic arrears, helped
in financing social basic services redeployment in the center-north-west areas of the
country and favored the allocation of additional resources to pro-poor spending. This
should have had some impact on social stability through the maintenance of access to
social services for the population mainly rural in these regions. The effects on governance
and transparency in the energy and the cocoa sectors should translate into some impacts
on poverty by allowing the traceability of public resources in these sectors. Particularly,
improved governance in the cocoa sector was expected to have a direct impact on the
livelihoods of about 700,000 rural households. The reforms in microfinance and banking
covered by this operation reached the most vulnerable populations and favor women’s
access to financing for income-generating activities.
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The EGRG-3 has contributed effectively to the improvement of budget implementation.
The Office of the General Auditor and the Ministry of Finance have stated their
commitment to the respect of the legal deadline for the external audit of budget execution.
EGRG-3 has also supported institutional change in the energy, cocoa and financial
sectors (particularly microfinance).
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
N/A

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: High

The risk – mainly political risk – remains high that some of the development
outcomes could be reversed. Political tensions remain, with ex-President Gbagbo now
indicted at the International Criminal Court in The Hague and his political party a non-
participant in recent legislative elections. However, the new President enjoys greater
legitimacy in the eyes of the majority of Ivoirians, and the first legislative elections in ten
years were held in December 2011. This should lead to lower political risks over time.
While acknowledging this uncertainty, development partners are expanding their support


                                              11
to Côte d’Ivoire as it pursues an ambitious reform agenda. Many of the transparency and
economic governance reforms, in addition to their positive impacts in reducing poverty
and increasing inclusion of different social groups and regions, can contribute to the
peace process and thereby to the maintenance of stability.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

   (a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

The team conducted a preparation mission in 2009 that gave a sound grasp of technical
issues. Sector specialists have been instrumental in identifying problems and proposing
solutions in the key areas supported. Project identification and appraisal was facilitated
by the existence of solid analytical ground work (e.g., PEMFAR, studies in the cocoa,
energy and banking sectors). The mission took advantage of the preparation of the CPS to
ensure alignment with the Bank’s priorities and the recently adopted Poverty Reduction
Strategy. Strategic focus was enhanced by continuity with previous budget support
operations. The Bank team worked closely with the already existing Inter-Ministerial
Economic Committee and coordinated preparation and appraisal of the operation with the
IMF, the EU and the AfDB. The Bank team worked closely with the IMF on the
macroeconomic framework and the FSAP, and led the dialogue in the area of public
financial management and governance in the cocoa, energy, and microfinance sectors.
The program document was clear in its arguments and the results framework was closely
aligned with the prior actions.

    (b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

Regular technical follow-up by country office staff and sector specialists provided the
consistency and continuity of the Bank supervision. In particular, the co-TTL, based in
the country office, was continuously in touch with counterparts at the Ministry of Finance
to ensure that the operations objectives were on track and effectively implemented and
monitored. An ISR was completed in December 2010.

    (c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Failure to achieve two of the seven outcome indicator is related solely to exogenous risks
outside the scope of Bank mitigation strategies. Quality at entry and supervision were
both satisfactory. Particularly, the target relating to the establishment of a new
institutional structure in the cocoa sector has not yet been met, since the political crisis
slowed the reform process. However, just after the new Government took control, it
reengaged the country for an effective and sustainable reform.


                                            12
5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance: (see Overall Borrower Performance)
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance: (see Overall Borrower
Performance)
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance: (see Overall Borrower
Performance)
Rating: Satisfactory

Despite the difficult political situation, the Government enacted all prior actions. A
consensus was built within the Inter-Ministerial Economic committee that allowed the
implementing agencies in the line ministries and the office of the general auditor to stay
focused on the efforts to achieve the measures adopted by the Government amid difficult
circumstances. The occurrence of the conflict at end-2010 posed a serious risk to the
continuity of the reforms supported by the operation, but the new government has
reaffirmed commitment to reform. Some measures of this operation served as a basis for
the subsequent Post-Conflict Recovery and Reconstruction Grant.

6. Lessons Learned

The main lesson is that a well designed, non-programmatic series of stand-alone
operations can form a basis for reasonably predictable policy-based support, even in
highly uncertain political environments such as Côte d’Ivoire. This operation has
facilitated progress even as it faced major risks.

Second, the identification of a single counterpart from the Government side offered a
strong advantage in implementation of reforms. This has eased the return to the reform
agenda after the crisis – many of the counterparts on the government side have remained
in place.

Third, the operations relative success in difficult circumstances illustrates the need –
underlined in the good practice principles referred to earlier – for parsimony and
selectivity in choosing prior actions, outcome indicators, and targets. A more complex
design, a longer list of actions and targets, or a broader set of areas of intervention would
likely have resulted in a less satisfactory operational impact.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
N/A
(b) Cofinanciers
N/A
(c) Other partners and stakeholders (e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society):
N/A




                                             13
           Annex 1: Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

                                  Task Team Members
                     Names                          Title                  Unit
           Lending
          Madani Tall                Country Director                     AFCF2
          Antonella Bassani          Sector manager                       AFTP4
          Philip English             Lead Economist                       AFTP4
          Richard Doffonsou          Senior Economist                     AFTP4
          Sunil Mathrani             Senior Energy Specialist             AFTEG
          Issa Diaw                  Senior Power Specialist              AFTEG
          Daniel Sellen              Sector Leader                        AFTS4
          Stephen Mink               Lead Economist                       AFTS4
          Yao Haccandy               Agricultural Specialist              AFTS4
          Jean-Paul Chausse          Consultant
          Djibrilla Adamou Issa      Senior Financial Sector Specialist   AFTFP
          Mourad Belguedj            Consultant                           COPCO
                                     Senior Financial Management
          Saidou Diop
                                     Specialist
          Raj Soopramanien           Lead Counsel                         LEGAF
          Sameena Dost               Senior Counsel                       LEGAF
          Eric Jean Yoboue           Senior Procurement Specialist        AFTPC
          Maurice Adoni              Senior Procurement Specialist        AFTPC
          Africa Eshogba Olojoba     Senior Environmental Specialist      AFTS3
          Judite Fernandes           Language Program Assistant           AFTP4
          Mariame Bamba              Program Assistant                    AFCF2
Supervision/ICR
Madani Tall                  Country Director                   AFCF2
Katrina Sharkey              Country Program Coordinator        AFCCI
Miria Pigato                 Sector manager                     AFTP4
Mark Roland Thomas           Lead Economist                     AFTP4
Jean-Noel Amantchi Gogoua Senior Economist                      AFTP4 ICR Primary Author

   (a) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                                   US$ thousands
            Stage
                                    No. of Staff weeks          (including travel and
                                                                  consultants costs)
Lending
           FY10
Supervision/ICR
           FY11
                     TOTAL




                                           14
      Annex 2: Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)


N/A




                          15
      Annex 3: Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)



N/A




                                 16
          Annex 4: Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


RECEIVED FROM                 MME. MADELEINE YAO
                              CONSEILLER SPECIAL DU MINISTRE                            DE
                              L’ECONOMIE ET DES FINANCES


    Note relatif au projet de Rapport d’achèvement et de résultat de l’Opération
                            d’appui budgétaire (DGER III)


Le troisième appui budgétaire (DGER III), d’un montant de 90 millions de dollars US
soit environ 45 milliards de FCFA, s’inscrit dans le prolongement du second appui
budgétaire, destiné à l’apurement de la dette intérieure.

Ce Don est la résultante de la mise en œuvre satisfaisante des mesures et réformes,
préconisées dans les secteurs clés de l’économie à savoir, les finances publiques, le
secteur de l’énergie, le secteur financier et la filière café cacao, afin d’y améliorer la
transparence et la gouvernance.

Les mesures convenues ayant été exécutées de manière satisfaisante en depit des
difficultéss liées à la situation politique, ont permis de maintenir la confiance des autres
bailleurs mais surtout de mobiliser des investissements directs etrangers et les ressources
intérieures, toutes choses qui ont contribué à soutenir l’activité économique.

Cet appui démontre si besoin est, l’importance de la coopération Côte d’Ivoire – Banque
Mondiale et, particulièrement, l’intérêt qu’elle accorde au renforcement de la
transparence dans les secteurs productifs et à la relance économique du pays.

Ce dynamisme des relations Côte d’ivoire-Banque Mondiale va au-delà des dons et
s’inscrit dans le cadre plus global du processus de l’assainissement du cadre
macroéconomique de la Côte d’Ivoire à travers l’initiative PPTE. En effet, la Banque ne
ménage aucun effort pour peser de tout son poids auprès du Fonds Monétaire
International (FMI) dans le cheminement vers le point d’achèvement de l’initiative des
Pays Pauvres Très Endettés (PPTE).

Le Gouvernement réitère ses sincères remerciements à l’endroit de la Banque Mondiale,
pour la qualité des négociations qui ont abouti à la signature de cet appui, de son
assistance constante à la Côte d’Ivoire, pour la mise en œuvre des mesures de reformes
specifiées dans le document de programme, et souhaiter qu’avec le retour de la paix, une
coopération encore plus fructueuse tournée vers la réduction de la pauvreté et le
développement s’instaure.




                                            17
      Annex 5: Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


N/A




                                     18
                     Annex 6: List of Supporting Documents

1. Arrêté n° 1057 du 23 octobre 2009 portant fin des Opérations de Liquidation des
   actifs de l’EECI

2. IMF Country Report No. 11/328 November 2011 Côte d'Ivoire: 2011 Article IV
   Consultation and Requests for a Three-Year Arrangement Under the Extended
   Credit Facility and for Additional Interim Assistance Under the Enhanced
   Initiative for Heavily Indebted Poor Countries—Staff Report; Public Information
   Notice and Press Release on the Executive Board Discussion; and Statement by
   the Executive Director for Côte d'Ivoire.

3. International Development Association, Implementation Status and Results
   Report (ISRR), Development Policy Lending Operations, Côte d'Ivoire,-
   Economic Governance & Recovery Grant II (Project ID: P112368 -- Loan/Credit
   No. IDA H4730), June 22, 2009, Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
   4, Country Department F2, Africa Region.

4. International Development Association Program Document For The Third
   Economic Governance and Recovery Grant in the Amount of SDR 58.8 Million
   (US$90 Million equivalent) including SDR 9.8 Million in Pilot CRW Resources
   (US$15 Million equivalent) to The Republic Of Cote D’Ivoire April 1,2010,
   Poverty Reduction and Economic Management 4 Country Department AFCF2
   Africa Region

5. International Development Association (Report No: 47482-CI), Project Appraisal
   Document on a Proposed Grant in the amount of SDR33.5 million (US$50
   million equivalent) to the Republic of Côte d’Ivoire for an Urgent Electricity
   Rehabilitation Project, May 11, 2009, Energy Group, Africa Region.
6. Projet d’Urgence de réhabilitation du Secteur de l’Electricité (PURE), Etude
   économique et financière de la performance du secteur électricité en Cote d’Ivoire,
   Groupement BDO/ENERCO, Septembre 2008

7. République de Cote d’Ivoire, Troisième Don de la Gouvernance Economique et
   du Redressement, Procès-verbal des négociations, Abidjan / Washington, 25 mars
   2010

8. République de Cote d’Ivoire, Ministère de L’Economie et des Finances, Unité de
   Coordination du Don de Gouvernance et de Développement Institutionnel
   (DGDI) Don IDA N° H 4010 – CI, Audit technique et financier du pesage du
   contrôle de la qualité et de la sacherie RAPPORT FINAL, Mars 2010

9. République de Cote d’Ivoire, Ministère de L’Economie et des Finances, Unité de
   Coordination du Don de Gouvernance et de Développement Institutionnel
   (DGDI) Don IDA N° H 4010 – CI, Audit technique et financier du Fonds
   d’Investissement en Milieu Rural (FIMR) RAPPORT FINAL, Mars 2010


                                       19
                                    8ºW                To               7ºW                                    6ºW                                 5ºW                             4ºW                              3ºW
                                                     Bamako                                                                 To
                                                                 M ALI
                                                                                     Tengrel
                                                                                                                          Sikasso
                                                                                                                                                                           BURKINA                                                                   CÔT E D'IV OIRE
                                                                                                                                                         To
                                                                                                                                                    Bobo Dioulasso          FA SO
                                                                                                                                                                                                        To
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Kampti                                                         CITIES AND TOWNS
             10ºN                                                                                                                                                                                                                             10ºN




                                                                                                      é
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     REGION CAPITALS




                                                                                                   Bag o
                                               DENGUÉLÉ                                                                                                                                                                   To                                         NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                      SAVANES                                                                                            Batie
                                                                                                Boundiali                                        Ferkessedougou                                                                                                      RIVERS
                                      Odienne
                                      Odienné                                                                        Korhogo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MAIN ROADS




                                                                                                                                                                                               Kom
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Bouna




                                                                                                                                                                                                o o
                                                                                                                                                                                                o
                            To                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RAILROADS




                                                                                                              B
                                                                                                              B
                                                                                                              Bo u
                           Beyla                                                                                                                                                                                                      To




                                                                                                                                                                                                é
                                                                                                                                         c
                                                                                                                                       a Blan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Bole
             9ºN                                                                                                                                                                                                                               9ºN                   REGION BOUNDARIES




                                                                                                                                          m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES




                                                                                                                                     Banda
              G U IN E A
                                                                 Sass




                                                                                                                                                        Nzi
                                                                                WORODOUGOU                                                                                                            ZANZAN
                                                                    s
                                                                    sand




                                                                                                                                                               Dabakala




                                                                                                                                                          i
                                                                                                                                                          i
                                                                                                  M
                                                                                                  M
                                                                                                  Mara
                                                                         ra
                                                                          a
                                                                          a




                                      Touba      BAFING
                                                                                                                                                VALLÉE DU BANDAMA
                                                                                                      o ué
                                                                                                        ué
                                                                                                        ué



                                                                              Séguéla
                                                                              Séguéla
                                                                                gué                                                                Katiola
             8ºN                                                                                             Mankono                                                                                           Bondoukou                       8ºN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      To
                      To                                                                                                                                                                                                             Wenchi
                   Nzerekore                                                                                                                                                                              Tanda
                                                     Biankouma                                                                 Béoumi                Bouaké
                                      DIX-HUIT                                                                  Lac de
                          Mont Nimba MONTAGNES                                                                  Kossou         Sakassou                                    M'Bahiakro
                          (1,752 m)                                                Vavoua          Zuenoula
                                                      Man                                                                                                                                                                    To
                                                                                                                                                                      N’ZI-COMOÉ
                                   Danane                                       HAUT-                                                                                                                                      Sunyani
                                                                                           bo




                                                                                                                                Tiebissou                     Bocanda                           Agnibilékrou
                                                                                         Lo




             7ºN                                         Bangolo              SASSANDRA                       Bouaflé
                                                                                                              Bouaflé                           LACS                        Daoukro                                                            7ºN
                                                                                    Daloa                                                       YAMOUSSOUKRO                                   MOYEN-
                                                              Duekoue                                        MARAHOUÉ                                                                          COMOÉ                       GHAN A
                                                                                    Lobo




                                                                                                                 Sinfra                                          Dimbokro                                Abengourou
                                             Guiglo                                                                                                                  Bongouanou
                         Toulepleu                                                                                                                     Toumodi
                                   MOYEN-CAVALLY                                    Issia
               To                                                                                                           Oumé
             Monrovia                                                                                        FROMAGER                                                                                                                                                        CÔTE D'IVOIRE
                                                                                                   Gagnoa
                                                                                                                                                                        AGNÉBY            Adzope
             6ºN                                                                                                                                                                                                                               6ºN

                                                                                                                                                  Tiassale        Agboville
                                                                                                                      Lakota        Divo
                                                                                Soubré
                                                                                                                                                                                                           SUD-
                                                                                                                                                                                                     é
                                                                                                                                                                                                  mo
                     L IB E RIA                                                                                                  SUD-
                                                                                                                                                                                               Ko

                                                                                                                                                                                                 Alepe COMOÉ
                                                                                            Sa
                                                                                               s
                                                                                               s
                                                                                               ssa




                                                                                                                                                         Nzi




                                                                                                                               BANDAMA                           LAGUNES                                          Aboisso
                                                                                                                                                          z
                                                                                                                                                          z
                                                                                                  nd




                                                                       BAS-                                                                                              Dabou
                                                                                                     ra




                                                                                                                                     Grand-Lahou                                      Abidjan
                                                                    SASSANDRA
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Adiake
                                                                                                                                                                     Jacqueville      Grand-                                       To
             5ºN                                                                                                                                                                      Bassam                                     Prestea       5ºN
                                                                                                               Sassandra

                                                                                          San-Pédro                                                                                   0          40            80        120 Kilometers




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IBRD 33393R
                                            To                                                                                                                                                                                                       This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                          Monrovia
                                                                                                                 Gulf of Guinea                                                                                                                      The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
APRIL 2008




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                              Tabou                                                                                                                   0         20        40        60       80 Miles                Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                    8ºW                                 7ºW                                    6ºW                                 5ºW                             4ºW                              3ºW
