Document of
The World Bank                                LE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3515-KO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$122 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
FOR A COAL AND CEMENT DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
April 8, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Korean Won (W)
US$1           =  W 745
US$1.34       =  w 1,000
US$1 million  =  W 745 million
US$1,340       =  W 1 million
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                 =   3.2808 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)            =   0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)   =   0.3861 square miles (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha) = 0.01 km2  =   2.4711 acres (ac)
1 kilogram (kg)             =   2.2046 pounds (lbs)
1 metric ton (m ton)        =   2,204.6226 pounds (lbs)
1.1023 short tons (sh tons or 2,000 lbs)
0.9842 long tons (lg ton or 2,240 lbs)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
EPB       -   Economic Planning Board
KMPA      -   Korea Maritime and Ports Authority
KNR       -   Korean National Railroad
MOC       -   Ministry of Construction
MCI       -   Ministy of Commerce and Industry
MOER      -   Ministry of Energy and Resources
MOF       -   Ministry of Finance
MOHA      -   Ministry of Home Affairs
MOT       -   Ministry of Transport  .
TCC       -   Transport Coordination Committee
TOC       -   Terminal Operating Company



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KOREA
COAL AND CEMENT DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Government of the Republic of Korea
Amount:            US$122 million equivalent, including capitalized front-end
fee
Terms:             15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate
Project
Description:    The project would provide the necessary capacity in rail,
ports and inland terminals to handle efficiently the coal
and cement traffic forecast through the 1980s and address
system inefficiencies in coal and cement distribution.
The main system inefficiency with respect to coal
transport is the complex distribution system resulting
from fragmented coal mining and briquette industries.
With respect to cement, the main inefficiency in transport
stems from the fact that a large proportion of cement is
still transported and distributed in bags rather than in
bulk.
Specifically, the project would:
(a) increase capacity in: (i) specialized intermodal
freight terminals for coal and cement; (ii) railways and
port infrastructure at Incheon and Ulsan; and (iii)
specialized cars for coal and cement transport; and
(b) correct system inefficiencies by: (i) introducing
policy measures regarding transport pricing of coal and of
bulk and bagged cement; (ii) making operational improve-
ments in train operations and locomotive utilization;
(iii) making operational improvements in the two project
coal ports and (iv) undertaking studies, technical
assistance and training;
There are no unusual risks associated with the project
in that all components involve proven technology that
has been in extended use in Korea or in other parts of
the world. The training which will be provided to KMPA
personnel to operate the port handling equipment will
assure its proper use.
IThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated                                                 Local  Foreign  Total
Project Costs:                                         ----- ($ million)
Railways                             112.1   100.1    212.2
Railway Terminals                     57.3    27.0      84.3
Port Terminals                        35.9    81.6    117.5
Studies                                0.0      0.6      0.6
Technical Assistance                   0.1      0.3      0.4
Subtotal                          205.4   209.6    415.0
Contingencies
Physical                               4.0      2.8      6.8
Price                                 28.1    29.2      57.3
Total Project Cost                237.5   241.6    479.1 /1
Front-end fee                          0.0      0.3      0.3
Total Financing Required          237.5   241.9    479.4
Financing Plan:      Bank Loan                              -      122.0    122.0
Co-Financing                           -       32.3     32.3
Korean Government                    237.5    87.6    325.1
Total                             237.5   241.9    479.4
Estimated
Disbursements:    Bank FY         1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988
Annual,                 8.6    22.3    43.7    39.5        7.9
Cumulative              8.6    30.9    74.6   114.1   122.0
Rate of Return:      19%.
Staff Appraisal
Report:            No. 4288-Ko, dated April 8, 1983.
/1 Includes taxes and duties of about $48.0 million.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA FOR A COAL AND CEMENT
DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Korea, for the equivalent of US$122 million to help
finance a Coal and Cement Distribution Project. The loan is for a term of
15 years including 3 years of grace at the standard variable interest rate.
US$97.6 million would he onlent to the Korean National Railroad (KNR) and
US$23.5 million would be onlent to the Korea Maritime and Ports Authority
(KMPA) under the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest Economic Report entitled "Korea:  Adjusting to a New
World Environment" was distributed under cover of Sec M82-514 dated June 1,
1982. The following summary is based on this Report together with updating
information obtained during a Bank mission in August 1982. The Country Data
Sheets are attached as Annex 1.
Past Performance
3.        Twenty years ago, Korea was one of the poorest developing
countries, heavily dependent on agriculture, with a weak balance of payments
financed almost entirely through foreign grants. By the early 80s she had
become a semi-industrial, middle-income country with a fairly strong
external payments position. During 1960-81 GNP grew by over 8% p.a. and per
capita income more than tripled in real terms. The share of the manufac-
turing sector in GNP rose from 14% to 29.5% while the share of agriculture
fell from 36% to 18%. Merchandise exports, principally manufactured goods,
accounted for almost 41% of GNP as against a mere 4% two decades earlier.
4.        Rapid industrial growth also brought about a marked shift in the
structure of employment. In the early sixties well over half the labor
force had been employed in agriculture.  By 1981, employment in this sector
had fallen to a third, while manufacturing absorbed over 20% of the econo-
mically active population. Heavy migration from the rural areas to the
cities combined with deliberate Government policies to improve the agricul-
tural terms of trade and a steady increase in agricultural value added
helped to ensure a growth in per capita rural incomes more or less in line
with the rest of the economy through the first half of the 70s. There are
indications of some deterioration in the income share of the rural
population in the last four years, but Korea still compares favourably with
most countries, the ratio of the population below the poverty line in the
rural sector having declined from 40% in the early sixties to 11% in the
late 70s.



-2-
Adjustment to Oil Crises and Domestic Shocks, 1974-82
5.        A number of measures enabled Korea to not only surmount the first
oil crisis which raised the cost of imported fuel by US$700 million within a
matter of a year, but also to average a growth rate of 10% between 1973 and
1978. These included increased borrowing from abroad combined with a
devaluation of the currency, export diversification in products as well as
markets and an increase in public sector savings. However, the very success
of the Korean planners in stimulating the economy generated serious
inflationary pressures. Real wages rose at an average annual rate of 18%
between 1975-78, well in excess of the growth in productivity, and by 1978
the Consumer Price Index (CPI) was increasing at over 18% p.a., compared to
a rate of 10% in 1977. In addition, the large volume of subsidized credit
which was made available to the heavy and chemical industries by the
financial system under the Government's direction, brought about an
excessive expansion of capacity in subsectors faced with weak demand while
the traditional light industries were frequently starved of funds. This
trend was in line with the Government's view of Korea-s changing comparative
advantage, but it created structural imbalances in the manufacturing sector
and in conjunction with exchange rate rigidity and a rising price level, had
a dampening effect on the expansion of exports.
6.        To tackle these problems, the Government announced, in April 1979,
a far reaching program of stabilization-cum-restructuring, but the program
was overwhelmed by a series of unexpected shocks. The oil price hikes in
1979 and 1980 raised Korea's petroleum import bill from about US$2.3 billion
in 1978 to US$6.2 billion in 1980 with the price-induced increase equal to
nearly 6% of GNP in 1980. In October 1979, President Park Chung Hee, the
chief architect of Korea's "economic miracle" since the mid-sixties, was
assassinated. This was followed by a period of the severest political
uncertainty and social unrest in twenty years (with the situation returning
to normal only after the ascendancy of a new Administration under President
Chun Doo Hwan in September 1980). On top of these developments, the
unfavorable weather resulted in a drop in agricultural output of about 22%
in 1980, or over 4% of GNP, and a 15% decline in investment led to a
worsening of deflationary pressures which could not be offset by the 10%
growth of export volume. As a result GNP fell by 6.2% in 1980, unemployment
increased to 5.2% from 3.2% in 1978 and the higher costs of fuel, raw
materials and foodstuffs pushed up consumer prices by 29% in spite of a 5%
cut in real wages.
7.        The reduction in wages resulted primarily from the Government's
income policy which along with the 26.7% devaluation of the won, were the
two most important measures introduced in 1980 to stabilize the domestic
economy and promote external adjustment. With the won depreciating by a
further 12% in 1981 and real wages decreasing almost 4%, the effects of
these policies on the adjustment process have been very positive, although
recovery has been less rapid than after the first oil shock. Export volume
increased by another 19% in 1981 and together with only moderate real import



-3-
growth (5%) reduced the current account deficit from US$5.3 billion in 1980
(10% of GNP) to US$4.4 billion (7% of GNP). At the same time, on a year-end
basis, inflation was a little over 12% compared to 29% in 1980 and GNP grew
by 7.1%, although some 3% of this reflected a recovery of agricultural
production. Inflationary pressures continued to subside through the first
nine months of 1982 and the current account BOP deficit which was forecast
at US$4.4 billion, has been revised downwards to US$1.8 billion, about 2.7%
of GNP. This is partly because of a 3% improvement in the terms of trade, a
reduction of oil imports due to conservation measures, and slower than
anticipated growth in GNP.
8.        The Government s original GNP growth target of 7% for 1982 has
been reduced by 1%, and actual growth may not exceed 5%.  Employment growth
in this period also slowed to 1.4% p.a., with all the job creation being
outside agriculture and manufacturing. With capacity utilization in the
manufacturing sector averaging 70% and the interest burden having risen,
there has been a persistent deterioration in the financial position of
enterprises. The ratio of net. profits to sales decreased from 2.2% in 1978
to -0.7% in 1981, and the ratio of financial expenses to net sales rose from
4.8% to 8%.
Recent Reflationary Measures
9.        In mid-1982, the Government, encouraged by the improvement in the
balance of payments and the fall in inflation through the first half of the
year, introduced measures to spur economic activity and improve both the
liquidity as well as the profitability of enterprises. These measures are
aimed at stimulating aggregate demand and strengthening the liquidity of
firms. The liquidity and profitability of manufacturing is to be raised by
means of a 4% cut in interest rates introduced in July 1982 and a 15%
reduction in corporate taxes planned for 1983. These changes are also
likely to have a favourable influence on investment. However, given the
heavy reliance of the Korean economy on trade, a full recovery also requires
a resurgence of export demand, which, given the economic climate in the OECD
countries, is likely to be slow in materializing. Thus, both growth and
trade prospects over the next twelve months remain somewhat uncertain. With
money supply increasing at 30% p.a., Korean planners will have to be very
vigilant so as to ensure that the increase in consumer prices estimated at
7% in 1982, does not surge back to double digit levels.
Medium Term Prospects
10.       It is in this environment of uncertainty that Korea's Fifth Five-
Year Plan covering the years 1982-86 has been launched. The basic objec-
tives of the Plan are to restore growth momentum along with the achievement
of price stability and equity. For this purpose, the Plan puts emphasis on
(a) economic stabilization, (b) export promotion and import liberalization,
(c) establishment of an internationally competitive industrial structure,
(d) promotion of the market mechanism, (e) liberalization of the financial
sector, and (f) expansion of social development expenditure. The goal of



price stabilization is to be pursued mainly through fiscal discipline, a
prudent monetary policy and monitoring of wage contracts. Export promotion
efforts will be helped by price stability and a flexible exchange rate
policy as well as by quality improvement and product innovation. The Plan
also proposes a program of import liberalization as well as tariff reduction
to improve price competitiveness. An important change in industrial policy
during the Plan period will be the reduction of the Government's role in
promoting the so-called strategic industries. Investment choices will be
left increasingly to the initiative of the private sector with the
Government providing only the general framework. To promote the market
mechanism, the Government has started a program for liberalization of the
financial sector, including denationalization of the commercial banks.
However, the pace of this program is likely to be slowed by the continuing
sluggishness of the economy which has exacerbated the weaknesses of the
corporate sector. The Plan also proposes that relatively more Government
resources will be allocated to meet the "basic needs" of people such as
education, housing, social security and improved sanitation and water
supply. The basic strategy of the Fifth Plan, which is to expedite
structural adjustment and make greater use of market forces, is sound, but
the transition is going to be difficult and the growth target of 7.6% p.a.
might not be achieved. In any case, during the 80s Korea will have to
adjust to a substantially lower growth rate than in the past two decades and
find ways of increasing the employment intensity of its growth to keep
unemployment rates at acceptable levels. The projected export growth of 11%
does not appear unreasonable in terms of the country's past performance, but
the near-term prospects are less favourable than assumed in the Plan.
Consequently, the realization of export projections for the Plan period will
depend on the success of policies to improve export competitiveness.
11.       External Resource Balance.  As discussed above, provided appro-
priate policies are followed and world trade expands as projected, an
increase in total exports to the extent projected under the Plan, does not
appear unrealistic. The projected reduction in import elasticities is also
consistent with the import liberalization program, provided the energy
efficiency and oil substitution programs are implemented as planned and
appropriate exchange rate policies are followed. In the area of invisibles,
an important factor is the Plan projection of a significant reduction in
international interest rates in nominal as well as real terms; this expect-
ation is broadly consistent with the forecasts made by the World Bank and
the IMF. The gross borrowing program envisaged in the Plan (about $9
billion p.a.), though large in absolute amounts, is realistic in terms of
availability and prudent in terms of Korea's debt service capacity, provided
export projections are realized./l With the projected level of borrowings,
/1 The significant recent improvement of the balance of payments, discussed
in paragraph 8 above, which is in part structural, is likely to reduce the
borrowing requirements and improve the results of the subsequent
analysis.



-5-
Korea external debt as a ratio of GNP would decline from about 50% at
present to about 45% in 1986. If the Plan expectation of a decline in
interest rates materializes and the export projections are realized, the
total debt-service ratio (including interest payments on short-term debt)
would decline from about 20% of exports in 1981 to 14% in 1986, which is
considerably lower than the debt service ratio projected for other non-oil
developing as well as newly industrializing countries. However, in relation
to GNP, Korea's debt-service burden is high and there are risks with regard
to the availability and cost of external capital over the next few years.
Thus it is desirable to assure that the current account deficit does not
exceed the 3% of GDP p.a. projected in the Plan.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
12.       As of February 28, 1983, Korea had received 66 Bank Loans
(including one Third Window Loan) and 8 IDA Credits, totalling US$4,100
million in loans and US$106.8 million in credits (taking into account
cancellations and the refinancing of one IDA Credit in a subsequent Bank
Loan). As of that date, US$1,049.43 million remained undisbursed on
effective Loans, mostly from commitments in the past two years. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank Loans, IDA Credits, and IFC Investments
as of February 28, 1983 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. As
indicated in the notes, progress on project implementation is generally
satisfactory, and implementation delays have been addressed which had
occurred in a number of projects - mainly irrigation, highways and
population - due primarily to shortfalls in Government budgetary
contributions resulting from cost overruns during a period of high domestic
inflation. The problem was reviewed with the Government during 1981 and the
Government subsequently took measures to increase local funding of Bank
financed projects. As the Government's budgetary situation continues to be
tight, the status and plans for counterpart contributions would remain an
integral part of country implementation reviews held jointly with the
Government. Nevertheless, despite the recent delays, Korea's disbursement
rate remains the highest among major Bank borrowers in East Asia.
13.       In recent years, the thrust of the Bank Group's lending operations
in Korea has been towards assisting the Government's efforts: (a) to secure
the external resources required to supplement domestic savings in sustaining
a high GNP growth rate by following a policy of rapid export-oriented
industrialization; (b) to avoid the emergence of infrastructure bottlenecks;
and (c) to complement industrial development with agricultural and rural
development schemes aimed at bringing about a better dispersal of the fruits
of growth through raising incomes and improving the quality of life in the
rural areas.



-6-
14.       A substantial part of Bank financing has been directed towards the
vital industrial sector through lending to Korea's four major development
banks. The Korea Long-Term Credit Bank has received US$410.0 million, the
Korea Development Bank US$352.5 million, the Small and Medium Industry
Bank US$205 million in Bank loans for relending to private industry, and
the Citizens National Bank US$60 million to meet the financial needs of the
small enterprises. The primary beneficiaries of these loans have been the
numerous industrial enterprises which have received funds through the
financial intermediaries. This has contributed to the overall development
of the industrial sector, and also to the achievement of institutional
improvements as well as the Government's objective of decentralizing
industry.
15.       In recent years, the Bank has also been assisting the Government's
effort to develop the country's technological capability. The Electronic
Technology Project (Loan 1676-KO), approved in March 1979, provided the
Korea Institute of Electronics Technology (KIET) with sophisticated
facilities to enable it to undertake production-oriented development work,
and financed an R&D program that is directly linked to the needs of the
electronics industry. In March 1982, the Bank approved a US$50 million loan,
to the Korea Technology Development Corporation (KTDC) whose main objectives
are to accelerate advanced foreign technology imports and support in-house
research development and engineering. In December 1982, the Board further
approved a US$70 million loan (Loan 2215-KO) to the Government for on-lending
to the Small and Medium Industry Promotion Corporation (SMIPC) and selected
DFC-s, to help upgrade the technological capabilities and production
practices of Small and Medium Machinery enterprises as well as to provide
credit for financing their investment requirements.
16.       As Korea's economy has continued to grow and the pace of industri-
alization has quickened, there has had to be a parallel expansion of
transport facilities. The Bank Group, through its association with the
Government's efforts to modernize and expand the transport sector, dating
back to 1962, has played an important role in these developments. Financing
of US$434 million has been provided for seven railway projects designed to
increase the railroad's capacity and improve its operations. Five loans
totalling US$459.5 million have been made for highway construction and
paving of high priority sections of the national, provincial and county
networks and for countrywide maintenance organizations, including a US$125.0
million loan for a provincial and county roads project approved by the Board
in December 1982. Two loans amounting to US$147.0 million have been provided
for the expansion of port facilities at Busan and Mugho.
17.       Korea's paucity of natural resources and dependence on the
manufacturing segment of its economy have resulted in the adoption of a
strategy based on maximizing the advantages of a skilled and hardworking
labor force. The Bank Group has been involved in helping to meet the
*requirements for appropriately trained workers and certain categories of
skilled manpower through its lending for four education projects, which have



-7-
pursued the broad objectives of technical manpower development either
through the expansion of relevant subsectors or through specific quality
improvements. Together, these projects have catered to a wide range of
manpower training needs.
18.       Korea's record of achievement in modernizing its agricultural sec-
tor, although less spectacular than the gains made in the industrial sphere,
is nevertheless commendable. The past 15 years have seen agricultural
output grow at an average 4.2% p.a., which has resulted in the country
becoming nearly self-sufficient in its staple food, rice, and made possible
a steady and perceptible improvement in the living standards of the 34% of
Korea's population who live in the countryside and rely primarily on
agrarian pursuits for their livelihood. The Bank has lent US$375.5 million
for the improvement of irrigation facilities, land and seed development and
the provision of agricultural credit to farmers and processors of agricul-
tural products. In addition, US$155.0 million has been provided for two
rural infrastructure projects in support of the Government's rural
development program, initiated in 1971, to improve the quality of life and
the standard of living in the rural areas. In 1979, a US$125.0 million loan
was provided by the Bank to help meet the growing demand for municipal,
industrial and irrigation water in the Han Basin southeast of the capital
city, Seoul; reduce flood damage; and generate electricity to augment and
provide peaking capacity for Korea's power system.
19.       The Bank's first essay into the field of regional development in
Korea, through a project approved in 1975, has proved successful.
The project was designed to support Government policy by financing high
priority investments in the poor, primarily agricultural, southwest region.
A loan of US$65.0 million for a second project for the development of the
region was approved in 1979. Two loans totalling US$190.0 million were
approved in 1981 and in December 1982 for National Urban Land Development
and Housing Projects.
20.       In order to revitalize the economy while ameliorating inflation
and promoting social equity, the Government has taken a number of policy
measures described in Part I above. Some of the most important of these
measures are incorporated into a structural adjustment program for which a
US$250 million structural adjustment loan was approved by the Executive
Directors in December 1981. The loan was fully disbursed during 1982.
21.       The share of the Bank Group in Korea's total external MLT debt
disbursed and outstanding at the end of 1981 was about 10%, and its share of
MLT debt service was of the order of 8% at that time. These ratios are
expected to be around 9% and 7% respectively by the mid-eighties.



- 8 -
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Introduction
22.       Throughout much of the past 20 years, the Korean transport system
has been strained by the demands of rapid growth and it has required massive
public sector investments in infrastructure. The Government has been
allocating regularly, since the beginning of the Second Plan in 1967,
about one quarter of its total capital expenditure to expand and modernize
transport infrastructure. Investments have been concentrated on the
Seoul-Busan axis where most industrial development is taking place and other
corridors serving the northeastern and southeastern parts of Korea.
B. The Transport System
23.       Substantial changes in the modal distribution of traffic occurred
during the 1961 to 1981 period. Freight traffic moving by rail, although
showing growth in absolute terms, fell from 88% of total ton-km to 46%,
while the road and coastal shipping shares increased from 8% to 21% and from
3% to 32%, respectively. For passenger traffic, the rail share of total
passenger-km fell from 53% to 25% over the same period, while the road share
increased from 45% to 73%. These changes reflect both the economic
advantages of the various modes and the different growth rates experienced
between industries served, as rail and coastal shipping increasingly were
concentrated on long distances and bulk commodities, while road transport
handled the short distance and more general cargo. In addition, rapidly
expanding personal consumption generated large increases in personal travel,
further fueled by changes in consumption patterns. Road transport has been
the main beneficiary of these increases.
24.       The Government s basic objective has been to increase the capacity
of the system in line with projected traffic growth and to avoid major
bottlenecks. This objective has been largely achieved. The present system is
reasonably balanced and there is no substantial uneconomic allocation of
traffic among the various modes. Investments in transportation have been
linked to broader concerns in Korea-s spatial and economic planning. For
example, considerable efforts have been made to develop new industrial
complexes in coastal areas, to exploit low-cost coastal shipping while
avoiding excessive congestion on road and rail.  Similarly, in its efforts to
ensure that appropriate development priorities were reflected in the
allocation of scarce transportation means among the competing claims, the
Government has maintained fairly tight regulations in the sector, involving
strict licensing of operators in road transport and shipping, and administered
pricing for all transport activities. Korea-s vehicle fleet has been kept
small due mainly to a policy of high taxation of cars and high prices for
gasoline.



25.       Large investments in transportation infrastructure have been
complemented by a considerable effort to improve the efficiency of the
transportation system, through the establishment and strengthening of
institutions to plan, construct, maintain and operate the facilities and
services. The Bank has played an active role in advising and assisting the
Korean authorities in pursuing their transport objectives. Since 1962, the
Bank Group has assisted the Korean National Railroad (KNR) through seven
railway projects amounting to US$434 million. The first six projects have
been satisfactorily completed and a seventh is almost fully disbursed. Cost
comparisons indicate that rail transport is still the most economic means of
moving bulk cargo over medium and long distances, and for passenger traffic
over long distances. Bank-supported investments have concentrated on improved
capacity and service relating to these functions.  KNR-s efficiency is among
the highest of any rail system in the world, with staff productivity in 1981
measured per employee at 800,000 in terms of traffic units (passenger-km plus
net ton-km). The Bank has also maintained an active dialogue on the railway's
financial situation, investment plans, and level and structure of tariffs.
The proposed coal and cement distribution project would strengthen the
capacity of the railways, ports and inland terminals to cope with the
expected increase in transport of these commodities, resulting partly from
large coal imports substituting for oil.
26.       Substantial assistance has also been extended for port development.
In part related to Korea's export drive, freight traffic through the ports has
increased from about 13 million tons in 1966 to over 120 million tons in 1981.
This large increase resulted in serious port capacity problems, particularly
at Busan, the largest port, which handles 30% of the country's external trade
and is chronically congested. Containerization was introduced in Busan with
the assistance of the Bank under two port projects totalling US$147 million;
the Saudi Fund for Development participated with the Bank in the financing of
the first Busan Port Project. A third ports project, to further improve
container handling capacity, has been studied. This would be in addition to
port works under the presently proposed coal and cement distribution project.
27.       Four previous Bank-financed highway projects have had a major impact
in assisting Government with the improvement and expansion of the national and
provincial road networks and with institution building in the Ministry of
Construction (MOC). The Provincial and County Roads Project, approved in
December 1982, will assist in the development and maintenance of the secondary
and tertiary road systems. Significant policy changes relating to the highway
subsector, which were effected through the highway projects, include the
adoption of more appropriate road standards, revisions of regulations
governing vehicle weights and dimensions, and modification of Government
policy on toll roads. MOC's organization to maintain the national road
network was established and strengthened through the provision of technical
assistance and road maintenance equipment. Korean consulting firms have
benefitted through their association with foreign consultants on the design of
road projects.



- 10 -
C. Transport Objectives and Issues in the 1980s
28.       As described in Part I above, it is not realistic to expect that
the very high growth rates the Korean economy achieved in the 1970s will be
sustained in the 1980s. The impact of lower growth rates on the transporta-
tion sector is two-fold. On one side, the timing of investments needed to
sustain further improvements in transport capacity and quality of service will
be influenced by growth-induced traffic expansion. On the other side, the
capacity of the public sector to finance the necessary upgrading and extension
of infrastructure and facilities in transportation may be sharply constrained
by budgetary limitations. While it seems clear that the period of most rapid
development in Korea's basic transport infrastructure is now over, the
increasingly complex traffic patterns an-d higher traffic densities, the
growing requirements for maintenance of the expanded system, and the need to
conserve energy will call for even greater efforts to maximize efficiency of
service and the use of scarce investment capital in this capital-intensive
sector. Policies relating to pricing and regulation of transport plus
improved planning in respect o.f system development are crucial in the now more
demanding economic environment. A Bank sector survey report, currently under
preparation, has identified several areas for improvement.
29.        It is expected that the Bank-s policy dialogue would be strength-
ened in future years through the increasing emphasis being given to a sector
and subsector approach in transport lending in Korea. The Provincial and
County Roads Project will deepen and broaden our involvement in the road
subsector by extending assistance, for the first time, to the Ministry of Home
Affairs (MOHA). This new involvement will also provide the Bank with an
opportunity to improve coordination of road planning between MOC and MOHA
through a road sector investment planning study. Such coordination will
strengthen the basis for a possible highway subsector loan. Similarly, a
recently completed ports study examined broadly which ports should be
developed to handle the nation's traffic through the next decade and may lead
to a port subsector loan. For railways, the Bank has traditionally made
sector type loans, financing time slices of KNR-s investment plans with the
sixth and seventh railway projects covering respectively 1978/79 and 1980/81
investments.
30.        Besides these subsector operations, we are assisting the Government
in developing multimodal projects. The first is the coal and cement distri-
bution project now proposed, involving railways and ports. Other projects
would be directed toward increasing the capacity of the transport system in
certain high priority areas and corridors rather than dealing separately with
each modal system. To achieve this, the Bank will assist in developing an
integrated modal approach to meet the very high transport demand near main
urban areas where a dense network of facilities is needed. Through such
studies, Bank transport projects will continue to contribute to promotion of
the local transport consulting industry.



D. Coal Distribution
31.       Production and Import.  South Korean coal is exclusively anthracite,
with coal mines concentrated in the Taebaeg region, about 250 km east of
Seoul. A characteristic of domestic production is the large number of small
mines. Domestic coal production increased rapidly in the early 1970s from
12.4 mt in 1970 to 17.6 mt in 1975. Since then, however, production stagnated
around 18 mt until 1981, when it exceeded 19 mt for the first time. The
present forecast is 21.5 mt by 1986, and at this rate, total minable reserves
evaluated at 630 mt would last about 30 years. Annual production is however
expected to decline somewhat in the 1990s.
32.       Domestic anthracite is used primarily to make briquettes for house-
hold heating and cooking. These briquettes are the primary form of energy
used by lower income households in cities as well as in rural areas, and are
manufactured by simple technology. The calorific content of domestic coal is
low, with 80% of the production in the range of 4,200 to 5,300 kcal/kg. To
supplement domestic production, Government started anthracite imports in
1978. Imported anthracite has a minimum calorific value of 5,500 kcal/kg
and thus enhances domestic coal which is mostly around 4,500 kcal/kg.
However, with the present briquette type and manufacturing techniques, it is
not possible to blend more-than 15% imported anthracite since most of it does
not have the same high bonding characteristics as domestic coal.
33.        Forecast of anthracite imports for briquette making are 3.4 mt by
1986 and 3.2 mt by 1991 as more households, particularly in large cities, are
expected to shift to fuel oil and natural gas. Some anthracite will continue
to be imported to fire existing power plants at Busan and Ulsan. New power
plants will, however, use steam coal.
34.       No bituminous coal is produced in Korea.  Imports of coking and
steam bituminous coal started in 1973 with the commissioning of Korea's first
steel plant. Imports were 5 mt in 1981, (up from 0.6 mt in 1973) of which 4
mt is coking quality, and 1 mt steam coal. In 1980, the cement industry
started its conversion from fuel oil to coal for kiln firing and the
conversion was virtually completed by the end of 1981. Coal consumption by
the cement industry is expected to reach 2.7 mt in 1986 and 3.3 mt in 1991.
35.        The Government is now encouraging other industries to convert their
boilers from oil to coal. As indicated in para. 65, savings are substan-
tial. The proposed goal is to have 40-50% of all industrial boilers, except
in Seoul City, burning coal by 1991. Besides the cement industry and indus-
trial boilers, large quantities of bituminous coal will be imported for new
power-generating plants and for steel making. The latter are all located on
the coast and have their own port facilities to receive coal; therefore no
inland transport will be required for either steel or power.



- 12 -
Issues and Objectives
36.       In general there are two major distribution patterns: one for
domestic coal and one for imported coal. Domestic coal is distributed from
mines located mostly in the eastern mountains to large urban areas on the west
and south coasts. It is only recently that significant amounts of coal were
imported by users other than the Pohang steel mill which has its own port.
This coal will move inland from the coasts, i.e., in the opposite direction of
the domestic coal, thus providing return loading for some of the railway coal
cars.
37.       Almost all domestic coal is distributed by rail, with the exception
of 1.6 mt, from a mine near the east coast, which go by coastal shipping to
the southern areas of Korea after being transported by rail to the port of
Mugho. In 1981, coal transport accounted for over 40% of KNR's traffic in ton
km. The main flows of coal are thus concentrated on a few railway lines
connecting the Taebaeg area with Seoul, Daejon and Daegu. In 1981, Seoul City
alone consumed over 40% of Korea's domestic coal, and the other five large
cities another 28%, leaving 32% for the rest of the country.
38.       The main issue in domestic coal distribution is its complexity
resulting from the fragmentation of the mining industry and of the briquette-
making industry. There are over 210 mines and 280 briquette plants.
Furthermore, until mid-1982 coal was produced and sold under 24 different
categories, according to its calorific content. The end product, however, is
uniform since briquettes have to comply with the minimum calorific content of
4,500 kcal/kg set by Government. Therefore, briquette makers arrange
purchases of different coal grades from different mines for blending at the
plant in a way that minimizes their costs, but not necessarily transport
costs.
39.       Over the last few years, the Government began to deal with the above
problem by fostering the consolidation of the briquette industry. Consolida-
tion is expected to continue, and the Bugog terminal included in the project
will permit consolidation of briquette plants on the fringe of the rapidly
urbanizing areas of Gyeonggi Province south of Seoul while the Seongbug
terminal will do the same in the northeastern suburbs. The Government has
confirmed that briquette factories will be installed in the coal terminal by
the end of 1986 upon their removal from populated areas in Seoul (Section
3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement). This will reduce coal dust pollution in
the urban areas.
40.       During project preparation, the Ministry of Energy and Resources
(MOER) agreed to review the coal grading and pricing system for domestic
anthracite. In July 1982 a new system was introduced reducing the number of
categories from 24 to 9. The reduction in categories will permit the
institution of cost-saving unit trains. The project also includes special
side dump cars that will enable faster unloading of coal at briquette plants
and speed up the turnaround time of freight cars.



- 13 -
41.       The main issue regarding imported coal distribution is the lack of
efficient handling and transporting systems. The proposed project is addres-
sing this problem by combined port and railway investments. Imported
anthracite will be distributed from the ports of Incheon, Ulsan and Mogpo,
mostly by rail. Small quantities will go by truck directly to briquette
plants in the vicinity of the ports. All imported bituminous coal will go by
rail. The project will make this possible by providing coal unloading
facilities at Incheon and Ulsan and by extending and widening the Su-In line
which loops south around Seoul from Incheon to the Bugog terminal. The
Government has agreed that land rights for the widening of the Su-In line
will be obtained by July 1, 1986 (Section 3.14(b)(i) of the draft Loan
Agreement). The increasing volume of bituminous will enter primarily at the
two ports. This coal is destined primarily for the 5 cement plants
concentrated in the Jecheon area which is located near the anthracite mines.
Once the project is completed, coal cars now returning empty to the mining
areas from the Seoul and Busan areas will obtain return loads at Incheon and
UJlsan: they will be loaded with domestically-mined anthracite on their
departure from the mining area and with imported bituminous coal on their
return to the Jecheon area.
E. Cement Distribution
42.       Production and Consumption.  The installed capacity of the Korean
cement industry, entirely privately owned, was 23.5 mt p.a. at the end of
1981, more than three times the 1971 capacity of 7 mt. Except for two small
plants, the cement industry is concentrated in the north-eastern corner of
Korea.
43.       The domestic demand for cement increased rapidly in the 1970s; from
6.1 mt in 1971 it peaked near 16 mt in 1979. It then contracted abruptly
following the general economic downturn, reaching only 12.4 mt in 1981, with
some recovery taking place in 1982. Total average annual production over the
last three years, 1978 to 1981, has been around 17-18 mt; production in excess
of domestic demand was exported. Since the energy price rise in 1979, such
exports barely cover variable costs. Capacity utilization in terms of
domestic demand reached a peak of 92% in 1978, but as new capacity came on
stream at the time of weakening demand, it fell to 53% in 1981. As a result,
the cement industry is presently in a difficult financial condition.
However, the conversion from oil to coal, virtually completed, provides
substantial fuel cost savings to the industry. These are estimated at about
US$6 to $8 per ton of cement.
Issues and Objectives
44.       The distribution of cement is normally fairly complex.  The product
moves from production plants in three forms: clinker, bulk and bagged cement.
Clinker and some bulk cement go through branch plants for further processing,
storage and some bagging while the rest of bulk and bagged cement go directly



- 14 -
to final consumption areas. Thus, clinker and some bulk cement is transported
more than once. In 1981, transported tons were about 28% more than
domestically consumed tons.
45.       Rail is the main mode of transport for cement, accounting for over
60% of the products ex-factory. In 1981, cement accounted for 17% of KNR-s
traffic in ton-km.  Road transport, however, plays the main role in distribu-
tion from branch plants. The modal allocation reflects the advantages of the
various modes, with rail and coastal shipping carrying long distance clinker
and bulk cement, while road transport plays a larger role in ex-factory
transport of bagged cement as well as in final distribution from branch
plants. The average transport distance of cement is around 325 km for coastal
shipping, 210 km by rail and 75 km by road. Cement consumption is concen-
trated in the large urban centers, with the Seoul-Incheon metropolitan area
accounting for some 45% of domestic consumption. The Government has recently
taken action to phase out the cement cartel which had been established in 1976
when domestic demand fell well below installed capacity. While the cartel was
legally abolished in May 1982, the Government is concerned with excess
capacity in view of the weak demand related to the overall economic situation.
It therefore has granted a one-year extension of cartel like arrangements to
the industry.
46.       The main issue in cement distribution is the relatively low pro-
portion of bulk handling which is more efficient than bags. Bulk distribution
offers substantial cost savings in handling and transport, the latter due to
faster turnover of equipment, and saves the cost of bags and bagging. While
some move toward more bulk transport has occurred in recent years, the share
of bulk is still far from the proportion common in industrialized countries,
namely 75% to 80%. The reasons for this relatively low proportion of bulk
distribution are: (a) shortage of bulk cement rail cars; (b) same rail
tariffs for bulk and bagged cement; and (c) restrictions on expansion and
development of ready-mix concrete (Remicon) installations.
47.       The proposed project addresses all these points and the proportion
of bulk transport is expected to increase gradually. Rail tank cars will be
financed by the project and bulk and bagged tariffs will be differentiated;
the cement industry has plans to install new silos, including at the Bugog
terminal. Regarding installation of Remicon plants, the land use planning
regulations were amended at the end of 1981 and no further restrictions
exist.
PART IV - TEE PROJECT
48        The Ministry of Transport (MOT) was responsible for the coordina-
tion of project preparation which involved the Korean National Railroad
(KNR), the Korea Ports and Maritime Authority (KMPA), the Ministries of
Energy and Resources (MOER), Commerce and Industry (MCI) and the Economic



- 15 -
Planning Board (EPB). A study conducted by local consultants RDRI/KIST was
conducted in 1979 and 1980 under financing of the Sixth Railway Project
(Loan 1542-KO). The project was appraised in April 1982. Negotiations were
held in Washington and were completed on March 17, 1983. The Korean
delegation was led by Mr. Choi Ki-Duk, Administrator of KNR. A report
titled "Staff Appraisal Report, Coal and Cement Distribution Project" dated
April 8, 1983 is being distributed separately. Supplementary project data
are provided in Annex III.
Project Objectives
49.       The objectives of the proposed project are:  (a) to provide the
necessary capacity in rail, ports and inland terminals to handle efficiently
the forecast coal and cement traffic through the 1980s; and (b) address the
main system inefficiencies in coal and cement distribution which are: (a)
for coal: the complexity of the distribution system due to the fragmented
coal mining and briquette industries; and (b) for cement: the large
proportion of cement still transported and distributed in bags rather than
in bulk. Nearly 20 million tons each of coal and cement are distributed
annually in Korea, and these quantities are expected to grow significantly
in the future in line with the country's economic growth and energy
conservation policy, which includes greater reliance on coal in substitution
of petroleum. Rationalizing the distribution systems for these commodities
can lead to substantial transport and other cost savings as well as energy
savings.
Project Description
50.       The project would consist of:  (a) Investments to increase
capacity in: (i) specialized intermodal freight terminals for coal and
cement; (ii) railways and ports infrastructure at Incheon and Ulsan; and
(iii) specialized cars for coal and cement transport. (b) Measures to
address system inefficiencies: (i) policy measures regarding transport
pricing of anthracite and bituminous coal and of bulk and bagged cement;
(ii) operational improvements in train operations and locomotive utiliza-
tion; (iii) operational improvements in two ports, Incheon and Ulsan; and
(iv) studies, technical assistance, and training.
51.       Both coal and cement are transported in large quantities over
fairly long distances in Korea. The small size of many users, however, does
not generally justify the cost of private rail sidings. Therefore, the
delivery of smaller volumes is better handled by truck, which calls for
adequate intermodal terminals. Two are envisaged in the Seoul area: Bugog
to the south and, later, Seongbug to the northeast. Bugog will have a
capacity of 10 million tons per year, and civil works have started, financed
under KNR's budget. The Bugog terminal will be completed during the project
period.



- 16 -
52.       The Bugog terminal will provide intermodal services for coal and
cement. In the coal area, land has been reserved for the future installa-
tion of briquette manufacturing plants, some of which would be relocated
from their present sites in downtown Seoul, thereby reducing urban pollution
and furthering consolidation of the industry. Land has also been reserved
for building cement silos. The Government has confirmed that land rights
for the installation of briquette factories and for construction of cement
silos will be obtained by January 1, 1984 (Section 3.14 (b)(ii) of the draft
Loan Agreement). Part of the terminal will also be used for intermodal
transfer of containers in order to combine the advantage of lower costs for
rail transport between the Seoul area and Busan and the flexibility of door
to door pick-up and delivery by truck. For containers, the project will
provide an ample paved storage area and the container handling equipment
will be purchased by the operating company.
53.       Railway investments would increase carrying capacity and reduce
overall transportation costs on the lines carrying the main coal and cement
traffic. They comprise: the electrification of a 64 km section of the Jung
Ang line, the upgrading of the signalling on 126.8 km of the Taebaeg line,
the extension and widening of the Su In line (53.2 km) from narrow to
standard gauge, and the acquisition of specialized rolling stock: 261 coal
and 320 cement tank cars.
54.       Due to their proximity to consumption areas, the ports of Incheon,
Ulsan, Mogpo and Bugpyeong were selected to handle imported coal traffic for
household and industrial uses other than those of the steel mill or large
power plants which have their own ports. New terminals are needed at these
ports to handle the expected coal traffic. Only the terminals at Incheon
and Ulsan are included in this project; the other two ports will be
developed later since they are less urgent. Specialized equipment such as
unloaders, conveyor belts, stackers, and reclaimers will be procured. This
will result in speeding up coal unloading operations and in lowering port
costs. The Government has confirmed that it will provide in a timely basis
a schedule for the completion of the works for the Bugog, Incheon and Ulsan
terminals and completion of the widening of the Su-In line (Section 3.08 of
the draft Loan Agreement).
55.       One of the objectives of this project is to further improve the
already good operational performance of KNR in transporting coal and cement.
To this end, specialized coal cars will be procured including a trial order
of side-dumper cars, a technological improvement to be used for the first
time in Korea. Also, more cement tank cars will be added to the fleet, to
increase the percentage of cement transported in bulk. These specialized cars
will speed up loading and unloading operations, and their use in unit trains
will decrease the turnaround time and transportation costs.
56.       The project also includes a study for improving the transport needs
in the Seoul metropolitan region, consulting services to KMPA for preparing
technical specifications and tender documents; and training of KMPA personnel
in operation and maintenance of coal terminals.



- 17 -
Implementation Arrangements
57.       To coordinate the goals and actions of the various government
agencies and private firms concerned, the Government established, on
March 12, 1983, a Project Coordination Committee comprising all parties
interested in the project. Under the chairmanship of the Director General
for Transport Coordination, MOT, members of the Committee represent MOT,
MOF, EPB, MCI, MOER, KNR and KMPA. The role of the Committee is only
consultative, but its recommendations carry weight since the most influential
ministries and Government agencies are represented. The Government has
agreed that the Committee will meet at least four times a year (Section 3.05
of the draft Loan Agreement). A Project Administrator has been assigned to
help the Chairman of the Coordination Committee. Hlis qualifications,
experience and terms of reference are acceptable to the Bank. The Project
Administrator will be supported in day to day project administration by an
assistant assigned full time to the Project (Section 3.06 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
58.       The project will be implemented by KNR for the railway-related
components, and by KMPA for the port-related components. Under its present
status KNR is vested with powers and a degree of financial freedom which
allows it to conduct its operations in a satisfactory manner. Further legal
powers and financial freedom will be needed for improving KNR's efficiency.
KNR will be given such powers under the Seventh Railway Project (Loan
1836-KO). KMPA does not enjoy the same degree of freedom, a situation which
adversely affects its productivity and related financial performance. To
improve the latter it has been agreed that the Government would not later than
January 1, 1986 vest KfPA with legal autonomy needed to (a) incur debt; (b)
prepare and submit its budgets and accounts in a commercial form; (c) have
reasonable flexibility in adjusting approved operating budgets to meet cost
changes resulting from unexpected fluctuations in port traffic; and (d) open
an account with the Bank of Korea for revenue receipts and payment of
obligations (Section 3.03(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
59.       The Coordinating Committee would be responsible for coordination
between KNR, KMPA and other ministries involved (mainly H4OER and MCI). Both
KNR and KMPA have enough competent staff to ensure that the project is
implemented correctly and on time. Some external specialized technical
assistance to KMPA would be required for drafting technical specifications
for the coal handling equipment to be acquired, to assist during the
procurement process, and for training port staff in coal handling. KMPA
will employ consultants by June 30, 1983 to provide this assistance (Section
3.09 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
60.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$479.4 million
equivalent, in March 1983 prices, including 10% for taxes and duties. The
foreign exchange component is estimated at US$241.9 million. The cost of
civil works is based on final engineering. Unit prices of equipment are in



- 18 -
line with prices experienced by KNR and KMPA in recent procurement and con-
sistent with prices for similar items procured under Bank loans. Physical
contingencies for KNR of 5% are included for all items except rolling stock,
maintenance equipment, studies and technical assistance. Annual price
escalation rates were applied to local and foreign costs in accordance with
Bank guidelines, as follows:  3% in 1983, 7.5%7 in 1984, 7% in 1985 and 6% in
1986.
61.       The total cost of providing 19 man-months of consultant time to
KMPA for assistance in procurement and layout design for the coal terminals
is estimated at about US$326,000 of which US$228,000 is foreign exchange.
The average man-month cost including salary, overhead, international travel
and subsistence would be about US$12,000.* In addition, $58,000 would be
earmarked for trainng KMPA personnel abroad.
62.       The proposed Bank loan of US$122 million, including front-end fee
(US$.3 million), will finance about 50% of the foreign exchange cost.
Cofinancing will be arranged by the Government for the balance of the foreign
exchange cost (Section 4.14 of the draft Loan Agreement) but will not be
needed before the end of 1984. The loan would be for a period of 15 years,
including 3 years grace, at the standard variable interest rate. Bank funds
would be used for financing (a) part of the foreign exchange cost of the
project's railway and ports components, and (b) studies, technical assistance
and training. The co-financed borrowing would be applied to the balance
of the ports component, including financing of any contingencies for this
component. A portion of Bank funds would be on-lent to KNR (US$97.6 million)
and KMPA (US$23.5 million) at the same interest rate and terms as the Bank
loan. KNR and KMPA will bear the foreign exchange risk for their respective
shares of the loan. These transactions would be covered under subsidiary
loan agreements, the signing of which would be conditions of loan effective-
ness (Sections 3.02(a) and (b)(i) and 3.04(a) and (b)(i) of the draft Loan
Agreement). The Government will pass on the responsibility for repayment of
the front-end fee to project agencies for their respective portions
(Sections 3.02(b)(ii) and 3.04(b)(ii) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
63.       All civil works contracts are or will be awarded by KNR and KMPA
in accordance with the country-s procurement procedures which are satis-
factory. Civil works will not be financed by the Bank. Equipment items to
be procured under the loan will be subject to International Competitive
Bidding (ICB), in accordance with Bank guidelines. For bid evaluation,
Korean manufacturers will be allowed a preferential margin of 15% of CIF
costs of competing imports or the relevant prevailing level of customs
duties, whichever is lower. For non-Bank-financed items, the Government-s
or cofinancing entities' procurement procedures will apply.



- 19 -
64.       Disbursements will be made on the following basis:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment
and materials for the railways, and 100%l for directly imported
equipment and material for the ports;
(b) 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory price) for locally manu-
factured equipment and materials for the railways and 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory price) for locally manufactured
equipment and materials for the ports;
(c) 100% of the costs of foreign and local consulting services; and
(d)  100% of the cost of overseas  training.
A disbursement schedule is given in the Loan and Project Summary.
Benefits and Economic Return
65.       The project would help improve the efficiency with which coal
and cement are transported and distributed in Korea. It would also contri-
bute to the effort made by Korea in diversifying its energy sources i.e.,
substituting coal for oil. Port facilities, inland terminals and the
railway lines connecting them have to be developed or upgraded to cope with
this new coal traffic. Each ton of imported bituminous coal can substitute
for about 2/3 of a ton of fuel oil. At 1982 CIF Korea prices of US$70 per
ton for coal and US$207 per ton for fuel oil, each ton of bituminous coal
used represents savings of about US$70. Imports of bituminous coal through
the ports of Incheon and Ulsan, included in this project, are forecast at
2.6 mt. in 1986 and 6.1 mt. in 1991. The foreign exchange cost savings for
the year 1986 alone would be almost US$180 million. While other investments
are needed to convert industrial boilers from oil to coal, the annual
savings are indeed large in relation to the investment costs in transport
and industry. Studies made by MOER and the cement industry indicate that the
cost of conversion to coal can be recouped within 2-3 years.
66.       Besides its contribution to a  reduced energy import bill for
Korea, the project will also help increase productivity in the distribution
of two widely consumed commodities, domestic coal and cement. Over 85% of
domestic anthracite goes to make briquettes, the primary energy source of
urban and rural lower income households. Transport cost accounts for 15-20%
of total briquette cost. The project would thus assist Government in its
constant endeavor to keep briquette prices as low as possible. Similarly,
cement is a component of most projects and any cost savings in distribution
will be reflected throughout the economy. The economic analysis of the main
components of the project is summarized in the following paragraphs. The
economic evaluation of the project as a whole is given in para. 72.



- 20 -
67.       Incheon Port and Su-In Line.  The  proposed coal terminal would be
able to receive efficient size coal carriers namely 100,000 DWT ships versus
25,000 DWT without the project; it would also provide proper coal stacking/
reclaiming and loading facilities for direct transport to Bugog and the
Jecheon area via the widened Su-In line. The coal pier and its rail
connection to KNR-s network, the Su-In line, form a whole wqhich can only be
analyzed jointly. Benefits in terms of transport and handling cost savings,
including shiptime savings, would yield an ERR of 22%. As the anthracite
traffic is forecast to decrease somewhat between now and 1986, and the
cement plants are virtually converted to coal, the only uncertainty
on the benefit side is the forecast bituminous coal traffic for other
industrial users. Assuming that only 50% of that forecast traffic occurs,
the ERR would fall to 18%.  On the cost side, a 20% increase would reduce
the ERR to 19%.
68.       Ulsan Port.  The present situation is similar to that of Incheon.
The same type of benefits as above yield a return of 28%. Again assuming
that only 50% of the bituminous coal traffic to industrial users other than
the cement plants materialize, the ERR would fall to 18%, while a 20% cost
increase would reduce the ERR to 25%.
69.       Tae-Baeg Line Signalling and Coal Cars.  The benefits of the
project in terms of coal import cost savings and cement transport cost
savings yield a rate of return of 25%. Increases in either the coal traffic
or in the cement traffic could be nil, or costs could triple before the ERR
would fall below 10%. The coal import cost savings have been assumed to
decrease by 50% between 1986 and 1996, to reflect the expected cost increase
in real terms of coal mining in Korea.
70.       Jung-Ang Line Electrification.  Electrification would permit
improved utilization of electric locomotives presently in service on the
western section of this line and on the Tae-Baeg line. It would also
generate energy cost savings, and maintenance and labor cost savings. These
benefits would yield an ERR of 22%. The high rate of return is due in part
to the better utilization of existing electric locomotives. Other benefits
could jointly decrease by 50%, or costs could increase by 50% before the ERR
would fall below 10%.
71.       Cement Tank Cars.  The utilization of cement tank cars is much
better than that of box cars which transport cement in bags. Due to the
difference in turnaround time, the capital cost of box cars that would be
needed to transport the same amount of cement as the proposed tank cars
would be W2 billion (US$2.7 million) more than the cost of tank cars.
Furthermore, tank cars provide for further savings in loading and unloading.
Including the cost of silos necessary to implement the conversion to bulk
transport, the ERR is estimated at 68%. This ERR does not depend upon
cement traffic growth since the project applies to a fraction of existing
cement traffic only.



- 21 -
72.       Overall Evaluation and Risks.  When the costs and benefits of all
the above elements are combined, including also the costs of the two
multi-purpose, multi-modal terminals of Bugog and Seongbug, and some track
maintenance equipment, the overall ERR of the project is 19%. These
terminals are linked with the various project components analyzed above and
no further benefits are assigned to them separately. Also this overall
return does not include benefits from improved container transport made
possible by the Bugog Terminal. The sensitivity of project component
returns has been described in the respective component analysis above and
the risk is very low that the rate of return would fall below 10% for any
component and even lower for the project as a whole.
Finances - Railways
73.       Implementation of the proposed project is expected to allow KNR
and KMPA to meet anticipated increases in demand for transporting imported
and locally mined coal and locally produced cement. The financial analysis
covers the following: (a) conditions under which transport of these
commodities, which represent about 60% of KNR-s freight traffic and related
operating revenues, will help improve KNR's overall financial situation;
(b) status of Bank's dialogue with Government about KNR-s overall financial
situation; and (c) the conditions under which Incheon and Ulsan ports- new
coal terminals will generate a profit for KMPA.
74.       Rail freight tariffs in general and those for coal and cement in
particular were historically much below costs. Covenants of successive Bank
railway projects emphasized the need to increase freight tariffs in real
terms. This has been done and freight tariffs were increased by 42% in real
terms between January 1976 and July 1982. Special emphasis was placed on
coal tariffs which were raised 55% in 1981. Assuming that tariffs remain
constant in real terms and operating expenses increase 1% below inflation
(reflecting productivity increases), coal tariffs would cover full cost
(including interest charges) and cement tariffs would be only 3% short of
covering full costs by the end of 1984. It has been agreed that full cost
coverage for coal and cement will be achieved by July 1, 1984 and January 1,
1985, respectively and maintained thereafter (Section 4.05 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
75.       KNR applies identical rates for transporting bagged and bulk cement
although costs for transporting bagged cement are higher than for bulk mainly
because the turnaround time for box cars used for carrying bagged cement is
longer than for bulk cement tank cars. In addition to preventing KNR from
incurring losses on transport of bagged cement, the introduction of a new
full cost covering rate for bagged cement would induce the cement industry
to increase the more economical transport in bulk. The measure should
consequently be applied as soon as KNR has the cement tank cars required to
meet demand. Differential cost based tariffs for rail transport of bagged
and bulk cement will be achieved by January 1, 1985 (Section 4.06 of the
draft Loan Agreement).



- 22 -
76.        Despite KNR's high technical efficiency, its overall financial
performance has steadily deteriorated since 1979. This is because KNR's
gross operating revenue in real terms declined as a result of the stagnation
of traffic due to the overall economic situation while operating costs
remained practically steady. The main financial problem of KNR is the very
large losses incurred on ordinary passenger trains and to a lesser extent on
commuters (in Korea commuters refer to season ticket holders rather than to
urban trips). These losses in 1981 and again in 1982 amounted to more than
the total net deficit of KNR, meaning that the railway would have generated
a net profit if it had been allowed to charge cost based tariffs on this
traffic. The reason for such losses is the very low tariff applied to
ordinary train passengers. In 1982 ordinary train tariffs covered only one
third of costs, although they were 48% less. than ordinary bus fares. In the
past, losses incurred on ordinary trains and commuter traffic were to a
substantial extent offset by profits generated by express trains. However,
this is no longer true due to the adverse effect of traffic stagnation on
express trains' profits.
77.        Another problem is KNR's heavy debt service, and in particular
interest payments. As freight tariffs were historically well below cost and
ordinary train tariffs remained at only one-third of costs, KNR could not,
in the past, generate enough funds internally to finance the investments
needed for modernization and expansion. Traffic has however stagnated but
KNR is committed to cover the debt service on investments financed through
loans although its revenue anticipation did not materialize. As a result,
KNR's short-term (less than one year) payables as of December 31, 1982
exceeded liquid assets (cash plus receivables) by W105 billion of which W67
billion in loan maturities. The ratio of current assets to current
liabilities by the same date reached 0.3 instead of the 1.5 objective
provided for under Section 3.05 of the Loan Agreement 1836-KO (Seventh
Railway Project).
78.        In our ongoing dialogue with the Government, we have been
discussing ways and means to improve KNR's financial situation. In parti-
cular, in November 1982, we suggested that the Government take action among
the following remedial measures:
(a) selective tariff increases;
(b) compensation for losses on social services (ordinary passengers
and commuters);
(c) adjustment of the original 1982-86 investment plan to fit the
anticipated reduction in traffic demand; and
(d) easing of the debt service obligation of KNR through Government
subsidies.
79.        On December 15, 1982, Government increased rail tariffs by 4.5%
for passengers and 6.6% for freight. This is on top of the 4.7% for
passengers and 5% for freight applied in July 1982. In February 1983, the
Government also submitted a 1983-86 financial plan for KNR based on
guidelines from EPB dealing with the above four matters and KNR's proposal
for reducing costs.



- 23 -
80.       The major objective of the plan is to gradually reduce subsidies
against operating losses, with a view to discontinuing them by 1987. The
plan would lead to rates of return on average net fixed assets of 2% in 1983
growing to 5% in 1986 and 6% by 1988; the latter rate being the original
objective of Loan 1836-KO (Seventh Railway Project). These rates of return
would be achieved by the following measures:
(a) selective annual increases in passenger and freight tariffs
averaging 1% p.a. in real terms;
(b) progressive application of cost-based tariffs especially for
coal and cement;
(c) reductions and postponements in the investment program
amounting to 35% of the investments included in Lhe original
Fifth Five Year Plan (1982-86); these include reductions in
motive power and rolling stocks and postponement of a major
signalling investment on the Seoul-Busan line pending results
of a feasibility study in this corridor; and
(d)  improvement of KNRs efficiency by management actions such as:
stringent control of staff increases; discontinuation of certain
uneconomic lines, stations and trains; disposal of subsidiary
activities; and technical innovations.
81.       While reaching the rates of return given above, KiR would only
generate a net profit for 1986.  KMRs working capital would iaprove from
a negative W 93 billion at the end of 1982 to 0 by the end of 1986 and reach
a positive W 95 billion by the end of 1988.
82         The rates of return outlined in the plan should be sufficient to
enable KNR to be financially viable while, at the same time commencing in
1983, progressively increasing its share in the financing of its capital
investments. The Government has agreed to cause KNR to take measures
satisfactory to the Bank to enable KNR to achieve these rates of return
(Section 4.07 of the draft Loan Agreement). Achievement of the rate of
return objectives requires monitoring KNR's working capital, debt service
and investment expenditures (Sections 4.08, 4.09 and 4.11 of the draft Loan
Agreement). The above provisions amend the financial covenants of Loan
Agreement 1836-KO (Seventh Railway Project).
Finances - Coal Terminals in Ports
83.       KMPA intends to lease the Incheon and Ulsan coal terminals opera-
tion to Terminal Operating Companies (TOCs). Each TOC would be established
under terms and conditions similar to those agreed under the Second Port
Project (Loan 1401-KO) for the port of Busan (Sections 4.12 and 4.13 of the
draft Loan Agreement). This agreement covers the mode of calculating fees
to be paid by the TOCs to generate rates of return of 5% at Incheon and 8%
at Ulsan. These rates are necessary to meet the need for funds in 1986 (the
first year of operation) and generate adequate profits thereafter.



- 24 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
84.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Korea and the Bank,
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii)
of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed separately to
the Executive Directors. Special conditions of the project are listed in
Section III of Annex III. The execution of Subsidiary Loan Agreements
between the Borrower and KNR and between the Borrower and KMPA are additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the proposed loan (Sections 3.02 and 3.04
of the draft Loan Agreement).
85.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
86.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 8, 1983
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
- 25 -                                                         Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
KOREA REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
KOREA REPUBLIC OF                  REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE9ACES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                   - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL              98.5                                  MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL       22.5               1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b          ASIA 6 PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA 6 CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   190.0       430.0    1520.0                   890.1                   1902.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      208.0        657.3    1472.5                   701.7                  1259.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 25012.0       32241.0   38197.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 27.7          40.7       54.8                   32.4                     65.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         52.2
STATIONARY POPLULATION (MILLIONS)                          70.1
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2065
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       254.0        327.4      381.8                  255.9                    35.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND   1168.8        1389.1    1669.4                  1748.0                    92.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          42.9         42.1       35.1                   39.9                    39.7
15-64 YRS.                          53.7         54.6       61.1                   56.8                    56.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     3.3         3.3        3.8                    3.3                     4.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.1         2.5        1.9                    2.3                      2.4
URBAN                                4.7         6.4        4.9                    3.9                      3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       42.7        30.3       25.3                   31.8                     31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       13.4         9.1        7.9                    9.8                      8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                2.7         2.1        1.6                    2.0                      2.1
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..       671.0      686.0/c
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..          32.0       49.1                   36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           89.0         99.0      113.0                  115.6                   110.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    97.4        107.0      117.2/d                106.4                   108.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           57.1         62.8       72.17w                 54.4                    66.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         7.0          8.2       14.3/d                 13.9                    34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        8.6         3.9        2.1                    6.7                     5.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    54.4          60.3       65.4                   59.8                     64.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             78.3        50.1       34.1                   63.7                     64.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               12.1        58.0       71.0                   32.0                    65.6
URBAN                               18.6        84.0       85.0                   51.9                    78.9
RURAL                                9.5        38.0       54.9                   20.5                    43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        25.0       64.0/e                 37.7                    59.3
URBAN                                ..         59.0       68.0k;                 65.7                    75.3
RURAL                                ..           ..       50.0/e                 24.0                    30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            3540.8      2238.3    1978.8/d                8540.4                   1617.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      3245.1/f,g  1786.5/f   487.477                 4829.4                  1063.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            2513.5       1949.5      642.4/e               1047.5                   477.4
URBAN                            1286.9       1095.3      754.8/e                651.6                   679.8
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..                 2597.6                  1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..        14.9         ..                   27.0                     27.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.6         5.0        4.5
URBAN                                5.4          ..
RURAL                                5.6          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               2.5          2.3        2.0/c
URBAN                               2.8          2.7        2.177
RURAL                                2.4         2.2        2.0cT
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              28.4         49.9         ..
URBAN                              67.3         92.4         ..
RURAL                              12.4         29.9       64.9/d



- 26 -                                                        ANEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
KOREA REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
KOREA REPUBLIC OF              REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE9AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 94.0       105.0     111.0                   96.2                   104.3
MALE                 99.0       106.0     112.0                   99.8                   106.4
FEMALE               89.0       105.0     111.0                   92.1                   103.3
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 27.0        42.0      76.0                   37.6                    41.3
MALE                 38.0        51.0      82.0                   41.1                    40.4
FEMALE               14.0        33.0      70.0                   34.1                    41.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY) 14.2         14.3      19.7                   20.8                    33.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           58.2        56.9      48.1                   35.5                    29.9
SECONDARY                         34.3        36.5      39.0                   25.0                    16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       70.6        87.6      93.0                   73.1                    79.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.5         1.9       6.2                    9.8                    42.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        31.2       124.4     402.2                  116.5                   270.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.3        13.1     150.6                  37.6                    107.7
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST') CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 69.0       136.3     172.8                  53.7                     63.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.0         5.2       2.0                   2.8                      2.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THIOUSANDS)    8307.2     11285.2   14637.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  26.1        32.7      32.5                  33.6                     24.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             66.0        50.0      34.0                   52.2                    31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 9.0        18.0      29.0                  17.9                     23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               33.2        35.0      38.3                   38.5                    33.6
MALE                                49.5        46.8      51.3                   50.5                    50.4
FEMALE                              17.2        23.0      25.1                   26.6                    16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.4         1.3       1.0                    1.1                     1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGREST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   15.1/h      17.1      16.1/e
HIGhEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  42.3'7J     44.5      45.377,e
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    5.7/h       7.1       5.77*'
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   19.O7ii     17.7      16.97..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    320.0                   194.7
RURAL                               ..          ..    270.0                   155.1                   184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    370.0                   178.2                   518.0
RURAL                               ..          ..    310.0                   164.9                   371.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      18.0                   24.4
RURAL                               ..          ..      11.0                   41.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1975; /d 1977; /e 1976, /f Registered, not all practicing in the country; /a 1962; /b 1965.
Hay, 1982



- 27 -                                                                                      ANNEX I-
Page 3 of
Notes;  .eltboagh the deco ar  dra-  (ro  socoe -orsef  i.adgcd cit  -la  asoitoo   ao  reliable. it cbosd aLso he ooed that th-tOtc  t  i.tr-
ba -ofs  op,c-bic it   - asof the b-it at o-odarde-d dof,t-tt -t  -od  -totpt  o-e  by diffor-e  cooccit  it taitoctig cIte foe.-  The daato..
roto..scota  to desribe odsr- of  agora~do,  oica-tetto-ds. aol cb-tattrteo certin eatot Itttre-o   botnt-cac--e,-
Tho rotre--  foraos at  fIt she otoc  o-to o 9r-o  of too oabj-ctcott  aes (2) oct--ty g00-2 stIb ta-ocs  hItgf- tottof  toto-   rh-a  cs ca-ctty groat
et-cooijoe.oac--y  ta-ey  foe   "01gb tto1            20-   oOoee  gras  etrt "esddle 't.o-  teort  Atrtacd Oildle F.f5 laohooe  b-t-s of stroger
cct-staf   ttatot   ittt    -erce  Of  fats tie fo-at- ste paoltf                        h ttgolas oi  ot  for  -hn sodlco-or-  scoo  otto obe
saoot  of- h eb -ooort-s togo-   toe dat  tot chat fodioceto   Sto-  the  oooeo   ocrsato  ite~ idio-to-  do pood  ot tOo atatblatfy at data
ad  i.e sot aif-,  -ir.no  cot ho to-rf cd Ictt                --g og-t of to  sf:tat-tooaoactor   Tbsec co-rget a-  oslo actfat L. to-otta  a   oto  o
.c. lSad-r-tostoctsoootbocooy-d ret.... - Srooto.
Atf.h  trhao-ad asic.)                                                                          Pcaaio        ro fe-ict1 Bed - Wtota. -rbac. asd root   Poptaists   f esd.
boot    taea  satfct aca cao,rtOg toa  cot  cod icl1ad octet; coos dets.             -eo,  e  rr    diofded by rhoir otorcot- catitr at topitec  bde
dgooa.ota  - seatsof  gottaltatl are  cod t--tstp   rooscot tllbetoybt  sod  'rtoes a-ort sc  cpo.stce  tsttaladro
ta   V-se  fcors,  -kt-r cod bttb     - od-c ct  Ito tsltlo   1971 dat.-                aitlitatooct eo.   osoei  aro  catsto                   go tacnt   tta
by as lo-t 00  tehyctlcta.  Setablt       toet  ptrctsscg prcospetly ott
Get 80 OAtY   oat)g   - ftP to   sap      et.toa   arc   are    coe   a-                           iltt   rc at~ d.  totde.oca  top5t-t- tostr, Ostoe   ahi
osifttd by  -se  cocror-cctca   octaSa   tc   ftOfdfbitotat  tOot6,                             ao   ots   5tl5Otptsoty staff   bya paofis  (bet it0
donlo  aad pootido a fi~l.ocd ostoa  sedtta  f-tltioa.  For etosti-
-ac  bigrtt-c.-ptl-,  --cota  goalhylto., ca.e.  sad gootoa  oIls-                              cdor    hositls  toast at rood   h  DIptsl I  .a todi.T-t d ctotctt
tr ioto) is kilogosec of t-toacoetgt  eis  19065. M 12. sd tOP9                                 t         Stpc. -rooatoe  boteitala ora  -lcctdfe  ostodoa"t.1
doc.-fsdos                                                                                                e  fosoptot Iod - OTsl coof 00fa odfesfot  so -s disoboosts
totOoiaa d.sfo  by tOe  -sobr of btf S.
Icto  ytolonac, 5sf-Sar__bsactdc)- S   atfily I; lOot,. tool, eta toot         ttoooSaNC
tots.                                                               doerses~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-g  Strc tt tts-hold freos..    pe -(soo...bald)   talarhoc. sod toed-
Irlan? Paalstoc  iptno f tst -.1    Racta of arba to totat poristlos;                          A bo-ehad f-octac  at e g-,,p of totdftd-alo tosar  Siting q--rer
dtttrrc  dtttt -toofohasos  ta  effor  -o-arbtifty of d-t                                  a-d ehoi oa,  ent-I.  A boar.der orldge  say to Y5 toe hc  Itlofd to
c--oat-; loaf, t9PS, oaf t9O  late.                                                     hb. th-ceitd (or  -ccat osalproo.
Papsisnoac to ytar li-S-toeo  popotottso Projentisar  hosI to t9ts                    tot at Peoee  pr rot  in sIt -rh-c  sa  total --o0sdocottbs
ctoca  popottiat to aft ad na cod tOotl - cttlity so   ttilty rate,                     . oltg,    -p-tec-loty.  to-rO tgs    1d sslaocoraottaeresccts
Prjco    -atntr-tE t     -o totalfa    t.c. .....ta o,f thrs  to-ol  sta-Doope   as.--
Sos late eopo--ay ontirc   tc               1'tg  ah co-oty'  peMt 1ps  oto              A-cesc-toi El-cerIcio   Irro  of d-sttgt     ant  -ob-t  -s or   -
boo,  tato It lfe tap-o.a.ts  stitlttcttc   c  70.5 ytat.  flepr-Soccttt  ataf oTth.tecotIr  toitt    oott   0ooocr
socoo  toe tttctty onto of1t- hat- lo Itact-s   -ioolo  dolioe to                          oftta.ata,  o  tota  d-otttng   -t-rtotieto
te.eilftpcotaodlsg  so totoos brat sd pactooh  pttl-t. p...toaooe
-df-f tttlfroetoeds  o M    tlp-otOso oo- et                                             Adjasted SE-11oeo Iotta-
cbs roptotton    -losofate notrordoraoto  rant, soto eab foorattac                           osat  hoc aj.dotfto dif-toro  lstha of optoty  d-lati-; fE-
of cctotoepoootlastI  esoty.  Ohs  -ntic...oy ppOta   ite  -s                          toor. e  ottO  -oi--tl odoosion toto1-en  cay ec-d 1St pe-teo
'naa leIfet.                           r-aostls-ot-  -irt-ta-  -enet too  teao oapr btdpicaytot-ottee
SctsttcotEaaita   is coahol -iTs~ Yos cio   tttn-                       oslt                    pto-tdc   goot-L, t-alca.o  toatlo trautetg tsooot                   o  po'pils
stoc dli to r-she.                                                                            ...ally atit 12 ~17 osce  of a go; trrpsloatcrs   e  g ..etely
Po.tattfoa Dacft                                                                                  oao...fod.d
tot so   t.-5d-tto.o..        ato  ace..I I  sqoar  kco1tost   (tod h-tor-)  fS            .oa          ... ootsstoccso  cetclop) - Poetise  iotit-ts-
tora  aes  isi   ltsd190dt.t0odItosct  tasotrot. o  ot -c  r-it ohit operat  todeod
oay; 106, 1007 ada 1009 dat.-tleabrrta-ptso.sootol Tt-Sat  atafott  oo-olld i
Psott  As~ Se-t-coo  trotn)-IhIt   to-It Ototo.  ttefcg-e t                               Drisort ass  -satdt  100010 dit-ded oy oaas-  at ct-te-  at she
64  -ost), cod -netod (65 ysr   c  ot-a preags  fodpsrpp-                                      or adtng lct.1
lettot; foot. 1070, o-f l98t fato.                                                         aotlototct(tot) - Lit-r-a  adat-  tble to read and orc->
yer 'ap llcc   fat 1 0-tO  19t0-7t0, oaf t97l-it.
Ootetttaobothtoe  seotc)- orha  - Atoa  goo-h ratea at otita  roe-                SOOUYtItoSI
otfoa   lottOS-itt, l9iS-OS. se  007-0_0.                                                  Pssne      2ostet thEosat   -ajlatta)-yscno    Lsctopne  oa
Crab~ tooth  tes   tie      ..oaosdt  A-Ita  Otto biochc per tla-tod It aIf-teer               cos-otOg lott1-          sot  sops t. ht0 -   -toof-   esoatsbor-o  -e
trofe s.tat  Rt  )ptht-osdl - ,iaoo  boots. pee to....c   o f eid-Y..,                       teas       L'oit   (pe"I oaa  pepllontf- Att tope  ot re-itor    ar r-dia
19oo 0tto    19to0o at..od tOOl d dat.ood--t  otcea   of  yrtocc  atMLd~                                                                  Po  attc  etlsao  s
iros Oocdoe.-ati   Aeo -oergo aaobot of daogbt-e  a  ca   cI  btar  0tlce--d o-ooas-  lotatat   o  0-                               0 .    i  Tosso - footo  at-r-dg.
herI_eOrerdtt,  porta  it ole  -p-tiso-t to-test g-pott   o-                                  ses  .o te  ttoodata for te-et  Yese  OiY ca  itbt oal   it
Ml t  tcc  oslyfttt-y-or    ...t..e -odig is tote, to7t. sad lO.                               _et ca-tti-oeolollooi0
Pactitytlaeofo  - Osottera. dotal tteososds  - otoslyeoe  atlg  -'...- cottos  oto ooo          too-    Z  . tboa d ppttot - 17toot-     fr TrVadecet
foelto ttooooao    tosro Oeorotstof moot-isf otoe) - Petneosage  f caried      tIcsa-rte- sad Or year   h-togico tna If    soo  eaietet
pobli-also. depone  priocoip  osopde   eaase.t  to  oco- etd-
FO2 Ot RtOIItSN                                                                                  to he,,    lp  if It  ope-to on te-ci teat tas-         - ok.
0ndcia   f altfoo "I oodtLta    oloca  elodes esdsd tecd aod                          tOoeosa o-la footng eh. pear.  eldo    litat  doic-t.fe  t-o
so-tod ofIeirfetb or   dible  - oafoatostrtAea" fo.~ g. ffs  sod
-at-so  ato.ag. pred-to  prior asightto  tool-h.  oy, asd 1900 data.                       Total toita  tr t   ttb1psa550s)-teslolsaeiotocotaadc
to   sot   oceto      0otoo   orcottoeorctst-bose    ros                                       ar..d fa-os  oa   neolopd bot toctdiegh-~ boaeta   -4nect,et,
ptt day.  droflobto aoppt   toopel-cfcct   tdodc   ooeobattogasi; it lOOt cd --1002Da.
o-occ.-  osd ohongesintto-.  Xac -oseott-           WUod  ocica  fend,  -oef,                feal p.-rot) - itoic lobor ter-  -o p--~etge of cot1 lat- taot
..oite  eo  ic toad prastg   e  oaot   ftiotn                   ott-arcloe eoc)-Lobso toots to tact,isoty  toetsae
tot   -istoe -fde So Fao b-od an phytttoogc-i ceods for tote    -c-                       fithitig es P-o-etto If tota  tob-n fort; ~lOO, tOOl sad'1000 dat.-
tity sod h-!lhe--t casd-ic. otroats   cpco c  btody osghto  ogo                              tod-str  (pettr t  - roito  fort  t citig   aorttt,eefocr
oaf Ie ftnobooti- of poptoetro. aod sltsic  10 posc-c8c U eote cc                             sadr .t...t...Y.  --ortol         e  ecaatof totot Oscar fo"rc;
hoct -fltet; t9Ol-it. lot1 od170     data,7 1                                             tOtN, tos  o  lROft dat.
sat  ogoy of-too  pot d.ay. flee srpy at food Os dfttoa  so  bso.-  to-                   -sotton   -toe    -r op-ad sa caot  tle   ds  ocl  Lso   otr
--leoc   oealtscie- toaiblstad ht ff00 oo-nde for ooisa                            p      -eeotte  oftea, sale asl to-als poosto    etnl  gesoerte
ablocotetof 0  gooa otsona  pooti  perft  e-d 25 ge.- of ot lad10I0 lOOt, co   00 foes.  roo-eet  b-ate  -a ILO's   ooorsL se
0.0prot.ie, of etto- 10 ar,,- =tld" its         1 sctcl  etet.  theroo-d-                -tctleotgos-t  ototaoo  the psoolati-a..ad Ioe  tOe  -rcd.A
OotLdtstoep  iOt- hO 17  et todt dot.                                                        tothby   otslLloitot forts.
rfteld Proc aS-oal  cad6pa6ao  to7 grac  pot7 day;16-0.tt.n.10   eo.                     tIog lft8       tb~
cries for  de-ttd fe-  tiIeIobno  tO  lol  sod l9tS doe,ofioo.odt
&Mtab                                                                                        R PSolm" TOOSItG  ilottip
atiOtet  tO, lOt sad l9Od  dn.-                                                             cd strll besc Prr.o    0th os-idrobl~ e...sao,
at  tg 00  haad tire ticeto.;             19t70oo  aod l9tS doesb.I.. fioit  gaot  Oct-t  lenol  to  OtItttloe  halcat obibh a otio
Atce-c  SosfBet W t- eoC    s  st  oeemat - s"te.eia,  n   ost-55                              sotoitic-teyl odeqoas  diet pl    -losceoil tc-food cLsost   isot
too etp5btea.ebe   5   ae)ot   eocil   ost                          ea pse                   atoordablo.
-orr eappl   (deld        - co d  -soa-  cater  so  srs-d boo  tocetetstd                    -osced goobrPte-to tI-oc  tot     t  oeoont-ot  n.os -1
eatr  oa ast fe es  pro-atd b-roblo-, ep g.doa  esitety cells) a                      flral -elaci- pso-en  teta-  leve  Le  r-eblot ofOtOf  e  t
osocce   f etelrreect    Iopistecs   t              so oita  arfpbtlt                  pos-ec  tor-t  of eha ne-ty.  Ohelrld  eto   etoe  ae
So..onalo               ..e.drotlaocd cttt  ta      rtoc  Eros e             base  a  he       te  efgh adjoo,c-aOr f     ighstoo  of tiotog L. .e,b- to,
= iosdard  sbe    efeitt  -esoob"o soe   s  that hr-o.  S. cara  er...                     F-ni-and Pa...t1tteo sal-s Abttoleoa P-Ierrp ftoe  Le-! I...o.e   - ecItt
oeseeebleacoco  esad tapy  ha  the h-a-celt  so  e -det   at ho hito.ootei              -dl cral - Petco  popa.toto   foohs sa    -Ice) ete  se  0hol
da oa  ho  so  o_d a disooeoeotta-  pact oF eh. dsp  ic ftethiog cte.P-
Aen-  to tes1tat  Dlsoctee  (seces  of sopeitfes  - toeel. -bte. sot ctto.t 
Booboo of gspt.ee. asbat, sod total  tecd by serets diepoco  a
P.-ocas  at theIr ocaeoto, ~epct.sttses             r.. ceage 9f...etL -ly   oti
ataso qealffe4 Ossa e tesl.e eat  at adit-otle  lel.                                                                        te-tsut   fA-lyta adg Pctjotceis-  ltograettc
Poteelti.soeRcgo  Peroo - Papotatta dtotdsd by setb-  ef oretiegsa  togs



ANNEX I
Population:   38,445 (mid-1980, thousands)                    -  28  -                                                    Page  4  of  5
GNP Per Capita:  USS1,516 (1980)
KOREA - ECONOIIIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million US$ at                           Annual growth rates (%) at constant prices
current prices)                                  Actual                                       Projected
Indicator                               198U/a              1976       1977       1978        1979       1980       1981/a    1985        1990
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product                59,177              13.9       10.1       11.3        7.1       -3.5         8.0        7.6        8.0
Agriculture                         9,754               10.7        2.1       -4.0        6.7      -22.0       23.0         2.5        2.5
Industry                           24,396              20.1        15.8       20.8        8.4       -0.5        4.7        10.0       10.0
Services                           25,027               10.8        9.7       11.0        6.0       -4.2        2.9         7.0        7.0
Consumption                           45,215               8.8        7.1       11.0        7.4       -1.0        4.2         4.8        6.4
Gross investment                      17,889               8.0       24.0       35.9       17.5      -24.4         5.6        8.5        7.6
Exports of GNFS                       21,145              43.0       25.7       17.5       -3.6        9.9        17.5       11.0       10.6
Imports of GNFS                      25,846               26.9       23.8       29.1        b.6       -7.7        7.9         7.4        8.8
Gross national savings                12,268              42.3       17.3       14.1        3.7      -17.7        18.0        -          -
PRICES
GDP deflator (1975 = 100)                                116.3      135.8      164.6      197.4      246.7      289.0         -          -
Exchange rate (US$1 =)                                  484.0       484.0      484.0      484.0      607.6        -           -          -
Export price index (1975 = 10U)                          112.8      120.2      137.2      161.2      168.7      179.9      240.9       321.1
Import price index (1975 = 100)                         103.0       103.9      108.4      137.3      175.2      170.2      233.5       316.6
'Terms of trade index (1975 = 100)                       109.5      115.7      126.6      117.4       96.3       105.7      103.2      101.4
Share of CDP at market prices (%)                         Average annual increase (%)
(at current prices)                                   (at constant prices)
1960    1970    1975    1980    1985    1990          1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Gross domestic product             100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0              8.6         9.8        8.2        7.3        7.7
Agriculture                       36.7    26.9    24.5    16.5    15.9    12.4              4.3        4.9       -1.2         5.3        2.5
Industry                          20.1    29.5    33.8    41.3    44.4    49.2             17.4       15.3       13.5        9.1        10.0
Services                          43.2    43.6    41.7    42.3    39.7    38.3              8.1        7.7         7.6        6.2        7.0
Consumptioni                      85.3    83.0    80.1    76.4    65.7    58.1              6.7        7.8         7.1        4.8        6.1
Gross investLment                  11.0    26.9    29.0    30.2    33.2    33.8            23.6        11.2       14.6        9.2        8.8
Exports of GNFS                    3.4    14.3    27.6    35.7    43.7         49.6        29.3       25.4        16.1       10.9       10.5
Imports of GNFS                   12.8    24.1    36.3    42.7    42.6    43.9             20.2       15.8       17.0         7.2        8.4
Gross national savings /b          8.(    19.5    20.6    21.7         -        -          17.2       14.6        -           -          -
As % of CDP
1,960      1970       1975       1980         Labor Force in 1980           Millions    (%)
PUBLIC FINAiCE                                                                                Agriculture                    4.7       32.2
Current revenues                           18.5       17.8        17.9       19.9           Industry                      3.9       27.1
Current expenditures                       14.3        13.1       15.4       15.6           Services                       5.1      35.5
Current surplus                             4.2        4.7         2.5        4.3           Unemployed                    0.7         5.2
Capital expenditure                         3.4        6.4        6.4         5.9
Foreign financing                            ...        1.0        1.3        1.0                Total Labor Force       14.5      100.0
1960-70          1970-75           1975-80           1980-85           1985-9(
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (X)                                   8.7               9.0               7.9              7.5               8.0
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (,)                        5.9               6.9               5.2               5.9              6.4
Annual energy consumption growth rate (%)                   14.2               9.6              12.3/c            7.7
ICOR                                                         1.9               2.7               5.4              4.7               4.4
clarginal savings rate                                       0.3               0.3               0.3              0.5               0.4
Import elasticity                                            2.2               1.6               2.0               1.0              1.1
/a  Preliminary.
/b Including net transfers.
/c 1975-79.
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
April 1982



ANNEX I
Population        38,445 (mid-1980, thousands)           -  29  -                                      Page  5  of  5
GDP per capita:  US$1,516 (1980)
KOREA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million US$ at current prices)
Indicator                                                      Actual                              __9_8__      Projected
1970    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981/a    1985    1990
BALANCE OP PAYMENTS
Exports of goods and services         1,379   5,909   9,467  13,059  17,124  19,523  22,577  27,400    55,074 121,077
Of which: merchandise f.o.b.          882   5,028   7,821  10,035  12,678  14,694  17,214  20,850    43,368  97,476
Imports of goods and services         2,180   7,992  10,119  13,272  18,651  24,115  28,347  32,655    59,810 119,694
Of which: merchandise f.o.b.        1,804   6,671   8,407  10,517  14,436  19,266  21,598  24,105    45,557  95,014
Net transfers                           178      225      345      222     467      439      449      512        668      893
Current account balance                -623  -1,858    -307          8  -1,060  -4,153  -5,321  -4,743    -3,968  +2,276
(% of GNP)                            (-7.2)  (-9.2)  (-1.1) (+0.02)  (-2.2)  (-7.1)  (-9.3)  (-7.2)    (-3.3)  (+3.1)
Direct investment                        66       53       75       72       61      17       96      122        800   1,749
MLT loans (net)                         242   1,252   1,238   1,458   2,746   2,944   2,096   3,419            3,821   6,019
Official                              147      486      663      594     663      853      689   1,108         893     908
Private                                95      765      575      864   2,083   2,090   1,408   2,311         2,927   5,111
Other capital                           372      929      308    -167  -1,039   2,090   4,362    1,792         1,682  -7,436
Change in reserves                      -57    -376  -1,314  -1,372    -707    -898    -863    -326    -1,348  -2,611
International reserves                  610      797   1,985   2,992   2,828   3,112   3,975   4,301           9,352  19,370
Reserves as months imports              3.4      1.2      2.4      2.7      1.8      1.5     1.7      1.6        1.8      1.9
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross disbursements
Officia 1grants                         -        -        -       -        -        -        -        -          -       -
Concessional loans                    123      123      238      163     184      193      138      159        205     200
DAC                                 122      108      226     132      167      173      121      158       205      200
OPEC                                  -        -        -      21       13       20       17        1          -       -
IDA                                   1       14       10       9        3        -        -       -          -        -
Other                                 -        1        2        1       -        -        -        -
Non-concessional loans                317   1,511   1,518   2,040   3,729   4,448   3,655   4,779           7,457  13,855
Official export credits              18      151      132     262      219      341      606     844        711   1,054
IBRD                                  7      189     286      190      321      426     254      306        611   1,075
Other multilateral                    5       87       83      85       89       91       90     104         168     255
Private                             287   1,083   1,017   1,503   3,101   3,591   2,705   3,525           5,968  11,471
Medium- and Long-Term Debt
Debt outstanding and
disbursed                         1,797   5,540   6,817   8,593  11,937  14,553  16,585  19,766    36,538  59,291
Official                            613   2,657   3,359   4,121   5,016   5,667   6,531   7,806          12,102  16,440
Private                           1,185   2,883   3,458   4,472   6,921   8,886  10,054  11,960    24,436  42,851
Undisbursed                           902   1,629   3,459   4,793   6,294   5,337  11,293   5,047           5,828   9,208
Debt Service on MLT Loans
Total service payments                268      667      910   1,201   1,827   2,634   3,192   3,505         7,083  13,444
Interest                            70      283     392      475      659      936   1,442   1,791       3,242   5,408
Payments as % exports                19.4    11.3       9.6     9.2    10.7    13.5    14.2    12.9           12.8    11.1
Short-Term Debt
Debt outstanding and
disbursed                           ...   2,409   3,045   3,239   3,575   6,279  10,047  13,658    18,649  15,864
Interest payments                     ...      ...      ...      152     236      377      907   1,810       2,237   2,261
Interest as % exports                 ...      ...      ...      1.2     1.4      1.9      4.0      6.7        4.1      1.9
Average Interest Rate on New Loans (%)
Official                              4.5      7.9      7.1      7.9     7.4      7.6        -        -          -        -
Private                               7.1      9.3      8.3     8.4      9.7    11.5         -        -          -        -
Average Maturity of New Loans.(years)
Official                             28.0    19.3    21.7    18.3    19.2    16.8            -        -          -        -
Private                              10.9      5.7      8.7     8.8      9.3      9.3        -        -          -        -
As % of debt outstanding
at end of most recent
year (1980)
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within  5 years                           35.6
Maturities due within 10 years                           61.6
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                            6.3
/a Preliminary
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
April 28, 1982



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12 pages
- 30 -
KOREA
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THIE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of February 28, 1983)
Loan or                                                                                 Amount ($ million)
Credit       Calendar                                                                  (less cancellations)
Number         Year          Borrower             Purpose                         Bank      TW    IDA   Undisbursed
Thirty-six  loans and eight credits fully disbursed                             1,909.01  40.0  106.81
1319          1976    ADC                       Irrigation                         29.0                         5.42
1364          1977    ADC                       Irrigation                         95.0                        22.28
1401          1977    Republic of Korea        Ports II                            67.0                         9.35
1474          1977    Republic of Korea        Vocational Training                 23.0                         0.57
1503          1978    ADC                      Agriculture/Irrigation              36.0                        18.56
1530          1978    Republic of Korea        Rural Infrastructure II             95.0                        14.46
1635*         1978    KLTCB                    Dev. Finance Co.                   100.0                         0.37
1640          1978    Republic of Korea        Highways IV                        143.0                       '24.86
1666          1979    Republic of Korea        Chungju Multipurpose               125.0                        49.27
1676          1979    Republic of Korea        Electronics Technology              29.0                        10.95
1749          1979    SMIB III                 Dev. Finance Co.                    60.0                         0.53
1758          1979    Republic of Korea         Second Gwangju Regional            65.0                        45.06
1774          1979    Republic of Korea        Population I                        30.0                        28.53
1788          1979    Korea Electric Co.    Power                                 115.0                        46.03
1800          1980    Republic of Korea        Education V                        100.0                        54.85
1829          1980    CNB I                    Dev. Finance Co.                    30.0                         4.05
1836          1980    Republic of Korea        Railway VII                         94.0                        10.89
1851          1980    AFDC                     Agriculture II                      50.0                        20.82
1932          1981    KLTCB VIII               Div. Finance Co.                    90.0                        32.88
1933          1981    KDB IV                   Div. Finance Co.                   100.0                        12.14
1974          1981    Republic of Korea        Third Agriculture Credit            50.0                        23.57
1980          1981    Republic of Korea        Nat. Urban Land & Housing           90.0                        74.48
2004          1981    SMIB IV                  Dev. Finance Co.                    60.0                        47.71
2072          1982    Republic of Korea        Water Supply                        90.0                        80.48
2111          1982    Republic of Korea        Agricultural Marketing              50.0                        42.53
2112          1982    KTDC                     Technology Development              50.0                        43.79
2144          1982    CNB                      DFC                                 30.0                        30.00
2215**        1982    Republic of Korea        Machinery Industry                  70.0                        70.00
2216**        1982    Republic of Korea        Nat. Urban Land and Housing    100.0                           100.00
2228***       1982    Republic of Korea         Provincial and County Roads    125.0                          125.00
Total                                                             4,100.01  40.0  106.81   1,049.43
of which has been repaid                                         430.32   0.7    4.27
Total now outstanding                                             3,669.69  39.3  102.54
Amount sold                        8.83
of which has been repaid         8.83                               -      -       -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange adjustment)                                 3,669.69  39.3  102.54
Total undisbursed                                                 1,049.43   -        -       1,049.43
*   Fully disbursed as of 3/3/83.
** Not yet effective.
*   Declared effective on 3/30/83.



- 31 -                      ANNEX I r
Page 2 of 12 pages
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of February 28, 1983)
Fiscal                                                             Amount ($ million)
Year       Obligor                  Types of Business             Loan  Equity Total
1968    KDFC                        Development Financing            -      0.7    0.7
1969    Honam Silk Co.               Textiles                       1.4    0.3    1.7
1970    Atlas Paper                 Pulp and paper                  4.5    0.5    5.0/a
1971    Korea Investment
Finance Corp.            Capital Market Development   -          0.7    0.7
1974    KDFC                        D)evelopment Financing           -      0.4    0.4
1974    Korea Investment
Finance Corp.            Capital Market Development   -          0.3    0.3
1975    Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Prolucts               16.0    1.3   17.3
1975    Korea Securities
Finance Corp.            Capital Market Development  5.0    0.6    5.6
1975    Tong Yang Nylon
Company, Ltd.             Synthetic Fibers               6.9    2.1    9.0
1975    Rae Un Dae Develop-
ment Company, Ltd.       Tourism                         2.8    0.7    3.5
1976    Korea Investment
Finance Corp.            Capital Market Development   -          0.4    0.4
1976    Chonju Paper Mfg. Co.    Paper                              5.0    0.5    5.5
1976    Korea Zinc. Co., Ltd.    Zinc                              15.0    4.0   19.0
1976    KDFC                         Development Financing         17.8      -    17.8
1976    Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products               10.0    0.4   10.4
1977    Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products                 -      0.2    0.2
1977    KDFC                         Development Financing           -      0.3    0.3
1977    Korea Securities
Finance Corp.            Capital Market                   -      0.5    0.5
1977    Korea Development
Leasing Corp.            Capital Market                 15.0    0.4   15.4
1978    KDFC                        Development Financing            -      1.1    1.1
1979    Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products                 -      1.7    1.7
1979    KIFC                         Capital Market                  -      0.6    0.6
1979    Korea Development
Leasing Corp.                                             -      0.2    0.2
1979    Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products                 -      1.5    1.5
1980    Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Prodtucts                -      1.8    1.8
1980    Korea Investment
Finance Corp.            Capital Market                   -      0.6    0.6
1980/82 Korea Securities
Finance Corp.                                             -      1.1    1.1
1980    KDFC                         Development Financing           -      2.2    2.2
1981   Taihan Bulk Terminal          GraLn Port Tersninal           7.0    2.5    9.5
Co., Ltd.
1982   KIFC                          Capital Market                  -      0.6    0.6
1982   K-TAC (Korea Technology
Advancement Corp.)         Research & Development          -      0.7    0.7
Total gross commitment                                   106.4   28.9  135.3
less cancellations, termlnations,
repayment and sales                                     80.3    4.0   84.3
Total commitments now held by IFC                         26.1   24.9   51.0
TOTAL undisbursed                                           -      0.7    0.7
/a Cancelled at the request of the Company.



- 32 -                  ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12 pages
C.  STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1 AS OF FEBRUARY 28, 1983
Agricultural Sector
Loan No. 1319    Miho lTatershed Area Development Project; $29.0 Million Loan
of August 5, 1976; Effective Date: October 21, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project comprises irrigation and land development on 10,350 ha
together with river channel improvements and village roads. The project area
has been reduced from 12,665 ha at appraisal as a result of deleting about
2,300 ha of land development which, because of the sharp escalation in
construction costs, have become uneconomic. The project has been divided
into eight subprojects, each to be constructed under a separate contract.
One of these subprojects has been completed, and four more will be completed
by mid-1984; loan disbursements will be limited to these five subprojects.
Because of inadequate budgetary allocations in the past, the project
continues to be behind schedule. The closing date was recently extended to
December 31, 1984.
Loan No. 1364    Yong San Gang Irrigation Project Stage II; $95.0 Million
Loan of February 11, 1977; Effective Date: April 22, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project will provide irrigation and land development on 20,700
ha in the lower reaches of the Yong San River.  Project works include an
estuary dam on the Yong San river, sea dike, pumping plants, irrigation
canals, reclamation of 5,500 ha of tidal lands, conversion of 3,250 ha of
uplands for irrigation of paddy, land consolidation on 3,200 ha, and irriga-
tion of 1,050 ha of uplands. The main contract for the estuary dam construc-
tion is complete. Other parts of the project have fallen behind due to a
shortage of local budget. The Bank and the Government recently agreed that
loan disbursements would be limited to the ten subprojects under
implementation and the project is scheduled for completion in 1984.
Loan No. 1503    Ogseo Area Development Project - Stage I; $36.0 Million
Loan of January 4, 1978; Effective Date:  March 29, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project will provide irrigation arId drainage improvements for
10,800 ha, including 5,800 ha of land consolidation and 1,800 ha of land use
/1  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
- 33 -           Page 4 of 12 pages
conversion from upland to paddy. The project has been divided into seven
subprojects, each to be constructed under a separate contract. Insufficient
budgetary allocations have delayed the project from its start in 1978, but
the Government has now approved a funding program which will allow completion
of five subprojects by 1984'and Bank disbursements will be limited to these
subprojects.
Loan No. 1530    Rural Infrastructure Project II; $95.0 Million Loan of
March 13, 1978; Effective Date: June 8, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
The project includes about 36 minor irrigation subprojects, con-
struction or improvement of 2,500 km of river levees or bank protection,
contruction or improvement of water systems for 7,400 villages, and telephone
line installation to provide new service for 2,700 villages and 76,000 addi-
tional lines to other villages. The river levee bank construction, rural
telephones and the water supply components are complete. The minor irriga-
tion component is scheduled for completion by the end of 1983; an extension
of the closing date is under consideration.
Loan No. 1851    Second Agricultural Products Processing Project;
$50.0 Million Loan of June 27, 1980; Effective Date:
September 3, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1984:
The project provides funds to the Agriculture and Fishery Develop-
ment Corporation (AFDC) for medium- and long-term loans to the private
sector for the construction and equipping of agroprocessing facilities, and
for technical assistance to AFDC. The project has been progressing satis-
factorily with lending being directed increasingly towards ensuring that the
project would finance a wide range of processing facilities and that medium
and small size processors would be the main recipients of the total project
funds. The project has been progressing satisfactorily. The rate of lend-
ing has, however, been slowing down due mainly to domestic and world-wide
economic recession. The closing date will need to be extended.
Loan No. 1974    Third Agricultural Credit Project;  $50.0 Million Loan of
May 13, 1981; Effective Date: August 11, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
The project would help increase (a) production of high-value
fruits and vegetables; (b) farm productivity; and (c) off-season employment.
Over the four-year period, the project would provide credit nationwide for
financing a wide range of activities, notably: greenhouses, sprinkler
irrigation, on-farm storage, chilled storage, spraying equipment, small-scale
agro-processing and backyard livestock. Project implementation is proceeding
rapidly with disbursements ahead of schedule.



-34 -                  ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12 pages
Loan No. 2111    Agricultural Wholesale Marketing Project; $50.0 Million
Loan of April 5, 1982; Effective Date: August 6, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project provides for construction and equipping of an agricul-
tural wholesale market at Garagdong in Seoul, the establishment of an author-
ity to run the market, training for wholesale and market officials and
carrying out a study of Korea's agricultural marketing system and related
public policies. The main civil works contract for construction of the
market has been awarded and construction is underway.
Multipurpose
Loan No. 1666    Chungju Multipurpose Project; $125.0 Million Loan of
March 29, 1979; Effective Date: July 11, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985
The project would help meet the growing demand for municipal,
industrial and irrigating water in the Han Basin for about 20 years
following its completion in 1984, and would substantially reduce flood
damage, and generate an average of 770 million kilowatt hours annually for
Korea's power system. The principal features of the project are a 90 m high
concrete dam and a 450 MW power plant on the South Han River, a reregulating
dam about 20 km downstream of the main dam, relocation of roads and a rail-
way, and implementation of a resettlement program for some 9,300 families
affected by the project. The physical works of the project are proceeding
satisfactorily. Detailed planning is underway for the resettlement program.
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 1676    Electronics Technology Project; $29.0 Million Loan of
March 29, 1979; Effective Date: June 28, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project comprises two components: (a) the development of
Korea Institute of Electronic Technology (KIET) which, through its service,
development and production activities, would stimulate and support the
Korean electronics industry's drive into new areas; and (b) the establish-
ment of a program to promote and finance RD&E carried out by KIET for the
electronics industry. Project implementation is about 18 months behind
schedule due to delays in procurement and shortage of local funds. However,
the semiconductor facility, which is the main physical component of the
project, is operational. KIET's work program has been prepared with in put
from industry. The training and expert invitation program has been
implemented satisfactorily.



- 35 -                 ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1749    Third Small and Medium Industry Bank Project; $60.0 Million
Loan of July 23, 1979; Effective Date: September 26, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Apart from direct imports, the proceeds of the loan would be
utilized by SMIB to finance the foreign exchange component of domestically
produced capital goods. To ensure that a reasonable proportion of the loan
is directed towards small, labor-intensive projects, an amount of $25 mil-
lion of the proceeds of the loan is earmarked to finance: (a) enterprises
with fixed assets not exceeding $300,000; or (b) projects generating
employment at a fixed investment cost per job not greater than $8,500. The
loan would assist SMIB in its efforts to support the Government's policy of
increasing the regional dispersal of employment opportunities and of
deepening the industrial structure, and also to continue SMIB support of
projects which would complement large-scale manufacturing enterprises.
About 98% of the loan has been committed and disbursement is nearly
complete.
Loan No. 1829    Citizens National Bank (CNB); $30.0 Million Loan of May 7,
1980; Effective Date:  August 5, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The loan is being used to cover part of the foreign exchange
requirements of subprojects to be financed by the Citizens National Bank
(CNB) and would assist CNB in its efforts to support the Government's policy
of increasing regional dispersal of employment opportunities and deepening
the industrial structure. Apart from direct imports, the proceeds of the
loan are being utilized by CNB to finance the foreign exchange components of
domestically produced capital goods. The project would also enable the Bank
to help build up CNB-s project appraisal capabilities. The project is
progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1932    Eighth Korea Long-Term Credit Bank Project; $90.0 Million
Loan of January 14, 1981; Effective Date: March 19, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The loan is being used to help cover the foreign exchange require-
ments of subprojects to be financed by KLTCB. In order to encourage
increased mobilization of medium-term foreign commercial borrowings by
KLTCB, the loan incorporates a special amortization feature, which would
permit the blending of Bank and commercial resources. The project
incorporates a package of financial sector policy measures which will be
implemented by the Government as a part of a comprehensive reform of the
financial system of Korea. The project is progressing well. Both
commitments and disbursements are on schedule.



-36 -                    ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1933    Fourth Korea Development Bank Project; $100.0 Million Loan
of January 14, 1981; Effective Date: March 19, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The loan is being used to help cover the foreign exchange require-
ments of subprojects to be financed by KDB. In order to encourage a reduc-
tion in KDB-s reliance on long-term official borrowings, the loan incorpor-
ates a special amortization feature, which would permit the blending of Bank
and commercial resources. The project incorporates a package of financial
sector policy measures which will be implemented by the Government, as a
part of a comprehensive reform of the financial system of Korea. The
project is progressing well. Commitments and disbursements are ahead of
schedule.
Loan No. 2004    Fourth Korea Small and Medium Industry Bank Loan;
$60.0 Million Loan of July 7, 1981; Effective Date:
September 1, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
The loan is being used to help cover the foreign exchange require-
ments of subprojects to be financed by SMIB. Apart from direct imports, the
proceeds of the loan are being utilized by SMIB to finance the foreign
exchange components of domestically produced capital goods (estimated at
60%). The loan assists SMIB in its efforts to support the Governments
policy of increasing the productivity of Korea-s small- and medium-scale
industrial sector which plays a vital role in providing employment
opportunities and in assisting the country-s export effort. It also
initiates an attempt to improve and expand extension services for the SMI
sector. Commitments and disbursement are slightly behind appraisal
estimates; however, SMIB expects full commitment and disbursement of the
loan ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 2112    Technology Development Project; $50.0 Million Loan of
April 5, 1982; Effective Date: June 10, 1982; Closing
.Date: December 31, 1986
The project is fostering the technological development of Korean
industry by supporting the development of the Korea Technology Development
Corporation (KTDC). Specifically, the loan will finance $1.0 million worth
of technical assistance and training of KTDC staff and provide a $49.0
million line of credit to finance industry RD&E. Subprojects are expected
to be approved by KTDC up to end-1984. The project is making excellent
operational progress.



- 37 -                 ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12 pages
Loan No. 2144    Citizens National Bank II; $30.0 Million Loan of May 24,
1982; Effective Date: August 24, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986
The project would assist CNB to move toward term transformation,
upgrade CNB's term lending capability at the branch level and encourage CNB
to diversify its sources of foreign currency. In line with the Bank-s con-
tinued support of small-scale industries (SSI), at least $15.0 million of
the loan is earmarked for financing smaller SSIs employing no more than 50
workers. In addition, at least $15.0 million of the Bank loan proceeds is
earmarked for projects outside the city limits of Seoul.
Loan No. 2215:   Small and Medium Machinery Industry Project; $70.0 Million
Loan of December 20, 1982; Effective Date: March 22, 1983;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The project provides for improving the sectoral policies affect-
ing the machinery industry sector, support upgrading their technological
capabilities, and provides credit for financing productive investments in
the sector. The project is expected to become effective in May 1983.
Population Sector
Loan No. 1774    Population Project; $30.0 Million Loan of December 27, 1979;
Effective Date: March 21, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project provides for the construction, furnishing and equipping
of 91 Maternal and Child Health/Family Planning Centers in rural areas; 11
Family Planning Clinics in low-income urban areas, expanded information,
education and communication production and training facilities, and upgraded
health centers; providing and equipping 13 mobile family planning units;
provision of about 75 vehicles, and training and information, education and
communication equipment; production and distribution of information,
education and communication materials; fellowships; research and evaluation;
and information, education and administrative staff. Training of multipur-
pose midwives is progressing satisfactorily and 400 staff have been trained
to date and training of a further 1,120 multipurpose workers is being under-
taken. Construction of 14 maternal and child health family planning centers
are in the final stages of completion. Equipment procurement for these
centers has progressed satisfactorily.
Education Sector
Loan No. 1474    Vocational Training Project; $23.0 Million Loan of
July 22, 1977; Effective Date: October 25, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project includes the establishment of eight new Vocational
Training Institutes (VTIs), equipment for a National Central Vocational
Training Institute (NCVTI) and technical assistance to be provided by UNDP



- 38 -                 ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12 pages
and Germany. The project is near completion. All eight VTIs and the
central VTI are in full operation and performance is satisfactory. All
experts are in post and the fellowship program has been completed.
Loan No. 1800    Higher Technical Education; $100.0 Million Loan of
February 21, 1980; Effective Date: April 7, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is the Bank-s first subsector loan in education. It
finances public and private institutions in higher technical education and
is allocated approximately as follows: $60 million for engineering,
$36 million for technicians and $4 million for technical assistance. The
project includes about 10 national programs for staff and curriculum devel-
opment and 55 subprojects for equipment. The objectives of the project are:
(a) to alleviate manpower problems, (b) to improve quality and (c) to reduce
the investment gap between public and private institutions. Initial imple-
mentation- of the project is satisfactory with all 10 national programs and
55 subprojects already prepared. Management capability for implementation
has been strengthened with additional staff. Actual performance on teacher
recruitment is behind schedule but the anticipated 1980-84 target should be
reached as planned.
UJrban Sector
Loan No. 1758    Second Gwangju Regional Project; $65.0 Million Loan of
September 27, 1979; Effective Date: February 15, 1980;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1984
The project is a multicomponent regional development project con-
sisting of: housing - 3,950 residential plots in Gwangju, Mogpo and Yeosu;
industrial estates - 200 ha of serviced industrial land in Gwangju and Mogpo;
water supply - improvements to water supply systems in Mogpo, Yeosu and
Narodo; transportation - two bridges to link Dolsan and Jindo islands with
the mainland, improvements to a 1.9 km commercial road in Yeosu and ferry
service between Narodo and the mainland; fisheries - an aquaculture develop-
ment program and a shrimp storage facility at Imjado; .and technical assist-
ance. The physical works have been divided into 15 subprojects. Contracts
have been awarded on 13 subprojects while 2 subprojects have been cancelled.
Four subprojects have been completed on schedule and are being transferred
to the cities and county concerned. Only limited construction was possible
on both Jindo and Dolsan Bridges during 1981 because of insufficient
Government budget allocations; however, construction is now proceeding as
originally programmed. A continuous budget has been established for Central
Government funded subprojects whereby annual allocations have been
determined for the life of the project.



- 39 -                  ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1980    National Urban Land Development and Housing Project;
$90.0 Million Loan of May 13, 1981; Effective Date:
August 11, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The objective of the project is to provide affordable housing for
low-income families and serviced land for middle-income families in 10
medium-sized cities. The four Phase I sites would provide 4,100 dwellings
(low income) and 1,200 serviced lots for middle-income houses. The six
Phase II sites would provide more than 6,000 housing lots including about
4,400 low-income dwellings. Overall project progress is satisfactory.
Contract work on nine of the original ten sites has been completed. The
tenth site has been ommitted due to the uncertainty of marketability of the
site. Further savings due to lower than estimated bids for land preparation
and timely implementation have been achieved. KLDC proposed to utilize
these savings to finance development of three supplementary sites (Seoul
Goduck, Busan Manduck and Gwangju Yeomgju). This has been agreed after
review of feasibility studies, and contracts awarded. A fourth supplemen-
tary site is under consideration for financing out of cost savings, subject
to mutual agreement by KLDC and KNHC and agreement on use and pricing of
low-income land.
Loan No. 2072    First Water Supply Project; $90.0 Million Loan of
December 22, 1981; Effective Date: April 1, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
The principal objective of the project is to improve access to safe
water supplies to the populations of the municipalities of Daegu and Gwangju
and for the Masan Region serving jointly the cities of Masan, Changwon and
Jinhae. The project would also support the Government's efforts to improve
the organization and coordination of the sector as well as to increase
capability of institutions: at the national level where the Water Resources
Bureau of MOC would receive assistance and training in project planning and
implementation; at the regional level where three cities under this project
would jointly build and manage source works for more efficient water
utilization; and at the local level where individual city water bureaus would
receive technical assistance to improve their financial and management
capabilities. The project is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 2216    Second National Urban Land Development and Housing Project;
$100.0 Million Loan of December 20, 1982; Effective Date:
March 22, 1983; Closing Date: September 30, 1986
The project will (a) assist in nationalizing and strengthening the
housing and land development institutions in the public sector; (b) support
the development of the National Housing Fund (NHF) as a viable financial
intermediary with capacity for project appraisal and supervision; and (c)
support improvements in the policies and programs for delivering housing to
lower income families by financing the development of land and housing by
KLDC and KHNC. The project is expected to become effective in May 1983.



- 40 -                   ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12 pages
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 1401    Second Ports Project; $67.0 Million Loan of April 28, 1977;
Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1983
The project provides mainly for continuation of the extension of
the Port of Busan started under the First Ports Project with special emphasis
on container handling facilities. The project comprises: (a) a 700 m exten-
sion of the container terminal including stacking areas, dredging, access
road, container freight station and equipment and ancillary works and equip-
ment; (b) rehabilitation of 4 existing general cargo handling berths; and (c)
acquisition of two tugboats. The institutional component of the projects
provides for technical assistance and training to improve KMPA-s capability
in port planning and operations and managerial and accounting procedures.
The feasibility study and detailed engineering for the proposed third ports
project have recently been added to the project and Schedule I of the Loan
Agreement amended accordingly. Project completion is expected for June 1983.
Loan No. 1640    Fourth Highway Project; $143.0 Million Loan of December 7,
1978; Effective Date: March 14, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
The project consists of:  (a) construction and improvement,
including paving and supervision by consultants, of 36 sections of national
roads totaling about 950 km; (b) construction and improvement, including
paving and supervision by consultants, of 10 sections of provincial roads
totaling about 280 km; (c) procurement of additional road maintenance
equipment for maintaining national roads; (d) a study by consultants of the
institutions involved in the planning, design, maintenance, construction,
administration and financing of provincial and county (gun) roads, and the
preparation of a program for improving the organization and functions of
such institutions, upgrading provincial and gun road maintenance and the
future development of the Gun road system, to be followed by detailed
engineering of about 2,000 km of gun roads; and (e) provision of fellowships
for training staff of the Ministry of Construction. An estimated 88% of
the civil works have been completed and final completion is expected by
June 30, 1983. Maintenance equipment procurement is underway. The study
reports of the Gun Road Development Program and of the Provincial and Gun
Road Maintenance Program have been finalized and detailed engineering for Gun
Roads have been completed.
Loan No. 1836    Seventh Railway Project; $94.0 Million Loan of May 21,
1980; Effective Date: August 29, 1980; Closing Date:
December 12, 1983
The project is the 1980-81 part of the railroad investment plan,
1977-81, and includes (a) capacity increases in lines and stations; (b) way
and structure renewals and improvements; (c) procurement and repowering/



- 41 -                   AN'NEX II
Page 12 of 12 pages
repair of locomotives and rolling stock; (d) modernization and construction
of repair facilities; (e) improvement of telecommunications and power
supply facilities; (f) implementation of management improvements; and (g)
overseas training. The loan also finances training in transport planning
and coordination and technical assistance for transport feasibility and
urban transport studies. After a slow start, the project is now progressing
well. The Management Technical Assistance contract is under way. One of
the Transport Studies is about to start and terms of reference for another is
being finalized.
Loan No. 2228    Provincial and County Road Project; $125.0 Million Loan
of December 30, 1982; Effective Date: March 30, 1983;
Closing Date: December 31, 1987
The project provides for improving economic efficiency by reducing
transport costs in rural areas through the development of the county or
tertiary road system and by improving the maintenance of the provincial and
county roads. The project also provides for promoting improved integration
of the road system through a review of investment plans to assure that county
road development is coordinated with the development of the national and
provincial road networks. In addition, it will promote the adoption of low
cost paving teclniques, help Government improve road safety and improve
transport services in remote areas. The project became effective on March 30,
1983.
Power Sector
Loan No. 1788    Gojeong Power Project, $115.0 Million Loan of December 27,
1979; Effective Date: March 21, 1980: Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project provides for (a) a thermal power station with two
500 MW coal/oil-fired units and associated auxiliary equipment; (b) coal
handling and storage facilities, fuel-oil tanks, ash system and storage
area; (c) a fuel unloading dock; (d) a pumping station to transport fresh
water to the station; (e) a 160 km of double circuit, 345 KV transmission
line and related terminal substations and (f) consulting services for
management and organization study of KECO. Execution of works is slightly
behind schedule. Completion date of the first unit is estimated to be
December 1983/January 1984.  Management and organization study was completed
and reviewed by the Bank in January 1982. There were substational delays in
the preparation of bidding documents, but all contracts have now been
placed.



-42 -                          ANNEX III
Page 1
KOREA
COAL AND CEMENT DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project         : 41 months
(b)  Agencies which prepared the project : Korean Government agencies
coordinated by the Ministry
of Transport with the
assistance of local consult-
ants.
(c) Date of first Bank mission to
consider the project                  : September 1979
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission        : April 1982
(e)  Negotiations completed                : March 1983
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness         : August 1983
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
(a) Conditions of Effectiveness:
(i) Signing of subsidiary loan agreement between the
Borrower and KNR (paras. 62 and 84); and
(ii) Signing of subsidiary loan agreement between the
Borrower and KMPA (paras. 62 and 84).
(b) Government would:
(i)  Install briquette factories in the Bugog coal terminal
by the end of 1986 (para. 39);
(ii) Obtain land rights for the widening of the Su-In Line and
for installation of briquette factories and construction
of cement silos (paras. 41 and 52);



- 43 -                         ANNEX III
Page 2
(iii)  Provide a timetable for completion of works for the Bugog,
Incheon and Ulsan terminals and for widening of the Su-In
line (para. 54);
(iv)  Assure that KMPA employs consultants to assist in the
design of equipment and for training port staff in coal
handling (para. 59);
(v) Assure that the Project Coordination Committee meets at
least four times a year and employ an assistant for the
Project Administrator (para. 57);
(vi)  Assure legal autonomous powers for KMPA (para. 58);
(vii)  Obtain cofinancing for the port component (para. 62);
(viii)  Assure that coal and cement rail transport tariffs will
cover full cost by July 1, 1984 and January 1, 1985,
respectively (para. 74);
(ix)  Assure differential cost based rail transport for bagged
and bulk cement by January 1, 1985 (para. 75);
(x) Assure specific financial targets and measures to monitor
KNRs financial situation (para. 82); and
(xi)  Follow agreed procedures and methods for calculating
rental fees to be paid by the TOCs to achieve rate of
return objectives at Incheon and Ulsan coal terminals
(para. 83).



I
I
I



IBRD 16509
U S S R                  ~~~~~~~~.2 7-           128'                    129'        ~5
7 '  DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF KOREA
C s :)toJn Sea I N A
X  CroeM.PX veP   > ,,' |   vf  02         t      \      >        \i ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E fF  s    5  e a
Se -':, :;    $,0 w<\
'3~~~~~~~-8
*~~~~~~~W'                           t~orrwc                           i              tff )nyGnf  W< eo eoju X
China   it -ea,
~~~sEou~~~~~u
343-                                    <      , ,' /                / ~~~M.,,p
Wo49~nsyffayiaay iSn.                     rA                         N'DCMN    RDC3T                   RA
W ; A , M~~~~~~oyeia'  coi fa ielda;-n
6nnhda ahow5   e a                                                                              roods
do any myly,   (|ha pa                                                     Rcorlwya
any~~ W,yrnr,anrndansn.n
37~~i0                                             A '' 0s 6 ,8010
MOflyj ) 126'          Chesi.ni n,che
36'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
35,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
V  FAL  'AND  CEMENT  PRODUCTION   AREAS
AND TRANSPORT NETWORK
Maio, coot fields
Pr ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OlCement factories Cyniry- Pr yiyPyy   , he ee
UL1S A S  Major cool ~mpartlng parts  34'
-34'                                                                                          Expresswoys
Primary roads
-i----Rpdonoys
"  A,rpor9s
4' Ports
Special cities
deja 4                                       -  -       te-astioysal boundaries
0    20   40    60   50   Too   120  140   160
I        -     -                             4I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KLOMETERS
125'  126"                                                   3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  0  40  LS 8  80  too
12,5'      126-                      12~~~~~~~~~~~~7'        125"                      2



I



_____________________________                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD   16510
-S                  1270 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o                                                              S~~~~~~~~ECEMBER 1002
CHINoA         Y                 '       DEMOCRATIC   PEOPLE'S  REPUBLIC  OF  KOR
G OE.PSREP.
KOREA
R   U ~ ~     ~    -'
LI'                                                                                                  Y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EONGPODAE
CH~EONGYNGI8UU
'-'7 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ WL
7350                              1200                        SANFYEOS
SO WE ON                           10E ~~~aEO -  NGW SA)         EGSAN
30     MAIN LINES                        I/ONJG'
GYEOW 0SU LINE   OeR,I -0s                                                     CHEONAN
-JUlIG ANG LINE   ch~O*EO,OO'OY-oO
G EOGN IN LINE    Y0Se00P00
JOANV  HAI  LOV      osIasEF
000Af BUG LINtE   Jhisso-,,0psOB                                        JOWIE                            JEOMCRON                         ONG0
q000N0  EU LNVE    GiooV-s-Ysqjo
DAE 00t LINE      0so.Y..WgEo-
0E'EONO EVI LINE   OSo-Imoo-.
G0117A0 NEONI LINEY00-Ons                                           OM
GYE000 CPUIU LINE S-q0510Ch.00so
MO NAM LINE       OsoeO-moo- 
lOON RA LINE      I.e~
WAIG MAE NARM 8U  Eo-siloPoO-
VEONG DO00 LOVE  Oso6o00o-ds 
00I IN LOVE       SsoOIohJANSH~ANO                                     '7
KC.   o0                                                        3    010JEONJNOA
GHANQWEO ~            $EOO
,IWASOV                                                                                            300~~~~~~~JIJU MAA
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
COAL AND CEMENT
'7"                                     ~~~~DISTRIBUTION  PROJECT
RAILROADS,- 
EoN-iEl-da
S0O-.I    3oj7 T-o34k
-34-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.--Co rd 
jJ                  ~~      ~~~~0 MAJOR STATIONS
-.- INTERNATIONAL 'BOUJNDARIES
10d000 '0 NOV20                                                                                                              400,o,IsoNO  7
h.000,055000,1                                                                                                 0       30-              I
EOso,0   M,o0   -,o ISO                                                                                                             KILOMETERS
do ON IOEIOL 00 SSSp,o0Pe0o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                                 20           40           6
so Rh Isgol 0050, OP                                                                        30           ES           05~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l~E
1200       -                        730T7                                                                     250                              - 1290



