DOCL   L   LOAN  MBER  &Q7 KO
Loan Agreement
(Coal and Cement Distribution Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                                , 1983


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 1983, between
REPUBLIC OF KOREA (hereina   er called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project, described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has represented to the Bank that it is
empowered to cause, and shall cause, KNR and KMPA to carry out
part of the Project as provided for in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement, and to cause, and shall cause, KNR and KMPA to duly
fulfill their 'respective obligations with regard to the Project
hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "KNR" means the Korean National Railroad Administra-
tion, a central administrative organ under the jurisdiction of
the Borrower's Ministry of Transportation, established and


﻿-2-
operating pursuant to the Government Organization Law, dated
December 14, 1963, (Law 1506), as amended to the date of this
Agreement, and Presidential Decree No. 5977, dated February 9,
1972, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(b) "Investment Plan" means all of KNR's capital expendi-
tures planned for the years 1982 through 1986, as prepared by
KNR, dated February 25, 1983, in consultation with EPB;
(c) "Loan Agreement Seventh Railway Project" means the Loan
Agreement dated May 21, 1980, entered into by the Borrower and
the Bank for the ptirposes of the Seventh Railway Project, as
amended;
(d) "KNR Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the Agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and KNR pursuant to Section
3.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(e) "KMPA Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the Agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and KMPA pursuant to Section
3.04 (a) of this Agreement.
(f) "KMPA" means Korea Maritime and Port Administration,
a central administrative organ under the jurisdiction of the
Borrower's Ministry of Transportation, established and operating
pursuant to the Government Organization Law, dated December 14,
1963, (Law 1506), as amended to the date of this Agreement, and
Presidential Decrees No. 8018 and No. 8019, dated March 13, 1976,
as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(g) "First Port Project" means the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the First Loan Agreement;
(h) "First Loan Agreement" means the Loan Agreement dated
June 27, 1973, entered into between the Borrower and the Bank for
the purposes of the First Port Project, as amended;
(i) "Second Port Project" means the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Second Loan Agreement;
(j) "Second Loan Agreement" means the Loan Agreement dated
April 28, 1977, entered into between the Borrower and the Bank
for the purposes of the Second Port Project, as amended;
(k)  "IPCT" means    the  Incheon  Port  Coal  Terminal, an
operational unit established within the Incheon District Maritime
and Port Authority;


﻿W- 3-
(1) "UPCT" means Ulsan Port Coal Terminal, an operational
unit established within the Ulsan District Maritime and Por-
Authority;
(m) "Incheon District Maritime and Port* Authority" means
the district office of KMPA responsible for the operation and
management of the Incheon Port;
(n) "Ulsan District Maritime and Port Authority" means the
district office of KMPA     responsible  for  the operation and
management of the Ulsan Port;
(o) "MOT" means the Ministry of Transportation of the
Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(p) "EPB" means    the  Economic   Planning  Board  of   the
Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(q) "Ministry of Finance" or "MOF" means the Ministry of
Finance of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(r) "MCI" means the Ministry of Commerce and Industry of
the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(s) "MOER" means the Ministry of Energy and Resources of
the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(t) "on" or '42 means the currency of the Borrower; and
(u) "TOC" means any of the Terminal Operating Companies
appointed by KMPA to be responsible for the operations of the
IPCT and the UPCT, pursuant to Section 4.09 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-
ment, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred
twenty-two million dollars ($122,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to


﻿-4-
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expen-
ditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1987
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee
equivalent to three hundred four thousand two hundred thirty-nine
dollars ($304,239).
(b) On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall determine.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for
the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
(c) For purposes of this Section:
(i)  "Interest  Period" means    the  six-month   period
commencing on each date specified in Section 2.08
of this Agreement, including the Interest Period
in which this Agreement is signed.


﻿-5-
(ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B)
hereunder shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93%
per annum.
(iii) "Qualified   Borrowings"   means  (A)  outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(iv) "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall: (a) carry out Parts B
(iii) and E of the Project; (b) cause KNR to carry out Parts A, B
(i) and B (ii) of the Project; and (c) cause KMPA to carry out
Parts C, D and F of the Project, all with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity, as required, with appropriate
administrative, financial, managerial, railway, ports and engi-
neering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
Section 3.02 (a) For the purposes of carrying out Parts A
and B (i) of the Project, the Borrower shall relend to KNR, out
of the proceeds of the Loan and pursuant to an agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and KNR, under terms and con-
ditions which shall have been approved by the Bank, including
interest at a rate identical to the rate specified in Section
2.06 of this Agreement, and repayment and grace periods identical


﻿-6-
to those specified in the Amortization Schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement, an amount not to exceed the equiva-
lent of $97,590,761.
(b) The Borrower shall cause KNR (i) to bear the foreign
exchange risk over the amounts relent by the Borrower to KNR
under the KNR Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and (ii) to reimburse to
the Borrower the respective portion of the fee paid by the
Borrower to the Bank pursuant to Section 2.05 of this Agreement
and pertaining to the amount relent under the KNR Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the KNR
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive
the KNR Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision therof.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall, not later than Janu-
ary 1, 1986, take all such action as shall be necessary to vest
KMPA with legal autonomy such that its powers shall include the
ability to: (i) incur debt; (ii) prepare and submit to MOT and
EPB its proposed budgets in a commercial form; (iii) have reason-
able flexibility in adjusting approved operating budgets to meet
cost changes arising out of unexpected fluctuations in port
traffic; (iv) open and maintain an account with the Bank of Korea
for revenue receipts and payments of obligations; and (v) main-
tain its records in accordance with commercial accounting proce-
dures.
(b)   The Borrower shall, not later than January 1, 1985,
or such later date as shall be agreed by the Bank, furnish to
the Bank, for review and comment, its proposals to meet the
Borrower's obligations under paragraph (a) of this Section, and
thereafter, taking into account the Bank's comments, if any,
carry out such proposals.
(c) Paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section supersede Sec-
tion 3.02 of Second Loan Agreement.
Section 3.04. (a) For the purposes of carrying out Parts C
(iv), D (iv) and F of the Project, the Borrower shall relend to
KMPA, out of the proceeds of the Loan and pursuant to an agree-
ment to be entered into between the Borrower and KMPA, under


﻿-7-
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank,
including interest at a rate identical to the rate specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, and repayment and grace periods
identical to those specified in the Amortization Schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, an amount not to exceed
the equivalent of $23,505,000.
(b) The Borrower shall cause KMPA (i) to bear the foreign
exchange risk over the amounts relent by the Borrower to KMPA
under the KMPA Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and (ii) to reimburse
to the Borrower the respective portion of the fee paid by the
Borrower to the Bank pursuant to Section 2.05 of this Agreement
and pertaining to the amount relent under the KMPA Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.
(c)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the KMPA
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the pur-
poses of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not amend, abrogate or waive the KMPA Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(d)    Upon KMPA's obtaining legal autonomy pursuant to
Section 3.03 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause KMPA
to undertake to repay to the Borrower (i) the proceeds of the
Loan made directly to the Borrower under the First Loan Agree-
ment; (ii) the proceeds of the Loan made available to KMPA under
Section 3.04 (a) of the Second Loan Agreement; and (iii) the
proceeds of the other loans or financing made available to KMPA
pursuant to Section 4.14 of this Agreement, such repayment to be
made pursuant to arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, under
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank,
including interest at rates identical to those specified in
Section 2.06 of the First Loan Agreement, to those specified in
Section 2.06 of the Second Loan Agreement, and to those of the
other loans or financing provided for in Section 4.14 of this
Agreement, respectively, and repayment and grace periods identi-
cal to those specified in the Amortization Schedule of the First
Loan Agreement, to those specified in the Amortization Schedule
of the Second Loan Agreement, and to those specified in the
agreements to be entered into by the Borrower pursuant to Section
4.14 of this Agreement, respectively.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall maintain the Project
Coordination Committee established within MOT on March 12D 1982.


﻿-8-
Such Committee shall continue to be chaired by the Director
General of the Transport Coordination Bureau of MOT and shall
include as members representatives of MOT, MOF, EPB, MCI, MOER,
KNR and KMPA.   Such Committee shall meet regularly at least once
every three months each calendar year to advise on the execution
of the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall:
(a) maintain the position of Project Administrator with
such responsibilities and functions, satisfactory to the Bank, as
shall be required for administrating the various activities of
the Project;
(b) maintain in such position an officer whose qualifica-
tions and experience and terms of reference shall be satisfactory
to the Bank, and who shall report directly to the Director Gen-
eral of the Transport Coordination Bureau of MOT; and
(c) not later than thirty days after the Effective Date,
appoint, and thereafter maintain in service, an officer, with
suitable qualifications and experience, responsible for assisting
the Project Administrator in his day-to-day activities under the
Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to ensure that by Decem-
ber 31, 1986, briquette factories shall be installed in the Bugog
Terminal.
Section 3.08. Not later than thirty days from the Effective
Date:
(a) the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, for its
approval, a timetable for carrying out Part B (iii) of the Pro-
ject, and shall, thereafter, carry out such Part of the Project
in accordance with such timetable as approved by the Bank;
(b) the Borrower shall furnish, or cause KNR to furnish, to
the Bank, for its approval, a timetable for carrying out Parts A
(iii), B (i) and B (ii) of the Project, and shall, thereafter,
cause KNR to carry out such Parts of the Project in accordance
with such timetable as approved by the Bank; and


﻿-9-
(c)  the Borrower shall furnish, or cause KMPA to furnish,
to the Bank for its approval, a timetable for carrying out Parts
C and D of the Project, and shall, thereafter, cnuse KMPA to
carry out such Parts of the Project in accordance with such
timetable as approved by the Bank.
Section 3.09. In order to assist KMPA in carrying out Part F
(i) of the Project, the Borrower shall cause KMPA to employ, not
later than June 30, 1983, consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank, such consultants to be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, and shall cause KNR and
KMPA, respectively, to insure or make adequate provision for the
insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or in-
stallation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable
in a currency freely usable by the Borrower, KNR and KMPA, as the
case may be, to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The   Borrower   shall  cause  all  goods  and  services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively
for.the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.11. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
and shall cause KNR and KMPA, as the case may be, to furnish to
the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifica-
tions, reports, contract documents and construction and procure-
ment schedules for the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower shall: (i) maintain, and cause KNR and
KMPA to maintain, records and procedures adequate to record
and monitor the progress of the Project (including its cost
and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to
disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable, and cause KNR
and KMPA to enable, the Bank's representatives to visit the


﻿- 10 -
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the
Bank, and cause KNR and KMPA to furnish to the Bank, at regular
intervals all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate,
the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out of
such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name
and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded,
and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank,
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower, KNR, KMPA and the Bank of
their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall cause KNR and KMPA to
enable the Bank's representatives to examine all plants, in-
stallations, sites, works, buildings, property and equipment of
KNR and KMPA, respectively, and any relevant records and docu-
ments.
Section 3.13. (a) The Borrower shall, and shall cause KNR
and KMPA to, exchange views with the Bank, at the request of the
Bank, with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance
of its respective obligations under this Agreement, the KNR
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the KMPA Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
and other matters related to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) The Borrower shall, and shall cause KNR and KMPA to,
promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or
threatens to interfere with, the purposes of the Froject, the
accomplishment of the progress of the Loan, or the performance by
the Borrower, KNR and KMPA of their respective obligations under


﻿- 11 -
this Agreement, the Borrower's and KNR's respective obligations
under the KNR Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and the Borrower's and
KMPA's respective obligations under the KMPA Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
Section 3.14. (a) The Borrower shall take or cause to be
taken all such action as shall be necessary to acquire all such
land and rights in respect of land as shall be required for
carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that
such land and rights in respect of land are available for pur-
poses related to the Project.
(b) Without. any limitation or restriction to the provisions
of paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall take or
cause to be taken all such action as shall be necessary to
acquire: (i) not later than July 1, 1986, all such land and
rights in respect of land as shall be required for carrying out
Part A (iii) of the Project, and (ii) not later than January 1,
1984, the land and rights in respect of land as shall be required
for carrying out Part B (ii) of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall


﻿- 12 -
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of
financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien
arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and
securing a debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance   with   consistently   maintained   sound   accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of Part E of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out such Part of the Project.
(b)  The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraph (a) of this Section audited, not later than four
months after the completion of the studies under Part E of the
Project, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than four months after the completion of such
audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; aud (iii) furnish to the Bank such other
information concerning said separate accounts, records and
expenditures and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(c) The Borrower shall cause KNR to maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and


﻿- 13 -
financial condition, including the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of Parts A, B (i) and B (ii) of the
Project.
(d) The Borrower shall cause KNR to: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) -for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning said accounts and financial statements as well as the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
(e) The Borrower shall cause KMPA to maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
appropriate accounting practices its operations and financial
condition, including the operation, resources and expenditures in
respect of Parts C, D and F of the Project.
(f) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.03
(a) of this Agreement and in order to comply with the provisions
of paragraph (e) of this Section, the Borrower shall cause KMPA
to continue to maintain its records and accounts in accordance
with commercial accounting procedures, satisfactory to the Bank.
(g) The Borrower shall cause KMPA to: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statement of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year, beginning
fiscal year 1983, audited in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for
such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other
information concerning said accounts and financial statements, as
well as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.


﻿-14 -
(h)  Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (g)
of this Section, the Borrower shall cause KMPA, not later than
June 30, 1984: (i) to have its accounts for fiscal years 1979,
1980, 1981 and 1982 audited in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles, by the independent auditors selected to
audit KMPA's accounts and financial statement for fiscal year
1983, or by such other independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; and (ii) to furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
in any case not later than December 31, 1984, the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably requested.
(i) The provisions of paragraph (h) of this Section super-
sede the provisions of Section 4.02 of Second Loan Agreement only
with respect to the obligation therein set forth of auditing
KMPA's accounts and financial statements for fiscal years 1979,
1980, 1981 and 1982.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause KNR to:
(a) take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent
with appropriate practice;
(b) carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance with sound administrative, financial and railway
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers; and
(c) operate and maintain, at all times, its machinery,
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as
needed, to make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all
in accordance with sound engineering, financial and railway
practices.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause KMPA to:
(a) take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent
with appropriate practice;
(b) carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance with sound administrative, financial, and port operat-
ing practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers; and


﻿- 15 -
(c) operate and maintain, at all times, all the port faci-
lities under its jurisdiction, and from time to time, promptly as
needed, to make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all
in accordance with sound engineering, financial and port operat-
ing practices.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than July 1,
1984, or such other date as shall be agreed by the Bank, esta-
blish and thereafter maintain, or cause KNR to establish and
thereafter maintain, tariffs for the transportation of coal at
such levels as to cover, at least, the full direct cost for such
transport, including operation, maintenance and depreciation of
KNR's related assets, and full recovery of allocated indirect
costs, including depreciation of KNR's related assets and
interest charges; and
(b) not later than January 1, 1985, or such other date as
shall be agreed by the Bank, establish and thereafter maintain,
or cause KNR to establish and thereafter maintain, tariffs for
the transportation of cement at such levels as to cover, at
least, the full direct cost for such transport, including opera-
tion, maintenance and depreciation of KNR's related assets, and
full recovery of allocated indirect costs, including depreciation
of KNR's related assets and interest charges.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall, not later than January 1,
1985, establish and thereafter maintain, or cause KNR to estab-
lish and thereafter maintain, differential cost-based tariffs for
rail transport of bagged cement and bulk cement cargo.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall cause KNR to take all
necessary measures (including but not limited to KNR's tariff
increases) satisfactory to the Bank as shall be required by KNR
to: (a) cover its operating costs (excluding depreciation) and
debt service requirements and finance a reasonable proportion of
its capital expenditures commencing fiscal year 1983; and (b)
earn an annual rate of return of not less than 2% in fiscal year
1983, (ii) 3.5% in fiscal year 1984, (iii) 4% in fiscal year
1985, (iv) 5% in fiscal year 1986, (v) 5.5% in fiscal year 1987,
and (vi) 6% in fiscal year 1988 and thereafter.
For the purposes of paragraph (b) of this Section:
(i) the annual rate of return shall be calculated in
respect of each fiscal year by relating the


﻿- 16 -
operating surplus for that year to the average of
the value of net fixed assets in operation at the
beginning and at the end of that year;
(ii) the   term   "operating  surplus"  shall mean    the
difference between (A) operating revenue and (B)
operating and administrative expenses, including
adequate maintenance and depreciation, but exclud-
ing interest and other charges on debt and income
taxes, if any;
(iii) the term "value of the net fixed assets in opera-
tion" shall mean the gross value of fixed assets
in operation less the accumulated depreciation,
both as valued from time to time in accordance
with   appropriate  and   consistently   maintained
methods of valuation acceptable to the Bank;
(iv) the term "operating revenue" shall not include any
subsidies or reimbursements made by the Borrower
to KNR;
(v) the term "current assets" means cash, securities
readily convertible into cash, accounts receiv-
able realizable within one year and inventories,
excluding those specifically required for invest-
ment in fixed assets; and
(vi) the term "current liabilities" means liabilities
due and payable and all other liabilities which
will be due and payable, or could be called for
payment, within one year.
The provisions of this Section supersede the provisions of
Section 4.08 of the Loan Agreement Seventh Railway Project.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall cause KNR to take all
necessary measures as shall be required by KNR to maintain work-
ing capital satisfactory to the Bank, including attaining by
December 31, 1988 a ratio of current assets to current liabili-
ties of not less than 1.5 and maintaining such ratio thereafter.
For purposes of this Section:
(i) the term "current assets" means cash, securities
readily convertible into cash, accounts receiv-
able realizable within one year and inventories,


﻿- 17 -
excluding those specifically required for invest-
ment in fixed assets; and
(ii) the term "current liabilities" means liabilities
due and payable and all other liabilities which
will be due and payable, or could be called for
payment, within one year.
The provisions of this Section supersede the provisions of
Section 4.05 of the Loan Agreement Seventh Railway Project.
Section 4.09. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, KNR,
or the Borrower acting on behalf of KNR, shall not incur any
long-term debt unless the net revenues of KNR for the fiscal year
next preceding such incurrence, or for a later twelve-month
period ended prior to such incurrence, whichever amount is
greater, shall be not less than 1.1 times the maximum debt
service requirements for any succeeding fiscal year on all long-
term debt then outstanding, including the long-term debt to be
incurred. For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the term "long-term debt" means any debt maturing
by its terms more than one year after the date on
which it is originally incurred;
(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred (1) under a
loan contract or agreement, on the date the loan
contract or agreement providing for such debt is
entered into, and (2) under a guarantee agreement,
on the date the agreement providing for such guar-
antee is entered into;
(iii) the term    "net revenues" means gross operating
revenues adjusted to take account of KNR's tariffs
*                           in effect at the time of calculation even though
they were not in effect during the twelve consecu-
tive months to which such revenues related, less
operating and administrative expenses, including
provision for taxes, if any, but before provision
for depreciation and interest and other charges on
debt;
(iv) the term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate   amount  of   amortization,   including
sinking fund contributions, if any, and interest
and other charges on debt; and


﻿-18 -
(v) whenever it shall be necessary to value in the
currency of the Borrower debt payable in another
currency, such valuation shall be made on the
basis of the rate of exchange at which such other
currency is obtainable by KNR at the time such
valuation is made, for the purposes of servicing
such debt or, if such other currency is not so
obtainable, at the rate of exchange that will be
reasonably determined by the Bank.
Section 4.10. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause KNR to carry out a revaluation of KNR's
fixed assets on an annual basis, in accordance with appropriate
and consistently maintained methods of valuation acceptable to
the Bank.
Section 4.11. (a) The Borrower shall take, and shall cause
KNR to take, all necessary measures as shall be required to
ensure the carrying out of the Investment Plan in accordance with
its terms. The Borrower undertakes, and shall cause KNR to under-
take, that any substantial changes to the Investment Plan shall
only be made with the concurrence of the Bank.
(b) For the purposes of this Section, "substantial changes"
means changes involving in the aggregate either an increase or a
decrease of more than fifty billion Mon (*50,000,000,000) in the
estimated cost of the Investment Plan.
(c) The provisions of this Section supersede provisions of
Section 4.06 of the Loan Agreement Seventh Railway Project.
Section 4.12. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause KMPA to appoint, not later than January 1,
1986, and under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
separate TOCs to be responsible for the operations of the IPCT
and UPCT, respectively. Such terms and conditions shall include
an annual charge to be paid by the respective TOC to KMPA equal,
at least, to the aggregate amount of: (i) the respective rate of
return provided for in Section 4.13 of this Agreement; (ii) the
rental fees equivalent at least to the annual provision for
depreciation of the respective terminals' assets, including
annual additions, revalued annually; and (iii) the administrative
costs incurred by KMPA for supervising the activities of the
respective TOC. For such purposes, the Borrower shall cause KMPA
to furnish to the Bank, not later than July 1, 1985, for its
approval, a standard form of contract applicable to such TOCs.


﻿- 19 -
Section 4.13. (a) The Borrower shall, and shall cause KMPA
to, take all necessary measures to enable IPCT and UPCT, respec-
tively, to earn in fiscal years 1986 and thereafter, an annual
rate of return of not less than 5% and 8% on their respective net
fixed assets in operation.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section the term, "value of
net fixed assets in operation", shall mean the gross book value
of the respective assets of IPCT and UPCT, less the amount of the
respective accumulated depreciation, as revalued annually in
accordance with appropriate consistently maintained methods of
valuation acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.14. The Borrower shall use its best efforts to
obtain, not later than January 1, 1985, other loans or other
financing on reasonable terms from sources outside Korea, and to
make available the proceeds of such loans or financing to KMPA
for purposes of meeting as large a portion as possible of the
cost of the equipment and installation thereof required for
carrying out the Project and not financed under the Loan. For
purposes of this Section, the Borrower shall keep the Bank
informed of the progress in arranging such financing, including
the terms and conditions thereof, and shall take into account
Bank's comments, if any, thereon.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof, namely, that:
(a) Any laws and regulations of the Borrower relating to
the operation of KNR shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived, so as to materially and adversely
affect the conduct of KNR's operations, or its financial condi-
tion or the performance of KNR's obligations under this
Agreement, or under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(b) KNR shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement entered into with the Bor-
rower under Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(c) Any laws and regulations of the Borrower relating to
the operation of KMPA shall have been amended, suspended, abro-
gated, repealed or waived, so as to materially and adversely


﻿- 20 -
affect the conduct of KMPA's operations, or its financial condi-
tion or the performance of KMPA's obligations under this Agree-
ment, or under any of the arrangements entered into with the
Borrower under Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
(d) KMPA shall have failed to perform any of its obliga-
tions under any of the arrangements entered into with the Bor-
rower under Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
(e) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of KNR or for the suspension of its operations, or KNR or
others shall have taken any action which may lead to the suspen-
sion of KNR's operations;
(f) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of KMPA or for the suspension of its operations, or KMPA or
others shall have taken any action which may lead to the suspen-
sion of KMPA's operations;
(g) The loans or other financing arrangements provided for
in Section 4.12 of this Agreement shall not have been concluded
by January 1, 1985, or such later date as the Bank may agree;
provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall
not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the
Bank that adequate funds for the Project are available to the
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent
with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement; and
(h) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any loan made to the Borrower for
the financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole
or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
agreement providing therefor, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and pay-
able prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Bank that: (A) such suspension, cancellation,


﻿-21 -
termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate
funds for the Project are available to the Bor-
rower from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any events specified in paragraphs (b) or (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for
a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Bank to the Borrower;
(b) any events specified in paragraphs (a), (c), (e), (f),
and (g) (subject to its proviso) of Section 5.01 of this Agree-
ment shall occur; and
(c) the event specified in paragraph (h) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (h) (ii) of that Section.
Section 5.03. The provisions of Section 5.01 of the Loaq
Agreement Seventh Railway Project are hereby amended and substi-
tuted by the provisions of Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement.
Section 5.04. The provisions of Section 6.01 (a) of the
Second Loan Agreement are hereby amended and substituted by the
provisions of Section 5.01 (c) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section   6.01.  The  following   events  are   specified  as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the execution of the KNR Subsidiary Loan Agreement
on behalf of the Borrower and KNR, respectively, has been
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental and
corporate action; and


﻿- 22 -
(b) the execution of the KMPA Subsidiary Loan Agreement
on behalf of the Borrower and KMPA, respectively, has been
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental and
corporate action.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the KNR Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and KNR, respectively, and
is legally binding upon the Borrower and KNR in accordance with
its terms; and
(b) that the KMPA Subsidiary Loan Agreement provided for in
Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by the Borrower and KMPA, respectively, and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and KMPA in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The dated    4    28', /#993, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of S   ion  2.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Republic of Korea
Seoul
Korea
Cable address:                     Telex:
MOF                                MIOFFI
Seoul                             K 23243


﻿-23 -
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
#C70^Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿-24 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  (a) Equipment and        75,064,000         100% of foreign
materials for                          expenditures, and
Part A of the                          100% of local
Project                                expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
(b) Rails,                8,191,000         100% of foreign
timber and                            expenditures, and
cranes for                             100% of local
Part B (i)                             expenditures
of the Project                        (ex-factory cost)
(c) Coal handling        23,219,000         100% of foreign,
equipment for                          expenditures, and
Parts C (iv)                           100% of local
and D (iv) of                          expenditures
the Project                           (ex-factory cost)
(2)  (a) Studies for             600,000         100%
Part E of
the Project
(b) Technical assis-        286,000         100%
taace and over-
seas training
for Part F of
the Project
(3) Fee                          304,239         Amount due under
Section 2.05 of
this Agreement


﻿- 25 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(4) Unallocated               14,335,761
TOTAL              122,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term, "foreign expenditures", means expenditures in
*           the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term, "local expenditures", means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan
shall not be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importati.n, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of items in any Category decreases or increases, the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such Category as required
to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures made prior
to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to


﻿-26 -
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disburse-
ment percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
diture for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limit-
ing any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿-27 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:   Inland Transportation
(i) Electrification of about 64 km of the Jungang railway
line.
(ii) Installation,    operation   and   maintenance   of   the
Centralized Traffic Control System (CTC) on about 127 km of the
Taebaeg railway line.
(iii) Widening to standard guage of about 53 km of the
Suweon-Incheon railway line (SU-IN), including the extension of
the railway line to the Incheon Port.
(iv) Acquisition, operation and maintenance of specialized
rolling stock, including about 261 coal and about 320 cement tank
cars.
(v) Acquisition and utilization of railway maintenance
equipment.
Part B:   Bugog Terminal
(i) Completion of the Bugog terminal designed for handling
containers, cement, coal and general cargo, including the acqui-
sition, installation and maintenance of the necessary rails and
tracks, acquisition and installation of, and operation and main-
tenance of, coal handling and signalling equipment, and construc-
tion and maintenance of the necessary paved storage area for
containers.
(ii) Provision of land for installation of briquette fac-
tories and for construction of cement silos.
(iii) Upgrading of about 2 km of the access road from the
main highway network to the Bugog terminal.
Part C:   Incheon Port Coal Terminal
(i) Construction of: (A) a coal jetty of about 240 lineal
meters and mooring dolphins with an alongside depth of 16 lineal


﻿- 28 -
meters below mean low water (MLW) and capable of accommodating
about 100,000 dead weight tons (DWT) bulk carrier; (B) about 519
lineal meters long trestle to connect the coal jetty to the
shore, with a width of about 14 lineal meters and capable of
carrying two conveyor belts and about 6 lineal meters of road-
ways.
(ii) Construction of a stockpile yard and related port
terminal services, including the necessary reclamation works,
seawall and retaining walls.
(iii) Construction of the necessary auxiliary terminal build-
ings, extension of the rail tracks to the stockpile yard, and the
necessary pavement works.
(iv) Acquisition,   utilization   and   maintenance  of   coal
handling equipment, including unloaders, conveyor belts, stackers
and reclaimers.
Part D:   Ulsan Port Coal Terminals
(i) Construction of about 270 lineal meters of a coal pier
extending from the existing pier No. 1, with alongside depth of
about 12 lineal meters below mean low water (MLW) and capable of
accommodating about 40,000 dead weight tons (DWT) bulk carrier.
(ii) Construction of a stockpile yard and related port
terminal services.
(iii) Construction   of   the  necessary   auxiliary  terminal
buildings, extension of the rail tracks to the stockpile yard,
including the regional shunting yard, and the necessary pavement
works.
(iv) Acquisition, utilization and maintenance of coal
handling equipment, including conveyor belts, unloaders, stockers
and reclaimers.
Part E:   Studies
Study for determining transport requirements and related
investments in the Seoul Metropolitan Area (Gyeonggi-Do).
Part F:   Technical Assistance and Training
(i) Provision of technical assistance to assist KMPA in
preparing technical specifications and tender documents for the
coal handling equipment to be procured under the Project.


﻿- 29 -
(ii)  Overseas  training  of KMPA   staff  in  operation  and
maintenance of coal terminals.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1986.


﻿- 30 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 15 and November 15
beginning November 15, 1986
through   November 15, 1997                5,085,000
On May 15, 1998                                 5,045,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 31 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                            Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                           0.20
before maturity
More than three years but                           0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                             0.73
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                          0.87
more than 13 years
before maturity
More than 13 years before                           1.00
maturity


﻿-32 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Goods   shall  be   procured  under   contracts  awarded   in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
current edition of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977
(hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guide-
lines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60
days prior to the date of availability to the.public of the first
tender or prequalification documents relating thereto, as the
case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of such
notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods or works remain
to be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   Port coal handling equipment to be procured under Parts C
(iv) and D (iv) of the Project may be grouped so as to permit
bulk procurement for such Parts of the Project.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.


﻿- 33 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Korea may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Korea
if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Korea equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
' further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in


﻿*                                                      - 34-
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for Parts A, B (i), C (iv)
and D (iv) of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants
referred to in Section 3.09 of this Agreement, on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the recom-
mendations for award of the said consultants and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall,
if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.


﻿-35 -
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
ffrst application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  42      day of.. -A  , 198 3
FOR SECRETARY


