Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3685 GUI
Development Credit Agreement
(Decentralized Rural Electrification Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 8, 2002
CREDIT NUMBER 3685 GUI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 8, 2002, between REPUBLIC OF GUINEA (the Borrower) 
Page  2
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter, dated February 
13, 1998, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to improve access to 
electricity in the rural and peri-urban areas of the Borrower’s territory (the Program) and 
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program;
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the 
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the 
financing of the Project;
(C)
Part B of the Project will be carried out by 
Banque Internationale pour le 
Commerce et l’Industrie
 (BICI-GUI) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make part of the proceeds of the Credit provided for in Article II of 
this Agreement (the Credit) available to BICI-GUI, as set forth in this Agreement;
(D)
the Borrower has also requested the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank), acting as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility 
(GEF) in respect of grant funds provided to the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund (the 
GEF Trust Fund) by certain members of the Bank as participants to the GEF, to provide 
additional assistance towards the financing of the Project, and by the Global Environment 
Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement (the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement between the 
Borrower and the Bank) of even date herewith between the Borrower and the Bank, the Bank is 
making a grant in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to SDR 1,600,000 (the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and 
in the agreement of even date herewith between the Association and BICI-GUI;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 1999) (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth means and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Administrative and Operational Manual” or “AOM” means the manual referred 
to in paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and comprising the procedures, guidelines, 
timetables, and criteria which shall be followed by the Borrower in the implementation of the 
Project;
Page  3
(b)
“Beneficiary” means a PDES (as hereinafter defined), which has met the 
eligibility criteria set out in the Administrative and Operational Manual and the requirements of 
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement and, as a result, has been extended, or is to be extended, a 
Grant (as hereinafter defined) or a Subloan (as hereinafter defined) for the carrying out of a 
Subproject (as hereinafter defined);
(c)
“BERD” means 
Bureau d’Electrification Rurale Décentralisée, 
referred to in 
Part C of Schedule 2 and paragraph 2 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(d)
“BICI-GUI” means 
Banque Internationale pour le Commerce et l’Industrie
-
Guinée, 
a Bank established and operating under the Borrower’s laws and regulations pursuant to 
its statutes dated February 23, 1996 (the BICI-GUI Statutes), and referred to in Section 3.01 (a) 
of this Agreement;
(e)
“DNE” means 
Direction Nationale de L’Energie
, the Borrower’s National 
Directorate of Energy, within MHE (as hereinafter defined);
(f)
“EDG” means
 Electricité de Guinée
, or its successor, a company established and 
operating under the laws of the Borrower;
(g)
“FERD” means 
Fonds pour l’Electification Rurale Décentralisée
, the 
decentralized electrification financing mechanism to be established pursuant to Part B of the 
Project;
(h)
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(i)
“Franc Guinéen” or “GNF” means the currency of the Borrower;
(j)
“GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement” means the agreement of even date herewith 
between the Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as such agreement may be amended from to 
time; and such term includes the “General Conditions applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended through 
October 6, 1999), as applied to such agreement, and all schedules and agreements supplemental 
to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement;
(k)
“Grant” means a grant made, or proposed to be made, by BERD to a Beneficiary 
for the purpose of financing a Subproject;
(l)
“Grant Agreement” means the agreement between BERD and a Beneficiary, 
setting forth the terms and conditions under which proceeds of the Credit shall be made available 
to such a Beneficiary for the purpose of financing a Subproject;
(m)
“Initial Deposit” means the initial amount referred to in Section 3.03 (b) (i) of 
this Agreement;
(n)
“MHE” means 
Ministère de l’Hydraulique et de l’Energie
, the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Water and Energy;
(o)
“Midterm Review” means the midterm review referred to in paragraph 6 (a) of 
Page  4
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(p)
“PDES” means a provider or providers of decentralized rural electrification 
services referred to in Part A.1 of the Project;
(q)
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of this 
Agreement;
(r)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Association and 
BICI-GUI of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(s)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance granted by 
the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on behalf of the 
Association on  October 27, 2000 and on behalf of the Borrower on December 23, 2000;
(t)
“Project Year” means the 12 month period beginning from the Effective Date of 
the Project and ending 12 months thereafter and each successive 12 month period following 
thereafter;
(u)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement;
(v)
“Steering Committee” means 
Comité de Pilotage, 
the Steering Committee of 
BERD whose role and functions are described in Part A.3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(w)
“Subloan” means a loan made or proposed to be made by the Borrower, through 
BERD, under the FERD, to a Beneficiary, to finance a Subproject;
(x)
“Subloan Agreement” means the agreement for a Subloan referred to in Part B.2 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(y)
“Subproject” means a specific rural electrification activity to be carried out 
under the Project which is financed, or proposed to be financed, through a Grant or a Subloan 
under Part B of the Project; and
(z)
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the Agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and BICI-GUI pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to four million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
4,100,000).
Page  5
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) amounts paid (or, if the 
Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by the Borrower on account of withdrawals made 
under a Subloan or a Grant to meet the reasonable costs of goods and services required for a 
Subproject to be financed under the Project, and in respect of which the withdrawal from the 
Credit Account is requested; and (ii) expenditures made (or if the Association shall so agree, to 
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in dollars 
a
special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits 
into, and payments out of, the special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the 
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date 
and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the 
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2006 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the date 
of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn 
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 
immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time 
thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be 
applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall 
reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
August 15 and February 15 in each year.
Page  6
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay 
the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each August 15 and 
February 15 in each year, commencing August 15, 2012 and ending February 15, 2042.  Each  
installment  to  and including the installment payable on February 15, 2022 shall be one percent 
(1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such 
principal amount. 
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the Association's 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of 
the Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's 
economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall 
have been repaid; and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount 
of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on which 
the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the modification 
referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts 
of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the 
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the 
Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the 
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end: (i) shall carry out Parts A and C of 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
Page  7
financial, environmental, engineering and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project; and (ii) 
without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement, shall cause BICI-GUI to perform, in accordance with the provisions of the 
Project Agreement, all the obligations of BICI-GUI therein set forth, shall take and cause to be 
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to enable BICI-GUI to perform such obligations, and shall not take or 
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out 
Parts A and C of the Project, and assist BICI-GUI in the carrying out of Part B of the Project, in 
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall make proceeds of the Credit for Part B of the Project 
available to BICI-GUI under a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
BICI-GUI, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association and 
which shall include, but without being limited to, the provisions set forth in Part B of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 3.01 of 
this Agreement, and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall:
(a)
open an account in Francs Guinéens in a commercial bank acceptable to the 
Association (the Project Account), and thereafter maintain the Project Account under terms and 
conditions acceptable to the Association until the completion of the Project;
(b)
deposit into the Project Account: (i) an initial amount of GNF 400,000,000 (the 
Initial Deposit); and (ii) thereafter, at annual intervals, replenish the Project Account by the 
amounts required to finance the Borrower’s contribution for expenditures under the Project other 
than those financed from the proceeds of the Credit or the GEF Trust Fund Grant, as shall be 
agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association; and
(c)
ensure that the funds deposited into the Project Account in accordance with 
paragraph (b) of this Section shall be used exclusively to finance expenditures under the Project 
other than those financed from the proceeds of the Credit or the GEF Trust Fund Grant.
ARTICLE IV
Page  8
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain, and cause to be established 
and maintained, a financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare 
financial statements in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account, for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of 
the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for 
such year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements, records 
and accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested, 
including, as part of the information to be provided in each such report, a 
management letter concerning the Borrower’s internal controls; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting obligations 
Page  9
set out in Section 4.01, the Borrower shall prepare and cause BICI-GUI to prepare and furnish  to 
the Association a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, which:
(i)
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, showing separately funds 
provided under the Credit, and explains variances between the actual and 
planned uses of  such funds;
(ii)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and explains 
variances between the actual
and planned Project implementation; and
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the 
incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first calendar 
quarter; thereafter, each Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar. 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified: 
(a)
a situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the Project or a 
significant part thereof will be carried out.
(b)
BICI-GUI shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(c)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Development 
Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that BICI-GUI will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d)
The BICI-GUI Statutes governing the operations of BICI-GUI shall have been 
amended, suspended or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of BICI-GUI to 
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(e)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any 
action for the dissolution or disestablishment of BICI-GUI or for the suspension of its operations.
(f)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the Borrower 
to 
withdraw the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant made to the 
Page  10
Borrower for 
the financing of the Project shall have been suspended, 
canceled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms 
of the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to 
the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation, 
termination or prematuring is not caused 
by the failure of the Borrower to 
perform any of its obligations 
under the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement; and 
(B) adequate 
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from other 
sources 
on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower 
under this Agreement.
Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified:
(a)
any events specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this agreement shall 
occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given 
by the Association to the Borrower;
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall 
occur; and
(c)
the event specified in paragraph (f) (i) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall 
occur, subject to the provisions of paragraph (f) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of 
the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has adopted and furnished to the Association the AOM in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
the Borrower has established an adequate financial management and accounting 
system for the Project satisfactory to the Association;
(c)
the Borrower has hired and appointed staff to BERD, with experience and 
qualifications satisfactory to the Association, including a procurement specialist, two technical 
experts in decentralized electrification, and a financial expert, all to be employed in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 2 (a) of Part A Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(d)
The Borrower has employed the independent auditors referred to in Section 4.01 
(b) of this Agreement and Section 4.01 (b) of the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement, all in 
Page  11
accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(e)
the Borrower has opened the Project Account and has deposited therein the 
Initial Deposit referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement; 
(f)
the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed by the Borrower and BICI-GUI; 
and
(g)
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement has been executed and delivered and all 
conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
thereunder, except only the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement, have been 
fulfilled.
Section 6.02.  The following are specified as additional matters within the meaning of 
Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be 
furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by BICI-GUI, 
and is legally binding upon BICI-GUI in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and BICI-GUI and is legally binding upon the Borrower and BICI-GUI in accordance 
with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety days (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister for the time being responsible for Finance is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Conakry, Guinea
Telex:
Ministre de l’Economie
et des Finances
Telex:
Facsimile:
22399 MIFIGE
(224) 42 21 02
(224) 49 17 17
Page  12
(224) 45 54 32
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477 6391
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
By /s/ Alimou Diallo
Acting Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Theodore O. Ahlers
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Page  13
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods, including vehicles           
200,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
80% of local expenditures
(2)
Consultants’         
950,000
services and training                  
80%
(3)
Grants and Subloans
2,000,000
100% of amounts
for Subprojects                          
disbursed
(4)
Operating Costs                         
300,000
80% 
(5)
Refunding of                            
150,000
100% of amounts due
Project Preparation
pursuant to Section 2.02
Advance                                 
(b) of this Agreement
(6)
Unallocated                               
500,000
TOTAL                                 
4,100,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred on account 
of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including office consumables, 
communications, transport, staff travel and associated subsistence allowances relating to the 
Project, salaries for contractual and temporary staff, audits under Section 4.01 of this Agreement, 
office rental, office supplies and maintenance, fuel and maintenance for vehicles and equipment, 
and insurance costs, but excluding salaries of the Borrower’s civil servants.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
Page  14
respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)
payments made for expenditures under category (3), unless the Grant or the 
Subloan has been made in accordance with the eligibility criteria, procedures,  and the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 4 to this Agreement and further specified in the 
AOM.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods under contracts not exceeding 
$50,000 equivalent each; (ii) consulting firms under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent 
each; (iii) individual consultants under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent each; and (iv) 
Operating Costs and training, under all such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in increasing access to electricity in 
rural and peri-urban areas, through the establishment of policies, incentive systems, and 
institutional mechanisms to promote: (i) the facilitation of private investment in energy projects 
in rural communities; (ii) the establishment of community-based, decentralized and affordable 
village electrification schemes; (iii) the establishment of independent credit sources and technical 
support structures; and (iv) the promotion of renewable energy technologies, wherever feasible.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
:
Capacity Building 
1.
The creation of technical and financial capacity for the carrying out of decentralized 
village level electrification projects through the development of a sustainable framework 
designed to: (i) facilitate the efficient operation of providers of decentralized rural electrification 
services (PDES); and (ii) assist (A) the PDES in the identification and setting up of electricity 
service delivery in rural areas under concession arrangements, and (B) village associations to 
organize service delivery through an operator or operators; (iii) facilitate the monitoring and 
evaluation of the operations of the PDES; and (iv) facilitate the dissemination and replication of 
decentralized village level electrification projects.
2.
The provision of technical advisory services for the activities required under Part  A.1 
above.
Part B
:
Financing Mechanism
The development of a decentralized electrification financing mechanism (FERD) for the 
provision of Subloans and/or Grants to beneficiaries to carry out specific rural electrification 
Page  15
activities.
Part C
:
Project Coordination and Management
1.
The establishment of an agency (BERD) to: (i) promote and facilitate rural electrification 
activities; and (ii) assist in the development of technical and financial capacity required for the 
promotion and carrying out of the said activities, through the provision of technical advisory and 
training to BERD personnel, and the acquisition of vehicles and equipments.
2.
The development of a national rural electrification program, including: (i) the 
preparation of regulations for the said program; (ii) the initiation of pilot and demonstration rural 
electrification activities involving the joint participation of energy providers, financial 
organizations and village communities; (iii) the submission and evaluation of business plans for 
proposed energy projects; and (iv) the award of concessions to qualified providers.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2006.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines).
Part B:
Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $1,500,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $1,500,000 equivalent, may: (i) if available in the local market, be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines; or (ii) if not available in the local 
market, be procured on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
Page  16
provisions of the said paragraphs of the Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
Goods which must be purchased from the original supplier to be compatible with 
existing equipment or are of a proprietary nature and
 
estimated to cost $5,000 equivalent or less 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may, with the 
Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of 
the Guidelines.
4.
Community Participation
Works required for Part B of the Project, may be procured in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Association as specified in the AOM.
Part C
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of 
all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have 
been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, and (ii) the first five contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of more than 
$50,000 but less than $100,000, under National Competitive Bidding, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$5,000, but less than $50,000 equivalent to be procured on the basis of shopping or direct 
contracting procedures, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier or execution of any contract under 
shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Association a 
report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct contracting 
or shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Association a 
copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the  procedures  set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
Page  17
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines). 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. The short list of 
consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for the carrying out of financial audits of the Project may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $800,000, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services involving tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
Page  18
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated  
to cost  the  equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other 
than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of $100,000, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to: (i) each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or more; and (ii) the first five contracts for the 
employment of consultants estimated to cost less than $10,000, the qualifications, experience, 
terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the 
Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said 
approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Part A
:
Implementation Arrangements
1.
(a)
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association an AOM in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, the said Manual being subject from time to time to 
modification by agreement between the Borrower and the Association. The AOM shall set out 
details of all procedures, guidelines, timetables and criteria required for the Project including the 
eligibility criteria to be met by Beneficiaries applying for Subloans and Grants.
(b)
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the AOM and, 
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, shall not amend or waive any provision of the 
AOM if, in the opinion of the Association, such amendment or waiver may materially and 
adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or the achievement of the objectives thereof.
2.
(a)
The Borrower shall maintain BERD in a form and with functions, staffing and 
resources satisfactory to the Association. The staff of BERD shall include, 
inter alia
,
a
director, 
Page  19
an accountant, a procurement specialist, two technical experts and a financial expert with 
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association.
(b)
BERD’s functions shall include: (i) the identification, catalyzing and supervision 
of the first decentralized rural electrification activities to be carried out under the Project; (ii) the 
training of stakeholders (including potential PDESs) in the development of business plans and in 
the preparation of Subproject proposals; (iii) the launching of an awareness and information 
campaign for the benefit of potential Beneficiaries; (iv) providing, through FERD, of Grants and 
Subloans for Subprojects; and v) communicate to BICI-GUI all information it has on the PDESs 
and the Sub-Projects.
3.
(a)
The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain in BERD a Steering 
Committee in a form and with functions, membership, staffing and resources satisfactory to the 
Association.
(b)
The membership of the Steering Committee shall include: (i) the National 
Director of Energy as Chairman; (ii) a representative of the Ministry in charge of Economy and 
Finance; (iii) a representative of the Ministry in charge of regional development and 
decentralization; (iv) a representative of EDG; (v) the manager of BERD; (vi) a representative of 
Banque Internationale pour le Commerce et l’Industrie 
(BICI-GUI); and (vii) a representative or 
representatives of the private sector. The Steering Committee shall be concerned with: (A) the 
monitoring and evaluation of Program activities including the provision of technical support for 
BERD and financial support for FERD; (B) the conduct of annual financial audits of BERD and 
FERD; and (C) the approval of BERD’s annual work program and budget.
Part B
:
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reviews
4.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis the carrying out of the Project, in accordance with performance indicators as 
agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association and set out in Supplemental Letter No. 2 
to this Agreement; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association, on or about December 1 of each year commencing on December 1, 2002, a 
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during 
the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by June 30, or such later date as the Association 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the 
Association’s views on the matter.
5.
(a)
No later than 24 months after the Effective Date or such other date as the 
Borrower and the Association shall agree upon, the Borrower and the Association shall carry out 
Page  20
a
midterm review (the Midterm Review). The Borrower shall take all actions it considers 
necessary to ensure the participation of PDESs, relevant Non-governmental Organizations 
(NGOs) and Beneficiaries in such Midterm Review. Such Midterm Review shall cover the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project.
(b)
No later than one month prior to the Midterm Review, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association, for its review and comments, a report, in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the carrying out of the Project.
(c)
Following such Midterm Review, the Borrower shall act promptly and diligently 
in order to take any corrective action deemed necessary by the Association to remedy any 
shortcoming noted in the carrying out of the Project or to carry out such other measures as may 
have been agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association in furtherance of the 
objectives of the Project.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, services as well as Grants and Subloans required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $500,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $250,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 2,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures 
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts 
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Page  21
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall 
have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposits into the Special Account at such 
intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to, or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the respective 
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, 
at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit 
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Special Account minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount 
of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association 
Page  22
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (a) provide such 
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (b) deposit into the Special Account (or, if 
the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of 
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, 
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the Association all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
