Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3685 GUI
Project Agreement
(Decentralized Rural Electrification Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
BANQUE INTERNATIONALE POUR LE COMMERCE 
ET L’INDUSTRIE - GUINEE
Dated July 8, 2002
CREDIT NUMBER 3685 GUI
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 8, 2002, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and Banque Internationale pour le Commerce et l’Industrie – 
Guinée (BICI-GUI).
Page  2
WHEREAS (A)
 by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
the Republic of Guinea (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make 
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to four million one hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 4,100,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Development Credit Agreement, but only on conditions that BICI-GUI agrees to undertake such 
obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement (GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Agreement) of even date herewith between Republic of Guinea (the Recipient) and 
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank), acting as an 
implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds 
provided to the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund (GEF Trust Fund) by certain members 
of the Bank as participants to the GEF, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Recipient an  
amount of  one  million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,600,000), on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement.
(C)
by a Subsidiary Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
BICI-GUI, some of the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit 
Agreement, and under the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement, will be made available to 
BICI-GUI on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Agreement; and
WHEREAS BICI-GUI, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set 
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions 
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Management and Operations of BICI-GUI
Section 2.01. (a) BICI-GUI declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
Part B of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and conducts its operations and affairs, in 
accordance with sound financial standards and practices, with qualified and experienced 
management, and in accordance with its Statutes. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
Page  3
except as the Association and BICI-GUI shall otherwise agree, BICI-GUI shall carry out Part B 
of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) For the purpose of carrying out Part B of the Project, BICI-GUI shall 
manage the FERD, and make available Subloans and Grants to Beneficiaries under terms and 
conditions which shall have been approved by the Association.
(b)
BICI-GUI undertakes that, unless the Association shall otherwise agree, 
Subloans and Grants will be made in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(c)
BICI-GUI shall exercise its rights in relation to managing the FERD in such 
manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Association and of BICI-GUI; (ii) comply with its 
obligation under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of 
the Project.
Section 2.03. BICI-GUI shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, BICI-GUI shall not take or concur 
in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the 
Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.04. (a) BICI-GUI shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views with 
the Association with regard to the progress of Part B of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement, and other matters relating 
to the purposes of the Credit;
(b)
BICI-GUI shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part B of the Project, the accomplishment 
of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by BICI-GUI of its obligations under this 
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement;
(c)
BICI-GUI shall prepare and furnish to the Association quarterly reports, 
beginning three months after the Effective Date, on the progress achieved in the execution of Part 
B of the Project;  
(d)
BICI-GUI shall, together with the Borrower, review with the Association, at least 
once a year, progress in carrying out of Part B of the Project, with a view to determining and 
effecting such changes as may be required to ensure the successful implementation of Part B of 
the Project, including any adjustment required in the on-lending terms and conditions. To that 
end, BICI-GUI shall furnish to the Borrower and the Association a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out of Part B of the Project, in such detail and at such times as the 
Association shall reasonably request; and
(e)
BICI-GUI and the Association shall, no later than eighteen (18) months after the 
Effective Date, carry out a midterm review of the progress achieved in implementing Part B of 
the Project. For that purpose, BICI-GUI shall furnish to the Association a report in such detail as 
the Association shall reasonably request.
Page  4
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) BICI-GUI shall maintain procedures and records adequate to monitor 
and record the progress of Part B of the Project and of each Subproject and to reflect in 
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations and financial 
condition of Part B of the Project and of each Sub-Project.
(b)
BICI-GUI shall :
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related statements) with respect 
to Part B of the Project for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing standards acceptable to the Association consistently 
applied by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than four months after the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of 
the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) above for such year 
as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements and a report of such 
audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof, and
 
concerning said auditors, as the Association may from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon which 
the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of BICI-GUI 
thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates: (i) the date on which the 
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or (ii) the date 
twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its terms 
before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly 
notify BICI-GUI of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect 
Page  5
notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made under this 
Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in 
writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is 
required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such 
other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or 
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477 6391
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
For Banque Internationale pour
                le Commerce et l’Industrie - Guinée:
B. P. 1484
Conakry
Republic of Guinea
Telex:
Facsimile:
22 175 GE or
(224) 413962
23 217 GE
(224) 419213
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document required or 
permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of BICI-GUI , or by BICI-GUI on 
behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed by 
the Director of BICI-GUI or such other person or persons as BICI-GUI shall designate in writing, 
and BICI-GUI shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which 
shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
Page  6
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Theodore O. Ahlers
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
BANQUE INTERNATIONALE POUR LE COMMERCE
 ET L’INDUSTRIE - GUINEE
By /s/ Alimou Diallo
Acting Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Implementation Program
I.
General
Part A
:
Implementation Arrangements
1.
(a)
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association an Administrative and 
Operational Manual (AOM) in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, the said 
Manual being subject from time to time to modification by agreement between the Borrower and 
the Association. The AOM shall set out details of all procedures, guidelines, timetables and 
criteria required for the Project including the eligibility criteria to be met by Beneficiaries 
applying for Subloans and Grants.
(b)
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Administrative 
and Operational Manual and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, shall not amend or 
Page  7
waive any provision of the Administrative and Operational Manual if, in the opinion of the 
Association, such amendment or waiver may materially and adversely affect the carrying out of 
the Project or the achievement of the objectives thereof.
2.
(a)
The Borrower shall maintain BERD in a form and with functions, staffing and 
resources satisfactory to the Association. The key staff of BERD shall include, 
inter alia
,
a
director, an accountant, a procurement specialist, two technical experts and a financial expert 
with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association.
(b)
BERD’s functions shall include: (i) the identification, catalyzing and supervision 
of the first decentralized rural electrification activities to be carried out under the Project; (ii) the 
training of stakeholders (including potential PDESs) in the development of business plans and in 
the preparation of Subproject proposals; (iii) the launching of an awareness and information 
campaign for the benefit of potential Beneficiaries; (iv) providing through FERD financing 
assistance for rural electrification activities; and v) communicate to BICI-GUI all information it 
has on the PDESs and the Sub-Projects.
3.
(a)
The Borrower shall establish in BERD a Steering Committee and an Approval 
Committee, each in a form and with functions, membership, staffing and resources satisfactory to 
the Association.
(b)
The membership of the Steering Committee shall include: (i) the National 
Director of Energy as Chairman; (ii) a representative of the Ministry in charge of Economy and 
Finance; (iii) a representative of the Ministry in charge of regional development and 
decentralization; (iv) a representative of EDG; (v) the manager of BERD; (vi) a representative of 
Banque Internationale pour le Commerce et l’Industrie 
(BICI-GUI); and (vii) a representative or 
representatives of the private sector. The Steering Committee shall be concerned with: (A) the 
monitoring and evaluation of Program activities including the provision of technical support for 
BERD and financial support for FERD; (B) the conduct of annual financial audits of BERD and 
FERD; and (C) the approval of BERD’s annual work program and budget.
Part B
:
Terms and Conditions of Grants and Subloans
4.
BICI-GUI shall enter into agreements satisfactory to the Association for the making of 
Grants or Subloans under the Project.
5.
The terms and conditions of a Grant Agreement or a Subloan Agreement shall, 
inter alia:
(a)
provide that: (i) the Beneficiary carries out the Subproject with due diligence and 
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial, environmental and managerial 
standards, and maintains adequate records to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, the operations, resources and expenditures relating to the Subproject; and (ii) the 
goods, works and services to be financed from the proceeds of the Grant or the Subloan shall (A) 
be procured in accordance with procedures ensuring efficiency and economy and in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement, and (B) be used 
exclusively in the carrying out of the Subproject;
(b)
reserve for the Borrower the right to: (i) inspect by itself, or jointly with the 
Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods, works, sites, plants and construction 
included in the Subproject, the operations thereof and any relevant records and documents; (ii) 
Page  8
obtain all information as the Borrower or the Association shall reasonably request regarding the 
administration, operation and financial conditions of the Beneficiary; and (iii) suspend or 
terminate the right of the Beneficiary to use the proceeds of the Grant or the Subloan upon the 
failure by the Beneficiary to perform any of its obligations under the Grant Agreement or the 
Subloan Agreement; and
(c)
require that: (i) the Beneficiary shall take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound 
business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover 
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit to the place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made 
payable in a currency freely usable by the Beneficiary to replace or repair such goods.
Part C
:
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reviews
6.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with monitoring and performance indicators acceptable to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association, on or about December 1 of each year commencing on December 1, 2002, a 
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during 
the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by June 30, or such later date as the Association 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the 
Association’s views on the matter.
7.
(a)
No later than 24 months after the Effective Date or such other date as the 
Borrower and the Association shall agree upon, the Borrower and the Association shall carry out 
a
midterm review (the Midterm Review). The Borrower shall take all actions it considers 
necessary to ensure the participation of PDESs, relevant Non-governmental Organization 
(NGOs) and Beneficiaries in such Midterm Review. Such Midterm Review shall cover the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project.
(b)
No later than one month prior to the Midterm Review, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association, for its review and comments, a report, in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the carrying out of the Project.
(c)
Following such Midterm Review, the Borrower shall act promptly and diligently 
in order to take any corrective action deemed necessary by the Association to remedy any 
shortcoming noted in the carrying out of the Project or to carry out such other measures as may 
have been agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association in furtherance of the 
Page  9
objectives of the Project.
II.
Eligibility Criteria and Procedures for PDES Subloans and Grants Applications
8.
To a level acceptable to the Association, BICI-GUI shall maintain lending policy, 
suitable procedures, and qualified adequate number of staff to effectively appraise the financial 
feasibility of files submitted by the BERD for the financing of decentralized rural electrification 
activities.
9.
PDES shall be eligible for Grants or a Subloans if they meet the criteria set for in the
Administrative and Operational Manual, such criteria includes, 
inter alia
, that PDES shall:
(a)
be a legal or physical person lawfully engaged in business activities in the 
territory of the Borrower, and subject to the laws of the Borrower;
(b)
have adequate technical expertise or experience in rural electrification services;
(c)
maintain a sound financial structure, a healthy portfolio, the organization, 
management, staff and other resources required for the efficient carrying out of the Subproject;
(d)
be able to conduct the Subproject affairs in accordance with sound financial 
principles and practices; and 
(e)
not be involved in any legal or financial dispute which would materially affect 
its ability to under take the Subproject.
10.
The following phases shall be followed in processing PDES applications for Subloans 
and Grants:
(a)
PDES shall submit project ideas and draft business plan.  BERD shall pre-assess 
the feasibility of the PDES project, and determine the level of financial contribution;
(b)
PDES shall submit a final business proposal, which shall be reviewed by BERD;
(c)
On the basis of a file communicated by the BERD, BICI-GUI shall advise on the 
credit worthiness of the PDES;
(d)
before the Subproject is to become effective, PDES shall fully provide its 
contribution to the Subproject cost as prescribed in paragraph 10 (a) of this Schedule; and
(e)
once the Project is cleared by BERD and BICI-GUI, and the financial 
contribution of PDES is obtained, a Subloan Agreement and/or Grant Agreement  shall be signed 
with the PDES.
III.
Terms and Conditions of Subloans and Grants Agreements
11.
BICI-GUI shall enter into an agreement with the PDES, satisfactory to the Association, 
for the making of a Subloan or Grant, the terms and conditions of such a Subloan Agreement or a 
Grant Agreement include that, PDES shall,
 inter alia
:
(a)
comply at all times with the eligibility requirements set forth in the preceding 
Page  10
paragraph;
(b)
contribute a minimum of 30% of the cost of their first Subproject, 45% of their 
second Subproject, 60% of their third Subproject, and a minimum of 75% of any subsequent 
Subproject;
(c)
carry out the Subproject with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance 
with sound technical, financial, environmental and managerial standards, and maintain adequate 
records to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources, and 
expenditures relating to the Subproject; 
(d)
procure the goods, works, and services to be financed from the proceeds of the 
Grant or the Subloan, in accordance with procedures ensuring efficiency and economy and in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to Development Credit Agreement; such goods, 
works, and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Subproject;
(e)
reserve for BERD the right to: (i) inspect by itself, or jointly with the 
Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods, works, sites, plants and construction 
included in the Subproject, the operations thereof and any relevant records and documents; (ii) 
obtain all information as the BERD, BICI-GUI, or the Association shall reasonably request 
regarding the administration, operation and financial conditions of the PDES; and (iii) suspend or 
terminate the right of the PDES to use the proceeds of the Grant or the Subloan upon the failure 
by the PDES to perform any of its obligations under the Grant Agreement or the Subloan 
Agreement; and
(f)
take out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against such 
risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business practice; and without any 
limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to the place of use 
or installation, and any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by 
the Beneficiary to replace or repair such goods.
