Page  1
1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2883 
Operation Name 
Education and Training Sector Improvement Program - ETSIP 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General education sector (60%); Vocational training (40%) 
Project ID 
P086875 
Borrower(s) 
GOVT OF THE REPUBLIC OF NAMIBIA 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION 
Ministry of Education 
Private Bag 13391 
Namibia 
Tel: 264-61-270-6307 
 Fax: 264-61-270-6100 
Justin Ellis  <jellis@mec.gov.na> 
Ministry of Education 
Private Bag 13391 
Windhoek 
Namibia 
Tel: 264-61-270-6300 
 
Ministry of Education 
Private Bag 13391 
Namibia 
Tel: 264-61-270-6133 
 
svanzyl@mhevtst.gov 
Date PID Prepared 
February 12, 2007 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
February 28, 2007 
Date of Negotiations  
Authorization 
March 7, 2007 
Date of Board Approval 
April 26, 2007 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Namibia is one of Africa’s few middle income countries with a per-capita income of US$ 3157 (2006 
est.). Since its independence on March 21, 1990, Namibia has maintained a multiparty parliamentary 
democracy, with good governance, basic civil freedoms, respect for human rights, and a fairly contained 
level of corruption. Key social indicators have also registered substantial progress. For example, 83 
percent of adults (15+ years) are literate while 90 percent of 15 to 24 year olds are literate. Net enrolment 
ratios for primary, basic, and senior secondary education are 96 percent, 95 percent and 53 percent 
respectively. Access to tertiary education and training is estimated at 11 percent. In terms of access, 
gender parity is attained at all levels of the sector. Population growth rate and the fertility rate are 
declining. Most (87%) communities have access to safe water, and to primary health care facilities. 
Namibia also has good prospects for accelerating growth.  
Despite these achievements, Namibia faces formidable development challenges. Since independence, 
growth rates have consistently fallen below government’s own projections, and short of the 5½ percent 
annual per capita growth which the United Nations estimates as necessary to cut poverty in half by 2015. 
Income inequalities are among the highest in the world (Gini coefficient 0.6). Poverty is pervasive. 
Unemployment is estimated at 34 percent and even higher for youth and for the unskilled. The incidence 
of HIV/AIDS is among the highest worldwide.  
Page  2
2
With these challenges persisting throughout the first independence decade
—1990
to 2000—the 
government articulated a broad national development reform framework in the form of Vision 2030. A 
core objective of this reform is to accelerate shared growth and to transform the economy into a 
knowledge-based economy. A core pillar of the growth strategy is to improve productivity. This will be 
attained through intensive application of knowledge and technology to increase the range and value of 
products that Namibia derives from its natural resources. Higher value-added productivity is expected to 
increase product exports, improve profitability and local investment returns, reduce domestic capital flight 
and attract foreign direct investments.  
 
The success of this growth strategy rests on Namibia’s capacity to apply knowledge and technology in 
production and its capacity to transform its natural resource based industries into knowledge-intensive 
natural resource based industries. Though Namibia, today, has the technology and infrastructure, it does 
not have the skills to apply this technology in the extension of value chains. 
 
In 2003, the government invited the World Bank to undertake a thorough analysis of its education, 
training and skills development system and recommend how it may be transformed into a more effective 
tool for supporting the national development agenda. The analysis identified key sector weaknesses as 
pertaining to: poor quality, evident in low student learning outcomes. Performance on regional sixth grade 
mathematics and reading tests is the worst among the 14 participating countries. Very high proportions of 
adults who have had primary and even secondary education are functionally illiterate. Opportunities for 
post-secondary education and training are limited. So the system cannot supply the skills required to meet 
current labor market demands and to support the future development strategy. Another major weakness is 
the inequality in the distribution of education outcomes and attainment. That makes the system a weak 
tool for redressing poverty, social inequalities and income inequalities. Other weaknesses are inefficient 
use of available resources, the weak capacity to deliver education services, and the weak response to 
HIV/AIDS. 
The government adopted recommendations of the ESW and transformed them into a 15 year sector 
strategic plan and a 5 year medium term sector program (ETSIP1) 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
The overall objective of this operation is to support the implementation of the first 2 years of Namibia’s 
Education and Training Sector Improvement Program (ETSIP1). Specific objectives of DPL1 are to 
support: (i) the development of specific policies and policy instruments to guide and give effect to 
planned sector reforms; (ii) legal instruments to enforce policy implementation; and (iii) institutional 
capacities required for effective implementation of planned sector reforms. 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The Bank’s involvement is justified first and foremost by the government’s recognition of its technical 
expertise as essential for the success of the sector reform program. A key rational for Bank involvement is 
its textured sector knowledge developed through a Bank-led ESW, technical support for the development 
of a 15 year sector strategy, and 5 year sector program. The Bank is therefore is best placed to support the 
government with the implementation of its sector reform agenda. The financial support provided by the 
Bank is essential to close the financing gap within the first two years of the program. The sustained 
involvement of the Bank during the 5 years of the program strengthens development partners’ confidence 
on the technical and substantive integrity of the government’s program. This confidence has translated 
into a rare success in the Bank’s support in raising grants and soft loans for the government program. The 
Bank’s technical and financial support provide the government an incentive to effectively implement 
Page  3
3
touch policy, legal and institutional reforms required to give effect to planned sector reforms. 
Specifically, the use of the DPL has provided a strong incentive for the government to strengthen its 
sector delivery system as well as its fiduciary systems. Bank involvement also catalyzes and sustains 
substantive collaboration, coordination and harmonization of the 13 development partners that support the 
sector. This has culminated in a MoU that expresses the framework for collaboration.  
 
4. Financing 
 
The total cost of the project is estimated to be about US$ 54 million and is expected to be financed as 
follows:  
Borrower: 
   14.87 
million 
IBRD: 
    5.25 
million 
National Development Partners   
0.8 
International Development Partners  
33.53 
million  
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
ETSIP1 will be implemented through improved GRN structures under the overall control of the Ministry 
of Education (MoE). The MoE will take overall responsibility for the implementation of DPL1 and final 
accountability for the attainment of policy outcomes supported by DPL1. The MoE will be supported by 
the Ministry of Gender Equality and Child Welfare, responsible for early childhood development aspects 
of the operation; the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, which supports the ICT aspects of the 
operation; the National Training Authority, responsible for the development of VET aspects; the National 
Council for Higher Education; the Ministry of Finance, accountable for adequate financing of the overall 
program; and the National Planning Commission,  responsible for retaining the alignment of program 
objectives to the overall strategic outlook of Vision 2030 and specific development objectives of the 
National Development Plan.  
 
Key improvements, informed by the results of a capacity assessment, include clear definition of roles and 
responsibilities and enhanced lines of accountability from the Cabinet to teachers. New institutions will 
be established and old ones elaborated to improve the delivery of early childhood development (ECD) 
programs; technical education and training (VET); tertiary education and training (TVET), HIV/AIDS 
programs (HAMU and RACE), ICTs programs, and procurement activities.  
 
6. Benefits 
and 
Risks 
 
The rationale and benefits of this operation have already been discussed above. The potential risks are:   
 
Vulnerability to external shocks:
 
Namibia’s critical sectors of the economy—mining, fisheries, tourism, 
and agriculture—are vulnerable to external shocks. Fluctuations in the contributions of these sectors may 
undermine macroeconomic stability and the GRN’s ability to sustain its currently high budget allocations 
to the sector. To reduce this risk, the GRN has put a lot of effort toward raising grant financing required 
for up-front capital investment in the sector. In addition, efficiency measures instituted under ETSIP1 
should contribute to the sustainability of recurrent cost implications of externally funded capital 
investment. Further, the MoE has developed base, medium, and high case scenarios for scaling ETSIP1 
activities up or down over the years, if compelling reasons arise.  
 
Fiduciary risk:
 Initial assessments of the GRN’s 
procurement system
 identified the following key risks: 
(i) inadequate MoE capacity to manage procurement processes, which may lead to delayed 
implementation; (ii) the low threshold for prior review by the tender board, which may delay program 
Page  4
4
implementation; and (iii) the application of price preferences within national competitive bedding in favor 
of historically disadvantaged local companies, which can lead to inefficient use of resources allocated for 
ETSIP1. These risks have been addressed through ongoing GRN procurement reforms and, through 
reforms agreed with the DPL1 team. The MoE has agreed to and is carrying out a number of steps to 
address these risks.   
 
Financial management:
 Financial management risks are (i) the weak budgeting capacity of the MoE and 
(ii) the MoF weak support and quality control of the audit function of the MoE and other ministries. The 
first is being addressed through substantial technical support to the MoE to ensure the level of accuracy in 
budgeting required under the GRN’s integrated financial management information system (IFMIS). The 
second will be addressed in detail under the country integrated fiduciary assessment (CIFA). Recent 
system assessments however, concluded that GRN procurement and FM systems are adequate for the 
delivery of direct budget support.  
 
Interest-based resistance to proposed policy reforms:
 
Some of the policy measures supported by DPL1 
might encounter resistance from powerful interest groups, such as the teachers’ unions, wealthy parents, 
and civil servants. This is particularly so for policies to improve the efficiency of resource use and 
educators’ accountability for student learning. Examples include policies to de-link teacher salary 
increases from irrelevant and un-required qualifications, the phasing out of subsidies to profit-making 
private schools, and the placing of all managers on time-bound performance contracts. To mitigate this 
risk, the GRN has maintained an inclusive consultative process with all key stakeholders. This has 
engendered better appreciation of proposed policy reforms, as well as broader support and ownership. The 
GRN and the MoE have recently shown determination and strong will to overcome pressures from 
interest groups—with the recent reversal of the decision to hike teacher entry salaries to unsustainable 
levels—and the MoE’s signing of performance contracts with headquarters-based sector managers.  
 
Implementation delays due to consultations and consensus building:
 A key cost of inclusive consultations 
is delay in making critical decisions and the resultant delay in program implementation. But the 
advantages of inclusive consultation—ownership and broad-based support for the reforms—far outweigh 
the disadvantages. In addition, the GRN has substantially reduced this risk by giving adequate lead time 
for consultations, starting in August 2004. It has also sustained the advocacy campaign for the broader 
program ETSIP1 since 2004, helping to build consensus around strategic policy reforms that could have 
been controversial.  
 
Inadequate implementation capacity:
 Mitigation measures pertain to: (i) creating a policy, legal, and 
institutional environment that will facilitate program implementation; (ii) assessing program 
implementation capacity and articulating a capacity development sub-program; (iii) frontloading capacity 
development actions; (iv) carefully sequencing activities to start with activities that are readily 
implementable and those that prepare for easier implementation downstream; (v) detailed articulation of 
implementation arrangements and implementation plans; and (v) clear system performance monitoring 
and evaluation. 
 
Potential discontinuity of financial support by one of the 13 development partners: 
 The large numbers of 
development partners that will finance ETSIP1 pose a risk of discontinuing pledged support during the 
five years of program implementation. To reduce this risk, the GRN has committed an additional annual 
US$ 16 million to close the financing gap for ETSIP1, if it should become necessary.  
 
Adverse effects of HIV/AIDS on sector performance:
 Mitigation measures include (i) introducing 
substitute teachers using the national youth service and volunteers; (ii) more curricula mainstreaming of 
Page  5
5
HIV/AIDS; (iii) introducing conditional cash grants for OVCs; and (iv) strengthening of the HIV/AIDS 
management unit (HAMU) of the Ministry and regional AIDS committees (RACE).   
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects: 
 
In general, DPL1 supports policy, legal, and institutional reforms that are meant to increase the sector’s 
contribution to accelerated and equitable growth. The operation capitalizes on the redistributive effects of 
education and training, which should lead to a significant impact on the reduction of poverty and broad 
social inequalities. Specific policies supported by DPL1 are pro-poor, and policy actions follow a pro-
poor sequence. The first key policy focuses on equity in the distribution of education resource inputs and 
outcomes. Related pro-poor actions include the: (i) adoption of a policy on per-capita financing; (ii) 
development of standards to be met by all schools; (iii) institution of conditional grants for schools that 
will not meet set standards based only on per capita funding; (iv) establishment of magnet schools in 
disadvantaged regions and the creation of admission criteria that are pro-poor; and (v) establishment of 
conditional grants for OVCs. 
 
The second policy measure is pro-poor expansion of opportunities for good quality post-basic education 
and training. Expanding access to good quality education and training will broaden the base of Namibians 
who realize the benefits of education and training. Those benefits include broader employment 
opportunities, better income, reduced fertility, enhanced social participation, enhanced absorptive 
capacity for social services including education itself, gender parity, and overall poverty reduction and 
social equity. The expansion of sustained access to quality education is therefore one of the critical 
redistributive policies that Namibia will use to facilitate the sharing of growth. In addition, the enhanced 
system capacity to respond to HIV/AIDS will add to efforts to curb the spread of HIV/AIDS and stem the 
expansion of AIDS-related orphans. During implementation, close attention will be paid to monitoring 
DPL1 benefits for the poor and the marginalized. 
 
DPL1 will benefit indigenous communities as well. DPL1 supports the setting of performance standards 
that all schools should keep, and the establishment of conditional grants to enable under-resourced 
schools to meet set standards. Following a pro-poor sequencing, the currently under-resourced schools 
that cater to indigenous people will be prime beneficiaries. These schools include satellite schools that 
respond to seasonal movements of indigenous people, multi-grade schools that respond to children of 
farm workers who are mainly indigenous people’s children, and mobile schools that respond to cattle 
herders, again mainly the children of indigenous people.  
 
An environmental impact assessment (EIA) was undertaken and it concluded that DPL1 and the parent 
program—ETSIP1—are not likely to have significant negative environmental and social impacts. 
Potential impacts may arise from the construction of new schools, VTCs, and the extension of existing 
physical facilities and associated sanitary facilities. Given the availability of land, the location of new 
schools should easily avoid ecologically and socially sensitive sites. Where this may not be possible, 
frameworks for introducing EIA and for articulating an environmental management plan have been 
articulated. Students and communities will be involved in the implementation of these plans, using the 
advocacy services for ETSIP1. School curricula already include environmental education. Namibia also 
has solid policy, legal, and institutional frameworks that guide involuntary resettlements. There is also 
solid experience in applying these instruments in the Ministries of Agriculture, Water, and Forestry, and 
in the Road Authority. In the rare event that it may be necessary, the MoE will tap these experiences.  
 
Contact point 
Contact: Mmantsetsa Marope 
Title:     Senior Education Specialist 
Tel:       5369 + 3113 
Page  6
6
Fax:      5369 + 3134 
Email: mmarope@worldbank.org 
 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
