                       INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATA SHEET
                                CONCEPT STAGE
                                                                              Report No.: AC867


Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 08/29/2005

I. BASIC INFORMATION

A. Basic Project Data

Country: Namibia                            Project ID: P086875
Project Name: Education and Training Sector Improvement Program (ETSIP)
Task Team Leader: Mmantsetsa Marope
Estimated Appraisal Date: November 14,      Estimated Board Date: January 26, 2006
2005
Managing Unit: AFTH1                        Lending Instrument: Specific Investment
                                            Loan
Sector: General education sector (60%);Vocational training (40%)
Theme: Education for the knowledge economy (P)
IBRD Amount (US$m.):           30.00
IDA Amount (US$m.):             0.00
GEF Amount (US$m.):             0.00
PCF Amount (US$m.):             0.00
Other financing amounts by source:
        BORROWER                                                     10.00
        IBRD GUARANTEE                                               25.00
                                                                     35.00


B. Project Objectives [from section 2 of PCN]
The development objectives of the sector-wide ETSIP, which will be supported partly through
this proposed Bank loan, are: (a) increased supply of the requisite skilled labor to meet current
labor market demands and to help meet the national goals for increased productivity, economic
growth, and more equitable social development; and (b) strengthened capacity to create and
apply knowledge to improve productivity in critical growth areas.

C. Project Description [from section 3 of PCN]
Program objective: (a) increased supply of skilled labor, will be achieved through the following
activities:
 Activity i: (a) equitable and improved provision of books and instructional materials; (b)
improving programs for teacher training and professional development; (c) equitable deployment
of teachers; (d) improved student assessment and system evaluation; and (e) establishment of six
senior secondary magnet schools, starting with the poorest regions.
 Activity ii: (a) effective implementation of the revised curricula; (b) substantial improvement to
the trade testing system; (c) increased enrolment in high-quality non-government vocational
training centers (VTCs) and similar centers in the region; (d) strengthening instructor training
and professional development through the polytechnic; and (e) construction of new VTCs.
  Activity iii: (a) revamping and expanding pre-entry programs especially for science;
mathematics and international communications technologies (ICTs); (b) instituting a quota
system for admitting grade 12 graduates from poorly resourced schools, who barely qualify for
entry to tertiary institutions; and (c) strengthening foundation courses in tertiary institutions.
  Activity iv: (a) articulation of student learning competencies to be acquired at each level; (b)
articulation of educator competencies required to facilitate the acquisition of learner
competencies; (c) revision of educator pre- and in-service training to meet required
competencies; (d) improvement of student assessment and system evaluation to monitor the
acquisition of competencies; and (e) increasing pro-poor access to high quality pre-primary
education through subsidies to existing and potential providers of early child development and
preprimary education services.

  Program objective: (b) strengthened capacity, will be achieved through the following activities:
  Activity v: (a) development of a national knowledge and innovation policy, strategic and legal
frameworks, and program; (b) establishment of an autonomous commission to strengthen,
support, and coordinate institutions that can implement elements of the knowledge and
innovation program; (c) establishment of a demand-led and competitive research and
development fund that focuses on strategic areas; and (d) finalization of research and
development policies and programs in tertiary education and training institutions.
  Activity vi: (a) articulation and implementation of capacity development activities that will
emerge from the ongoing assessment of the delivery capacity for the sector.

 The first year's program, including specific objectives, physical targets, monitoring indicators,
and resource requirements will be presented in sufficient detail as program preparation and the
attendant program cost estimating advance.

 World Bank financing would be made available during the six-year period 2005/6 - 2010/11, to
support ETSIP activities in the following critical areas: (i) increasing learning outcomes in basic
education; (ii) increasing the number of senior secondary school graduates with overall high
passes, and with specific high passes in mathematics, science, English and ICTs; (iii) increasing
the number of VTC graduates with passes in areas of acute skills shortage; and (iv) increasing
the number of students who qualify for entry into tertiary education and training programs,
especially those that respond to areas of acute human resources shortages.

D. Project location (if known)
The program will cover the whole of Namibia. It will be implemented by the Ministry of
Education through its central, regional, and circuit (district) offices.

E. Borrower's Institutional Capacity for Safeguard Policies [from PCN]
Namibia has environmental protection and management policies in place. However, as a new
Borrower, those management policies need to be reviewed for consistency and compliance with
the safeguards requirements of the World Bank. The Bank team, with support from ASPEN, will
assist the government in undertaking the necessary assessments and in enhancing the
effectiveness of measures to comply with the Bank's requirements.
F. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists
   Mr Cheikh A. T. Sagna (AFTH3)
   Ms Kristine Schwebach (AFTS1)
   Mr John A. Boyle (AFTS1)

II. SAFEGUARD POLICIES THAT MIGHT APPLY
Safeguard Policies Triggered                                        Yes          No         TBD
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)                                X
    The construction of vocational training centers (VTCs) and secondary schools of excellence
(magnet schools) under the Education and Training Sector Investment Program (ETSIP) triggers
the need for at least a partial environmental assessment. Since the locations of the actual
investments to be financed are not yet known, the Borrower will be asked to prepare and
environmental and social impact management framework (ESMF) that will include a screening
procedure to determine the environmental and social analyses as well as the impact management
arrangements that may be needed when those specific investments come on line.
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                     X
Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                              X
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                         X
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                                     X
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                         X
    ETSIP will promote equity in the provision of education service, especially among the
country's rural, poor, and historically disadvantaged persons--triggering this safeguard. As the
indigenous and vulnerable San people residing in many regions of the country may be affected,
an indigenous peoples plan (IPP) will be required of the Borrower. The indigenous peoples
development plan (IPDP) for the GEF-financed ecosystem management project (FY03) would be
used as a basis for developing the IPP.
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                X
    Because VTCs and magnet schools will be constructed under ETSIP, land acquisition may be
involved, triggering this safeguard. The Borrower will be required to prepare a resettlement
policy framework (RPF) that provides the principles and processes for census, consultation,
compensation, and relocation assistance to be applied should issues of land acquisition and
involuntary resettlement arise for any construction site under the program.
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                       X
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50)                                  X
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60)                                           X


Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment

III. SAFEGUARD PREPARATION PLAN

A. Target date for the Quality Enhancement Review (QER), at which time the PAD-stage ISDS
   would be prepared: 10/20/2005
B. For simple projects that will not require a QER, the target date for preparing the PAD-stage
   ISDS: N/A

C. Time frame for launching and completing the safeguard-related studies that may be needed.
The specific studies and their timing1 should be specified in the PAD-stage ISDS.
   The need for the Borrower to develop the ESMF, IPP, and RPF were identified during the
   August 2005 mission. The preparation mission of September 2005 will assist the Borrower in
   organizing for and managing the needed assessments, plan, and frameworks, in time for the
   required disclosures in-country and in the Bank in late October 2005, prior to the appraisal of
   this operation in November 2005.

IV. APPROVALS

    Signed and submitted by:
    Task Team Leader:                              Ms Mmantsetsa Marope                                           08/31/2005
    Approved by:
    Regional Safeguards Coordinator:               Mr Thomas E. Walton                                            08/31/2005
      Comments:
    Sector Manager:                                Mr Dzingai B. Mutumbuka                                        08/31/2005
      Comments:




1   Reminder: The Bank's Disclosure Policy requires that safeguard-related documents be disclosed before appraisal (i) at the
InfoShop and (ii) in-country, at publicly accessible locations and in a form and language that are accessible to potentially affected
persons.
