Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2910 
Project Name 
Education and Training Sector Improvement Program 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General education sector (60%);VET (30%), Higher Educ. (10%) 
Project ID 
P086875 
Borrower(s) 
GOVT OF THE REPUBLIC OF NAMIBIA 
Implementing Agency 
 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
X] B   [] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[
]
S
2
[
]
S
3
[
]
S
F
[
]
TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
July 14, 2005 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
November 14, 2005 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
January 26, 2006 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
Development challenges. 
Namibia is a middle income country that has a lot of characteristics of low 
income countries. Despite very high levels of investment (8.1% of the GDP), the education and training 
system is unable to produce the number, quality, levels, and types of human resources required to meet 
current labor market demands, and to su
pport the government’s economic growth and social development 
strategy. This is in spite of impressive levels of access to general education— 83% adult literacy rate, 
90% and 50% primary and secondary education net enrolment ratios respectively—and about 10% gross 
enrolment ratio at the tertiary level. Skills shortage contributes to the notable decline in total factor 
productivity; poor local investment return; substantial domestic capital flight, low inflows of foreign 
direct investment (FDIs), poor competitiveness, and ultimately slow economic growth. Since 1993, the 
average GDP growth has consistently fallen short of projections. Poverty and social inequalities are 
among the highest recorded. This slow growth frustrates efforts to reduce poverty, social inequalities, and 
unemployment. About 35% of the population lives on less than US$1.00 per day. Nearly 56% lives on 
less than US$2.00 per day. The Gini coefficient is estimated at 0.70, against a per capita income of US$ 
2370
1
.
The lowest income quintile of the population holds only 2% of the income compared to 67% by 
the highest quintile. The Human Development Index (HDI) declined from 0.734 in 1996 to 0.607 in 2002; 
partially owing to the impact of HIV/AIDS on life expectancy. The prevalence of HIV/AIDS among 
young adults (15-24 years) is estimated at 20%. Against unmet demand for skilled labor, the average 
unemployment
2
rate is about 34% or 20% using broad or strict measures
3
.
Unemployment is highest 
among the unskilled (56%), and youth (40%).  
 
Donor support, rationale for Bank involvement and relevance to the CAS: 
 
Rationale for Bank involvement
.
Current Bank engagement in Namibia is modest; focusing mainly on 
grants and on knowledge outputs. The education sector loan will be the first in the portfolio. There is no 
CAS at present. A country economic report (CER) intended to strengthen strategies for accelerating 
growth, employment, and the reduction of poverty and social inequalities is being developed.  
1
2005 estimate 
2
These statistics apply only to formal wage employment.  
3
The broad measure includes people of eligible age who as unemployed irrespective of whether or not they are 
looking for jobs; while the strict measure includes only those who are actively looking for jobs. 
Page  2
The concept note for the CER highlights the role of the sector in addressing these development 
challenges. The ETSIP will enable the sector to better contribute to the attainment of national 
development goals as captured in 
Vision 2030,
 national development plans (NDPs) and the 
Poverty 
Reduction Strategy for Namibia
.
These goals are: acceleration and knowledge-driven economic growth; 
reduction of poverty and social inequalities; employment creation; and curbing the spread of HIV/AIDS. 
 
The Bank is best placed to provide the requested technical and financial support because of its 
technical 
sector knowledge, 
which was strengthened during the upstream ESW, the follow up support for the 
development of the strategic plan and ongoing program development. Country specific sector knowledge 
is buttressed by the overa
ll institution’s international experience in supporting clients to develop and 
implement comprehensive sector improvement programs. The Bank can therefore bring to bear 
comparative global knowledge, some of it from middle income countries that sought to become globally 
competitive by strengthening their education and training systems. The Bank’s technical support will 
enable the government to 
justify and adopt politically difficult reforms
,
as well as to 
leverage grant 
financing from DPs
.
Bank support will also promote 
balanced development of the sector
,
which is 
crucial for a country that needs to develop human resources of diverse levels and types. This will be 
attained by increasing allocations to currently under-financed areas like: senior secondary education, 
VET, R&D, and knowledge and innovation. These areas are strategic not only for producing the skills and 
expertise required by a KBE, but also for producing the human resources required to develop lower levels 
of the education and training system. Current donor support is skewed toward basic education. The EC 
and SIDA provide direct budget support to the sector, but within current allocations where secondary 
education, vocational education and training, teacher training, and research and development are 
significantly under-resourced. Direct support for basic education is provided by USAID, GTZ, the 
Luxemburg government, UNICEF, UESCO, and UNDP; with the latter also supporting the 
 
 
 
strengthening of delivery capacity within the sector. Two of the most significant donors; SIDA and 
USAID are scheduled to withdraw their support by 2007 and 2010 respectively.  
 
As the Bank becomes a key player in the sector, it can use its convening capability, to improve not only 
the 
coherence and balance of the sector development program
,
but to also strengthen 
government-led 
partnerships for the development of the sector
.
The inclusive and participatory approach of the ESW has 
begun to strengthen these partnerships. Bank financing will meet 
the need to
 
close the financing gap
.
Simulations of the resource requirements for the strategic plan show a financing gap of about US$ 300 
million or about 9% of the required resources over a fifteen-year period.  
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
Specific program development objectives will be: (i) a pro-poor increase the proportion of senior 
secondary school graduates with high passes, especially in mathematics, science, ICTs, and English; (ii) 
increase in the proportion of VTCs graduates with high passes in areas of skills shortage; (iii) a pro-poor 
increase in the number and quality of intake in tertiary education and training institutions, especially for 
courses that address current labor market shortages; (iv) a pro-poor increase the proportion of learners 
that meet the agreed standard of learning achievement within each basic education cycle; (v) development 
and articulation of the policy, legal, institutional, and financing frameworks required to support the 
development of a national knowledge and innovation systems; and (vi) implementation of capacity 
development activities that emerge from the ongoing assessment.      
 
3. Preliminary description 
Program objectives will be attained through the following activities:  
Objective i: 
(a) equitable and improved provision of books and instructional materials, (b) improving 
programs for teacher training and professional development; (c) equitable deployment of teachers;  
Page  3
(d) improved student assessment and system evaluation; and (e) establishment of six senior secondary 
magnet schools, starting with the poorest regions. 
Objective ii: 
(a) effective implementation of the revised curricula; (b) substantial improvement to the 
trade testing system, (c) increased enrolment in high quality non-government vocational training centers 
(VTCs) and similar centers in the SADC region; (d) strengthening instructor training and professional 
development through the polytechnic; and (e) construction of new VTCs.  
Objective iii:
 (a) revamping and expanding pre-entry programs especially for science; mathematics and 
ICTs; (b) instituting a quota system for the admitting grade 12 graduates from poorly resourced schools 
who barely qualify for entry to tertiary institutions; (c) strengthening foundation courses in tertiary 
institutions.  
Objective iv
:
clear articulation of student learning competencies to be acquired at each level; (b) clear 
articulation of educator competencies required to facilitate the acquisition of learner competencies; (d) 
revision of educator pre- and in-service training to meet required competencies; (e) improvement of 
student assessment and system evaluation to monitor the acquisition of competencies; (d) increasing pro-
poor access to high quality pre-primary education through subsidies to existing and potential ECD and 
preprimary providers.   
Objective (v):
 (a) development of a national knowledge and innovation policy, strategic and legal 
frameworks, and program; (b) establishing an autonomous commission to strengthen, support to, and 
coordination of institutions that can implement elements of the knowledge and innovation program; (c) 
establishing a demand-led and competitive R&D fund that focus on strategic areas; and (d) finalize 
research and development policies and programs in tertiary education and training institutions. 
Objective (vi):
 (a) articulation and implementation of capacity development activities that will emerge 
from the ongoing assessment of the delivery capacity for the sector.  
 
Details of the first year’s program, objectives, indicators, target and budget will be articulated as program 
preparation and costing advances.  
 
The proposed operation will support the sector program within the context of a sector-wide approach 
(SWAP). Prospects for success are good. Overall, Namibia has a sound tradition of planning, starting with 
the broad national 
Vision
,
national development plans and their mid-term reviews, published budgets, 
mid-term expenditure framework (MTEF), and performance-based mid-term plans (MTPs). The sector 
policy is nested within these broader plans. A comprehensive 15-year sector strategy is now in place. A 
detailed articulation of the first three-year program; its costing; and implementation arrangements are 
proceeding in earnest. Although the government’s leadership requires strengthening, there is a fairly 
established system for donor coordination. Joint annual reviews (JARs) are held to monitor performance 
against agreed sector development indicators. Key DPs and the government are committed to a 
programmatic approach to sector development. Both the government and DPs prefer for the Bank to 
deliver its support within a SWAP. Moreover, the government has requested the Bank to sustain TA for 
the implementation of the program; and not just the Bank-financed components. Fairly good budgeting, 
financial management, accounting and procurement systems seem to be in place, but these need 
confirmation through the Bank’s assessments; which will be launched soon. The EC and SIDA already 
support the sector through direct budget support.  
 
4. 
Safeguard policies that might apply 
[
The next preparation/pre-appraisal mission will assess the scope of the expected construction work and 
its possible environmental and social impact. The assessment will be conducted with a view to ensure 
compliance with safeguard policies
 ]
 
Page  4
5. Tentative 
financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 10 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
30 
IBRD GUARANTEE 
 
 Total 
40 
 
6. Contact 
point 
Contact: Mmantsetsa Marope 
Title: Sr Education Spec. 
Tel:  (202) 473-7240 
Fax: (202) 473-8299 
Email: mmarope@worldbank.org 
 
WB177867 
C:\Documents and Settings\wb177867\My Documents\Namibia\HC&KD for EGE Project\Namibia PCN\Project Information Document - 
Concept Stage 6-30-04.doc 
July 21, 2004 1:31 PM 
 
