Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6557
PROJECT (COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA  - I1DI PUBL.IC/JOINT SECTOR  PROJECT
(LOAN  1511-TN)
December 19, 1986
Tndriutrial De elopmtent and Finance ')ivi sicBn
SoTith As i a Pro' ic t s Department
Thi% document ha% a restricted distribution and ryaw bt used hb recipients onlx in tht, perforniancce tif
their official duties. Its eontents man   not otherwise be disclosed  Aithout Aorld  Harik authori,ation.



ACRONYMS
BPRF    -        Business Plan and Resource Forecast
DFr     -        Development Finance Institutions
EDP     -        Entrepreneurial Development Program
ED1     -        IBRD - Economic Development Institute
cIc     -        General Insurance Corporation
COI     -        Government of India
ICICI   -        Industrial. Credit and Investment Corporation of India.
[DBI    -        Industrial Development Bank of India
TFCI    -        Industrial Finance Corporation of India
IRBI    -        Industrial Reconstruction Bank of India
LIC     -        Life Insurance Corporation of India
NIlD    --       No-lindustry District
RBI     -        Reserve Bank of India
SF'C    -        State Finance Corporation
STDC    -        State Industrial Development Corporation 1!
Si LC    -       Stare Industrial Investment Corporation  7
W'CC    -        rechnical Consultancy Organization
U '.   U- Unit Trustc o)t India
CUJRRENCY EQUIVAILENTS
"S$ '..00 = Rs 12.50 (July 85)
RA;. 1   = USS0.083
Dalring .'e disbursemen!. peri)d    this Pro;ect (July 1, 1980 - November 30,
.'384', .he excharnge rate ranged from Rs. 7.90 to Rs. 12.36 =US$1.00.  The
avora rd rate was Rs. 9.78   US$'..0.
r SC, 'mYA Y`RS
(,)1nSd      Ap)r - Apri I - I    ;4r-rh .31
.u,   - !!v  !  - _aile .30



LFOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLtD BiANK
Washington, DC 20431
U S A
O#ce of DOtectcvCAeneral
Operatorm Evakithnm
Decemt r 19, 1986
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRES.DENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report: India - IDBI Public/Joint Sector
Project (Loan 1511-IN)                                 _
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report: India - IDBI Public/Joint Sector Project (Loan 1511-IN)"
prepared by the South Asia Projects Department. Under the modified system
for project performance auditing further evaluation of this proJect by the
Operations Evaluation Department has not been made.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distributton and may be used by recipients only in the performance
ox their offic!al duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witnout World Bank authorizationI



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION  REPORT
INDIA - IDBI PUBLIC/JOINT SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 1511-IN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE  ......................................                 .....................           i
BASIC DATA SHEET  .. ............               .....             ...... *** ......t.i
HIGHLIGHTS  .........,.,.,.............ss   ..........iv
I.  INTRODUCTION .................. #...o .............                                       I 
Ii .  THE ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT                 ............................. ........          2
III.   THE INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK FOR INDUSTRIAL FINANCE  ...........                          4
IV.   IDBI's ROLE AND BANK GROUP OBJECTIVES  ... ...............                  ...          6
Background  ........  ...... ... ..............              ..........  .#**          6
Evolution of the Public/Joint Sector Project  .................                         7
Project Objectives  ............... ......#.so ..........                               8
V.  UTILIZATION OF THE BANK LOAN .................................                          10
Rate of Utilization and Project Review Process  ..........0 ....                       10
Subproject Characteristics  and Performance  ...................                       13
VI.  INSTITUTIONAL ASPECTS  ...... ..              ............. t  ............              18
IDBI and the All-India Consortium                  .       .........                  18
Institution Building at the State Level  . ...............                             19
Technical Assistance  Impact  .............                .................           21
VII.   OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE  .............. ..........                        23
IDBI    oo. . . . . . . . . . . . . . ........................ ,,o,,                  25
SIDCs/SIICs  .........                                              ,                 29
VIII. THE BANK GROUP'S ROLE                ..              .......................             31
TX.  SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS                      ....................   32
This document has a restricted distribution and ma) be used by recipients only :n the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank auihorization,



ANNEXES
I.   Schedule of Estimated and Actual Disbursements .....           .............  35
II.   Total Disbursements  ...........................................  36
III.   Appraisal Review of 'A' Subprojects .............................  39
IV.   Summary of Subproject Performance and Status .40
V. Names of SIDCs/SIICs .42
VI.  SIDCs and other Financial Institutions .                                     44
- Operational Trends
- Share of Joint Sector Projects
VII.   SIDCs Trends in Industrywise Assistance and Flow of
Assistance to Backward Areas .45
VIII.   SIDCs Sectorwise Flow of Assistance and Purposewise Sanctions
of Assistance ................ 46
IX.   SIDCs Financial Position, Income and Expenditure, and Key
Performance Indicators .47
X.   SIDCs Trends in Business and Growth, and Resource Mix.                     48
XI.   SIDCs Sanctions and Disbursements 1978-84 .......................  49
XII.   SIDCs T'rend in Arrears 1978-84 . ................................  50
XIII.    SIDCs Collection Performance 1982-84 ..............1..........
XIV.   SIDCs Debt Service Coverage 1978-84 .............................  5a
XV.   Summary of Status of Institutional Upgrading Program for
S[DCs/SIlCs .........                                                      53
XVI.    IDBI - Consoilidated Balance Sheet and Synopsis of Growth of
Operations 1975/76 - 1983/84 .54
XVII.   IDBI - Principal Sources and Use of Funds 1978 - 1985 ..... .....  55
XVIII:.   IDBI - Key Performance Indicators ...............................  57
XIX.   List of Documents for Project Completion Report .            ..             5
Ar'TACHMENT
Comments Received trom, the Borrowe 59



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA - IDBI PUBLIC/JOINT SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 1511-IN)
PREFACE
This report reviews the achievements under the public/joint sector
project of the Industrial Development Bank of India, which was supported by
Loan 1511-IN.  The appraisal of the Project was made in December 1976.  The
Loan of US$25 million was signed on March 1, 1978, and became effective
May 31, 1978, w;.h final disbursements processed by November 1984.  The
origirnal Closing Date (March 31, 1983) was extended by one year to allow all
disbursements on ongoing subprojects to be made.  A remaining unused balance
of US$1.4 million was cancelled on July 23, 1985.
This report focuses on the relationship of the Bank Group wiLh IDBi's
direct lending activity relating to the state public/joint sector in which
State Industrial Development Corporations (SIDCs), State Industrial
Investment Corporations (SIICs) and Public Sector Corporations with majority
state-government equity holdings, functioned as industrial entrepreneurs, or
as project promoters together with private entrepreneurs. The all-India
financial institutions, Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
(ICICI), Industrial Finance Corporation of India (IFCI) and IDBI provided
local financing for the public/joint sector subprojects under consortium
arrangements in which each of them assumed lead-management for individual
projects which received foreign-exchange resources under Lcan 1511-IN.
The PCR was written by staff of the Regional IDF Division following a
project completion mission to India in June 1985. IDBI staff provided the
mission with comprehensive analytical comments and relevant data for incor-
poration in the PCR. The PCR, however, is the sole responsibility of Bank
staff based on information provided by IDBI, selected SIDCs/SlICs and project
units, as well as relevant reports, correspondence and interviews during Fhe
pr-paration and execution of the project. A file index of source materi
which is part of the Project Implementation File, is attached as Annex XiX.
Comments received from the Borrower have been taken into account as
appropriate in finalizing the report and are reproduced as an Attachment.
This project has not been audited by the Operationc; Evaluariwn
!,eart ¶ntfl5 .



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA - IDBI PUBLIC/JOINT SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 1511.-IN)
BASIu DATA SHEET
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal
Estimate        Actual
(US$ Million)
Loan Amount                                              25.0           25.0
Disbursed                                                25.0           23.6
Cancelled                                                 -              1.4
Repaid as of 4/30/86                                                     9.3
Outstanding as of 4/30/86                                               14.4
Proportion of Time Overruns (Z)                                         34.0%
Financial Performance
IDBI                                                               Satisfactory
SIDCs                                                               Generally
Unsatisfactory
Generally
Subprojects Financed                                              Unsatisfactory
Institutional Performance
IDBI    -  General Institutional Performance                       Satisfactory
IDBI/ICICI/IFCI  - Project Related Performance                     Disappointing
SIDCs/SIICs                                                         Generally
Unsatisfactory



- iii -
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Firs' Mention in Files                              - 05/01/75
Negotiations                                        - 12/77
Board Approval                                      - 01/19/78
Loan Agreement                                      - 03/01/78
Effectiveness                                       - 05/31/78
Subloan Commitment                                  - 09/30/81
Loan Closing (Original)                             - 03/31/83
Loan Closing (Actual)                               - 03/31/84
Botrower                                            - Government of India
Executing Agency                                    - IDBI
Fiscal Year of Borrower (COI)                       - April i - March 31
Fiscal Year of Executing Agency (IDBI)              - July 1  - June 30
Fiscal Year of State Government Agencies (SIDCs) - April 1 - March 31
MISSION DATA
No. of         No. of            Man-           Date of
Month/Year                Weeks           Persons          Weeks          RepoL:
Appraisal I          5/75          2                4               8           11/18/75
Reappraisal          3/76          3                5              15            5/20/76
Appraisal If        12/76                           5              1(            1/05/78
Supervision I      6-7,'78         2                2               4           8/08/78
Supervision r1       6/79          2                2               4            7/24/79
Supervision III      5/80          3                l               3           5/30/80
Supervision IV       4/81          3                2               6           5/29/81
Supervision V        4/83         1/2               1              1/2          5/31/83
Supervision Vi    1-2/84           1                3               3           2/24/84
Supervision VI;I     7/84          2                2               4           8/17/84
Supervision VIII    6/85          4                 1               4            7/30/84
COUNTRY EXCHANGE RATES
(Indian Rupee!s)
.ia. j>'.ir- A7-fge  9763              I US$1 =. 42
A.Werven,ng  ears' A.,erage ;978   -94  -  uS =     19).30
;.omrn    -r ttr A.Xr,re 1S -  'S$1   12 .00



- iv -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA - IDBI PUBLIC/JOINT SECT'OR PROJTECT
(LOAN 1511-IN)
iHIGHLICHTS
In 1975, the Government of India (GOI) approached the Bank Group t3r
assistance for IDBI in its direct lending activity which at that t:ime va; Orlv1
about 23% of its overall lending operations that consisted primarily  t
refinancing and bill. rediscounting.  IDBI had been designated by G() -i:, expaiBd
its role in direct financing of state level public and joint sector
projects. 1/ IDBI did not have direct access to foreign exchange resource.
other Lhan those from the Bank Group's two earlier SMI lending operatiun t
(Credit 356-IN and Loan 1260-IN).  The major share of Bank Croup aSSii Ljnc  Ilr
private sector industrial development was extended to the TndLIstri,1l Cradit and
I:ivestment Corporation of India (ICICI) with1 which the BaTdk G:eroup had (i i,i pyli
close relations in eleven lending operations aggregating UJS$410.0 milii   ty
1975 (para 4.03).
A Bank Group lending operation in which IDBI would fuoc.        1       t
lender of foreign exchange tor state public and joint sector indusLrjii
projects was thought to offer an opportunity to complement ongoing Bank (!")rUp
assistance to the private sector through ICICI, and to SMI t.hroug tli 0 tW' WI '
lending operations, in which IDBI tunctioned as apex institutioni.  il)i
proposed role in screening a large pipeline of porent.ial. projecti, prm<.eod iv
state-governments and/or any ot the twenty-six State Industriai
Development/Investment Corporations (S!.DCs/SIlCs) together with pri;are
entrepreneurs, was seen as an effort to inject protessic nal appraisat rw -,d
into the state-level investment planning process.  IDBI was also exp':.t&:
play a role in upgrading the institutional per:ormano:e ol t)e tventi-:X
SIDCs/SIICs, similar to its role in the ongoing Bank Group support ed pq,,rnd 1dn
program for the eighteen SFCs under Credtt 356-TN and I.oan 1260-IN (virr;  .
and 4.04).
The main objecti.ves of the Bank''; US$25.0 mi.! ion lendidng  poor;at.-;
for public/joint sector projects (Loan 1511-IN), which was- approved i)
January 1978, were therefore to support IDBI's direct lending pro4rarr ,...
target group through provision ) t fnre gn exC.oange; !e    sop:rr  i
upgrading of the STDCs/SIICs; and to promot.e improvements in St.e-Lowei
industrial investment planning throug  financing of ;ectorni  ;,udii iw
project preparation reports to be commissioned by the 3i¼Cs,Si C           r   '..i)' -
g .  yj-r:  ,   -' . i
*;t .+ +.0 .gZ!;( .*.>.1. >Xi     



I                           ~~~~~~~~- v -
4.07). In the use of funds from Loarn 1511-IN IDBI collaborated under consor-
tium arrangements with ICICI and with the Industrial Finance Corporation of
India (IFCI). Each of these institutions provided local financing for
individual subprojects in the target group, and assumed lead-management respon-
sibility for a number of subprojects that received foreign-exchange resources
t:hrough IDBI under the Bank Loan (paras 5.02 and 5.05).
lhe experience in the use of Bank funds for public/joint sector
projects has been disappointing.  Major problems arose because of unexpected
difficulties in identif'.cation and selection of suitable subprojects during a
slowdown in public/joint sector investment activity (paras 5.01 and 5.02),
implementation delays, and cost overruns (para 5.04). Disbursements were
delayed by about two years against appraisal estimates and an amount of
US$1.4 million was cancelled after a one year extension of the Clo ing Date.
In the state public sector, funds were used essentially for supplementary
financing of alr2ady ongoing expansion schemes with little, if any, impact trom
the financial institutions on the design of these subprojects ba,ed on com-
prehensive analysis of subsectoral c.rcumstances.  The objective of improving
state-level investment planning through a rigorous screening process from a
large pipeline of potential projects, in conjunction with preparation of
studies related to public/joint sector investment potential, was not achieved
(paras 5.11 and 5.12).
The perfo;mance of joint sector projects was extremely poor despite
selection of experienced private sector cosponsors by the SIDCs/SIICs. A
majority ot subprojects are in financial difficulties and required debt res-
cheduling or supplementary financial assistance by the financial institutions.
Future viability of most of the new ventures is not yet solidly based. Higher
than expected commercial risks, sectoral poLicy changes. the impact of indirect
taxes on competitiveness, increasingly more liberalized imports, and con-
straints in working capital finance have substantially affected the initial.
performance of these subprojects (paras 5.14 - 5.19).  The overaLl pro ect
experience did not demonstrate that Bank financing was essential and that it
could catalyze a more effective industrial investment planning process at the
state level through support of public/joint sector development.
With respect :o the institut.ion-building component, the public/joint
sector pro ject confirmed the concLusions reached in the PPAR/PCR on Credit.
356-IN and Loan 1260-EN, issued in June 1984, that the Bank Group overestimated
the abiLity of IDBI to bring about drastic improvements in efficiency of opera-
tians and rnanagement of stat.e level financial institutions, and in their
creditworthiness. Lack of supportive action by state governments for requiired
instit:tlr.;lonal chanw,es, and  i beral provi sion ot retr:nancing by lD[EI wvithout
ot.ric. conditionality lVnk.ed t.o improvements in colilecr.ion rat:es at toe
'IDCs'SEC; conntribuh.ed to a general. deteriorati_.n in t:heir financial
;errorrna co, dic;pi te P uh/starrial eiforts ot ILBL to a- sri;t  n;e  02  at :ons
.1I F  rIz.'.i: ., ' t tl  <j    r ! t;S; :onae  .capFa,x : i v  (n'a  ra.; s.t:)p - b.D'), '.I3 - 7.IU).



- vi -
Several lessons can be learned from this project:
Se1Iction of individual subprojects and carget groups for financing
requires a more comprehensive analysis of subsectoraL circumstances
taking into account the impact of indirect taxes on competitiveness
with imports, frequent changes in price regulations and import regimes,
economies of size and the importance of subsectoral linkages in the
assessment of market prospects for new ventures. The recent shifts in
Indian industrial policy to foster greater internal and external com-
petition suggest the need to assess the efficiency of proposed projects
in relation to world standards and the likelihood of a more competitive
future economic environment (para 5.19);
Improvements in operational efficiency and creditworthiness of state
level financial institutions require more forceful. action by state
governments and should not be postponed through continuous recourse to
IDBI as a lender of last resort (paras 7.15-7.16);
Because of significant changes in the pattern of resource flows for
industrial activity (paras 3.03 and 3.04), future Bank Group support of
industrial development through financial intermediaries in [ndia
requires a more comprehensive analysis of the roles that these instit:u-
tions carn effectively play, as part of increasingly diversified firan-
cial markets; and
Bifurcation of the financial sector through direct access by large and
established industries to credit and capital markets, and increasing
dependence of medium and small scale industry, as well as new ventures,
without adequate repayment capacity,on support of financial institu-
tionis could create serious resource problems in the financial system,
both at the state and the national level (paras 7.06, 7.07, 7.15-7.16,
and 7.19-7.20).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA - IDBI PUBLIC/JOINT SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 1511-IN)
r. INTRODUCTION
1.01    The Bank Group's relationship with the Industrial. Development Biankt o'
India (IDBI) started in 1973 with an IDA Credit. (Cr. 356-IN) ot
US$25.0 mil.lion, which represented one of t.he Bank Group's tirst project>  irn
small and medium scale industry.  IDBI was the apex institution th::-ough 'hiEch
IDA funds were channeled to India's 18 State Finance Corporation; (SFCs) for
the financing of small and medium scale industry (SMI).  A seco.n-,d liasnk ledi'Lng
operation of US$40.0 million, approved in 1976, was used tor the same purpo!se.
In each case, t:he Bank Group made its funds available to IDBI thrrough t.he
Government of India (GOI).  1D)8I was selected as exect;ting agencv and inter-
mediary for these two projects because i.t was al ready provi.ding i oca  rolinan
ing for the lending operations of the SFC's.  1D)B1 was considered to be in a
good position, on the basis of its equity shares in the SHCs !o eCxert. rinanriil
discipline on these sLate--Level tinancial. institat ions and to) provi0e  techrllcai
assistance to them through an institutional upgrading progrram whi th Ihe silik.
Group support.ed.
1.02    In 1975, before full evaluation of the experience with.  sese two ;M1
p -oiects, GOI approached the Bank Group for assistance to support. l)BI's direct.
lending activities for medium-sized induscrial projects in the public arid J.oifnt
state-level sector 1/.  In May 1978, Loan 1511-iN in t.he amount o) US$2'i.0
mi lion became effective; it carries an interest rate of 7.45''. and is repayable
in accordance with composite amortization schedul-es ot subLoans With ULi)    15
years maturity including maximulm t:hree years grace.  It. was ,1sigr>d  2 pr.2;l
toreign-exchange resources for subprojects in the public! .  ot  ..vr   n
by state government owned industrial corporations, as majority sharrnhold;r ,
and by State Industrial Development Corpora ions (SIDCs"SliCs) li  :IIu'ur> ion
wit.h private entrepreneurs.  IDBl. was chosen as the C-oord i naL i .1/g agericy 
ensure 3elecrion of high-prioritv projects at the state-le7ell ar-d V 0  r,rrrl,)[
instituc;onal upgrading Of the SIDCs/SITCS s;imri  oir r   rl '   iJ
side.
St ae publ ic sector urn t.s are citIri e  as iunder L i Ki.    w  oV  imuir; 
t eo~ dt8)*i g  i   st ; t i.,':TEI V   V;110                   ,  .2    ,>1     . ' '
) s' ~          , ;  p                              .   )i ' i 'r.    ,



-2-
1.03    A Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) was issued on June 12, 1984
which covered the experience of the Bank Group's relationship with IDBI under
the two previous lending operations (Credit 356-IN and Loan 1260-IN) directed
towards the small and medium scale industry sector through on-lending to the
SFCs. This PCR reviews the experience of the Bank Group and IDBI in the
implementation of the public/joint sector project and the development of their
relationship during the period 1978-85. It focuses on the selection and per-
formance of the subprojects financed under the Loan 1511-IN and on the achieve-
ments in institution-building with respect to the 26 SIDCs/SIICs covered by
IDBI's institutional development program and supported through the technical
assistance component of the loan.
TI. THE ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT
2.01    India has grown more rapidly in the past ten years than in any previous
decade since the early 1950s, and came through the difficult period since the
first oil shock in 1973 without major economic disruptions. However, it is
widely recognized that the industrial sector failed to play a leading role in
the favorable growth performance of the last ten years. India adjusted to the
fi..st oil price increase mainly through additional export growth supported by
appropriate exchange rate and domestic policies which resulted in improved
industrial and overall economic growth. In 1979, at the time of the second
major oil price increase the major response was successful import substitution
in foodgrains and especially petroleum. However, at that time the real
exchange rate appreciated and exports as well as industrial and overall growth
declinec.  Industry's contribution to CDP stagnated as annual growth of output
barely kept up with GDP growtn. Some of the particular characteristics of
industrial performance in the past decade alre..dy began to emerge in the mid-
sixties.  TChe initially high growth of the industrial sector gradually declined
from 8% in the late fifties to middle sixties to less than 6% during the decade
of the seventies, and rt around 2% in the first years of the current decade.
Underlying these trends were dteclining factor productivity, implying a steady
deterioration in efficiency of resource use. Positive factor prcductivity
growth in relacively few industries was offset by negative or zero gtowth in
others.  The long-term objectives of industrialization--accelerated growth and
productivity improvement--therefore remain as pressing to-day as at the begin-
ning of the current decade.
2.02    TFhe major industrial policy instruments used in the period 1973-83 to
overcome the impediments to industrial growth were in the areas of pricing and
distribution, licensing and technology.  The dismantling of some price control;
during  974-76 was a major step in encouraging better performance in key
industries. in cement, increased retention prices, followed by partial
decontrol of distribution, encouraged fresh investments in the  ;ector.  Ir,
textiles, price and distribution control over cheaper varieties ot c!oth
produced by private mills; was abandoned.  ProduLct controtL fJr mini  steel pPa t 
was relaxed and captive power gene-ation widely permitted.  Ihe e decis.pio
contribulted ti mproved lit1 ilzaticn ort 1)rmestic capac.ty, ,nd rhereby rin:ainJ
ir,p rrAri.¢..   ndia W.ta, however, Lci.n-  siccesstul dir nil  0:;  Iht   c4e& r



-3-
stimulating production and productivity through liberalization of licensing.
The impact of measures taken to encourage modernization and exports was essen-
tially reduced through cumbersome administration. Restrictions on use and
growth of capacity, introduced in the early 1970s to regulate market power,
remained intact. They were further reinforced by other dimensions of control
such as increasing the number of products "reserved'' for exclusive production
by small-scale units, and enlarging the list of industries subject to special
regulation. A positive aspect of policy change was the liberal implementation
of policies regulating technology purchase and foreign investment resulting in
sharp increases in collaborations and foreign financial participations.
Investment was also stimulated through fiscal concessions, increased
availability of resources through the public financial institutions, and
flexible policy administration in the capital market, which assumed a growing
role in meeting the resource requirements of the established industrial
enterprises.
2.03    Against this general background, the pattern of industrial activity
during the period of implementation of the Public/Joint Sector
Project (1979-84) is characterized by the major setback to Indian industry at
the beginning of the period, when manufacturing stagnated and capacity utiliza-
tion slipped to the low levels of the early seventies. The second oil shock of
1979 was severely compounded by widespread failure of the monsoon, resulting in
a sharp decline in agricultural production. Consequent decline in inputs for
important agro-industries depressed demand in rural areas for major consumer
goods.  The drought also influenced production through crippling :nfrastruc-
tural bottlenecks in power and transportation. The power crisis in turn led to
sho?tages in production of steel, coal and cement. Fortunately, external
reserves were initially ample because of large infiows of workers' remittances
and continuation of foreign aid disbursements. In addition GOI negotiated a
three year program with the IMF using the Extended Fund Facility to stem the
decline in reserves. Domestic constraints thus coincided with ample foreign
currency resource availability at the beginning of the period. As liberaliza-
tion of imports began to spread wider in subsequent years, competitive pres-
sures on Indian industry began to develop, which increasingly revealed the need
for modernization through technology-upgrading, rationalization and foreign
collaboration arrangements to improve capacity utilization, efficiency and
product quality.
2.04    Since 1983, concern with India's industrial performance has led COI
to reasses its industrial strategy and the related system of controls. During
the past few years, a more pragmatic approach to industrial development has
been manifested, with emphasis on improving infrastructure, balancing and
modernization in key industries, reducing capacity licensing controls and
relaxing trade restrictions. Implementation of the Public/Joint Sector
Project, which started during the critical period of 1979/80, reflects essen-
tially the background oi slow in ustrial investment activiLy at the beginning
of rhe period, critical bottlenecks in infrastructure leading to sub!;tantial
project implementation delays, and more recent. efforts at mrodcrnizatiorn,
-hrough tpecrnnlopy upgradi ng and restructarin   rl subsEctrrs ';;UCh aIS paper
mariifact,url rv, ezlectr-ir cs and loali ily consumer goods (see C.hapter V).



-4-
III. THE INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK FOR INDUSTRIAL FINANCE
3.01     The Indian industrial finance system consists essentially of four
groups of public-sector financial institutions which provide long term invest-
ment  loans to industry; and the commercial banks which provide short and medium
term facilities, often in consortium arrangements with the financial
jnstit.utions. 'I'wo groups ot the financial institutions operate on the all
i.ndia-level, and are controlled by the Federal Covernment. These are:
(a)  The _evelnptnent Finance  Institutions
IndLustrial Finance Corporation of India (.iFCI);
Industrial Credit and investment Corporation of India (ICCIC); and
L-odust:rial Development Bank of India (IDBI); and
(h)  The Invest.ment lnstitutions
i!nit Trust c't India (UT[
- Lite Lnsurance Corpotaiiotn of India ([IC); and
General  insurance Corporation of India (GIC)
Tle  i.hler two groups ot institutions operate at the state-level and are
controlled by the State Covernmenits, these are:
(a)  'T'he State Finance Corporations (SFCs)
'ir,ht.een (..f T.hese  n 'tLtut .ons are in operation in the respective
.;ates and  rerritori.es to meet. the f3inancial requtrement s oi small arnd
med ijm sjize- enterprises; and
ih)  'he  r a',rte Industrial Development/or Investment Corporatiorns
( S  i / ST D&; )
werienty-six or these inst' Lut ions are iln operation in Lhe respect Iie
,t.ates and t.erriLories  t(j promote  .nvestments in mneditim-siz.e
tuilLerpciFses and to assist them in entreprere.ur al uc''el :;nmen: t.hrou-i.
tinancing and equltv-partic,pations.
3f)2 (l; S verakt- I  ages exi,*(t bet.ween these  iStituti"S            t h e  api.?x
':cO.cq   u  hpCne!lt Sla!k, ib)3i cor~rd.'inar-es and SUpervises  the pIi  u.  r   all otrhor
rI1Cv,I i 0:; ut.L 'crs to en.ure that they p laV a murtlalv    nmtlementarv role
:Ir T .        '1,M, i  ,)r,.;. ,c.  ,                     remeni, i ;    -
'r ''   .1 i t,' ;I ' r n),, ca'. t-    '. x :_- 'ne       3Di II ;ic.Ir- ,\ Ce
' S ~~~-                '     T^.                        * !'!, :l.',Ji'--t"   4 1     r   



-5-
assisted by state-level institutions either singly or on a consortium basis,
with SFCs, SIDCs and commercial banks sharing in the lending operation. In
addition to such consortium lending arrangements at the national and state-
le'vel to assist large and medium size industries, a refinancing scheme operated
by IDB£ provides resources for the two groups of state-level financial institu-
tions to assist in financing of new projects, and in modernization and
rehabilitation of small and medium industries. The extent of these refinancing
operations has grown as rapidly as the direct project lending operations of
IDBI during the last ten years and provided the major portion of external
resources to state level institutions, which have become heavily dependent on
IDBI refinancing. After adjustment of inter-institutional flows, IDBI's share
of total financial assistance by financial institutions to industry (excluding
comnercial banks) has grown from 40% in 1973/74 to 64% in 1984/85.  kmong the
all-India institutions, the shares of sanctions of financial assistance (net of
IDBI's refinancing and bill discounting activity) are currently aboutt 43% for
IDBI, 17% for ICICI and 15% for IFCI, with the balance of 25% accounted for by
the three investment institutions(UTI, LIC and CIC).
3.03    The overall import.ance of tinancial resource provision tor industrial
investment through the DFIs has markedly declined during the last five years.
Representative surveys of financing patterns of medium and 1. rge industrial.
enterprises reveal that the share of DFI resources in financing of project.s of
established enterprises has declined from a level 20% in 1981 to around 15% in
1984, while the contribution of capital market instruments such as debentures
increased from 2% to the levei of 12%. During the same period, the contribu-
tion of commercial banks, which traditionally have been providers of working
capital to industry, declined from 14% to 7%.  Thlere has thus been a structural,
shift in financing patterns of long-term industrial investmTients t'rom institu-
tional credit to increasing use of capital market instruments by established
companies. This reflects the growing availability of savings in the now emerg-
ing middle-income groups, and the impact of partial liberalization of interest
rates on industrial debentures as weLl as the increasing sophisticat:ion ot
industrial enterprises in resource mobilization outside the public lndustrial
finance system, including the soliciting of direct deposits.  Recent
liberalization of COl policies with respect, to cnrporate ana personal t.ax rates
and growing public confidence in pertormance of established industrial com-
panies have provided a tavocablte climate tor tiis shift  in financing patterns.
In recent years, there has also been a sub,tantadl increfase in foreign borrow-
ings by indian industriai. tirms, both in the private and In the publ.ic sector,
of which a substantial portion (70') was Li long-term loans and bonds.
Promotion of Non-resident Indian (NRI) inv?stmerit by preferential interest
rates on deposits, tax privti l.eges on eariaigs Anld pro'.7ision tor repatriation or
funds has been another new fac-t in th  nrnvi -1 rn t) finariclia!  -pcsuLIrc;?   r
industry, that has beglin  ,na            e   p re1i:;                   d..' rr . &!C' 0 
resource provis i)n by  he pub  c sc: r t nanci a;  n,t it it nr, in r  t he rnmmer-
cial banks.
3.04    Des pi r         .:      ;..                                     0.
The !)ErTu e, n">



-6-
development, particularly in backward areas. They also have been instrumental
in the drawing up of rehabilitation and modernization plans for the growing
number of assisted industrial enterprises that have been classified as sick.
In 1985, the number of these cases increased from 202 to 392 because of severe
problems in the cotton textile, sugar and paper industries. In March 1985, a
new public institution, the Industrial Reconstruction Bank of India (IRBI), was
formed as the principal credit and reconstruction agency for industrial
revival. IRBI is expected to act as the focal point for rehabilitation of sick
units, and will eventually take over IDBI's central function in this area. GOI
is also establishing a federal Board for Industrial and Financial
Reconstruction, which will be empowered to grant fiscal concessions directly to
complement the assistance provided by IRBI and the financial institutions.
IV. IDBI'S ROLE AND BANK GROUP OBJECTIVES
Background
4.01    In January 1973, the Bank Group made a first lending operation (credit
356-IN for US$25 million) for projects in small and medium scale industry in
which IDBI was the apex institution, and 18 state level finance corporations
(SFCs) formed the second-tier intermediaries. A second lending operation with
these institutions in 1976 (Loan 1260-IN for US$40 million) was aimed at the
same target group. The objectives in these two lending operations were (i) to
finance the import component of high priority projects in the small and medium
scale (SMI) private sector; and (ii) to assist in upgrading the operations and
procedures of the SFCs through support of an IDBI initiated institution-
building program.
4.02    A Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) prepared in 1984 covered the
experience of the Bank Group and IDBI under these two SFC-oriented lending
operations. fhe intended SMI target groups were reached through the par-
ticipating SFCs, but operating performance of subprojects fell generally short
of expectations at appraisal. The Bank Group's involvement in SMI Lending
through the IDBI/SFC projects was found to have helped in identifying institu-
tional deficiencies in the SFC system.   However, as part uf this experience it
also became clear that despite a systematic effort by IDBI no dramatic institu-
tional improvements at the SFC level had been achieved during the long project
implementation periods. As a result of their failure to implement fully the
upgrading programs and to improve their operating performance, the credit-
worthiness of many of the SFCs had been impaired. Bank Group association with
IDBI's institutional upgrading program for the SFCs could not provide lasting
stimulus for self-sustaining institutional improvements at the state-level,
mainly because of lack of sufficient supportive action on the part of state
governments. It was also recognized that the scope of these two projects had
been overly ambitious given the large number of state-level institutions
involved, and their manifold and deep-seated problems.  No further SFC-oriented
Bank Group .ending operations for SMI were made aVter complet-ion Of the two



-7-
projects. IDbI continued its own efforts of institutional upgrading of SFCs
and strengthened the technical assistance delivery system through the state-
level technical assistance organizations. 1/
Evolution of the Public/Joint Sector Project
4.03    Up until the mid 1970'-, IDBI had limited rupee resources and no direct
access to foreign exchange for its direct lending operations which accounted
for about 23% of its overall financial assistance since IDBI started operations
in 1964. 2/ The Bank Group had cOnneled its resources for private
sector industrial development, other than for SMI, exclusively through ICICI
with which it had developed a close relationship during eleven lending opera-
tions up to 1975, with a total amount of US$410 million in aggregate lending
volume. These lending operations did not involve public or joint sector
subprojects. The bulk of gross fixed investment in Indian industry was,
however, increasingly taking place in public sector units, financed largely out
of Central and State Government budgets. IDBI's financing of public sector
projects had been negligible, but an increasing amount of IDBI's assistance had
been extended to the joint sector at the state level; up to mid-1977 it
amounted to 40% of cumulative sanctions for direct lending. A Bank mission
visited India in May/June 1975 for appraisal of a direct line of credit to
IDBI; it was followed by a special mission in March 1976 to assess the project
potential in the medium-scale public sector.  The main reason for focusing on
the state-level public/joint sector as a possible target group for a Bank Group
lending operation involving IDBI, was to complenent the Bank's credit lines to
ICICI and the two SFC-oriented lending operations with a lending operation in
which IDBI would function as direct lender and bring to bear its experience in
screening public/joint sector r-ojects promoted b- state level institutions
such as the SIDCs/STICs.
4.04    The Bank's assessment of the roles of IDBI and the SIDCs/SIICs ;n the
state public/joint sector was based on specific review of these institutiur- in
three states (Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh). The reviews
confirmed the need for improvements in state-level investment planning, coor-
dination of activities between different financial institutions, and institu-
1/  An update of subproject performance under Loan 1260-IN is in preparation
to supplement the insufficient data available for evaluation of subproject
experience in the PCR/PPAR issued in 1984.
2/  IDBI received Bank Group funds for specific projects under the following
lending oDerations:
*,redir  598-UN  'US$105.0 million:    ( ertilizer Industry
Credit  806-IN   US$ 14.0 million:   (Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture );
,'redit 103-3N    L;S$ 54.0 million:   (Karnataka Sericuit.ire         ); and
.oan   2050-TN   US$100.0 mii' ion:   (Tamil Nadu Newsprirn           1



-8-
tional upgrading of the SIDCs/SIICs. IDBI had been designated by GOI to expand
its rsle in direct financing of public and joint sector projects, and it was
expected to play a comprehensive role in assisting state governments in plan-
ning of investments and in identification of specific projects. IDBI's role in
a Bank supported project for the public/joint sector at the state-level was
seen as a major catalyst for injecting professional appraisal criteria into
public/joint sector investment planning and sound financial and administrative
management procedures into the participating state-level institutions, which
would function as project promoters.
4.05    The Bank expected its involvement in state-level, industrial development
financing to broaden its understandiing of state-level development issues;
particularly with resoect to the joint sector. GOI's decision to encourage
state governments to promote medium-sized industrial development through state
government joint ventures with private entrepreneurs was essentially considered
as a worthwhile effort by the Bank Group.  However, a number of issues in
connection with this concept raised concerns about the implementation of this
approach, and about the possible role of TDBT-Bank collaboration in this
etfort.  Initial. concerns focused on the apparently poor record of IDBI's then
existing project portfolio in the public/joint sector. Also, in 1976 IDBI was
still seen as institutionally weak after its recent separation from the Reserve
Bank of India.  !DBI's future role regarding the proposed target group for the
bank project was unclear, given the influence of state governments as sole
shareholders of the state level corporations that were envisaged as subproject
promoters. The role of TDBI therefore differed from that with respect to the
SFCs, where it held up to 50% equity positions and had a regulatory mandate.
There was also the question of possible duplication of effort in state govern-
ment industrial activities which might lead to uneconomic investments, unless
investment proposals by individual, states were subjected to rigorous analysis.
Last, but not least, there was some concern that accelerated public sector
activity at the state level might preclude growth of private sector activity
and reintorce the public sector bias in Indian industrial strategy. These
issues were addressed during the long preparation period for the project
(1975-79). A detail.ed Bank staff review of the target group in a number of
states, and review Gt a sample ct evaluation reports of state level institu-
tions prepared by !DBI confirmed the essenti:il merits of the proposed
public/'jcint. sector pro j2ct. tor which an amount of US$25.0 million was
consi.dJred tro he appropriate i' v'f fri the for,ecable pipeline of suiltable
subprojects.
Proiect (Obhec.ti es
14.()6    lhe rmain I h erriv';   nt hOi- Iuhi in P/int or, tor project were:
(ao) tu pu pu,rt. tD3i sd r ec. ien dine p rogram for medium-sized state public
a   j ':l..;o.t')r '.'i:   i r:ai ant_'l rprt ,;  .roih  ,e ,,t-s;- ,n n
tOrf'' '9,rh~~~~~~~ rx r: 1tlv  r ir r1 rt-y p)r     T- pt F'rx e



-9-
(b)  to promote institutional upgrading of the SIDCs/SIICs in conjunction
with the IDBI-initiated institutional development program for these
state level institutions, which were seen as major vehicles for state
government efforts to accelerate industrial development, particularly
through joint ventures with private entrepreneurs (so-called joint
sector development);
(c)  to support IDBI's refinancing facility to SIDCs/SIICs that enables them
to increase their term lending portfolios and to utilize profits from
term lendings for promotional activities (Attachment, page 2); and
(d)  to promote improvements in state level industrial planning through
financing of sectoral studies and project preparation reports out of a
technical assistance component (US$500,000) made available to IDBI on a
grant basis by GOI as part of the total loan.
4.07    Implementation of the public/joint sector project placed primary
responsibility on IDBI as the direct lender through selection of high-priority
state-sponsored projects from an anticipated large pipeline of more than 200
potential projects in various stages of preparation in the various states and
territories. At the same time, particular emphasis was to be placed by IDBI on
upgrading the capacity of the SIDCs/SIICs to prepare projects in backward
areas, where managerial and entrepreneurial resources were less readily
available. IDBI's technical assistance to the SIDCs/SIICs through its institu-
tional upgrading program was to be supplemented by Bank financing of sectoral
studies and project preparation reports under the project.
4.08    To provide the Bank with an early assessment of project preparation and
appraisal work, the first subproject from each of the first six states was to
be submitted to the Bank for approval; for subsequent project loan proposals a
free limit of US$3.0 million was agreed. It was expected that about 50% of the
subprojects by number and 70% by amount would be reviewed by Bank staff for
prior approval. Since state public/joint sector enterprises were generally
known to be in the medium size range with fixed assets of between Rs 10 million
and Rs 200 million, overlap with the SFC type of projects under Loan 1260-IN
was nct expected. On the other hand, it was not excluded that subprojects in
the public/joint sector for which ICICI and IFCi would provide part of the
resources could be financed under Loan 1511-TN; as a coordinating member of the
consortium and as COI's executing agency for the Bank loan IDBI remained, in
any case, the primary institution responsible for implementation of all sub-
projects financed under Loan 1511-IN, irrespective of internal lead management
arrangements within the consortium. With respect to IDBI's role vis-a-vis the
SIDCs/SIICs, it was recognized during negotiation of the loan that IDBI did not
hold equity shares in these state-level institutions, which were wholly owned
by the respective state governments. This differed from IDBI's position vLs-a-
vis the SFCs in which it held up to 50% of the equity, becau se it had in 1976
inherited the SFC sharehcldings of the Reserve Bank of india (RBI) together
with the regul.atory mandate fnr rthe SHC; .  -heref ure, the I;ca  :irrency
refinancing assi'tanct  SIDCs,SVC; provided  We  r;!v tang'K ''  nk MIrl ew'



-10-
IDBI and the SIDCs/SIICs. This put IDBI into a less powerful position with
respect to the institutional upgrading of the 26 SIDCs/SIICs than it held with
respect to the 18 SFCs. Given the limited number of subprojects to be financed
under Loan 1511-IN, IDBI's influence through review of these subprojects was
also less comprehensive than in the case of the SFCs (see para. 5.06).
V. UTILIZATION OF THE BANK LOAN
Rate of Utilization and Project Review Process
5.01    IDBI's projected and actual disbursements under Loan 1511-IN are shown
in Annex 1. Commitments and disbursements started to be made at a slower pace
than had been expected at the time of appraisal. By mid 1979, one year after
effectiveness, only three subloans had been authorized with a total of about
US$2 million. Some of the early public sector projects submitted by IDBI had
submarginal economic indicators or basic technological problems which made them
unsuitable for Bank financing; this reduced the project pipeline by US$15.0
million. Ocher reasons for slow utilization during the first three years were:
(a)  a general slowdown in public/joint sector project approvals due to a
change in government policy which put major emphasis on promotion of
employment in the small and tiny sector after 1977 1/;
(b) a lower than expected foreign exchange component for a large number of
previously identified projects, because of availability of indigenous
equipment; and
(c) the fact that for projects with foreign exchange requirements, which
had reached the procurement and financing stage in 1979/80, import
licenses had already been cleared by other lines of credit, or been
allocated free foreign exchange prior to availability of the
public/joint sector loan. 2/
5.02    An unexpected dearth of suitable subprojects in the intended target
group thus coincided with relatively ample availability of foreign exchange
resources at the initial stages of project implementation. Under these
circumstances, IDBI had to make special efforts to promote the use of financing
1/ Following the issue of COI's New Industrial Policy in December 1977
the share of public/joint sector projects in IDBI's total
sanctions dropped from 30.7% in 1976-77 to 23.1% in 1977-78 and
16.6% in 1978-79.
2/ For example, 6 of the 15 public/joint sector projects pending with
IDEI were cleared under ICICI/IFCI lines of credit from 1975 to 1977.



under Loan 1511-IN. The absence of a well functioning system of project iden-
tification and preparation at the state-level made itself felt adversely under
these circumstances. The sharing of project identification responsibility with
ICICI and IFCI under the consortium arrangements, on the other hand, provided a
wider scope for project identification and resulted in five of the first
accepted projects being lead-managed by ICICI or IFCI, respectively, while IDBI
took responsibility for four of the later subprojects reviewed by the Bank and
for the bulk of the smaller subprojects below the free limit (see Annex 2).
5.03    Utilization of Loan 1511-IN increased only after mid-1981, when disbur-
sements quickly reached close to 70% of the loan amount, and during the last
year before the original closing date of March 31, 1983 a level of 90%. Phis
partly reflected better results of IDBI's effort and partly the general
recovery from the reduced level of industrial activity during the period
1979-1981. Also, many of the subprojects that had been sanctioned earlier now
began to be implemented. An extension of the closing date by one year to
March 31, 1984 was intended to provide sufficient time for full disbursement of
the loan with respect to one subproject which had experienced procurement
delays; because of local procurement of machinery the appropriated amount was
not used, however, and the balance of US$1.4 million was eventually cancelled.
5.04    The technical assistance component of the loan, which had been expected
generally to help in improving the project identification and investment plan-
ning process at the state level, presented implementation problems of its own.
Completion of the studies was slow and the content of those studies that had
been completed showed little relevance to the ongoing public/joint sector
project (see Annex 2). None of the studies therefore led to identification of
bankable projects for utilization of Loan 151]-IN. An attempt by the Bank in
1984 to utilize available funds for sector-oriented preparatory work by foreign
consultants at the state-level during the initial stages of GOI's electronic
sector policy reforms, failed because of the political hiatus in India during
the last quarter of 1984. Initial Bank subsector reconnaissance in state-Level
electronics developments in conjunction with supervision of the public/joint
sectors project contributed, nevertheless, to the now ongoing preparatory work
for an electronics sector project scheduled for FY89.
5.05    In terms of project management, utilization of Loan 1511-IN reflects
the increasing sharing of responsibilities among all-India financial institu-
tions in selection of projects, arrangements for term-lending and provision of
available foreign exchange resources, wthere required. Of the 18 projects
financed under Loan 1511-IN, eleven were lead-managed by IDBI, with a total
foreign exchange component of US$11.2 million; four subprojects were lead-
managed by IFCI (FE component US$8.4 million); and three subprojects were
lead-managed by ICICI (FE component US$3.6 million). The technical assistance
coordination for state level activities similarly refleccs growing interaction
between the all-India institutions, each of which is sponsoring a number of
technical assistance organizations at the state level and th,is contribht.s tos
the improvement of state-level technical review Capacity,



-12-
5.06    Ten states submitted acceptable projects for financing under Loan
1511-IN; of these, four projects were in the public sector and 14 in the joint
sector:
Number of Projects in
State                       Public/Joint Sector
Andhra Pradesh                              5
Assam                            1
Gujarat                          1
Karnataka                        1          2
Kerala                           1          1
Punjab                                      1
Rajasthan                                   1
Tamil Nadu                                  I
Uttar Pradesh                               1
West Bengal                                 2
These projects were promoted by seven SIDCs/SIICs in the respective states,
by one state-level electronics corporation and by four state government-owned
corporations. The public sector projects had a total foreign exchange com-
ponent of US$3.07 million, while the joint sector projects required a total of
US$20.13 million for import of equipment. Of these 18 subprojects, ten sub-
projects with 66% of the total financial requirement were reviewed by the Bank
and found acceptable. The subproject documentation submitted to the Bank was
found to be fully acceptable by the Bank in five cases; in the remaining five
cases, additional information was requested. The major weaknesses in the
presentation and analysis of subproject proposals related to rate of return
calculations (4 cases), market forecasts and assumptions on operational perfor-
mance (5 cases), technical assessment/project costs (3 cases), financial plans
(5 cases) and procurement aspects (5 cases). In three cases, the Bank observed
that economic rates of return were low or marginal, but did not reject these
subprojects. A summary of the appraisal reviews is given in Annex III. Eight
subprojects with acceptable economic and financial indicators were approved
under the free limit agreed upon with the Bank.
5.07    Three projects proposed for financing under Loan 1511-IN did not meet
the Bank's requirements. There were major differences of opinion between IDBI
and the Bank in the assessment of the economic merits of two fertilizer
projects - one in Gujarat and one in Punjab. The third proposed project for
production of sponge iron in Orissa involved considerable commercial, economic
and technical risks because of innovative technology. IFC had rejected that
project in 1976 and upon review in 1979, the Bank and TFC found that there was
no satisfactory evidence that the technological circumstances had sufficiently
changed to iower those risks. On the basis of available information, the Bank
decided not t) support, ,he prnjecr.
5.08    A rot   -M LInrnt  !t '.S$424,000 oquivalent was disbursed Jinder The techrni-
(:,i ;; ;inc r mor,,           n  ' ,)in f ur  h r, I- IJ ieLi.  Th e stludies were



-13-
carried out in nine states (Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Gujarat, Karnataka, Kerala,
Jammu and Kashmir, Punjab, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal). Preparation of these
studies involved eleven state-level organizations and covered a gre.kt variety
of subjects (see Annex 2); these included 17 project feasibility reports and
marketing surveys; 13 subsector surveys and prospective plans; and two studies
on utilization of agriculture resources in industrial processes. An ossessment
of the technical assistance impact is given in paras 6.10-6.13.
SiCSoiect Characteristics and Performance
5.09    The selection of public sector projects did tnot include any new
projects.  rhe four projects included expansion of an electronics mantfacturing
unit, an electrical equipment plant, a public utility company (gas
distribution), and oalancing and modernization oL a si'k weaving factory.  In
each ca32, the imported equipment financed represented essential machinery to
achieve better capacity utilization as well as improvement. in production
efficiency and/or product mix to meet anticipated market demand. The average
subloan size was US$770,000, ranging fi-cm US$260,000 to US$1.3 million.  In the
case of the largest Loan, for the silk weaving factory, Loat 1511L was used to
supplement funding for a sericulture project financed under Credit 10G'  IN,
because of rneed for imported equipment at the manufacturing end of the project
which could not be covered under Credit 1034-IN.
5.10    In the joint sector the projects covered under Loan 1511 included two
new electronic components manufacturing plants, four paper mills, two chemical
plants, one fertilizer expansion scheme, two new manufacturing plants for
higher quality consumer products (razor blades and lamp fiLaments), one project
for manufacture of high tension ceramic insulators and one for production of
industrial fibre glass. In the joint sector only three projects were for
expansion or balancing equipment for existing plants; all, other projects repre-
sented new ventures promoted by the respective state-level corporations in
association with private entrepreneurs. In the majority of cases, these
entrepreneurs are experienced industrialists who already operate successfully
other industrial ventures. Where new technologies are involved, foreign col-
laborators assisted the promoters, in project implementation. Cenerally, .he
experience in these collaborations has been satisfactory.  Lhe average sibloan
size in the joint sector was US$1,430,000, ranging from US$343,000 to
US$4.5 milLion. Half the number of projects received loans of over
US$1.0 million.
5.11    Distribution of projects by states does noc reflect any particular
pattern. The most active S1DCs in Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Wesr Bengal,
with relat.ively advanced industrial deveilupmenL potenLial in their r-egion
submitted each more Than one joint sector proiect, essentially ;n the
espaect ive desig,nated gre-wLh areas of tho ;rate.  Sirr; e  proj.;-i  -eA  t''(F ':;h e r
tat-es (s;ee para. 5.06) represented a   di' range ot r'e w er t. err(r euria
ITC're  n   I       .r rty,                                                     " :
c( e as ,n;      S r i  rCF(F . !T:l *;l r> !,       . f ,'.  '.''' _  'r  ,,  ;;  ..



-14-
project were based on the assumption that high priority projects would be
selected from a large pipeline, the actual portfolio reflects the fact that
because of diminished investment activity in the public/joint sector (see para.
5.01) suitable projects with foreign-exchange requirements had to be solicited
from the state-level institutions to promote the use of Loan l5il-IN. The
absence of new project proposals in the state-public sector relegated the role
of the all-India institutions to filling foreign exchange financinig gaps,
without being able to address issues in state level public sectoc investment
planning through a screening process as had been expected at appraisal of the
project. Wide distribution of the 18 projects promoted by twelve state-level
institutions in ten states further dIluted the institution-building impact of
the project selection and implementation process.
5.12    The public sector subprojects finally selected generally did not have
distinct identities as projects in the choice and implementation of which the
financial instititions could play decisive roles, either in evaluation of
project justification or in contribution of funds. The role of the financial
institutions involved urder .oan 1511-IN was essentially limited to equipment
financing. Project completion and cost overrun experience in the public sector
was exceptionally good. None of the projects had more than notional cost
overruns, and three projects were completed without any delay, while one
project was delayed by only six months. Three of the four public sector
projects are reported to be operating profitably. However, many issues related
to performance of the public sector borrowers could not be addressed within the
context of the public/joint sector project, since they extended beyond the
scope of the subproject components financed. In the case of the silk weaving
project and that of the electrical equipment manufacturing project, linkage to
investment activities in closely related public sector activities, namely the
sericulture development in Karnataka and the power sector development in
Kerala, respectively, resulted in less than fully satisfactory operational
performance of the respective project entities to which assistance had been
extended under Loan 1511-IN. Slow growth in production oE high quality silk
cocoons is currently affecting the ability of the silk weaving tactory to fully
utilize its potential for higher quality production of fabrics; the potential
for exports is therefore not yet being realized. Overall project objectives
with previously estimated economic rates of return of about 25% are, however,
expected to be achieved in the integrated sericulture project. In the case of
the electrical equipment manufacturing project, major revisions in the overall
expansion project have been made in the wake of severe power cuts in Kerala,
and original expectations of a high economic rate of return of 60% on incremen-
tal investments have not been fulfilled.
5.13    The experience with public sector projects with cLose linkage to larger
public sector activities in related subsectors (e.g. sericulture and power
generation) illustrates the need for more comprehensive assessment of invest-
ment proposals than that routinely carried nut by the financial insti,tLtions,
even with Bank Croup insistence on ex-ante economic rate :f rCturn ca>:Culativn
and analysis ot (iomestic resource o: 't .  Fo'Il low-up reviewI hy IF! bn Tw  Case
ot the   Ilectrical equipment rnana'act rJ1r: ng t ('PELK), wa'4 pr',mp'Ut(, tr.r



-15-
instance, by major changes in the investment plans for the state power sector
resulting in cut back and restructuring of TELK's expansion program and
rescheduling of debt service to resolve severe liquidity problems, caused by
the reduction in demand for electrical equipment following prolonged power cuts
in Kerala. In the case of the sericulture-cum-weaving project, a more
integrated planning approach could have resulted in better synchronization of
investments at the weaving end with those on the raw material production side.
In the case of the two other public sector subprojects in Assam and Gujarat, no
such difficulties arose; each of these public entities is engaged in larger
expansion and diversification schemes, and current operations are profitable.
The contribution of financing under Loan 1511-IN to these two entities was
marginal.
5.14    The major lessons drawn from public sector imDlementation experience
with respect to the need for more comprehensive analysis of project proposals
in cases of strong linkage to wider public sector activities apply even more
vividly to the joint sector projects. Almost all of the joint sector projects
experienced project completion delays of more than six months and five had cost
overruns in excess of 40%. Only three of the 14 projects are currently operat-
ing profitably, al .ough the prospects for some are now improving. A number of
the joint sector projects were affected by broader sectoral factors. In the
case of two new joint sector subprojects for manufacture of electronic
components, drastic changes in the public sector procurement regime and changes
in subsectoral import policy brought about major adverse changes in marker
circumstances for these new ventures. None of this could have been foreseen at
the time of project appraisal, when existing procurement patterns and import
regimes in the electronics sutbsector were taken as fixed. WiLhin that given
context, satisfactory financial and ±conomic rates of return were calculated
for the new ventures. However, delays in project implementation exacerbated
the risk of major operational problems for the joint-sector entities within a
rapidly changing environment. In both cases, the subprojects financed u: er
Loan 1511-IN have not achieved full operation. Low capac!iy utilization has
created severe liquidity problems and made res:heduling of debt service
necessary. To make these two ventures viable under changed sectoral
circumstances, major restructuring of product lines may be LEquired.
5.15    Sectoral policy implications are also reflected in the poor performance
of four joint sector subprcjects in the highly regulated puip and paper sector.
Three of these subprojects are mini-paper mills.  Up to June 1982, the aLl-
India financial institutions had extended direct financial assistance to 46 of
such mini-paper mills.  The concept of mini pape&  units was promoted in che
mid-seventies by COI to increase production of piper and to utilize non-
forestry material 1ike rice and wheat straw, as .ell as waste paper.  !To
facilitate the setting u? of small and medium size units the indian Government
allowed import of secondhand machinery. The experience with investment in mini
paper ml lls was notL sati stactory.  Major problems arose because of inferior
qUalitY of machinery and equipmenr, unbalanced investments, inadequate
management,  ime deh.avs in c<ornietion, and r();  oDverrunrs aver<lgrig  40,/ ti-r a',
Inits   r;aricea : rs> i v     rh1 -nir; 'a) inst ti,ns.  Ca vai  .v ui 1lizafi)n in



-16-
the paper industry also generally decreased because of infrastructural
problems, while incidenices of liquidity problems increased. In 1982 a major
review of the mini paper industry was undertaken by the all-India financial
institutions led by IDBI. As a result of that review, no further plants of
such kind were financed and existing units were encouraged to take up
expansion/modernization schemes to improve viability.
5.16    Two of the mini paper ,nills financed under Loan 1511-IN are operating
at a loss due to poor capacity utilization, and require major expansion to
become viable. Another mini paper nuill has already reached profitability
through an expansion scheme firanced under the loan; market prospects for that
unit. are now improved. The fourth subproject is a BMR project for a larger
integrated paper mill. Severe liquidity problems arose in that case because of
non-availability of working capital finance, high exciee duty payments and
failure to receive subsidized state government sales tax ioans. However,
comnercial operations at high rates of capacity utilization are expected to be
profitable after completion of the BMR/expansion scheme which will improve
product mix. High indirect taxes on inputs continue to be a major problem in
the subsector in general. A Bank review of the Indian pulp and paper industry
in 1983 1/ came to the conclusion that there was need for liberalization of
government policies on product mix, pricing and distribution. The need for
greater flexibility in working capital financing, more attention to appropriate
economies of scale, and more technical expertise and managerial know-how in
investments using second-hand machinery is confirmed b) .he experience in the
subprojects financed under Loan 1511-IN. In the case of the integrated paper
mill, government; policies with respect to MRTP control, and pricing on writing
paper appear to have been applied with some flexibility to allow the company to
reach a position of financial viability.
5.17    An)ng the remaining eight subprojects in the joint sector one case
involved supplemental financing, similar to that in the public sector (see para
5.12), fot a larger fertil.zer expansion scheme financed by ICICI from other
sources. The project entity, a joint-sector fertilizer uniit in Tamil Nadu, is
run by a strong ptivate sector grcup, and is operating profitably. Funds from
Loan 1511 were used to provide financing for the import of an additional gener-
ating set to enable the company to maintain operations during frequent power
outages. The implementation experience of the other seven subprojects is more
typical for joint sector project performance. Five of these new ventures
experienced cost overruns of between 42 and 57 percent, and implementation
delays ranged rrom six months to over two years, with the majoritv of cases
between 18 to 24 months. The two cases with no cost overruns and minor
implementation delays experienced severe marketing problems. The commercial
risks in all of these new ventures were higher than had been anticipated at the
time of aopraisal. In each case, arrears problems arose during the initial
I/  As part: on tihe :t:Tuty %.;. ;,er Lndustries ot Indian c:apitai goodsi
manufacturers.



-17-
years, when low capacity utilization, limits on working capital finance and
stiff price competition combined to produce liquidity problems. IDBI's long-
form audit report as of June 30, 1985 lists six of the joint sector projects
financed under Loan 1511 as operating at a loss or being in technical/financial
difficulties. In addition, two joint sector projects are still under implemen-
tation with major cost overruns and indicated problems that will require
rescheduling of debt service. A summary of subproject characteristics and
performance is given in Annex IV.
5.18    The reasons for Lhe poor performance record of joint sector projects
are manifold. In part, these problems are a result of more general policy and
and economic circumstance, which affected the entire industrial sector during
project implementation (Attachment, page 9). Although project selection was
based on acc2ptable appraisals (see Annex III), and in the majority of cases
the SIDCs found experienced private entrepreneurs as partners for these joint:
ventures, market forecasts were often based on assessments of demand that
turned out to be too optimistic. Implementation delays shifted the time
horizon considerably in a large number of cases. As a result, changed sectoral
circumstances and unforeseen structural shifts in demand together with general
infrastructural problems rendered earlier forecasts of smooth transition from
project completion to full operational stage unrealistic. Within this general
context, support from the private promoter groups and from the all-India finan-
cial institutions has been effective in keeping the projects on track during
the implementation period. In a number of cases, steps were taken to
strengthen projects during this period through infusion of additional funds and
arrangements for linkage to strong industrial groups with ability to either
provide equity funding or marketing support. NevertheLess, future viability of
most of these new ventures is not yet solidly based. Future developments in
the electronics sector will have to be taken into account in possible restruc-
turing of two projects. The outlook for mini paper mills and for the pUlIF) 1nd
paper sector in general indicates a very competitive market due to
overcapacity.  At the same time, about 62% of installed capacity is i.n urgent.
need of modernization. In the consumer goods sector two joint sector ventlures
will have to make adjustments in product lines to improve capacity utilivation
and profit margins, and in the area of intermediate industrial product:s chree
companies will. have to develop more effective marketing links ro down-,tream
industries.
5.19    Two joint sector subprojects, a ceramics insulator manufacturing unr ,
in Punjab and a chemical plant in West Bengal, must be recognized as clear
failures in terms of project implementation. In these two cases, complete
reviews of project concepts are required because of technical problems, cost.
overruns and major changes in market circumstances.  The remaining 16 sub-
projects can be considered as having achieved what was possibtLe under dixon
circumstances.  However, there is a need in the future for assessment of mgre
than the normal commercial. risk in new ventures.  More comprehenstve .i v
ot sector circumstances, inciuding impacr of indirect taxat i;)-. :  -.
iCmp)etitivencss witt.h importi, and po;xbIe changes irl pul ;c       (it PrDCil;i-.
procurement arnC  invest.ment pat tern;, ard cl )or morn torl'ng,, jr, ) j.   V



-18-
problems due to constraints in availability of working capital could help to
identify weaknesses that have in these cases often been responsible for less
than satisfactory performance and need for rescheduling of debt service.
Future market analysis in the consumer goods sector will have to take account
of the often unexpected long lead time for new higher quality products to
achieve satisfactory levels of market acceptance in the face of frequently
fierce competition from established manufacturers. New and smaller units are
apparently also more severely affected by credit cuts and working capital
restrictions, than those linked to established industrial groups. Finally,
recent shifts in Indian industrial policy to foster greater internal and exter-
nal competition suggest the need to assess the efficiency of proposed projects
in relation to internationally competitive levels and the likelihood of a more
competitive future economic environment.
VI. INSTITUTIONAL ASPECTS
IDBI and the all-India Consortium
6.01    As the central coordinating agency, both within the all-India consor-
tium and with respect to the state-level financial institutions, IDBI has
institutionally grown into a development agency with a wide scope of
activities. In 1976, when IDBI had been separated from the Reserve Bank of
India (RBI), through transfer of ownership to GOI, it was widely perceivad as a
relatively weak institution. In one decade it has established itself as a well
respected development institution which has not only contributed to the criti-
cal review of development issues in India, but also assisted in training of
officials from other developing countries. In close collaboration with the
Bank Group's Economic Development Institute, IDBI has effectively broadened the
discussion aad critical analysis of some policy related issues by
institutionalizing the process of periodic professional review in domestic and
international seminars.  Active involvement and contribution to future Bank
sector work in coordination with consortium members and the technical consult-
ing organizations of the all-India financial institutions, would offer oppor-
tunities to bring IDBI's experience in a wide area of development into the
specific context of sectoral policy issues, in both the financial and the
industrial sector. IDBI's own efforts in this area have so far resulted in a
number of training oriented seminars. Stronger in-house sector work
orientation, however, requires improvements in operational feedback,
strengthening of professional staff and better coordination between research
and operations staff.
6.02    IDBI has made a systematic effort to decentralize its operational
management and built up a more experienced core of professional staff through
regular training programs. It has also devoted considerable effort to the
promotion of private entrepreneurship by sipporting Entrepreneurship
Development Programs (EDPs) involving in 1984/5 the training of over 2200
potential entrepreneurs. In the coming years, IDBI intends to provide support
to EDPs for science and technology personnel in connection with an orientation
towards promotion of industrial modernization through technology-upgrading.



-19-
Institution Building at the State Level
6.03    The institution building effort at che state level has become a central
part of IDBI's activities. However, despite substantial and systematic effort
on the part of IDBI's management and staff in institutional upgrading, the
impact in terms of tangible improvements in operational efficiency and finan-
cial performance of SFCs and SIDCs/SIICs has been generally disappointing and
in some areas, such as financial performance of a large number of SIDCs,
clearly unsatisfactory (paras 7.19-7.20). The PPAR/PCR on Credit 356-IN and
Loan 1260-IN, issued in June 1984, comprehensively reviewed the relationship of
IDBI and the SFCs. It came to the conclusion that
"project experience indicates that the extent of responsibility
assigned for institutional and operational upgrading .... should
be commensurate with the apex institution's actual delivery
capability within a given time frame, taking also into account the
political realities of the situation. Excessive optimism with
respect to what can be achieved could rejult in supervision
requirements well beyond levels originally envisaged by the Bank.
Also design of apex lending operations with specific subsector
focus, instead of open participation .... would give the apex
institutions involved, as well as the Bank, better opportunities
to influence actual project design and implementation within the
framework of sectoral policies and thus make their development
assistance more effective." 1/
6.04    These conclusions are fully confirmed by the experience of the
public/joint sector project. In the case of the SIDCs/SIICs the tenuous
linkage of the Bank project to only a few of these institutions through
resource transfer for mostly single subprojects (para 5.06), provided an even
less effective framework for broad-based institution building in conjunction
with Bank supported project implementation than in the case of the earlier SFC
projects. The Bank was not able to succeed in narrowing the project focus
during negotiations to specific subsectors or selected state level
institutions. It also had not yet made a systematic assessment of the
experience under the first SFC project, which might have provided at least a
note of caution not to expect too much within the short time frame of the
proposed public/joint sector project, particularly considering the much large
number of SIDCs/SIICs and the fact that IDBI did not hold equity positions in
these institutions. Given these circumstances, the institution building objec-
tives of the public/joint sector project were clearly too ambitious.
1/ Project Performance Audit Report India - First IDBI/SFC Project,
(Credit 356-IN), OED, June 12, 1984, page 21 para 35.



i20-
6.05    A review of project experience with respect to institution building by
IDBI at the state-level shows, nevertheless, that irrespective of the Bank
project's design, IDBI's overall efforts in this area have been substantial. A
regular system of annual evaluation studies by IDBI covers all of the
SIDCs/SIICs based on inspection visits and follow-up. A summary of the status
of the institutional upgrading program for SIDCs/SIICs as of March 1984 is
given in Annex XV. In FY1980-81, IDBI introduced a system of Business Plannilng
and Resource Forecasts (BPRF) for the SIDCs with a view towards formulating a
business framework for balanced growth of SIDCs. In the initial phase this
exercise focused attention of these institutions on financial planning over a
three year period. BPRF has had a positive impact on SIDCs' ability to plan
and manage their resources (Attachment, page 4). Bank supervision missions
found that Lhese planning systems initially influenced the state corporations
to narrow down the gap between sanctions and disbursements, to improve cash
management, and to focus attention on collection efforts. In 1981/82 the
overall financial position of SIDCs was found to have improved. By the end of
March 1984, IDBI's SIDC Summary Evaluation Report noted, however, that the rate
of collections had again deteriorated to the level of 46%, only slightly higher
than that reached in FY 1982, due to a lack of effective monitoring of assisted
projects by the SIDCs. The impact of this continuing problem on the overall
financial health of these institutions is reviewed in paras 7.17-7.20. In
general, the problem has persisted but one positive feature can be observed in
specific SIDCs/SIICs which have improved their performance in terms of recovery
rates in 1984/85 (Attachment, page 5). 1/
6.06    The review and planning systems introduced by IDBI for the SIDCs
provide comprehensive annual situation reports on the major deficiencies of
t:hese institutions with respect to organization, management, operational
activities and appraisal standards, financial performance and business
promotion. Covering such a wide area in detail every year has resulted in
considerable time lag between inspection and final full report. The processing
of an enormous flow of information from 26 state-level institutions has been
far too demanding for both IDBI and Bank Group supervision staff. The prepara-
Lion of more useful executive summaries for action-oriented follow-up by
management and state government officials has been recommended by the Bank's
'oioervision missons.  IDBI has now embarked on assisting state-level financial
institutions (SFCs and SIDCs/SIICs) in building up computer-based management
information systems. Progress in those efforts could be highly effective in
reduicing present staff input for the detailed SIDC reviews, it could also help
to focus greater attention on up-front monitoring of project identification and
project-implementation follow-up. Improvements in availability of timely
informationr on project performance would be a prerequisite for improvement in
The rollection performance. Better summarized, action-oriented comparative
k,c -..nrv ,     percentage 'O demand:  Gujarat 1DC from 56% i, 1931/02
` '94&,'5; itarvara Mr)C from '33  to 65%; Kerala  IDC trinm  33O



-21-
situation reports could also help to bring the major controllable problem areas
to the timely attention of management and state-government officials.
6.07     The major achievement in institution building by IDBI has been the
introduction of outside professional review and constant dialogue about the
major deficiencies of the SIDCs/SIICs in the respective areas of review. I/
To ensure a long-term continuity in top level management, the appointment term
has been extended to at least 3-4 years from the past frequent changes made
under the government rotation system which retarded progress in implementing
long-term policies. Also the quality of management, professional competence of
staff, standards of appraisal, and loan supervision have been significantly
improving; while the organization and the operational procedures of SIDCs/SIICS
have been streamlining significantly (Attachment, page 3). However, the sub-
stantial effort has so far not had enough tangible success in terms of improv-
ing operational and financial performance of the SIDCs/SIICs because:
-state governments have been reluctant to give sufficient autonomy
to professional management of the SIDCs/SIICs to act upon IDBI's
major insti tut.ional recornmendat ions;
top-level management is frequently burdened with detailed day-to-day
administrative routines prevernting attention to structural and
policy matters, and resulting in crisis management rather than
forward planning; and
-liberal access to IDBI's refinance facility has enabled the
SJDCs/SIICs to expand their operations even in the face of a
dramatic drop in internal cash flow from rep4yments on outstanding
loans.
Technical Assistance aTLct
6.08     Apart from the limited, but frequently catalytic impact of Bank staff
supervision missions, the only other tangible impact on SIDC operational
performance has beeni that of the financing of thirty-four studies under the
T.A. component of Loan 1511-IN (listed in Annex II). However, with respect
to direct project impact the use of T.A. funds uinder Loan 1511-IN has been less
beneficial- than had been expected. The main reasons for this are the lack of
relevance of the studies undertaken to the public/joint sector project, the
slow rate of completion of the studies which prevented timely review of invest-
I/  IDRI has been convening periodicaLlv  Confererce.s of C'hief Executives of
SIDCs which are attended 'by The representati es of the Government of
India and Reserve Bank of lndia.  The Ccnfer~2nces serve as a useful foruim
for int-eractio7 ne    Sen IC,; and 15BI, and opportufliLsu for IDB. t  assess
S I DC si rp~e rn ~~r:~  r.          ts;na i    ~ deve'  ~mont p r o  g-,a 7s ar
ac h -veme.pt1n  o 'e I ~ro     l cnb Is 'H.,i rs a:'ri,        r, r 'rIe2;



-22-
ment strategies of individual states, and the general lack of focus on a few
specific areas or subsectors, where review of studies in collaburation with the
Bank could have contributed to design of future sector work by IDBI. The
expectation at the time of appraisal that IDBI would ensure coordination of
state industrial development plans by preparing and/or assisting SIDCs/SIICs in
preparing sector studies was not fulfilled. However, a sample review of
feasibility reports, subsector and market surveys, financed under the
TA-component, revealed that in the majority of cases, the feasibility reports
resulted in appropriate follow-up and preparation of respective projects by
state level agencies. In the case of sector surveys numerous detailed
recommendations were made for follow-up by state governments. Market surveys
contributed to a more informed assessment of project opportunities, and most
significantly led in 4 out of 17 cases to abandonment of project proposals.
These studies thus helped in improving the selection process at the micro-
level. Relative success in terms of assisting in more effective selection,
preparation and implementation of projects at the SIDC level is the most
tangible result of the technical assistance component.
6.09    State level industrial development planning in such new areas as elec-
tronics is still largely based on general perspectives of international
developments with little specific input from up-to-date international sources
of information. Bank reconnaissance missions found in 1984 that there is also
a lack of input from foreign consultants, leading to a lack of international
awareness in the assessment of future technological trends. Further, there is
a need for accelerated technology orientation in a wide area not necessarily
related to high-technology. Some of the Technical Consultancy Organizations
(TC0s) have made specific suggestions for future development of institutional
support of programs for technological assistance for small/medium industries.
The recommendations are based on reviews of state-level industries with
particularly acute instances of sub-optimal productivity (such as foundry,
mini-sugar, machine tools, engineering components, diesel engines, oilseed
processing and plastics). Appropriate consolidation of this information and
organization of follow-up by the all-India DFIs could be a first practical step
towards increasing the technical assistance impact of work done so far at the
level of SIDCs/SIICs, TCOs and other specialized state-level institutions.
This could be of particular importance in view of IDBI's intended orientation
towards promotion of technology-upgrading (para 6.04). The experience with
the studies program financed under Loan 1511-IN shows that such an effort would
require more managerial guidance from IDBI, and a more sys,ematic review and
follow-up process than that employed for past stuLdies financed by the Technical
Assistance Fund of IDBI.



-23-
VII. OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
IDBI - Operational Characteristics and Trends
7.01    A synopsis of the growth of IDBI's operational activity during the
period 1978-84 and its financial position is given in Annex XV. 1/ Since the
start of the public/joint sector project in 1978, IDBI's cverall lending
activity increased from a level of US$748 miilion to US$2346 million equivalent
as of June 30, 1984. During the year 1984/85 the level of annuaL sanctions of
financial assistance reached Rs 36 Lillion or US$2.9 billion equivalent. The
composition of this activity changed only marginally during the period
1978-1985; on a cumulative basis the share of sanctions for direct assistance
to industry, including guarantees, declined from a level of 37% up to 1978 to
35% as of June 30, 1985. Indirect financial assistance through refinancing and
bill rediscounting, and subscriptions to shares and bond issues of other
financial institutions now account for 64.6% of cumulative financial assistance
of IDBI since its inception in 1964. A small 0.4% share is devoted to a more
recent seed capital scheme for new entrepreneurs.
7.02    In 1984/85, IDBI's direct lending activity showed a rising trend due
to financing of some large projects which brought the annual share of direct
assistance to 40% (see paras 7.03 and 7.04). Assistance under the Bill
Rediscounting Scheme for purchases of indigenous machinery, including road
transport equipment, declined to about 18%. Refinance assistance increased
marginally to slightly over 38% of annual lending approvals. However, in
absolute terms refinancing assistance increased at a rate of almost 46%. The
share of assistance to the small scale sector in the total lending activity of
IDBI has been rising steadily over the years and increased significantly, on
average, from 15.9% during 1970-75 to 26.2% during 1975-80 and further to 31.2%
during 1980-85. Refinance assistance to the small scale sector now contributes
64.3% of aggregate refinance assistance approved in 1984/85. About 69% of
refinance assistance to the small scale industries was sanctioned through SFCs.
The bulk of assistance for small road transport operations was provided through
banks. Another significant feature of IDBI's lending activity in 1984/85 was
that three less industrialized states viz. Uttar Pradesh, Orissa and Madhya
Pradesh together accounted for more than 50% of all direct assistance to all
states, and more than 80% of direct assistance to backward states. Backward
areas received more than half the total assistance of IDBI.
1/ Comprehensive operational and financial data are included in IDBI's
Annual Reports, the Operational Statistics, and the annual reports
on "Development Banking in India" prepared by IDBI.  These documents
are fi led in rho Prtp cF 'ite Loan 1511-lN Souoth Asia Information
Cepn er.



-24-                          1
7.03    The share of the private sector in overall annual sanctions by IDBI
rose in 1984/85 to 85%, from 65% in the previous year, due to financing of four
large projects, one each in the fertilizer, iron and steel, cement and elec-
tricity generation industries. The share of public sector projects financed by
IDBI in 1984/85 declined from. 23% in the previous year to 12.8%, and also the
share of joint sector projects from 10% to 2.6% of total assistance sanctioned.
On a cumulative basis since inception of IDBI in 1964, total assistance sanc-
tioned (comprising direct assistance, refinanre of industrial loans and bills
rediscounting) now stands at 75.5% for the private sector, 14.9% for the public
sector and 6.8% for the joint sector, while 2.8% was directed at the
co-operative sector.
7.04    During the fiscal year 1984-85, assistance sanctioned by IDBI under the
direct finance schemes registered a significant increase of 82.4% from Rs 7,933
million (389 projects) during 1983-84 to Rs 14,468 million (414 projects).
High priority industries such as fertilizers, iron and steel, cement, basic
industrial chemicals, electricity generation, textile, paper, sugar and
industr;al machinery accounted for more than 85% of the direct assistance
sanctioned during 1984/85. Assistance sanctioned to the fert;lizer industry
accounted for about one-third of the total direct assistance sanctioned,
followed by the iron and steel industry (12%). The higher percentage share of
these two industries was due to large assistance aggregating Rs 5,866 million
sanctioned to a large fertilizer project (Rs 4,396 million) and an iron and
steel project (Rs 1,470 million) in the private sector. Other industries which
accounted for relatively large shares of assistance were cement (9.8%) and
basic industrial chemicals (9.4%). Assistance aggregating Rs 790 million was
sanctioned for two modernization projects in The electricity generation
industry, which together accounted for 5.7% of the total sanctions in respect
of direct finance. 1/
7.05    An analysis of the financing pattern of projects assisted by IDBI
reveals that IDBI's share in total project costs has steadily increased from
16.7% in 1981/82 to 36.4% in 1984/85. Correspocndingly, the share of other
financial. institutions declined from 36.4% in 1982/83 to 26.2% during 1984/85.
The contribution of promoters also shows a declining trend from 36.7% of
project cost in 1981/82 to 22.8% during 1984/85, because lower equity contribu-
tions were allowed for a few larger projects in the joint sector in 1983/84,
and some large projects in the private sector in 1984/85. Although some
specific circumstances have contributed to this pattern, there is a clear trend
towards increasing shares of IDBI in financing of projects.
7.06    The composition of direct project financing by IDBI shows an increasing
share of new projects which in 1984/85 required 78.5% of direct assistance, as
well as fur expansion/diversification schemes which accounted for 12.3%, while
direct assistance sanctioned for rehabilitation required only 2.8% of the funds
1/  IDBI A rn ; a -.epr   .984'85 pages3 f7-68



-25-
made available in 1984/85 despite a rate of increase in absolute terms of 34%
durinig that period. Need for supplementary assistance for meeting cost over-
runs declined in 1984/85 and required only 6.4% of the total as compared to
15.4% during the previous year.
7.07    IDBI reports that as of June 30, 1985 the number of directly assisted
units which have been classified as sick stood at 392, involving outstanding
loan amounts of Rs 5,250 million, compared to 202 units involving loan amounts
of Rs 2,810 million at the end of the previous fiscal year. 1/ The bulk of the
portfolio of sick units (78%) consists of enterprises in the cotton textile,
sugar, engineering, basic industrial chemicals, paper, and iron and steel
industries, involving 80% of the loan amounts outstanding. The increase in the
number of sick units is attributed to serious problems in the cotton textile,
sugar and paper industries. In these industries deep rooted problems coincided
with demand recession in cotton textiles, with poor availability of sugarcane,
and infrastructural bottlenecks in supply of power and coal for the paper
industry.
7.08    Comprehensive measures to initiate major structural changes in the
textile industry are being undertaken by GOI and the financial institutions.
Merger proposals for sick units in the chemical, paper and textil.e industry
are under active consideration of the all-India financial institutions.
Through the formation of the Industrial Reconstruction Bank of India (IRBI)
on March 20, 1985 as principal credit and reconstruction agency for industrial
revival, GOI has created a new agency which is designated "to act ais focal
point for the rehabilitation of sick units". 2/ The all-India financial
institutions may refer cases of sick units to IRBI and to the Board for
Industrial and Financial Reconstruction, whenever considered necessary by them.
IDBT - Financial Performance
7.09    IDBI's financial performance during the period 1978-1985 reflects
strong support of its activities by GOI through systematic contributions to
share capital which increased from Rs 600 million to Rs 4150 million. Reserves
increased from Rs 523 million at the beginning of the period to Rs 3290 million
at the end of FY 1985.  This enabled I'BI to improve its overall debt:equity
position from 10.6:1 in 1978 to 9.4:1 as of June 30, 1985; with respect to the
position of IDBI's General Fund (excluding the Soft Loan Fund) the debt:equity
ratio now stands at 9.7:1. This is consistent with IDBI's strategy at the time
1/  Seven states, viz. Maharashtra, Cujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu,
W>st: Bengal, Andhra Pradesh and Karnat.aka accounted for 75. of the
tot.ql aniounts outstanding from sick units.  Other states with Large
amouunts of fumds locked up in Sick inits were Kerala, Assam, Haryana
;Ind Bihar.
2.  "JBr Annii!  Rep.-:. 1-984,;'15 Chovt .r 3, pari 32 page 85.



-26-
of appraisal, when a general understanding wag reached between IDBI, GOI and
the Bank for a target debt/equity ratio of 10:1 to ensure adequate provisions
of capital by GOI.
7.10    IDBI's debt service coverage for funds borrowed under the General Fund
has fluctuated around 3:1 during the last few years, with a low of 2.8:1 in
1981/82 and a high of 3.6:1 in 1982/83; as of June 30, 1985 the ratio stood at
3:; which is satisfactory. The average net return (excluding interest held in
suipense) on funds employed has shown a steady increase from around 8% in 1978
to 9.8% in 1984/85, while the average cost of IDBI's funds has increased from
6.12% in 1977 to 7.34% in 1984/85. This has increased the spread on IDBI's
operations under the General Fund from 1.82% to 2.47%. Administrative costs of
IDBI continue to be relatively low at around 0.4% of average assets because of
the large volume of refinancing, and bills rediscounting - an activity which
also has a relatively higher spread than direct lending.
7.11    The overall cqmposition of principal sources of funds for IDBI's
operations has changed as follows:
IDBI-PRINCIPAL SOURCES OF FUNDS
Shares of                                    Since Inception Up To          In FY
Sources of Funds (in Z)                      6/30/78         6/30/85        1984/85
Increases in Share Capital                      2.3            2.8             1.0
Borrowings from GOI and RBI                    32.9           24.1           11.5
Market Borrowings                              14.2           25.4           26.6
of which
Foreign Currency                               -                .7            2.0
Deposits                                        1.9            1.7            4.4
Repayments and Sale of
Investments                                   35.7            34.3           36.3
Internal Contribution
(Interest, Commission, etc.)                    7.8           11.4           13.6
Opening Balance of
Cash and Liquid Resources                       -              -              6.5



-27-
This shows a reduction in the resource provision from OI and RBI and an
increase in borrowing through domestic bond issues, and a start in interna-
tional borrowing. Annex XVI includes further details of IDBI's sources of
fuads.
7.12    In 1984/85 IDBI raised an amount of Rs 7,535 million from domestic
markets by issue of four series of bonds; the coupon rate for the first three
issues was 9% which was increased to 9.75% in the last issue. Market borrow-
ings constituted 27.7% of total requirements of funds (excluding the amounts
held for liquidity). Cumulatively, IDBI has so far raised a total amount of
Rs 35,307 million by way of domestic bonds, of which Rs 452 million in face
value of bonds have been redeemed. In foreign currency borrowings IDBI has
raised funds in the Japanese capital markets by way of private placement
(Yen 10.0 billion), and in the Euro-currency market (US$55 million), as well as
an export credit of Pound Sterling 5 million. IDBI has thus diversified its
resource availability considerably since 1978, when almost 33% of its funds
came from GOI and RBI; in 1985 that percentage came down to 11.5% on an annual
basis.
7.13    In the use of resources there has been relatively little change in the
pattern that existed at the beginning of the period under review:
IDBI-PRINCIPAL USE OF FUNDS
Shares of                                     Since Inception Up To          In FY
Sources of Funds (in %)                       6/30/78        6/30/85         1984/85
Direct Supply of Funds                         26.0            24.5           17.1
Indirect Financing                             53.8           53.9            51.1
Repayment/Bond Redemptions                      8.5             6.0            5.3
Interest Payments                               9.7            12.7           14.6
Dividend Payments                               0.5             0.5            0.7
Closing Liquidity Position                      1.5             2.4           11.2
This shows a somewhat declining trend in the proportion of funds for direct
lending and a substantial increase in the share of interest payments. With
accelerated disbursements the liquidity position is likely to be reduced and
the long-term pattern restored, except for probably continuing higher require-
ments for interest payments, now that market borrowings rather than GOI and RBI
borrowings constitute the major source of funds after receipts of repayments
and interest.
7.14    Under these circumstances the arrears position and collection perfor-
mance of IDBI require particular attention. The share of repayments and
internal cash generation (after meeting administrative expenses) in resources
has increased from 43.5% for the period up Lo 1978 to 49.9% in FY 1984/85.  The



-28-
major additional contribution, however, comes from higher net interest receipts
which correspond to the need for higher interest payments. The share of loan
repayments has not really changed, reflecting a stagnant trend in collections,
at least in terms of proportionate contribution to IDBI's resources.
7.15    During the period 1982-85 collections under the direct financing
schemes have remained at rather low levels of between 55% and 58% of amounts
due (including arrears). Collections of current amounts due have actually
dropped from 78.4% in 1983/84 to 72.6% in 1984/85. The total amount of arrears
as of June 30, 1985 was Rs 2802 million, representing 3.7% of IDBI's aggregate
loans outstanding. The bulk of these arrears (88%) relates to over-dues under
direct financing schemes. Payments under indirect fina'icing schemes are essen-
tially received promptly by IDBI. However, continuous refinancing provides a
constant roll-over of funds for the financial institutions having access to
this facility (see paras 7.19-7.20) and requires ever larger market borrowings
on the part of IDBI. Recovery of funds from viable industrial enterprises is
contributing increasingly smaller percentages to the recycling of resources
throtvgh repayments. In addition to the declining trend in current collections
on IDBI's direct project lending, there is a "hidden malaise" in the recycling
of funds through IDBI's refinancing operations. The review of the operational
and financial performance of the SIDCs/SIICs in paras 7.17-7.21 provides an
illustration of these circumstances. They have also been described in the
PPAR/PCR on Credit 356-IN issued in June 1984 with respect to the SFCs.
Because of the unsatisfactory financial position of both the SFCs and the
SIDCs, which reflect the weaknesses in the loan portfolios of these
institutions, the issue of possible risks in IDBI's indirect financing opera-
tions can no longer be ignored.
7.16    Acceptance of the overall soundness of IDBI's financial position rests
on the thesis that its portfolio of loans and equity positions in other finan-
cial institutions, which is shown in the Long Form Audit Report as amounting to
Rs 31.37 billion, or 41% of total assets as of June 30, 1985, is practically
risk free. This was the underlying assumption of the Bank at the time of
appraisal, when an overall debt:equity ratio of 10:1 as general benchmark for
IDBI's financial structure was considered satisfactory. The risks in IDBT's
direct financing activities are adequately provided for. In 1984/85, the
annual provision for loan losses was increased from Rs 621 million to Rs 978
million, which brought the total portfolio loss reserve to Rs 2,655 million,
equivalent to 107% of aggregate arrears on direct loans. However, any possible
risk in indirect lending cannot be covered by reserves. It is not so much a
risk of default by the final guarantors (state governments), as a risk of
reduced financial standing In capital markets because of the constant need of
borrowing for refinancing of at least partially non-viable industrial
activities, or for socio-economic purposes with low financial rates of return.
'fhat risk can only be reduced by more effective efforts on the part of state
governments to support. IDBI's institution building, efforts at che state level,
which in tu rn -ool d ens; re more effect i e use of rosources *r  ;i able pir  c't e .



-29-
SIDCs - Characteristics and Trends in Operational. and Financial Performance
7.17    An overview of operational trends of the 26 SIDCs/SIICs is given in
Annexes VI-VIII and their financial position is detailed in Annexes IX-XIV.
These data are part of the comprehensive review of these state level institu-
tions which was undertaken by IDBI as of June 30, 1984. A sumnary review was
presented to the PCR-mission in June 1985 and forms Lhe basis of this report
together with earlier annual reviews of the SIDCs, aLl of which are part of the
Project File (see Annex XIX). The operational summary reflects the fact that
in increasing their financial assistance from Rs 718 mil)ion in 1976-77 to Rs
3592 million in 1983-84, the SIDCs have increased their thare of total sanc-
tions of all financial institutions slightly from 8% to !U%, while that of the
SFCs stabilized at the level. of about 20%, on a cumulative basis, after an
earlier strong expansion which had brought their share up to 28%, on an annual
basis.
7.18    The annual rate of growthi in operations of the SIDCs increased from
42% in 1979/80 to 53% in 1981/82. This rapid expansion of sanctions came to
an abrupt hal.t in 1982/83 as the gap between sanctions and disbursements began
to cause concern and IDBI's planning recommendations t.o SIDCs under the BPiF
system (para 6.05) began to have effect. It is interesting to note that the
relative share of sanctions to joint sector projects deciined from 9.5% in
1982/83 to 8.7% in 1983/84 and 6.4% in 1984/85.  This decline is mainly on
account of relatively inelastic budgetary allocations by the State Governments
to joint sector projects. The same relative decl;.ne in activity is reflected
with respect to sanctions for backward areas which did not keep pace with the
rapid overall expansion of SIDC operatiors in 1980-83, reflecting the greater
difficulty for new project activities in these a.reas. IDBI reports that in the
subsequent year (1984/85), sanctions by SIDCs t') backward areas grew
significantly, an increase of 36% over 1983/84. amounting to Rs 3,170 million.
The share of specified backward areas in total ,anctions increased to 67% in
this year, as against 64% in the preceding year (Attachment, page 6).
7.19    During the period 1980-84, the SIDCs expanded their operations
particularly through assistance to new projects for which sanctions ..ncreased
from an annual Level of Rs 1.1 billion to Rs 2.3 billion.  This  Icreased the
share of new project financing from 69% in 1979/80 to 80% in 1983184. During
this period, assistance for expansion and diversification fluctuated between Rs
313 million and Rs 590 million annually, with an average share of annual sanc-
tions of around 15%.  Upon IDBI's introduction of Special Refinance Scheme in
January 1984, SIDCs have been providing assistance for m.ldernization and
rehabilitation of industrial projects at an increasing rate (Attachment:,
page 6).
7.20    The aggregate finanrcial. performance oif tne 26 SlDCli/SiiC  has
deteriorated considerably since 1980/81, when 3ank supervision missions found
encouragimng sign; of i.mprovement in performance a;nd considered the general
financial sLructure of these State-level in; oi :i ns relati&vely s;und.  As the
performance indicators (An:ex  WX) shc'4.  rh  r,!Did rate at  r        :rom 1980 to



-30-
1982 was accompanied by increasing weakness in the aggregate financial perfor-
mance which continued until the end of the review period (March 1984):
- return on equity declined from 3% to 2.6%;
- return on equity investments fell from 4% to 1.8%;
- return on average capital employed only temporarily rose marginally
above 6%, while the cost of borrowings increased from 6.7% to 7%;
- loan collections dropped from 63% to 46%;
- the amount of internally generated resources dropped from a level of
Rs 206 million to Rs 112 million while the annual disbursement level
increased from Rs 1246 million to Rs 2225 million;
- the percentage of internally generated funds in terms of annual
disbursements ccnsequently dropped from 16.5% to 5% within four
years, while refinancing by IDBI became the primary source of funds
for term lending;
- increases in state government share capital contributions during
these foug years aggregated Rs 1555 million in needed capital infu-
sions but reserves increased only from Rs 159 million to Rs 468
million;
- bonds and debenture issues provided only Rs 366 million in additional
funds during the four year period 1981-84, but
- the amount of outstanding IDBI refinancing increased at the same time
from Rs 501 million to Rs 3.9 billion.
7.21    IDBI's sunmary evaluation of SIDC financial and operational performance
as of March 31, 1984 came to the striking conclusion that
"from 1980 to 1984, the availment of refinance assistance
by SIDCs/SIICs from IDBI registered more than fourfoLd
increase (Rs 320 million in 1980 to Rs 1470 million in
1984). Percentage-wise, refinance formed 37% of long-term
resources of SIDCs/SIICs at the end of FY84, as compared
to 11% at the end of FY80. This shows increasing reliance
on refinance. The share of refinance in funding of
loaning operations also went up from 57% during FY80 to
76% in FY84. While liberal flow of refinance from IDBI,
has, no doubt enabled SIDCs/SIICs, to expand their
operations, excessive reliance on refinance is adversely
affecting their debc servicing capacity."



-31-
IDBI has advised SIDCs/SIICs that they should aim at a pattern of future
resource mix in which share capital and internal cash generation (plough back)
would provide 15% of disbursements, bonds 25% and refinance and other sources
not more than 60%. The amount of state government capital contributions during
the last four years matched IDBI refinancing resources on a 1:2.2 basis.
However, equity investments by the SIDCs/SIICs absorbed Rs 901 million of
additional equity which left just Rs 654 million to support the enormous
increase in term borrowings from state governments and IDBI, which together
increased by Rs 3.8 billion. The overall debt:equity ratio increased from 1.6
in 1980 to 2:1 in 1982 and remained at that level in the following two years,
despite increases in share capital and reserves; but decreased to 1.9:1 by
March 1985 (Attachment, page 6). The average debt service coverage of the 26
SIDCs/SIICs dramatically declined from 1.99 in 1980 to 1.13 in 1984 (Annex IX).
7.22    The ability to sustain this resource flow in the future rests on the
nature of the state governments' response to the many issues facing the
SIDC's/SIICs internally (Annex XV), and on the strength of future con-
ditionality of IDBI's refinancing with respect to improvements in collection
efforts and supervision of projects. Only financially viable projects can be
expected to generate repayments to recycle the resources provided for
investments, and ensure that employment opportunities created through them can
become lasting foundations for economic and personal well-being. If the
response of state governments and IDBI is not commensurate with the seriousness
of the situation, the sick unit problems described in IDBI's Annual Report
(para 7.07) could start to inflict substantial damage not only on IDBI but on
the financial system which is now being used to some extent to avoid having to
squarely face these problems and resolve them.
VIII. THE BANK CROUP'S ROLE
8.01    The evolution of the public/joint sector project set the stage for the
Bank Group's role in this project (paras 4.03-4.05). Experience with the two
SFC-oriented lending operations through IDBI as apex institution had not been
fully evaluated at the time of approval of Loan 1511-IN in 1978. The Bank had
not been able to narrow the focus of this new project during negotiations to
specific subsectors or selected state ievel institutions (para. 6.04). This
resulted in a reliance on the capacity of IDEI to play a strong coordinating
role both in generating subprojects and in implementation monitoring. The Bank
overestimated that capacity and found itself involved in both SFC subproject
supervision under Credit 356 and Loan 1260, as well as SIDC subproject supervi-
sion under Loan 1511 parallel to the monitoring of 44 State-level financial
institutions (SFCs and SIDCs). The resulting staff input was therefore much
higher than expected. The processing of an enormous flow of detailed informa-
tion became far too demanding for both IDBT and Bank Group supervision staff.
The lack of appropriate monitoring systems at the state level and at the level
of IDBI, as well as the aiso particlpating two other ailV-lndia institutions
(IFC and ICICI), contributed    t.h>; dilemma.  Bank statf input for supervision



-32-
was essential and substantial, but in its effect mostly catalytic (see
para 6.08).
8.02    The benefit from financing a study component under the public/joint
sector project was expected to be a contribution from these studies to state
level industrial development knowledge on the part of the Bank Group. This
benefit did not accrue to the Bank, because the studies actually carried out
(see Annex II and para 6.08) did not focus on a few specific areas or
subsectors, where the review by Bank staff in collaboration with IDBI and the
state level consultancy organizations could have contributed to design of
future sector work in which IDBI and the Bank Group might have cooperated. The
lesson learned trom this experience is essentially, that an effort to improve
knowledge of sector circumstances, issues of industrial development potential,
and the impact of promotional policies at the state level can only be
effective, if strong managerial guidance of such a program of sector work is
agreed upon between the Bank Group and institutions like IDBI, and resources in
terms of time and staff are cLearly provided in the respective institutions'
overall programs. This was not the case in the public/joint sector project.
Only at the end of project implementation there was a gradual converging of the
sector work orientation of the Bank Group and IDBI towards a common future
direction with respect to subsector work for technology upgrading, and possible
future review of state level promotional policies and their impact on backward
areas, which might be fields for future collaboration (see para 6.09).
IX. SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
9.01    The public/joint sector project was a complex lending operation for
all participants. It exposed the Bank Group to a set of circumstances over
a long period of time, from preparation of the project in 1975 to compLetion
in 1984, in which almost every important aspect of the overall politico-
economic setting for industrial development in India played a role. Changes of
government, severe external shocks and domestic disruptions, periods of drought
and infrastructural collapse each hacd a bearing on the role public and private
industrialists could play, and on how the various financial institutions could
promote balanced growth of industrial activity in all of the states covered by
the 26 SIDCs,'SIICs.
9.02    IDBI's substantial professional efforts to upgrade these institutions
were partly effective, but failed to reap the benefit of seeing their financial
performance improve. As it had in the case of the two SFC lending operations,
the Bank Group overestimated the ability of IDBI to bring about drastic
improvements in efficiency of operations and management of the SIDCs without
strong s'ipport from state governments (paras 6.05-6.06).  Moreover, it has to
be recognized that the upgrading of state level institutions in a diverse
country is bound to take many years (Attachment, page 7).  The experience in
the use of Bank funds was disappointing.  There was a considerable delay in
disbursements and selection of subprojects was unexpectedly difficult, because
of some unsuitable proposals, and a general slowdown in indu<;trial investment
activity (paras 5.01-5.02).  The objective of improving state-level investment



-33-
planning through screening of a large pipeline of public/joint sector projects
by the financial institutions was not achieved (paras 5.11 and 5.12).
9.03    In the state public sector, Bank funds were used essentially for
supplementary financing with little impact from the financial institutions on
the choice of subproject design (para 5.12). In the joint sector the perfor-
mance of subprojects was extremely poor. Future viability of most of the new
ventures is not yet solidly based. The overall project experience did not
demonstrate that Bank Croup financing was essential and that it could catalyze
a more effective investment planning process at the state level through support
of public/joint sector projects. There is a need for more comprehensive
assessment of investment proposals than that routinely carried out by the
financial institutions, to assess the implications of subsectoral linkages,
of indirect tax burdens on essential inputs, of regulated prices, and public
sector procurement policy and investment patterns (paras 5.13-5.16).
9.04    Beyond these directly project and subsector related issues, there is a
wider issue with respect to the impact of the financial weakness of institu-
tions at the state level on the whole financial system. Badly managed
resources leading to badly managed projects will not produce the results in
terms of economic returns and financial recyclin3 of funds on which the system
of development finance depends. The cause of this vicious cycle must be
addressed at the root through appropriate choice of investments and appropriate
adjustment of subsectoral or sectoral policies to provide a supportive policy
environment for viable industrial activity.
9.05    The major lessons from the public/joint sector project are therefore:
- Selection of individual subprojects and target groups for financing
requires a more comprehensive analysis of subsectoral circumstances
taking into account the impact of indirect taxes on competitiveness
with imports, frequen. changes in price regulations and import
regimes, economies of size and the importance of subsectoral linkages
in the assessment of market prospects for new ventures. The recent
shifts in Indian industrial policy to foster greater internal and
external competition suggest the need to assess the efficiency of
proposed projects in relation to internationally competitive levels
and the likelihood of a more competitive future economic environment
(para 5.19).
- Improvements in operational efficiency and creditworthiness of state
level financial institutions require more forceful action by state
governments and cannot be postponed through continuous recourse to
IDBI as a lender of last resort, without damaging IDBI's starding as
a financial institution (paras 7.15-7.16);
Because of significant changes in the pattern of resource flows for
industry (paras 3.03 and 3.04) future Bank Group support of
industrial development through financial intermediaries in India



-34-
requires a more comprehensive analysis of the roles that these
institutions can effectively play, as part of increasingly diver-
sified financial markets; and
Bifurcation of the financial sector through direct access by large
and established industries to credit and capital markets, and
increasing dependence of medium and small-scale industry, as well as
new ventures without adequate repayment capacity, on support of
financial institutions could create serious resource problems in the
financial system both at the state and the national level (paras
7.06, 7.07, 7.15 and 7.19-7.20).



35 -ADL
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDUSTRIAL DEVILOPnNT BAlK OF IVDIA (IDBI)
PUBLIC/JOINT SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 1511-N)
Schedule of Estimated and Actual Disbursements (US$ million)
Estimated                       Actual
Annual    Cusul.    Cumul,       Annual    Cumul.    Cumul,
(As % of                         (As x of
PY ended 6/30                              Total)                           Total)
1978/79               5.5        5.5        22.0         -         -
1979/80               9.5       15.,0       60.0         .3        .3        1.2
1980/81               8.0       23.0        92.0        5.2       5.5       22.0
1981/82               2.0       25.0         100       11.6      17.1       68.4
1982/83                -          -           -         5.4      22.5       90.0
1983/84                           -           -          .8      23.3       93.2
1984/85                           -           -          .3     23.6        94.4
Balance Canceled                                                 1.4         5.6



ANVEX II
-36-                                      Page  1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
(LOAN 1511-IN)
Total Disbursements
Sub-
Sector    project   Lead Inst.          Company                              US$ Equivalent
Joint       A-1       ICICI        Coastal Papers                                324,408.53
Joint       A-2       IFCI         Punjab Ceramics                             1,123,269.24
Joint       A-3       IFCI         Deccan Fibre Glass                          4,519,024.66
Joint       A-4       ICICI        Allied Aromatics                              637,930.52
Joint       A-S       ICICI        Wiltech (Karnataka Blades)                  2,671,458.39
Joint       A-6       IDBI         Tungabhadra Fibres                          3,309,576.62
Public      A-7       IDBI         Gujarat Communications and Electronics        259,444.55
Public      A-8       IFCI         Transformers and Electricals                  892,895.78
Public      A-9       IDBI         Karnataka Silk Industries                   1,317,499.92
Joint        A-10     IDBI         Sree Rayalaseema Paper                        381,409.28
Joint        B-1      IFCI         West Bengal Filaments and Lamps             1,874,835.24
Joint        B-2      IDBI         Circas Paper Hills                            342,498.34
Joint        B-3      IDBI         Telangana Paper Mills                         332,468.83
Public      B-4       IDBI         Assam Gas Company                             604,239.15
Joint        B-5      IDBI         Uptron Electronic Devices                     540,514.02
Joint       B-6       IDBI         Southern Petrochemical Industries           2,021,819.18
Joint        B-7      IDBI         Carbon and Chemicals                          608,961.70
Joint        B-8      IDBI         Partap Rajasthan Copper Foils               1,439,234.03
23,201,487.98
STUDIES (See Details on Page 2)                                               423,930.91
TOTAL DISBURSEMENTS                                     23,625,418.89
Amount Cancelled                                         1,374,581.11
25,000,000.00
umg-amm.....,



- 37 -                                     ANEX II
Page 2
StudY                                Type of Study              US$ Equivalent
C-1   APIDC  - Conveyor Belting                  Techno-Economic                       6,114.21
Feasibility Report 1/
C-3   KSIIC  - Precision Measuring               Detailed Project Report 1/           13,364.47
Instruments
C-5   APIDC  - Aluminium Foil                    Techno-Economic                      24,179.87
Feasibility Report 1/
C-6   AIDC   - Methanol Project and              Feasibility Report                   24,317.53
Phthalic Anhydride
C-8   GIIC   - Mechanical Sales and              Market Survey and                     8,619.23
Mechanical Packing                Feasibility Report
C-9   GIIC   - Power Driven Pumps                Market Survey and                     7,304.01
Feasibility Report 1/
C-10  GIIC   - Electric Motors and               Market Survey and                     6,330.26
Generators                        Feasibility Report
C-11  GIIC   - Air and Gas Compressors           Market Survey and                     6,643.84
and Vacuum Pumps                  Feasibility Report
C-12  PSIDC  - Cellular Concrete                 Feasibility Report                    3,222.54
C-13  KSIIDC - Woollen Yarn Units                Feasibility Report 1/                 2,771.99
C-14  PSIDC  - Bearings                          Feasibility Report                    3,631.48
C-1S  PSIDC  - Industrial Diamond                Feasibility Report                    2,593.90
Wheels and Tools
C-16  KSIIDC - Twine Plant; First Phase          Feasibility Report                      633.23
of Mesta Fibre Jute Plant
C-17  PSIDC  - Typewriters                       Feasibility Report                    1,501.90
C-18  PSIDC  - LPC/HPC Valves and                Feasibility Report
Regulators
C-19  WBIDC  - Concentrated Nitric Acid         Market Survey Repert 1/                3,614.77
and Ammonium Nitrate
C-20  GITCO  - Development of                    Research/Study Proposal 1/           29,443.27
Industries in Saurashtra
C-21  GITCO  - Acrylic Industry Complex         Research/Study Proposal 1/            19,453.16



- 38 -                                      ANNEX II
Page 3
C-22  CITCO  - Building Material                 Research/Study Proposal 1/           20,457.49
Production Complex
C-23  CITCO  - Export Oriented Electronic    Research/Study Proposal 1/               20,142.52
Indust;y Complex
C-24  CITCO  - Plastic Industries                Research/Study Proposal 1/           23,299.90
C-25  CITCO  - Growth Centres for                Research/Study Proposal 1/           30,694.97
Industrial Dispersal in
Gujarat - Methodology
C-26  GITCO  - Foundry Industries in             Research/Study Proposal 1/           15,475.99
Cujarat
C-27  WBCON  - Multi Dimension Coal Based    Sector Survey 1/                         28,174.33
Industries in West Bengal
C-28  ITCOT  - Salt Based Industries   )         Sector Survey 1/                     73,279.55
C-29  ITCOT  - Dyestuff Industries         )     Sector Survey 1/
C-30  ITCOT  - Starch and Starch Based )         Sector Survey 1/
Industries                )
C-31  ITCOT  - Electronic Industries   )         Sector Survey 1/
C-33  ITCOT  - Drugs and Pharmaceutical)         Sector Survey 1/
Industries
C-32  JKSIDC - Light Emitting Diodes             Project Proposal 1!                  19,619.69
C-34  GITCO  - Utilisation of Banana             Research/Study Proposal 1/           11,018.54
Stems
C-35  CITCO  - Industrial Utilisation            Research/Study Proposal 1/           18,028.34
of Agricultural Waste
423,930.91
1/ Studies of which extracts or executive sumaries were submitted to IBRD.



- 39 -                                    ANNEX III
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
(LOAN 1511-IN)
Appraisal Reviev of 'A' Subprojects
'A' Subproiect        -----   1        2      3     4       5       6     7      8     9    10
Lead Institution-----       - ICICI  IFCI  IFCI  ICICI  ICICI  IDBI  IDBI  IFCI  IDBI  IDBI
Nature of IBRD Coaments
FuLly Acceptable                                  x      x             x                    x            x
Acceptable vith
additional information                  x                    x               x     x                   x
Specific Areas of Weakness
Procedure (Late of Return
Calculation)                            x              x     x              x
Market Forecast                           x              x     x                     s            x
Technical Assessment/Project Cost                              x               x                  s
FinanciaL Plan                            x             x      x                     x            x
Procurement Aspects                       x             x      x                     x            x
Low/Marginal Economic Rate of
Return                                          x     x      x
Major Project Change                                                                 x
Recommended for Substitution by
Alternative Project                                          x
Estimated Economic Rate of
Return in Percent                      18      12    15   13.7    33       19    25    60    15    25
Actual                                   24      ---------       NOT AVAILABLE------------------    25



1001 - PULICIJ0U    EO   3fC
Lose11-a            rjc
311-                                                             Be will  I of ProJ.  Coot (3m will.)   Cost Over-   Tir   f a         ptocmr- rrojoet  ala    Ces
f:tfh                                              Lead f1F1L.    u t        coat       Esti       *A_MI  zsisa           r ftiu     mL_-                iMNMiu A llm
0-9   t ar-atala Silk lduactri*8    Public           Itl         14.2       28.2        53.1       50.3         -      1                IC                   A - 132 .             asp
pactial C_l.           Pe
A-S      Tiamat. and Electrical&         Public      IFCI         SS          8.9       65.4       94.0       5.5           Bar.      lot. Ptoc.             he b a1a       *.'. d   so   -
&-I     CGjarat Cam. A Llectromica  Public           IDOI         2.3       16.9        12.2       12.2         -            irr.    lte.  at Avail.       so balay               was
3-4       asams Gas                      Public      1963         5.0   s     .ei       24.7       28.3        5.5           n.      Sbit. lot. tProc.       a balmy 
Frapgiatary Gas.
3-3      upgrom flectromica Devices   Jomis          IDlE         5.1       19.2        25.4       24.5        4.3           *II      tet. Mor.            12 - 1s H              14
T.cbmal. Equips..
-S   Partap sajamtbma
Coppero eiAl                  Joist       3161        14.3       11.9      132.5       I20.0       17.0          MW          l4i                 0 - 12 H.            25
*-I       Coastal Popor                  Joint       ICICI        2.4        s.0        40.0       43.0        1.5          an.       lot. sharp.          12 -  mU.            132 
Sacomi 3d.
3-2      Cigcar Paper                    Joist       [al1         3.2        4.5        *0.0       11.0       10.0         *Mw       lot.  bapp.          12 -    MO.            10
Moceed ad.
2-3      Telampama I'per                 Joiat      10i          2.9        4.U        59.5       63.1        0.0          slo      tat. Whopp.         Uear * .                3
Sacoed Ed.
A-10      Erle Soalaaemm  Ptper          Joimg       1Dtl         4.U        1.2        S5.5       41.5        3.5          rIP1111  let. Uhapp.         Mo Solay
Seto" dU.          Partial CMPI*
6-4       Somibers rPatroch.ic.la        Joist       196I        19.0       14.3       136.0      135.0         -          SIP.        ice              Me Delay
*-5       Waltech Bladae                 Joint       ICECI       22.5       20.5       103.1      109.9        0.4          an       let. Sbho.                1  31M.          40-74
Prope. Techs.
S-1      vast sas] Vila.ca               Joiat       lrci        17.0       23.9        47.1       11.0      46.3           otn   -   lt. Ubpp.
&ad Loopsa                                                                                                                 Prapr. Tach.        IS   24 M.              so
0-4       Tua4mb&mdr.  Fibres            Joist   IU 1I           10.0   o     .5       295.5      455.0       54.0          mW        let. Ushpe.   1       0 - 24 v. O      mur ett
Seeaed Ud.
h-3       Doccam Fabre Class             Joist       IICI        35.0       32.4       309.1      109.1         -           NEW         N.A.                    12 M.
5-1       Carboe mA4 Chmicals            Joint       IDaI         5.b        3.3       125.0      171.7       42.0          on       big. let. Proc.       11 _      1.0&
owae lPasta                                  .
0-4       allied Aramahica               Joist       ICICI        4.1       11.2        31.1       59.        57. 2         mm        lit. Ihopp.         §  X 24 M.                                    la
A-2      IPuiab Carmica                  Joint       lrci        10.0       12.0        54.5        3.0       52.3          M         let.  ho- p.         1  -   *                         .  d  s    P    t
!f



_ 41 -                            ~~~~~~~Page 2
j .   a.1!            .     .   !I1      1i                                    t i Xii
a    i   l.,,                           i.al  a                  ?t j?| iii            fjl3
5|:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 3                              1   ". 
:~~~.                          S **                           :1
.        j* =1 i                                I!j -                s I,., _ 
,,~~~~~~ S~ S                   *4i.3-0"
a   2  X  s   g  g    *  e   v    o    e  4  o  §- ji3          jji t
~~~~~~ .
b~~~~ ~~~~~~ ZA i  _i~i
X '   '  i      I           ' t    a             :  i       I !   ,   ji       i 
ja                                                                                        312    u" {XXl       
g   *   Z  _  s Z _ @ e _ ' i _  *
s ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~        N     N   N    N            I  -1  -     N     N   N          -     



- 42 -
ANNEX v
Page 1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
(LOAN 1511-IN)
Nams of the State Industrial Development/Investment Corporations
No. of
Sub-
Projects
Under
Loan
1511-IN
1. Andhra Pradesh Industrial Development Corporation
Limited (APIDC)                                                         5
2. Assam Industrial Development Corporation Limited (AIDC)                   -
3. Bihar State Credit and Investment Corporation Limited (BSCIC)             -
4. Economic Development Corporation of Coa, Daman and Diu (EIC)              -
5. Haryana State Industrial Development Corporation
Limited (HSIDC)                                                         -
6. Cujarat Industrirl-tdveistent Corporacion Limited (GIIC)                  -
7. Himachal Pradesh Mineral and Industrial Development
Corporation Limited (HPMIDC)                                            -
8. Indus.rial Promotion and Investment Corporation of
Orissa Limited (IPCOL)                                                  -
9. JamNu and Kashmir State Industrial Development Corporation
Limited (J & K SIDC)                                                    -
10. Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation Limited (KSIDC)           2
11. Madhya Pradesh Audyogik Vikas Nigam Limited (MPAVN)                       -
12. Meghalaya Industrial Development Corporation Limited (MIDC)               -
13. Karnataka State Industrial Investment and Development
Corporation Limited (KSIIDC)                                            2



ANNEX V
43                                Page 2
No. of
Sub-
Projects
Under
Loan
1511-IN
14. Nagaland Industrial Development Corporation Limited (NIDC)
15. Pondicherry Industrial Promotion Development and Investment
Corporation Limited (PIPDIC)
16. Punjab State Industrial Development Corporation Limited (PSIDC)           1
17. Pradeshiya Industrial and Investment Corporation of Uttar
Pradesh Limited (PICUP)                                                -
18. Rajasthan State Industrial Developmenc and Investment
Corporation Limited (RIICO)                                            1
19. State Industrial and Investment Corporation of Maharashtra
Limited (SICOM)                                                        -
20. State Industries Promotion Corporation of Tamitnadu
Limited (SIPCOT)                                                       -
21. West Bengal Industrial Development Corporation Limited (WBIDC)           2
22. Sikkim Industrial Development and Investment Corporation
Limited (SIDICO)                                                       -
23. Arunachal Pradesh Industrial Development and Financial
Corporation Limited (APIDFC)                                           -
24. Mizoram Small Industries Development Corporation Limited (MS.DC)         -
25. Tripura Industrial Development Corporation Limited (TIrC)                -
26. Manipur Small Industries Corporation Limited (MSIC)                      -



_ 144 -
- -XAN?X VI
LOAZI S1.'-sIt
MOJECT COMPLE:ON RSPO.:
SIC & 011418 FINANCIAL INSTMTTONS - OPSIRATONAL rUNLOS
,,_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a .                         .                  ion
CNSTT10N            1970.1        1s71          1974.77       191041         144142        1982-43        191344  CumLmuve
spw3It3.34
SANCTIONS
SCi                    193            367             Ls         :144          .299           29"           3592          17045
,9)           (o}           ($I            19)          (12)          (tID           ,10)           M9
SPC                    494           1629          LW            3706            096          GU1           *49           35674
(22)          (28)                         (14           (21)          (22)           (16           (0)
(PC                    32             Su            '0                          21.1.3        23IXI         31C0          19"35
(14)           t99     )       )              )9          (9)           (a)            (9)          (tl)
(ac                    439            1:            96           3141           j024          348            43M          .4m
(19)          (14)          11I          1)             Ut2)         U12)           ,13)          (14)
Ioer                   X0            :458          490          127            11481         1317!         1769           52903
i 3)          (4O)          (54)           1s3)          t46)          (471           ts)           (4)
TOTAL.,                  25?           5750          9       007   Z5            2478           28049         34           131834
(100)         (lOG)         (O00)          i'00)          100)         (100)           100)         (100)
OISUURSL'WENl
sIOC                    IIi           271           350           1246          1911          206                         (0942
(7)           ("I            7)            (9)          (1i)          (10)            (9)           is)
SFQ                                  to o00        1052          240            317           40            4340          :417
(23)          (25)          (19) I         tll)          (IJ)          (19)           IJ)           (19)
(PC                    174            34?           549          IGO            144           t9 r          =45           14322
(U)             9)          (10)            (5)            9)9) )                       9)          (11)
1cc                    2       o l                  670           1133          2147         -272           :950    l      9bw
2°^0)(13)                   il2           (13)          (15'           (13)          (12)          (0)
oIDl'                  558           17V0           794           is$           4570         10401          1:&14         6.4J1
051)           44)          (52)           13)           (47)           49)            ¶2)          (47)
OTAL..                   1467          304            54U15        : 4"          17        t    1194          2414         1l13
(100)         , :1)         '100)          ,)             LA)          '100)           Loa) 1,30)
F iuuaw  a4uus   lt tntm-insalunoaia lows.
Op.tw on  comotoe euiw loas. nmem.Maw t in sh4awdob4"mw   du  jisamni
Figu,  in  "bmct lfldioWlP pVn         sP  @S  th e O ns OM tan1 fli90W   in %o   aainA . naaWW.
INSTmTTIONAL'ASSISTANCI-SHARS Of JOINT SECTOR ?UOJTCrS
FY                                    SANCTIONS                                                      DISBULSiMNTS
TOWi        joiuScor             3a s%d2                    ToW]        joint Sor tov        6     of 3
pmymu                                                      pmte~ts
I                                   2                  3                  4                     5                   6                  7
197977                           9492                19                   9                  51                  391
1977.71                         112570               013                 17                 6915                 '60                  :
{X)          lW}~~(7j                                  (19)               v94)
197S 79                         13W                 1046                  3                 9238                091                  :3
15)              (-48)                                      (33)               831
19940                          19207               29%                   14                124m0                 517
(4.3)            (1)                                       (34)              (-41)
10.1                            337 W4                                    6                1519                (049
(21)             (.49)                                     (25)               (31)
1"142                          27396                ¶474                  5                2074                 1449
'21)              (10)                                     ':9)               136)
1962.13                        3   3                1691                  5                ='53                11-04
,4)              (15)                                     (15)               (15)
19634                             45               4729                  12                :16 (410                                   5
CGwULatave utpW
31.3.1.96                                         46374                   S               14971W               "41 
nigww  tA bVN*M ic',              puanwp #n-th ut *pwa ns.
* c,au lOl. Mo. =                .JC u7. C. SC:  AiJ 5AIM
Sousea;" =11t S=Cs, Utrch 1185.



- 45 _M    VIt It
LOAN tlll-tN
?RoJzcr COc2L:ON  RNCR?
5ItnX_ TUntzos It4 If41J5u0.WII 4USSl3?ANC
(Na aaUue
SA)4CI¶ONI                OIlS    P'41.'d      (PAI1UMN
It    INfTtI7o-                                "'A 1 O  1U-t3  1W3.44 Coaw            (M.7-   IM-94o 1W3.Q   I ts 1     Ca .
3( id                                           31) 5
1.  Pad~                                 (4      134      100      151     1(50          U       104U                       711
(21                       (I)       (71         (1                        (4)      (M
2.   ?mn*e..                            t3        WO    3)J        4.-     19l1          17      1"       :n       2"      1241
3.   Papin                               0?      I?       191      IIII   (=             59       51      to)      124       w
9)                       2(3)      (7         (M)                          ()     (la)
4.   r_W                                n7        2        137    104       03            a                         Is 1  2  (9I
(101                       31)      Ol           (21                        (1      2,t
I    Caw                                  a        2.     122      W17      S             2       :I       so        l      331
t1)                       ,1       i3i         !11                        i}        il
*    Samchom,cam                         30      1(2      135      135     t77            I       so       l5k     114      111
(4)                       !4)       0)1        12)                         3)      71
7   pf"lAwn                             40        0                 3      't9                    5       23        3      1(7
(0)                                (II          1)                                 ,1)
L      .       9tidaIu wm wus            45      130      314      340    (l7!3          0        tt       41      .1      UO!
9,                       ilOt      10      1   (t3)                               (tt)
9. .1M Metal I&mm
*) IewaM                         3*       'tt!     U43     =l       (IW           2        74      -17     140      s2o
(5)                       ,0)      ()          10                         M'       (71
it) N   b me.                      3                 4       4       (49           1        S       21       43     13*
(1)                       (21      .1)                                    .2)      i 2
10.   N4aU uuem                           37       40      Ut1      I       *e           3I        39       11              384
is)                       S.        4'          99                        .)        4'
1I.   Madune"                             31       0)      224     :3       (41           19       30      t3       00 .(
4t\                       'Pt      "1           09                         9) 
2.   Cuca hu ttcMWe                      30        41      (31     254      we            11       31     (0       (3 7     tel
4)                        11         )          4)                         6)       3)
9.                         ,),      ,, 2), 0,a .3I
14.   5arftir                              3       3       ;       :9 tt.    04          -         2       10               4.o
:1)                      3)}    '3)                                     '4)       41
.S.   tetlrpSf f"       "                                           1 4  :r  (  ;         1         .       2        I 
o)                        .)      '1)                                             2:)
10.   ote                                12       23       494     ?3      _I"4          47      (14       312     47*    (14
'209                      (201     (1*)        (19)                       121)    '11
=,AL                   ".a    uI :,        o     13902   (7243         L430     i3      .o0        s    i 1tt
ArAm ~~;:X &AtX                                                  fittOI umtS\                            Itmpiro  :tzS"OdtetnuyIm   nI    dma
allw  tm t U9dw3Vfl 159V SAm  *t@4 t)*algW   pts, t _ 9Wa U.es
STOC-.- nLOW OF ASStSTANCE TO SACCWARD RECIONS
FY                      SANCTIONS                                                                c!SsuRSEMENn
ro,,            Sackiwd              3as %*2                        Totah           LN*iWQ                6 as %.s
1  2                 3                     4                        5                    t                     7
1976477                                                     441                    Sl                     33                    :Ot                     57
:r, -;F7 1                                                 505                    57                     44                    :43                    54
)  13)                                        (23)                   21)
W&M                                   963                  410                      9                     401                   392                    d3
(12)                 (33)                                           i34)                  '61)
19'40                                 .7"7                  961                     3                     633                   531                    63
(601                 (46)                                           (42)                  371
IWO-l4                                                     1.243                   37                    1246                   749 40
(3n)                 (2)                                            (4)}                 (39)
1"8a2                                291 743                                       58                    1911                 10                       56t
'38)                 (40                                            (533)                 44)
12U43                                29"                  (69                      57                    :Ow                  1:12                     42
(-I)                 (-31                                            ;9)                 1m
191344                               .32                   6s7                     s3                    122                  134                      *0
(21)                 f34)                                            (7)                   7'
Ciouiative as of
31.314                              17BW                  102           s     a                         10l!2                  69 
Source  =c,  S=daca              , Marcht*.85   .r 
Satires: =:BS, S IC., Xareh .7.85 .



-46 -                                                       AhEX VU
LOA L511-IN
PROJECT COMPTETION REPORT
StDC-.S CTOa.w1su now Of ASSISTAINCIE
Sr tICTO vR      _SANCTIONS
No.                        1976.77      19 -78      1971.79     19704         1960-81     19142        I93          1993-64 CAmul&rzV*
upto
31J..1964
1. Puabic                      54           114          107        147           184         291          2n3          W           97
(8)                                  (9)                                                (7)         (13)
2. Joit                        131          178          203         309          311         330         2:2          26*         2038
tlO)                                 (20)                                                ()          (12
3. Copatnve                     -            -            -            6            5            7          13          11           67
(~1)
4.  Pvnva.                     531           87          673        1115         14          2341         2396        3060        12tu3
(74)                                 (71)                                               (53)         (74)
TOTAL             718           879         963        1577         2164         2996         296.        3592       1743
(100)                                (100)                                              (100)        (100)
DISSLISEIMENT
1.  public                      30           69          123        132           104         239          139         130        1790
(9)                                 (15)                                                (6)        (16)
-.  ionte                       60           81          9J         123           213         207          294         190        1173
(17                                  !15)                                                (91         (11)
3.  Co-opentive                 -            -           -            3             4           2            5          10           39
,4.  Pnvate                    260          29           380         593 9_3                   463         1640       1895
(74)                                 (70)                                               (831        (73)
TuTAL             350          4..          601         853         1246         1911        2080        2.235       1062
(lam                                 (100)                                              (100)       (;tS0
g n uiwket indicate pufM p shav oi the se.c to ut total amstwnce.
_  SIDCv-PURPOSIW5 SANCTj0N OF ASSISTANCE
(Rs. nillion)
St.  PlUPOSE                           1976.77   1977.78    19M79    19740  1980-81    1961-82    1902-83    19&344  Cumui..
No.                                                                                                                         tl  upto
31.3 84
I     Now                                  372        57         660      I1        I33 '242               '0        21        12404
(32)                            (69)                            (71)       (80)       (73)
2     ExpaisaowDivrsificanon                S4        116         ,6       313       561          89       479        4"        :958
(12)                            (I., )                          (16)       (14)       :r17
3     Modernmuon. thabiii-                  17         21         11       102       131         87         %           9         49
tano,W3akricmtt qwpmuint              (2)                             (6)                             (3)        (2)       (4)
4     Suppiemttary sistance                245        167        2:6        SO       130          S        101        143        979
(34)                             (3)                             (3)        (4)        (O
TOTAL...                  78          879        963      1377      :164       :99       29^6       3392      17045
*          ~~~(100o)                        (lt00)                          (10)       (100)      L1XI)
Figur  in backw  indicate pofmthtge shan ofi the cstacOrt in total aaaistfnC9.
Source: =3:, S13C, Yarch 1985.



- 47-
LOWA 11L-tn
PROJUC  CO  UTON REPORKT                                                  ANNEX IX
SIDC.C-4 ANCLAL POsmoN
s at thendOf4    Y                                19"            1980            191            1              1983            1964
Shan capiaA                                  14U            1619                           list 2II        t6            3174
11u1tv        SaIlua                           lo9t           U              W              1:97           380            44
S4sA&n4deso£nAm                               11,91          1377            144.           1555           1"3            1?43
StatCevo inr t3                                           4              92S            100            it"            1:70
RalaacghmIDgI                               02            501           1172            19"            I."            3,12
Othom                                      4s              o             :14             323            319            332
Oyo.eul                                         10              I               3              8              5              4
Cuni liabilities and oth.n                     307            523                             "                            67
TOTAL..                            400            513.              4931                        4Q9           11570
ASSM
Cash & fbankbUcs                               514            4"             619             541            514            60£
!n  Ints                                       92            1Q21            1179           1363           1614           192
Loams  s                                      2157           3070           4149            50"            620            7424
Pia4  m.                                        I              97             1 3            110            la             3l1
Cwmneassmbuothen                               141            550            644             841           1042           12M
TOTAL..                            4M8            r.33           £446Il669117
(Penmd Apei-Maa. but fo 2 coip.ae. whae yew  nug ai Jwu  3A)
SIOCA-NCOM1 AMC vNol933E
1"  9       :!9".40      to".41      1`6142       ilr.as3     IMA3
INCO,1
Lj     tw                                        31           310111                                UO
LnamahadwuW~                         1.£    U                             4 lb         5 W
OVwcfr.w.gi"-~w,ma                      3            4            S           I            9           5
04-~~                               ~    ~      ~     ~     ~     ~ ~ ~~                ~ -   1  30  2*  :S  :b
10S         134         110          Id
IAwee.b1t1wws                          so0          15                        0          too         458
AtmRWSfv9gW                            N            52                       46          108I        128
Do.efande                               3            4                        4            4           s
.1oWLw"Impa                            Lt           U                       105           %          1021
T rAL                                                                                       926
rm   ApYaJ.MaMi. ma 1w h 2 C.e~mwe_  w1wg yq midma 8 lea. 30 I
P"w:ApJ-ff"vj#WZ*1o_pnw sawwocrx
SmC..-4rf P1`21M.4A.%CR INDICATORS
4%OtCk.eits                                          :20          :Ggt        :4I           M^         .4
. 2teoapw4ao9raa                                     42          4*5                       4
L. .A.eaug bwm m p.w.a~p   amaaawwew p.edw~g                      'S           34           i1
1.  C        Ioe w      op                            o7          SJ*1                     is
A    WJ O418~f"i qtaw 4%o iA.a.e                      4 3           3iw       2:3            3:
2T runtown JI~m4fi4v@Sg.C19aC4 9I I                            ' I    3     1            I J          3
D                             onCaen w oI             13           34           O I7
S ource: aWa,8     S=C&m ha                          .OS                      .. 7I
3     O                                                I e u l" sa  1:         :4           l           :
.0. .4daaauabwm.ba%583.p40                            tX          . :3         I 22        I 2           :1
u  .wqrwwO1                                       .s .                     .
Sout:e: ms3I=c, Sfla, srb  965 .



48-                                                          _8 I
LOAN 1511-Z
MROJZCT CO@LMTON RL'ORT
SIDC- T?tINW IN SUSNUS AND GROWrH
(PA. gnum
TV                                   SANCTIONS                                                0M!SUUMIN
InvasumintS?Tff  L.aeW                Teal  2w.%e14           rnmem.nemTevm  Laane                   ToemI *aa%of I
1                          2           3                  4            9                  0            7                 I            9
1OGS"                     14          3             17               62                 11            3            14                9
193 U                                 U             2033)             so                 12           U             239              48
19*41                     33          t0            43(68)            7                  1i           it            29(16)           62
1t9.9                     23          t9            44(2)             37                 is          20             33(21)           43
19670                     55         204           234919             21                 40          17 117r34)                      34
19M70-1                              171           1934-26)           11                 16           1(h11-5                        14
1576                     III         2W4           367(14)            s ot                          :vo            Mt19)             >'
197.77                  t13          so0           718410             19                103         247           330(7              29
197-78                   119         710    n o        m              23                140         3             4442)              32
19717                   1t0          so            9wt2)              18                143         4.8            010(34)           24
t9O40                    IV7        1390         1t (                 1t2               1 5         738           53342)             13
19 '41                   1"         19t           T1144371             9                142        1104          1.44*)              II
l,S1.                    23         20            2631)               10                203       1t0            191 1(3             14
t195-                    23         26z           29644-1)            tO                242        Il            Wm S                12
193.4                    403        31l           312)                II                m1         1994          Z25M                to
Cwvimulil's
amfaI3l4                240        1480           1701                Is               1841        9121         102                  It
Inwd"m of gavumt"a.i uW.
n  *ttin bt  indice. anoua  FM    pmanu. pW ti in oaplam
IVC&-84WSWUS AMCO RU          MA
19.48        tJ1          (81.42       199243       ;4
L  OVIA.L :POSMO
r _M5o~m                                                                          30           224z7        19
_tttm_ I..                                              317          WI          (45?          44          1
91?               61           IS4
OU,ffbmm _.ud.pi.ywnw                                   315           I Qn )                    -            -
TOTAL.                              1041         1362         1549         0t:4 
u38ou'm
S)mapwui                                                                          30474
t2ia1   '1*\       4~~ ~~10    (;m           zm
p)eg Oak                                                             t?r          21?           t            112
t201        g 13)        112)           ,           fS.t
OmIIIIIIt t                                              *2           14          121                        a
LtmsEum4aG.WfUh9M                                       1i           21 tt9t      t             57          120
1O1          '5I 101                   .8. 5)
terAbo!t                                                              96          47 ?          t            S
M            5)         '41           41
moh1iUwnt miOO U                                                     110          417         (131         1470
31)         '53)          501         ,,,)          61)
0Ctt, fp.naAblamn.tt)                                    _            _            _           t11           _
5)
TOrAL..                             1041         13WJ         '45         25 :1
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(O    IM.oJN                                    lam   tot   (M
IL  LOAJ474 OPMIUA tENS:
?V4  LOAM oISUSEm SNI                                   0?99                     147'?        Iati
il UO4JUC1-1I
P1..9 ~ ~    ~       ~       ~ ~ R bu.                159           2 1?         98}         II
Susq,asql                                               '9           54           92           U            10t
4)'9'              16)           31          es)
it I_|tlym I                                   320it         7t          Wtft?11                  147i t
15t,t   !7 t      ~~~~'621     'tI} .M
Sbaf,Cat;S am4otw,'t_udtta                            (-.46           5          21)t         34           244
TOTAL_                              55?            9I        t477         (59          195
11          (lamt         lt                       ftop
1(PWn: APMtI-biuM . tW hMt  e98uIinu wOtgW POW .4wR14 IWs JO.)
Sourc'.   lXt,  S337Ca, Marcb..  l985.



IIIDIA
IOAN 151l-IN
ERJECT CtWLETl106 REPOIIT
SKDCW  Unaction* and Dasbursements
rV71 . rY84
(6m I IIon)
2f .No. SSTAE/S WC                            SANCTIUN:S                                              I SBURSfENETV
3978  1979  1980  1981  1982  1983  1984    12.L  1979          O 980  1981  1982   1983  19"
1.  Andhra Pradesh,APIOC       125    94   ItO   237   279   336   336           48    48    E4    99   127    186   234
2.  Arunachal pradesh,APIOFC  -        -      -     -      -      10    It       -     -                                  9
3. Assam. AIOC                    5     5      4     8    12    11    53.         5      5     3      7     7       6    46
4.  1Ihar  BICICO                26    I4      9    III   152    25    77        to      6     5    14    62       NA   NA
5  Goa, LC                      14    12    17    35    42    52   '5            7      6     8    18    37       34    38
6.  Gujarat,GIIC                 75    99   155   265   295   284   254          25    43    86   147   234    220   222
7.  learyana  HSIUC         It1   19    26    29    72    49    55           10    18      4    24    36       22    39-
!41nmachal pradesih, IIPMIO1C   4        a8   71    43    47    73            2     7      8    18    34      40      5
9.  Jamffu   Kashmlr  JLKSIDC  -         1    17    32    29       9    70       -      -       2     8    16      13    27
10.  Karnataka  KSIIC          91   104   188   99    290   313   404           26    29    64    69    95    134   116
II.  Korala,  IdioC               31    18    10    33    64    73    9J          19    17    16    18    34        60    40
I?.  madhya pradesh MPAVN        24    38    79   105   171   197   274           15    28    33    68    94    166   185
13.  Maharashtra, SfCOM          173   196   265   311   346   360   348         112   142   188   237   327    283   320           %.
14. meghalya, HIOC                 4     6      7     8    18   14        7        2      5     5      5    l8      I4      6
15.  ,tlzoram, uSIOC             _-                  -      -      5      5        -      -     -    -      -5
16. Nagaland  NIOC               _       5      7     3    14       3    15        -      5     5      4     9       6      7
17.  Orissa  IPicoL             20      20    34    64   217   210   321           3     3      8    20    49    110   106
18.  pondlcerry  PIPDIC           I    18    13    NA    46    7 1   114          2      2     9    NA    17       40    4.6
19.  punjab, PSIIk               84    74   161   126   214    99   144           64    91   132    85   196        83    89
20.  Rajasthan  RlICO             40    35   143   136   171   142   102           9    19    59    90   115    149   lOG
21.  Stkkla. SIOICO              -       2      I     4      4      4     9        -     -      2      3     3       4     5
21.  Ta.ii  SIPCOT                36    24    59   196   191   305   386          13    14    30    80    141   158   195
22.  Trlpura, tIoc               -      -      -     -    -       -      -        -   -- -
23.  Uttar pradesh, PICUP        50    89    94   141   150   174   232           39    40    49    88   110    168   393
24.  west oengal, WulOC           65   102   170   144   176   190   225          36    73    83   144   150    179   152
TOTAL  . 879    983  1577  2164  2996  2991  36&1            448   601   853  1246  1911   2080  2225
Souice; IUSI, 31OCc, atchb I9&5.



La" 1513-in
FUOJECT C0WLffIOU 33VoT
SILIce - Trend In Arrears -. I91S - 1914
(lb. on millio.)
sr.       SIAIE/5IOC                         fl-78             fV-79          FY480         FT-el  Ey-82                11V-83      FV-84
NO.                           10~~~~~~~rpma  i-o-r-Total  % or   Total  % of  Total   % of7  Total  % Of Total  % Of Total  % o
arroars powt-  arrears  poirt- arrearse port- arrears POet- arr..- port- arrea-poUt- arroe-port-
~~~~~~~~~olofolio*                                        folio*          folio.  raL foliol. j folio0.            folio.
1.  Assam                AIUC            14    NA        64      121%    28    49%    13         21%    NA    NA   26        36%    32   0#9%
2.  Arunachal pradesh APIOlFC            -                                                                                    32%    I    17%
3*.  Anmdlra pradesh    APIIJC           -                                       14 %     3      12%      9    1 0%  22       IS%   57   34%
'..  a Ihar              iiicicO                                            5    NA       6      NA       6    hA   la        32%   Si   PA
. GOa                   CDC             NA    NA        -       -2    11%                I      NA       5    17%  9         21-%  IS   35%
6 .GUJarat               (IliC           I5    NA        -       -62    NA1              7 1     49%    75    MA   78         MA    92   "A
7   "airyana             HISIOC          -      --               -      Less    NA   Las S than NA        2    17%   6        24%   II   10%
than           million
million
8 .   jitmachal pradesh  lIPIIOC         NA    NA        -       -      Less      7%      i      11%      2    17    2        22%    6   !2% 
than 
mill ion
9.  Orissa               IPICLOS     Less  Mhn                             A    NA         I     I12%     5    NA    9        g A    20   1 #%
11 loft
10.  jamiua. F, Mashalir   JLKSIUC        -(Jo-.  gA   Less titan 73%      NA    MA   Less than NA         I      7%   6       17%   13   28K
million                          million
II.  Kal-nataka           KSIIOC          24    NA        -       -        27    29%    35        43%    53    57%  60         46%   76   46%
12.  Kerala               KSIOC           32    MA        -       -49    NA               45      NA      Is3   41%  19        26%   27   42%
13.  14a4Aiya pradeti    INWAVH            6    Nit       NA      NA       It    NA       II      52X     i6      9%  37       NA    %4   MA
14.  W~ghalaya            Hiuc             5    NA        -       -9    83%               sh      99%     12    60%.  14       4116,'  18   78Y.
15.  .li zor am          HSIUC             -                                            ---- - -  -       -      -    --             -     -
16.  Na~galand            NIUC       Less than tMA    Less than 29%         I    17%       2      40%      3    3&0.   3       21%    6   43%
million          million 
17.  pondclchorry         rPuPIC         -L*-  14.'\      -        -        2    22%       3      NA      .5   17%  12         2S%   24   40%
IS.  Uttar pradesh        PICUP            7    NA        --               la    21%    26        NA      56    38,  52        391%  76   4#0%
19.  punjab               PSIUC           -                                       20%      2      34%Z     3    34%   5        lpj.   32   NeA
20.  Rajasthan            IlIICO          Is    IIA       -       -        28   122%       3       7%    12    32%  29         MA    58   26%,
21.  MahbarasI~tra        sicuii          85    NA       123      72%     131    68%   133        52/    127    3 2%. 205      39%  260   40#%
22.  l arni Inadu         tiipcuy         13    43%,      lI      31%       15    36%     19      NA      31    20-  49        2fr.  71   22- ,
23.  Sikkim               SIUico          -      -        -       -    Less  than NA Less than I0A         I    20%   2        i8.     3   33%.
million       million
24.  jr ip.ara            JIC-                   --               --              -       -       -       -      -     --             -    -
25.  We-st ocnijal        WIuIUL          12    NA        14      NA        10    NA      46      29;",   53    NA   17        30v   86   NA



rt)II ~  IMIr kli3'.d  ?.mM
J912 - 19114
- 6r~~u  j6taC'.Thr~~~~c6T18~~ T(A l        Ttl    liIV   ~  ~         id            ocal          CIclC-
cullcct-  colleci..d  "tlun  to          c.3l  cct   cAlect.ed CoieCtiOn COIaICCL -  collucted tion to
.Ab I e                   collectable able                         Lo colle-  alble                       col lectable.
ctable.
I.  Ab1.~~~~~~    tI~uC     N.            Ilit.           1NA          21            2            1           3ia           2              6
2.  Ar un.ICIIJI       JW8Utct" H         NA             NA            NA    AlA           A           IIt,           2                          so5
3.  Amui4i8 a pr okaes  AlP1UL     Su             9               0                       21           3.6          lot          36             I
4.  eh.bir             alcico    13               861                         28           9           32            co           30             1
5.  GU.5               .uC         80             550                         I/            I          oil           29           1i            OA5
6.  Gujardt            'dE1L      III            96              56          236          157          67           319         214             67
1.  IIIdl                lI.j       3             I              33           87           9           53            32           31            53H
d.  35liW-Lhi"i prdd.esh.IPIIJUC   6              4              67           11764                                  24           12             so
9.   0tI~~~~~~~1~~~  IPICOL  9   5 ~~~~~~~~~~55              24            7          29            4            Is             37
30.  gKarfl..tdkd       Kl38I Iic    16          23               30         Its           54          47           145           65             45S
38.   j-41a.ei  1. K-ialamir JK!iluc 3             2              61           II            4          36            88            6             33
12.  ge,Ir  d            N:bl0C     66            22              Ji           47           23          49            67           331            46
83.  tidhyI  rjf_.h  'W.AVuI    j6               20               56          83           38          46           135           12             53
I Si.  Flqaldayd         IUC        3                             29           24           II          46            3',          18             53
5. #3 dAue          HAUC  A& Slit            He%i             "A          NM           NA          hiA            "I          N               A
8 6.  j*uajA I and       SiIUL       6             4              66            5            2          40            12            6             so
I 7.  ponillc.urry       PIPIJC Me  a4             9              64           21            a          38            39           55             38
38.  pftlit dJ           P:.IuL      9             6              66           5 5          so          13            32           85             47
19.  s8Ltaf prade:At l1t(a.5    102               46              45          805i          54          55           Ila           la             45
20.  RustPtAlksI1        NiILU      23            32              52           54           24          441          101           36             36
23.   iI kkI tod u ICU                I        cu  1lm.m  I       31            3            m          '3             5            2             #an 
2 2.  ti"IbldrdAitt d    sicE.M    3Iti          365              !04         436          281          49g          578          285s            So0
23.   v.*.A 3,.ipacoi    l0                       39              56          1U6           57          54,          889          It0             58                                 M
24.  J r Ipura           JIUC *A  "dA             NA1              NA           .----0
26.  Ije:!c u..u.aiu     hlihlilL   77            23               30         165           so          53           836           St             3
S . ISiI. .Iielm. 11514"INV



LNDIA
LOAN 1511-iN
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIDC. - Debt Service Coverage
1978 - 1981.
STxre          SIDO            §78-    -II-                   l 81     --           03-/        ,
1.     ASSAH             LIDO             N.A.   K.SA.  0.64S1       0.7251         -        OAIDI1      0.6021
2.     AIWNAJi2AL
PRAD6SiE      APIDPO           H.A.   11.A.      -        K.A.           _        2.621       VA.
3.      &NDIIRA PRADESII hPIDC            N.A.   l.A.  1.9s1         1.03:1      0.58:1      1.2781      0.95t1
4.     BII               BICIUD           l.A. A  M1.   6.7,1        1.70t1        26; l    0.6121       0.50a1
5.   0k                  £DO              K. A.    -    M._ 1O1 .                 .. NoA,    092         0.97l1
6.      0JGJA'f          GIO               -      -    0.9J1        1.43s1      R1.1. 1O .4              1.03:1
7.     IIALtYAiA         I1lD0                     -    2.4:1        0.75J1      0.9go1      0.82s1       1.75s1 l
PHADfrW$1   HPMIDO            -       -    N.A.         2.1481      1.17t1      0.8:1       1. 30s 1
9.     ODUsSA            IPIODL                -         2.4:1       2.601      1.16t1      0.71e1           I
t0.: J.                  J&K UID)O                       N . 11A.    1.511       4.5s1       1.05s1      0.66t1
11.    KARNATAKA         XSIIDO           -        -    1.3t1        0.9:1       0.9tl       1.4s1       1.0511
12.    ICIALA            KSIDC                    0- .8:1            1.22&1      2.60t1      1.64s1       1.4681
13.    M.PP.tiPAVl                                1      :t          s.q6 a1     1.09:1      III          1.24:1
14.   M1aliALAY          MIDO              -       -       _         0.95I1      1.2:1       1.53s1      2.01:1
15.    HIIZOIU           1-310D-                                     N.-           _ -A.  -               11A.  U.k.
16.,   NAaALAJID         NIDO              _             2.2s1       1.70s1                1J1131      0.66t1
17.'1    ?DI01IlttRT     PIFDI-                          0.9s:       1.45:1      2.20s1      1.01t1      1.241
18.    U.P.              Pal.              -             1.4:1      0.94&1       1.-36s1     1.25:1      1.28:1
19.    PUNJAB            PSIDO             _       _    l.s5         2.140:1     1.4:1       1.17s1      1.18s1
20.    RAJA8STIHiA       MIIO             _       -    1.6C1        1.3Ds1      1.68s1      0.72s1      0.67:1
21.    tIIltAaSIffRA     SIOWO              -   1.02:1  1.481        3.50:1      1.22s1      1.4981       1.85:1
22.    TAI4IIHAU         SIPODT             -     0.9:1 1.05$1       1.24t1      1.30J1      1.2s1       1.2s1
230    SIIKXIH           SIDI0O             -            2*3sl       1.4811       1.2011      1.195:1    0.75st
24.     TitINUfU,        TIDO               -                          ..           - VA
25.    WEST  "NGAL       WBIDO              -   1.97:1  1.5:1         1.50t1      1.56&1      1.69al      1.'1441 I
Source; IJ)DI, SIDCB, March 1985.



-53 -
IDA-INDUSRTIAL                     orIOIIU   AK0  INDIA (IDS!)
ZgILIC/J0IU'T SCTOR PIOJICT
SUIOMI OF SaT  OF INSITUTTIONAL
!JfCAMN  PRORAMFOR SIDCaISUslc
The Division for financial. Institucions within the Small Industries
Department of 1DBI provided the follmving list of major deficiencies in the
institutional capabilities of the sIDC/s/ircs j/:
functioning of S12g Boa du/mana.ement
-i Infusion of appropriate professional expertise through
broader-basied Board membership is still requiring continuous 'dialogue
With State GOV*rVABOnCS to achieve i0provemenItS;
- Some SIDCs are still required to obtain prior clearance from their
State Governments for sanctioning of financial assistance beyond
proscribed limits; these, SIDCs, therefore, have not yet attained full
autonomy;
- frequent changes in top level management of SIDCe continiue to retard
progress in implementing long-term policies laid dove by SIDC boards;
- Top level management is frequently burdened with detailed day-tor-day
routines preventing them from devoting time to major policy matters;
- Delegation of power by the Boards of some SIDC# (Karnataka, Tamilrzadu,
Pondicherry and Meghalaya) is not sufficient to keep pace with
expanding business activities.
Second Liam of Wanane Mmn
- The building up of a strong second line of management is still
hampered by the practice of using Government deputationists rather
than recruitment from the open market and/or promotion from within
the SIXC  to fill. such posts.  IDBI training facilities for junior
SID   personnel have only been partially effective to overcome this
problem.
Internal OrEanisationAl Weaknesses.,
- Coordination between appraisal and follow-up sections is lacking in
a number of SSDCs;
- Internal audit capabilities are not properly developed in a number
of SIDCs (including Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and
Orissa);
- Marketiga intelligence is weak or non-existent in a large number
of SIDCt;
- Nanagesent information Systems are rudimetary in most SIDCs, and
consequently the flow of actionldecision oriented information to top
level manageent and the Board members is inadequate.
Ik  The full report is included in the Project File Of the South Asia
trformotion Center.



- 54-
ANNEX XVI
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT SANK OF INDIA
CONSOLIDATED BALA.NCE SHEET
(as at end - June 1984)
Rs.      USS                                          Rs.      LSS
1ABi1LMES             million   million                  ASSETS              million   million
Capital                          3M0        344       Cash. Bank balances and
Gov*rnment securities                       17993  173
Reserves                         2.713      243       Investment in stocks. shares.
bonds fr debentures of:
Borrowinp from:                                         Financial institutions          3,296     295
Government of India            4.176      373         Industrial concerns             1.316      118
Reserve Bank of India         22,348    1.991       Due from:
Bonds and debentures            2S,101    2.5 1 2       Banks and other financial
Other sources                    1.61$      145         institutions                   22.418    2.004
Current Liabilities and                                 IndustrialConcerns            23.122    2.067
provisions                       5.823      521       Sills of exchange and promissory
notes discountedirediscounted   13.40     1.205
eOther asseu                     3.004      269
Exchange Rate----
USS-Rs.11. 19           Total  68.629    6,136                     Total              68.629    6.136
GROWTH IN OPERATIONS
(Rs.#L'S SIN MILLION)
1975.76 197-77 1977.78 1971-79 1979480 191sl 1911482  19U.83 1983-84 Cumulative
1964-4
Capital           Rs.    500    500    600    900  1.050  1.450  2.000  2.550  3.S50
LSS     56      57     73    114    115    165    211    251    344
Reset-ves         Rs.    362    421    523    736    953  1.259  1,778  2.240  2.713
LSS     40      48     64      93    123    146    189    221    243
Profits           Rs.      53      65    123    226    281    399    535    610    691
uIs,     h       7      15     2c'    16      45     5'    60       hz
Approvals         Rs.  3.937  5,954  6.153  9.356 12.036  15.241  17,030 21.300 26.251        1.28.559
LSS    418    681    748  I.81.  1.553  1.736  1.812  2.099  2.146           11.489
Disbursements    Rs.  2.638   3.641  4.547  6.590  8.019  10.661  13.391 15.766 19.484         93.543
LSS    294    416    552    Sit  1O5  1,214  1.425   1,511   1 741         8.360
Outstandings      Rs.  7.400  9.860 12,730  17.210 22.810 30,630 40.190 50.920 63.631          63.631
LSS    A24  1.125   1.547  2!.1A_.  2.44  1.489  4.2-6  S.01    S.hA6       5 Ah1E
Exchange Rate
USSS  Rs.                 8.98   8.76   8.23   7.88   7.71   S.8   9.40  10.15  11.19
N.B. Details of IDBIts financial statements are available
in the Annual Reports for the respective years,
which are included in the Project Implementation
File.



- 55 -
ANNEX XVII
Page 1 of 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
(LOAN 1511-IN)
IDBI   PRINCIPAL SOURCES AND USE OF FUNDS
(Rs Crores)
x to                Z to    July 1984   x to
SOURCES OF FUNDS                           1983-84   total   1984-85   total   June 1985   total
Increase in Share Capital                     130.0    5.0       30.0       1.0       415.0       2.8
Borrowings from Government                     67.4    2.6       18.0       0.6       585.6       3.9
- Budgetary Support                             -       -         -         -        373.5       2.5
- Against IDA/WB Credit                       64.4    2.5       13.0       0.4       199.1       1.3
- Seed Capital Assistance                      3.0    0.1        5.0       0.2        13.0       0.1
Borrowings from RBI                           414.8   16.0    332.5        10.9      3022.0      20.2
- NIC (LTO) Fund                            260.0   10.0    260.0          8.5      2360.9      15.8
- Against Lodgement of Usance Bills          154.8    6.0       72.5       2.4       661.1       4.4
Borrowings by way of Bonds
- Rupees                                    540.6   20.9    753.5         24.6      3530.7      23.7
- Yen                                         25.2     1.0      25.2       0.8        50.4       0.3
Foreign Currency Borrowings                    17.7    0.7       37.6       1.0        61.4       0.4
Borrowings from Investment Institutions   20.0    0.8              -         -        120.0       0.8
Other Borrowings                               31.5    1.2        3.5       0.1        35.0       0.2
Deposits                                       66.0    2.5      134.0       4.4       254.2       1.7
- From Companies in Lieu of
Surcharge on Income Tax                  60.0    2.3      125.0       4.1       235.2        1.6
L From Other Sources                          6.0    0.2        9.0       0.3         19.0       0.1
Repayments of Past Assistance                 929.6   35.9   1104.1        36.1      5111.9      34.2
Others (Receipt of Interest,
Commission etc.)                             312.3   12.0    415.9        13.6      1702.7      11.4
Sale of Investment (Cash Proceeds)              3.3    0.1        5.8       0.2        39.0       0.3
Opening Cash and Liquid Resources              32.3     1.2    199.3        6.5 
TOTAIL SOURCES              2590.7            3059.4               14927.9
Source:  IDBI, AnnuaL Report 1984/85



-56-
ANNEX XVII
PROJECT COMPLETION REORT                           Page 2 of 2
(LOAN 1511-IN)
IDBI - PRINCIPAL SOURCES AND USE OF FUNDS
(Rs Crores)
% to                x to    July 1984   % to
1983-84   total   1984-85   total   June 1985   total
USE OF FUNDS
Direct Supply of Funds                    534.7       20.6    521.4       17.1      3653.6       24.5
Resources Support to Other Term
Financing Institutions                  1410.8      54.5   1563.9        51.1      8048.6       53.9
Repayment of Borrowings                     77.5       3.0    129.4        4.2       846.3        5.7
- Government of India                      5.7       0.2        7.4       0.2       157.3        1.2
- Reserve Bank of India
(i) NIC (LTO) Fund                      3.0       0.1      24.0       0.8        40.2         0.3
(ii) Against Lodgment of
Usance Bills                      6.8       0.3      60.0        2.0       498.6        3.3
- Company Deposits                            -        -         -         -         50.2        0.3
- Investment Institutions                 50.0       2.0      13.0        0.4        65.0        0.4
- Others                                  10.0       0.4      25.0        0.8        35.0        0.2
Redempcion of Bonds                         12.7       0.5      32.5       1.1        45.2        0.3
Payment of Interest                       340.3       13.1    447.7       14.6      1892.5       12.7
Payment of Dividend                        15.4       0.6      21.6        0.7        81.2        0.5
Others                                         -        -         -         -         17.6        0.1
Closing Cash and Liquid Resources         199.3        7.7    342.9       11.2       342.9        2.3
TOTAL USES              2590.7              3059.4                14927.9
Source: IDBI, Annual Report 1984/85



- 57 -
VEDJICT CLICYThU  3ttQIT                                     mi
tb3ik - nIT II2PORNAM nCEVACOU
,As an had-Juae                               Deht-Kauity               Debttiny kM.nh Sa Cveage
(1)
1974   .........................                      4.9:1                         3.3:1
1975   .........................                      6.0:1                        3.3:1
1976   .........................                      7.9:1                         3.2:1
1977   .........................                     11.6:1                         3.2:1
1978   .........................                     12.6:1                         3.3:1
1979   .........................                     10.6:1                        3.6:1
190   .........................                      12.4:1                         3.5:1
1981   .........................                     11.2:1                        3.5:1
1982   .........................                     10 4:1                         2.8:1
1983   .........................                     10.A:1                        3.6:1
1984   .........................                      8.71                         3.5:1
1985          .            ...........                9.7:1                         3.0:1
(Peria o  Jul_ -Jun_                                                                  Pgrcutat
Average Rate    Average Cost
Year                             of Retun           of ?uzds            (1-2)           Spread
(1)              (2)                                (3)
1976-77    ...........               7.72              6.12                              1.60
(8.62)                                              (2.50)
1977-78  ...........                  7.99             6.17                              1.82
(8.93)                                             (2.76)
1976-79   8......                      .4S             6.20                              2.28
(9.26)                                             (3.06)
1979-80..........                    8.28              S .463                            1.80
(9.21)                                             (2.73)
1980-81    ...........               8.55              6.54                              2.01
(9.35)                                             (2.81)
1981-82    ...........               9.19              6.74                              2.45
(10.06)                                              (3.32)
1982-63    ...........               9.22              6.82                              2.40
(10.42)                                              (3.60)
1983-84 ...........                  9.26              6.87                              2.39
(10.56)                                              (3.71)
1964^85    ...........               9.81              7.3/                              2.47
(11.18)                                              (3.84)
Note:    igusae  in bracketc  indicAte pooe   returs i.e. iocluding interest
amDaate hold in aoup.m" accouat.
Surce:  IDII Operational Statisics 1984/85



ANNEX xrx
-58-
INDIA
IDB, - PUBLIC/JOINT SECTOR PROJECT
LOAN 1511-IN
LIST OF DOCUMENTS FOR PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
1. IDBI Annual Rerorts: 1978 - 1'i85
2. Development Banr4ir*  in India, IDBI Issues 1981 - 1982, 1982 - 1983,
1983 - 1984.
3. Financial Performance of IDBI-Assisted Companies, IDBI, February 1985.
4. Ownership Pattern of Sszces and Debentures, IDBI, May 1985.
5. State Industrial Devel.pment Corporai.ions (State Entrepreneurs), IDBI,
March 1985.
6. SIDC Performance ievi'io of Northern Regional Office, ID81, June 1985.
7. IDC Performanco Review of Southern Regional Office, IDBI, June 1985.
8. Review of BPRF of STDC9, IDBI 1983.
9. SIDC Summary Review, IDBI FY1982.
10. SIDC Summary Review, IiAI FY1983.
11. SIDC Capabilities Review, IDBI January/February 1984.
12. SIDC Summary P.vieo, IDbI June 1985.
13. Material for Subproject Review/Procurement Review, IDBI Submis3ions,
June/August 1985.
14. Material for TAF - Studies Review, Technical Assistance Impact Review,
July 1985.



~ 59                           L ATTACIIMT
....fI ^i -rw ag t2
;t fir+- I 1000I                POST BOX NO. 231
INDWSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK Of INDIA
a"t        :INNO gQNORTHERN REGIONAL OFFICE
TELEGRAMS  INDBANKIND  INDIAN RED CROSS SOCIETY BUILDING
386245                III & TV FLOOR
TELEPHONES 381733               1, RED CROSS ROAD,
tkqT #WW    :                    NEW DELHI110001.
T£tEX No.  .288       COMW.TS  RECEIVED FROM THE BORROWER    September 24  19 86
REF. NRO. No.   (O   /PD. 3-)                                      _. 19 (!RIF) (Saka)
Mr George Kmaiatis,
Acting Divition Chief,
Operation Evaluation Department,
World Bank,
Washington DC.
U,S.A.
Dear Sir,
Project Completion Report on India-
Industrial Development Bank of India(I-)BI)-
IDBI public/joint sector project(Loan 1511-IN)
.0oe.
Please refer to your letter dated August 8, 1986 on
the above subject. We forward herewith our comments on the
Project Completion Report(PCR) of World Bank Loan 1511 IN
for public/joint sector project.
Yours faithfully,
( A. LAilRI )
DY. GENERAL MANAG.ER
f&j     4 If qlTl,t t 4t MT Vt 



- 60 -A1UT
Comments on Project Completion Report
(PCR) of World Bank Loan 1511-IN for
Public/Joint Sector Projects
World Bank has sought comments of IDBI on the Project Completion
Report (PCR) on Public/Joint Sector Project Loan 1511-IN.  The discussions
in PCR touched several aspects of the functiqning of SIDCs and the per-
formance of the assisted sub-projects.  This note covers IDBI's comments
on main issues/observations made in PCR concerning the fulfilment of overall
objectives of the Credit.
SlDSCs/SIICs were set up primarily for the promotion of medium
and large scale industries in the respective States.  The purpose of extending
Reflected in   IDBI's refinance facility to these institutions was to enable them  to increase
PCR, para.      their term  loan portfolio, enabling them  to utilise Drofits from  term  lending
l4.06 (c)
for their promotional activities.
As a result of extension of IDBI's refinance facility to SIDCs/SIICs,
the assistance sanctioned by them increased substantially from Rs.370 mi'lion
in 1975-76 to as much as Rs.4730 million in 1984-85. T'he assistance disbursed
also increased from Rs.270 million in 1975-76 to Rs.2990 million in 1984-
85.  The cumulative assistance sanctioned by SIDCs/SIICs as at the end of
March   1985 aggregated  Rs.21780 million,  the assistance   utilised being
Rs. 14370 million.   Available data regarding 18 SIDCs/SIICs (which account
for more than 96% of the total sanctions by all the SIDCs/SIICs) indicate
that the investment  catalysed by these 18  SIDCs/SIICs in 1984-85 was
Rs.14890 million, as against Rs.11930 million in the previous year.  The
employment potential of the units assisted by them in 1984-85 was over
1,08,950 persons, as compared to 82,646 for units assisted in the previous
year.                               ,
It may be recalled that most of the SIDCs/SIICs were set up in
late 60s and early 70s as State Government owned companies for promoting
industrial development of the States, with accent on balanced regional develop-
ment.  IDBI had undertaken a detailed study of these institutions before
extending to them  the refinance facility.  Recognising the need to streamline



- 61 -
nd upgrade their activities, IDBI had rightly taken the view that in a federal
country like India, these State-level institutions were best suited to cater
to the needs of medium-sized industry coming up in various States.  These
institutions had a feel of the State-environment and of the local, entrepreneur-
ship.  It was much better from  the macro-economic angle to strengthen
these institutions and channelise IDBI's assistance through them to the medium-
s4z.-d enterprises rather than have parallel extension of all-India institutions
for achieving this task. The fact that SIDCs/SIICs are fully State Government
owned enterprises operating in diverse environments in different States was
thus fully recognised in adopting the policy.
World Bank was aware that SIDCs were conceived as agencies of
the State Governments for implementing Governments' industrial policies
and programmes, for attracting new industrial ventures in their respective
States.  The position that IDBI has no statutory powers over SlDCs/SIICs,
unlike in the case of SFCs, was also noted by the World Bank at the time
of negotiations, for extending the line of credit.  The World Bank also knew
that the only linkage between SIDCs/SIICs and IDBI at that time, was through
refinance facility which was exterded to these corporations in 1976.  The
relationship  between  IDBI and SIDCs/SIICs beca-ne closer only after the
upgradation programmes (subsequently these came to be known as Institutional
Development Programmes i.e. IDPs), were drawn up for them, on the lines
suggested by the World Bank.
As a follow-up measure of IDPs, IDBI has been carrying out annually,
evaluation studies of SIDCs/SIICs on a regular bal,:, from  FY-79.  These
evaluation studies have provided an opportunity to IDBI to have a closer
view on SIDCs/SIICs working and to make relevant suggestions/recommenda-
tions for strengthening their operations.
SIDCs/SlICs have been, by and large, accepting most of the recTrrerd-
ations made in annual evaluation reports; the corporations have either imple-
mented these or initiated steps fcr their imiplementation.  Cases of non-
implementation of certain recommendations/suggestions are being suitably
followed up with the concerned corporations, as also with State Governments
for early implementation thereof.
3



- 62                           -
It may be mentioned that the implementation of the sugestions/
recommendations made in the evaluation reports is a continuow process
and it is, therefore, difficult to list out or quantify the benefits which have
accrued from evaluation studies, being carried out by IDBI, thouh a distinct
qualitative improvement in the approach and operations of SIDCs/SIICs
is visible over the years.  Boards of most of the SIDCs have been broad-
based by inducting professionals  It has been possible for IDBI to persuade
a number of State Governments to accept its recommendations for ensuring
PCRel        in  long term  continuity in top management and Managing Directors are being
6.07           appointed for a fixed predetermined term of atleast 3 to 4 years.  Although
IDBI does nct have statutory rights, it continues to maintain persuasive
pressure on the State Governments in this regard. Almost all bigger corpora-
tions have created competent second line management by promotion from
within or by recruitment from open market.
There has been significant improvement in the organisational efficiency
of SIDCs/SIICs as regards the quality of management, professionalisation
Reflected in  of staff, training of officers at senior and middle level, standards of appraisal
PCR, para.
.07, also    and loan supervision.  Further, for improving the quality of appraisal, follow-
toditied       up and  financial management, the corporations have recruited  qualified
and experienced staff such as engineers, financial analysts, economists,
market analysts, etc.  The number of professionals employed in SIDCs/SIICs
has doubled from  718 in FY-81 to 1521 in FY-85.  The SIDCs/SIICs have
also availed of the opportunities offered by IDBI for training and upgradation
of their personnel and during the six year peeriod FY-80 to FY-85 more
than 500 officials of SIDCs/SIICs have benefitted from such training prtwllm
Over the years, SIDCs/SIICs hav^ streamlined their systems and
Reflected      procedures so as to reduce the time lag between receipt of loan proposals
in PCR,        and their approval and to increase the pace of disbursements.   While a
para. 6.07     number of SIDCs/SlICs have already restructured their organisations, eight
SIDCs/SIICs have undertaken organisational studies through outside experts
and in the case of three more SIDCs/SIlCs such studies are in progress.
IDBI has been not only encouraging SIDCs/SIICs to undertake such stud"-s
but also financing a part of the cost of such studies wherever necessary.
..4



-63-
With a view to bringing about awareness among the SIDCs, of the
need for making optimum utilisation of resources, as also to enable IDBI
to fix realistic refinance limits for SIDCs, IDBI introduced a system of pre-
paration of Business Plan and Resources Forecast (BPRF), for these corporations
in 1979-80. This was an important development relating to financial planning
and management of SIDCs.  The results of the BPRF exercise have been
encouraging.  It has given a definite direction to the planned growth of
SIDCs.  Through BPRF exercise, IDBI has been impressing upon SIDCs to
increasingly look upon recycling of their funds, as an important source of
their business operations, since the ability to recover the loans is the basic
index of institution's propensity to grow on viable lines.  Thus, a sense of
awareness has been created among SIDCs and most of them have since adopted
Reflected       resources planning, as a regular exercise.  Preparation and monitoring of
in PCR,         BPRF by SIDCs, has become an effective instrument for bringing about
better resources planning and management of funds in these corporations.
Another measure taken by IDBI for improving the efficiency of
SIDCs and monitoring their affairs, is to appoint its senior officers as nominee
directors on the Boards of SIDC.  The nominee directors are able to advise
SIDCs at the Board level in regard to their lending and investment policies,
organisation development as also offer their views on larger assistance pro-
posals referred to the Board for approval. More importantly, nominee directors
work as a link between IDBI and SIDCs, improving mutual understdnding
and rapport.
IDBI has also been convening at periodical intervals (almost yearly),
Reflected       Conferences of Chief Executives of SIDCs in order to exchange ideas and
in PCR,         discuss problems of mutual interest, which are attended by the representatives
para. 6.07,
and footnote   of the Government of India and Reserve Bank of India.  The last such Con-
ference was held in April 1986.  These Conferences serve as a useful forum
for interaction between SIDCs and IDBI and provide insight into the problems
faced by SIDCs in the various areas of their operations.  These Conferences
also provide opportunity to IDBI to assess the progress made by SIDCs in
irnplementation  of institutional development   prograrnrnes and also  their
achieverrient in the key performance areas such as follow-up and recoveries,



- 64 
appraisal standards, manpower development, etc. This forum has been found
to be very effective by IDBI for impressing upon the SIDCs, the need to
improve their practices and procedures and give new direction to their policies.
Follow-up measures undertaken on consensus arrived at such Conferences
have greater impact on the functioning of SIDCs.   (PCR paras 6.03, 6.04 and
6.05, pages 19 and 20)
IDBI has suggested to SIDCs to initiate the following steps for
recovering overdues:
i)   to have a case-by-case review  of defaulting/problem  units.
ii)   To make periodic review  of recovery position and place it
before their Boards.
iii)  To  set up  Default Review  Committee, as Sub-Committee
of Board.
iv)   To take deterrent action against wilful defaulters and formulate
suitable nursing programmes for sick units.
v)   To resort to legal action, wherever required.
vi)  To create/strengthen the recovery cells.
vii)  *ro establish a close rapport with assisted units.
Reflected in            It is admitted  that the recovery position of SIDCs/SIICs during
PCR, para.      the five year period   FY-81 to FY-85    has not shown improvement in
6.05 and
footnote 1      general.  However, certain SIDCs/SIICs have managed to better their per-
formance as shown in the following table:
IDC                              Recovery as Percentage to Demand
FY-82       FY-83    FY-84  FY-85
1.   Gujarat IDC                   56           67        67     65
2.   Haryana IDC                   33           53        53      65
3.   Kerala IDC                    33           49        46      54
The problems in recovery can, inter alia, be attributed to factors
such as drought conditions, infrastructure shortages, political disturbances
and their effects on the working of the industrial units in the country.
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 65 -
The Debt-Service Coverage Ratio (cash basis) as an indicator of
SIDCs' viability continues to be above 1.0 in the last five years.  Further,
Reflected      in spite of significant increase in term  lending portfolio, the debt equity
in PCR,        ratio of SIDCs/SIICs has remained stable around 2:1 and was in fact 1.9:s
pars. 7 .21
as on March 31, 1985. (PCR para 6.05, page 20).
The role played by SIDCs in faster industrialisation and reduction
in regional imbalance, has to be viewed in the context of overall assistance
granted by them for the last few years. During 1984-85, assistance by SIDCs
Reflected      to specified backward regions grew at a faster rate than assistance to non-
in PCR,        backward areas.  Sanctions to backward areas recorded a significant increase
para. 7.18
of 36%  over 1983-84, amounting to Rs.3170 million during the year.  The
share of specified backward areas in total sanctions was 67.1% in 1984-85,
as against 64% in the previous year. (PCR para 7.18, pages 28-29).
The share of the private sector has been steadily increasing from
79%  in 1981-82 tD 8Qff6 in 1982-83, 82.4%  in 1983-84 and further to 87.4%
Reflected      during 1984-85.  The share of the joint sector in SIDCs' assistance has been
in PCR,        declining from  9.5%  in 1982-83. 8.7%  in 1983-84 to 6.4%  during 1984-85.
para. 7.18
This decline is mainly on account of relatively inelastic budgetary allocations
from the State Governments for promoting joint sector projects. (PCR para
7.18, pages 28-29).
SIDCs have also been playing an important role in encouraging the
first generation skilled entrepreneurs and have sanctioned, under IDBI's Seed
Capital Scheme, assistance aggregating Rs.372 million in respect of 546
projects.
SIDCs have started providing assistance for modernisatior and re-
habilitation of industrial projects after introduction of Special Refinance
Reflected in   Scheme by IDBI in January 198Lk  Of the total refinance assistance sanctioned
PCR, para.     by IDBI for modernisation and rehabilitation up to June 30, 1985 the share
7.19
of SIDCs is 48% and 20% respectively.  They have taken steps to give wider
publicity  to  these refinance schemes and  further momentum  is expected
to be gathered during 1985-86 (PCR para 7.19, page 29).



,ATTATN
-66 -
IDBI has taken several policy initiatives in the recent past to further
simplify and strengthen the process of sanction, disbursement and follow-
up of assistance both at the State and all-India levels.  With the objective
of improving the State-level investment planning, the SIDCs in developing
States have been giving emphasis on channelising fresh institutional investments
by undertaking the primary entrepreneurial function of promoting industries
while those in developed States aim at dispersal of industries for achieving
balanced regional development.  SIDCs in several States have also initiated
steps to provide escort services for speedier implementation of projects
by facilitating prompt clearances at the State-level through a single window
system.   Projects seeking assistance  under consortium  arrangement, are
appraised jointly with SFCs and banks and a State-level forum has been
evolved for sharing of assistance.
The relationship of IDBI with SIDCs is about a decade old.  SIDCs
joined IDBl's family in 1976, when IDBI extended refinance facility to them.
The guidance and financial support provided by IDBI during the decade have
given the necessary impetus to the working and operations of SlDCs.  This
is evident from  the marked improvement in  their various functions and
tremendous growth in their operations.  There has been sustained growth
in the operations of the SIDCs - the rate of growth in operations was as
high as 27%.  By virtue of extension of facility of utilisation out of World
Bank Line of Credit (1511-IN), IDBI's relationship with SIDCs became closer.
We would like to conclude by pointing out that upgradation of IDCs
in a diverse country like India is a long drawn and continuous process. There
Reflected     are obvious limitations on what IDBI and IDCs could have attained over
in PCR,        the period under consideration; but it can be seen from  the foregoing para-
para. 9.02
graphs that IDBI did take several measures to strengthen the organisational
and managerial framework, approach and procedures for project appraisal
and follow-up and the financial structures of the other IDCs.  While it is
necessary to lay stress on certain quantitative parameters (which are also
considered important by IlOB), it is equally essential to take cognizance
of the role played by ID('s at the State-level, under difficult and varied
eco-social conditions.
..8



- 67 -
Recognising  its responsibility, IDBI has recently  decided  to  set
up a centralised training centre at Hyderabad, which will heip to accelerate
the process of professionalisation of the State-level institutions.
Comments on Observations relating to
performance of assisted sub-projects
The sub-projects covered  under Loan  1511-IN  number 18.  These
cannot, however, be regarded as typical or representative of joint/state
public sector projects promoted by SIDCs.  Of the 18, as many as 14 are
in joint sector managed by private sector co-promoters.
There were some delays in the utilisation of the World Bank loan
resulting in extension   of   the  per iod  of titilisation by about one year.
The extended period was, however, used only to allow disbursement of the
balance amount of the loan remained undrawn by some of the concerned
sub-projects.   An analysis of the delay in implementation of sub-projects
reveals that while there was no delay in the case of 5 sub-projects, a delay
of 12 to 18 months was witnessed in 4 sub-projects and a delay of 18 to
24 months in an equal number of sub-projects.   In spite of the delay in
implementation, there was no cost overrun in 4 projects and in 7 projects
the cost overrun was less than 10%.  While 2 sub-projects had cost overrun
of 10 to 20%, in the case of the remaining 5 projects, the overrun exceeded
20%.
As regards performance, 7 sub-projects  had  reached  a capacity
utilisation of more than 70% of the installed capacity and only in respect
of 4 sub-projects the position  was not satisfactory.   Of the remaining  7
sub-projects, one (Punjab Ceramics Ltd.) has repaid the loan in full, two
(Assam Gas & Deccan Fibre Glass) are regular in the payment of dues of
institutions.
The operational performance of some of the sub-projects like Circar
Paper, Southern petrochemicals Industries Corporation, Assam Gas Company
etc., has been better than what was originally estimated as could be seen
.. 9



-68-                           AS5
from  the data on the sub-project performance.  As the bank is aware, the
sub-projects which could not do well faced technological difficulties with
the machinery, initial marketing problems for new products, unforseen changes
hi Ve domestic market conditions, availability of imported products at lower
prices which ultirtately resu;ied in the level of profits of the sub-projects
being much lower than what was originally estimated.  It may be added
that IDBI continuously reviews the performance of the various sub-projects
including those covered under the World Bank loan and is taking corrective
steps   The corrective measures taken by IDBI include advice *on change
of product-mix, assistance for acquisition of balancing equipment for improving
quality, provision of concessional finance for units showing incipient sickness,
merger with healthy units, etc.  For instance, Deccan Fibre Glass Ltd. has
been merged with Ceat Tyres Ltd. In the case of Pratap Rajasthan, a merger
proposal is in an advanced stage of finalisation besides such steps as new
foreign collaboration, rationalisation of duty structure.
Our comments given above were corroborated by the last supervision
mission which visited IDBI jn July 1985 to prepare the PCR on Loan 1511-
IN vide Mr.David Grove's letter dated August 7, 1985. The Report specifically
observed that  the financial institutions were closely monitoring the sub-
projects in a systematic manner and the intensive monitoring and active
involvement by institutions have kept all sub-projects away from developing
into problem  projects.  It further observed that the sub-projects were all
Reflected       economically well justified.  It would thus be appreciated that the problems
in PCR,         faced by the joint sector units were not out of line with the general problems
of industry in India at that time.  Institutions have taken sufficient care
to see that the problem  projects were monitored and provided necessary
support, as a result of which many of them  have turned the corner.  Some
of them like Southern Petrochemicals Industries have done well.
--ooOOoo--



