Document of
FILE COPY                             The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-215 7-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO INDIA
FOR STATE JOINT AND PUBLIC SECTOR INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS
THROUGH THE
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
January 5, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of January 3, 1978)
Rs 1.00       =   Paise 100
US$1.00       =   Rs 8.17
Rs 1.00       =   US$0.1224
Rs 1 million      US$122,400
(Since September 24, 1975 the Rupee has been
officially valued relative to a "basket" of
currencies. As these currencies are now float-
ing, the US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject
to change. Conversions in the Appraisal Report
were made at US$1 to Rs 9.00.)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DFC  -    Development Finance Company
GOI  -    Government of India
IDBI -    Industrial Development Bank of India
SFC  -    State Financial Corporation
SIDC -    State Industrial Development Corporation
SIIC -    State Industrial Investment Corporation



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
LOAN FOR STATE JOINT/PUBLIC SECTOR PROJECTS
THROUGH THE INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                   India, acting by its President
Beneficiary:                Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI)
Amount:                     US$25.0 million.
Terms:                      Repayable over 17 years, including 3 years grace,
at 7.45% interest per annum. The amortization
schedule is subject to change to conform sub-
stantially to the amortization schedule of sub-
loans.
Relending Terms:             (a)  India to IDBI:  Repayable in accordance
with aggregate maturities of sub-loans,
but not exceeding 17 years, including
3 years of grace. Interest rate and
commitment charge identical to those
to be paid to IBRD by India under the
Loan. Exchange risk to be borne by
Government of India.
(b)  IDBI to Investment Enterprises:
Repayment dependent on individual
subproject but not to exceed 15
years. Interest at not less than
11% per annum for normal lending
and not less than 9-1/2% per annum
for lending in backward areas.
Commitment charge at 1% per annum.
Project
Description:              The project finances the foreign exchange cost
of productive medium-scale industrial projects
in the state joint/public sector. The project
would assist IDBI in carrying out industrial
sector investment studies, in strengthening the
financial institutions dealing with this sector,
namely State Industrial Development/Investment
Corporations (SIDC/SIICs), and in developing
projects particularly in the less developed
States. A major benefit will be to pool private
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
and public capital and establish close working
links between public and private sector partners
in joint ventures. Better management and
speedier implementation of sub-projects is
expected to result. The project risks are
no greater than can normally be expected
with operations of this type.
Estimated Commitments
and Disbursements:                                     (Fiscal Year)
1978  1979  1980  1981  1982
(US$ Millions)
Commitments        5.0   15.0   5.0   -        -
Disbursements
Annual           -     5.5   8.0   8.0    4.5
Cumulative       -     5.5  13.5  21.5   25.0
Free Limit:                  The first project of the first six states would
be sent to the Bank for approval, as well as all
subsequent projects involving IDBI financing of
more than US$3 million.
Appraisal Report:            No. 1736a-IN, dated January 5, 1977.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO INDIA FOR STATE JOINT/PUBLIC SECTOR INDUSTRIAL
PROJECTS THROUGH THE INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA (IDBI)
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to India for the equivalent of US$25 million to help finance the foreign ex-
change cost of IDBI's operations in respect of medium-scale industrial projects
in the state joint/public sector. The terms of the loan would be an interest
rate of 7.45% per annum and repayment not exceeding 17 years, including 3
years of grace. The Government of India (GOI) would on-lend US$24.5 million
of the proceeds of the loan to IDBI under the same terms as the proposed loan.
IDBI would use these funds to finance loans to sub-borrowers for a maximum of
15 years at interest at not less than 11% per annum for normal lending and not
less than 9-1/2% per annum for lending in backward areas. The exchange risk
would be borne by GOI. The balance of US$0.5 million of the loan would also
be passed on by GOI to IDBI, as a grant, for financing technial assistance.
FART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(1529-IN dated April 25, 1977), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on May 3, 1977. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        India is exceptional among the Bank Group's member countries for
its size and diversity; the country is divided into more than 20 States with
a population of some 630 million speaking over 60 languages. Since Independ-
ence the trend in growth of GNP has been about 3.5% per annum, or a little
over 1% per annum in per capita terms, while over the five years 1971/72 -
1975/76 it fell to as low as 2.5% per annum, in spite of the record harvest
of 1975/76. This unsatisfactory performance is only in part the result of
the low availability of investable resources: while India's domestic savings
effort compares well with other countries at the same average income levels,
however, the net transfer of resources from abroad has never been above 3% of
GNP, and fell to as little as 0.8% between 1969/70 and 1973/74. More signi-
ficant perhaps is the fact that in spite of a marked rise in the investment
rate from about 10% in the early 1950's to about 18% over the past fifteen
years, the trend in GNP growth has remained about the same. This indicates
a marked decline in the efficiency of capital use, as a result of increasing
capacity underutilization, long project gestation, and increased emphasis on
relatively capital intensive projects and sectors.
1/   Parts I and II of this report are essentially the same as Parts I and II
of the President's Report for the Second Foodgrain Storage Project
(Report No. P-2135-IN, dated November 3, 1977).



- 2 -
4.        Since Independence the growth of the socio-economic infrastructure
(transport, education, health services, etc.) has been impressive, but has
often been achieved at high cost and has yielded results of variable quality.
Many industrial and agricultural investment schemes have been highly success-
ful, but others have taken excessively long to be completed and have operated
well below full capacity. In some regions of the country, growth and struc-
tural change have been rapid and compare favorably with developments in many
other parts of the world; in other regions there has been stagnation, and in
some, decline. Although national income has increased in most years, there
has been no rise in the living standards of the vast mass of rural and urban
poor, conservatively estimated at 200 million people with per capita incomes
of US$70 per annum.
5.        The structure of the economy has been slow to change.  Agriculture
remains the dominant sector, with its share of national product declining
only gradually from about 50% to 42% over the last twenty years. The share
of manufacturing industry has increased only slowly and, since the late 1960s,
has remained approximately constant at about 16%. There has, however, been
a shift in the composition of manufacturing production, with consumer, inter-
mediate, and capital goods now contributing about one third each, compared
with an overwhelming preponderance of consumer goods 25 years ago.
Recent Trends
6.        In March, 1977, a party other than Congress formed a Government for
the first time since Independence. The Janata, or People's Party, is a heter-
ogenous amalgamation of smaller parties which had never before been able to
form a united front. The state of the economy was not a prominent election
issue; in fact the economy was generally stronger than at any time in the last
ten years. Over the two years 1975/76 and 1976/77, the growth of GDP averaged
5.4% per annum. Agricultural production in 1976/77 did fall by about 3% but
only because of a return to a more normal harvest of 111 million tons after
the record 121 million ton output in 1975/76. In fact, the 1976/77 figure is
the second largest harvest on record. The growth of industrial production
accelerated over the past two years from 6.1% in 1975/76 to 9.2% in 1976/77.
The volume growth of exports continued its impressive recent performance, and
averaged approximately 13% per annum over the past two years. This export
growth, together with hardly any increase in import levels, has resulted in
dramatic balance of trade improvements with an estimated deficit for 1976/77
of less than US$500 million. In sum, the overall resource position with
record foreign exchange and foodgrain reserves, is exceptionally strong,
and gives the Government considerable room for manoeuver.
7.        In agriculture the bumper crop of 1975/76 was largely due to remark-
ably good rainfall, both in amount and distribution, while the good crop in
1976/77 was produced under somewhat less than normal weather conditions. A
conspicuous change was the increase in fertilizer use, which rose by about
25% over 1975/76, following marked declines in fertilizer prices. Industrial
production benefited from fewer labor disputes, fuller utilization of in-
stalled capacity in both private and public sectors, a more liberal import
policy, relatively good power availability, and increased demand because of



- 3 -
higher consumer incomes, expanded exports and higher public expenditures.
Inflation re-emerged in 1976/77 as an important issue of economic management.
During 1975/76 the wholesale price index had fallen by 8.5%; but in 1976/77
it rose by 11.6%. The key characteristic of this rise was that it occurred
largely in a few agricultural commodities for which prices had dramatically
fallen in the previous year. In the twelve months ending September 1977, the
increase was less than 5%. The overall price index has shown virtually no
trend over the past three years taken together.
8.        The balance of payments situation has improved dramatically since
the 1973-1975 period. In 1975/76 the trade deficit was $1,530 million, which
was more than covered by US$1,560 million in net aid, US$205 million in net
purchases of currency from the IMF, and US$559 million in net miscellaneous
capital and invisibles (mostly private remittances); indeed, this large
aggregate net resource inflow led to a US$794 million increase in foreign
exchange reserves, to a level of almost US$2.2 billion. In 1976/77, the
balance of payments continued to improve, with exports provisionally esti-
mated to have increased by US$1,145 million against an imports increase of
only US$85 million, so that the trade balance deficit is now estimated at only
US$470 million. The sharply decreased trade deficit, along with a further
increase in the net inflow of miscellaneous capital and invisibles from abroad
of US$640 million, more than offset the fall of US$350 million in net aid and
the US$365 million repurchases of currency from the IMF, and allowed a US$1.5
billion addition to reserves, which reached a level of US$3.7 billion at the
end of March 1977. The developments have continued in the current year, with
reserves estimated at US$4.8 billion as of October 1977.
Development Prospects
9.        The favorable economic situation gives the Government the opportun-
ity to address the longer-term constraints on growth. The basic task is to
raise the overall rate of growth from its historic range of 3% to 4%. In the
long run this will require raising more resources for investment. But it
will also be important to achieve significantly better utilization of avail-
able resources, partly through an immediate boost to industrial demand.
10.       In agriculture, the basic problem remains that, despite the record
foodgrain crop in 1975/76 and the good crop in 1976/77, the long-term growth
rate of foodgrain production has been unacceptably low, less than 3% per annum
over the last twenty-five years, and less than 2% since 1967/68. This has
meant that only in good years has there been any margin of production to cater
to per capita growth in food consumption, and in normal years it has been
necessary to import food. There is considerable scope for stepping up growth
both by increasing the use of inputs and by raising the productivity of exist-
ing capacity. Three promising developments in regard to the first are the
sharply higher outlays on irrigation in the Fifth Plan Period along with a
renewed determination to increase public investment in irrigation even more
in the next plan period beginning March 1978 and to complete existing projects
expeditiously; the indications that private investment in tubewells is picking
up again after a slowdown in the early 1970's; and the continued recovery of
fertilizer demand. With regard to more productive use of existing capacity,



- 4 -
there is increased awareness in the Government that the benefits of irrigation
projects can be much increased not only through command area development but
also through more efficient design and operation of major surface irrigation
infrastructure. Also, hopes have been generated for increasing productivity
on both irrigated and rainfed farms through a reorganized and improved exten-
sion and research system, which has been recently introduced in several States
in northern and eastern India.
11.       A strong effort to raise agricultural growth is essential, not only
to meet food requirements, but also because of the pervasive influence of
agriculture on the levels of activity in other sectors of the economy. This
effort must also be so structured as to increase the incomes of small and
marginal farmers, in order to increase production since they operate 25% of
the cultivated land and account for somewhat more than 25% of production,
and for welfare reasons, since they make up about 70% of rural population
and constitute the majority of those living below the poverty level.
12.       The industrial sector is poised for growth, as serious constraints
on the supply side have been removed by the improved situation, particularly
with respect to coal and imported raw materials and components; however, the
power supply situation is once more somewhat worrisome (paragraph 13 below).
There has been a progressive liberalization of controls and the 1976/77
Central Budget announced a reduction of some taxes on private industry. In
many cases management of public enterprises has improved, as is reflected in
their markedly higher production and profitability as a group. In the medium
term it is the demand for industrial output that will determine industrial
growth. In certain industries, export demand will provide a strong pull on
production; this is true, for example, for certain chemicals including dye-
stuffs and crude drugs, some electrical equipment, processed agricultural
products, vehicles and automobile ancillaries. But the impact of increased
exports on overall industrial demand will grow only slowly given the current
low share of exports in sales. If the higher growth and productivity in
agriculture discussed earlier were to materialize, it would provide a sig-
nificant stimulus to industry. It is difficult to specify the linkages
explicitly; but because of the large share that agriculture holds in GNP,
the coefficients do not have to be large for agricultural growth and the
concomitant growth in demand for industrially produced inputs and mass con-
sumption goods to boost overall industrial demand significantly. A higher
public deficit and increased public investments are the instruments most
directly under Government control, and also those that can increase demand
for industrial products most immediately. While the first budget of the new
government projects a relatively small deficit, it does maintain a 20-22%
increase in spending over the likely outlay in 1976/77. The projected deficit
is contingent on the utilization of foreign exchange reserves; to the extent
they are not utilized though increased imports, the deficit will increase.
13.       The general improvement in the supply of energy augurs well for
India's ability to meet the needs of a more rapidly growing economy. Organ-
izational and transportation problems in the coal industry have largely been
overcome, production is sufficient to meet demand, stocks are comfortable,
and the industry has good prospects for meeting both domestic and export



- 5 -
demand. However, the supply of electricity continues to be a concern, since
the power situation is not uniformly good. Power shortages affect a number
of the more industrialized states, particularly Maharashtra in the west and
Punjab and Haryana in the north, and as a result, there is a continued con-
straint on the expansion of industry. This is despite a number of favorable
factors: greatly improved capacity utilization in thermal power stations;
more efficient exchange of power between states; accelerated implementation
of power projects; and somewhat improved availability of finance for power
investment. The underlying reason for the weak power supply position is
that capacity shortages continue despite the improved investment program. In
the short-term, the situation may improve somewhat if, as was hoped, reservoir
replenishment was better than average during the last stages of the monsoon.
The prospects for the oil and gas sector have been further improved by new
finds of oil and gas near the large offshore Bombay High field. Crude oil
from Bombay High was brought to shore for the first time in May 1976; produc-
tion reached an annual rate of 2 million tons by March 1977, and will rise to
a level of 12-13 million tons by 1984/85. Although India will continue to
import crude at or somewhat above the current level, much of the foreign
exchange burden of rapidly rising imports will be avoided by the development
of these resources. Prospects are also bright for further discoveries off-
shore, given the current high level of exploration activity.
14.       Underlying all other development issues is that of population.
Although India's population growth rate of a little over 2% is not high in
comparison with most LDCs, the size of the absolute increment - 13 million
annually - is daunting. It appears, however, that population growth may have
passed its peak in the 1960's, and it is expected to continue to slow down,
both because the birth rate will continue to decline and because the death
rate will not fall as steeply as in the past. It is apparent that India's
family planning efforts suffered a setback following the end of the recent
emergency period, and acceptor rates are at very low levels currently. How-
ever, the new Government has announced its commitment to a voluntary family
planning program and has maintained ambitious performance targets. Although
it will take some time, adoption of family planning practices is expected to
increase to higher levels. Over the longer term, with a sustained family
planning effort, it should be possible to lower the population growth rate
to 1.1% per annum by the end of the century. Our "best guess" projection of
India's population by 2000 is 890 million. Many of the benefits of family
planning policy will only be felt beyond the turn of the century, but the
decline in fertility will bring about an early change in the age structure
of the population. The school age group will grow more slowly or not at all
after 1981 thereby reducing the pressures on the primary and secondary edu-
cation system. The labor force, however, will continue to grow at a fast rate
until the end of the century.
15.       India's balance of payments position should be comfortable for the
next few years. The combination of past global inflation and increased ex-
ports have reduced the proportion of export earnings needed for debt service
from 30% in 1970/71 to 16% in 1976/77. The ratio is not likely to rise above
this level in the next few years. Given continuing favorable policies, the
volume of exports should grow by at least 7% to 10% annually in the near



- 6 -
future; and import needs for fertilizer, POL and foodgrains will continue to
require a diminishing proportion of available foreign exchange. The large
inflow of private remittances shows no immediate signs of declining and should
continue to bolster the foreign exchange position in the medium term. Imports,
including a variety of capital goods, have already been liberalized signifi-
cantly. Increased public investment and a revival of the domestic economy is
likely to generate substantial additional import demand. However, this should
be quite manageable, given the currently comfortable foreign exchange position,
continued export effort, and maintenance of the current real level of net aid.
The present situation presents an opportunity to raise the level of investment
and, consequently, reach a more satisfactory level of long terni growth.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
16.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 52 loans and 93 development
credits to India totalling US$1,992 million and US$4,991 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$859 million has been
repaid, and US$2,105 million was still undisbursed as of November 30, 1977.
Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements as of November 30,
1977, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
17.       Since 1957, IFC has made 14 commitments in India totalling US$58.4
million, of which US$13.8 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.9 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$30.1 million, US$23.6 mil-
lion represents loans and US$6.5 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of November 30, 1977, is also included in Annex II (page 2).
18.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor
irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit opera-
tions. Major irrigation, marketing, seed development, and dairying are other
agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group
has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector
and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in
a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials and components for
selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better capac-
ity utilization in industry. The Bank Group has also been active in support-
ing infrastructure development for power, telecommunications, and railways.
Family planning, education, water supply development, and urban investments
have also received Bank Group support in recent years.
19.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, industry, power, urban development and water
supply remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs such as credit for
on-farm investments, command area development of existing irrigation schemes,
intensification and streamlining of extension systems, and seed production



- 7 -
form an important aspect of the Bank Group's program for the next several
years. Special emphasis will be given to projects benefitting small farmers.
Projects supporting water supply, sewerage, and urban development also form
an integral part of the Bank's lending strategy to India for the next several
years. Lending in support of infrastructure and industrial investments will
focus on agriculture-, export- and energy-related projects.
20.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of Bank economic re-
ports and of the discussions within the India Consortium. Thanks in large
part to the response of the aid community, India has successfully adjusted
to the changed world price situation. However, the basic need for readily
usable foreign exchange assistance, to augment domestic resources, assure
effective utilization of existing capacity, stimulate investment and acceler-
ate economic growth, remains. As in the past, Bank Group assistance for
projects in India should include, as appropriate, the financing of local
expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods because of the
capacity of the domestic capital goods industry. The import component of
projects tends to be especially low in such high-priority areas as agriculture,
education, and family planning. For the Bank Group to be able to make an
appropriate contribution to the financing of projects in these sectors, it is
important to cover a proportion of local expenditures.
21.       It is clear from the review of the Indian economy that as much as
possible of India's external capital requirements should be provided on con-
cessionary terms. Accordingly, the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to
India has been, and should continue to be, provided from IDA. However, the
amount of IDA funds that can reasonably be allocated to India remains small
in relation to India's needs for external support, and some Bank lending
to India, for which the country is creditworthy, is appropriate. As of
November 30, 1977, outstanding loans to India totaled US$1,165 million, of
which US$474 million remained to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstand-
ing of US$699 million.
22.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 58%, 24% and 29%,
respectively, in 1975/76. On March 31, 1976, India's outstanding and disbursed
external public debt was US$13.1 billion, of which the Bank Group's share
was 25%. The Bank Group's share is expected to remain around this level in
the future. Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in the
form of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly. In
1975/76, about 15% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank
Group.



PART III - INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Structure
23.       India's industrial output has grown on average by onily about 3.5%
per annum since 1965 and manufacturing presently accounts for 16% of NDP,
as against 14% in 1960/61. 1/ Within the manufacturing sector, there have
been gradual changes in structure which reflect the Government's priorities.
Consumer goods industries now contribute less to value added than formerly.
For example, the food processing and textile industries' combined share has
fallen from 43% in 1960/61 to 28% in 1974/75. Over the same period, the share
of "basic" industries, (defined to include basic metals industries, chemicals
and fertilizers), together with the engineering industry, increased from
roughly 40% of value added in manufacturing to somewhat more than 50%.
24.       About two-thirds of manufactured output is estimated to come from
registered plants, which are predominantly medium- and large-scale. The more
labor-intensive small scale sector, which accounts for the balance of indus-
trial output, employs two-thirds of the industrial labor force. The Govern-
ment sector dominates mining and power generation and, to an increasing extent,
the "basic" industries within the manufacturing sector. Nonetheless, accord-
ing to the 1970 Annual Survey of Industry, almost 80% of value added in indus-
try and mining originated in the private sector. While in 1974/75, the last
year for which statistics were available, public sector enterprises accounted
for about 15% of manufacturing value-added (22% of value added from the larger,
registered sector) in certain sectors such as steel, petrochemicals and heavy
electrical equipment all or almost all the enterprises in the sector are
government owned. Within the private sector, textiles, chemicals and engi-
neering goods continue to be dominant with food processing, paper and tobacco
making important contributions to manufacturing value-added.
The Environment for Industry
25.       Over the last fifteen years, both supply and demand factors have
hindered industrial growth. Supply constraints have perhaps been more per-
sistent. Through much of this period shortage of foreign exchange constrained
the availability of essential intermediate inputs not manufactured in India,
and affected the supply of inputs, such as steel, at times when domestic pro-
duction was unable to match demand. Equally the unpredictable effect of the
monsoon on the supply of agricultural raw materials, such as cotton, has con-
strained industrial growth. Moreover, agricultural supply bottlenecks have
tended to coincide with power shortages, since hydro supply is also dependent
on the monsoon.
26.       However, when these supply constraints have not been binding, demand
tended to fall short of production capacities. The principal opportunities
1/   If industry is more broadly defined to include the remainder of the
secondary sector - utilities and construction - then value added in
industry constitutes about 23% of NDP.



- 9 -
for simple import substitution were largely exhausted by the mid-1960s.
Exports have recently contributed to growth, but they still constitute a
very small part of total production. The relatively slow growth trend of
agriculture of little more than 2% since 1967/68 restricted demand for con-
sumer goods. Finally, both public and private real investment has been
stagnant, although public sector investment is now increasing and may provide
a much needed boost to demand.
Industrial Policies
27.       The Government has placed central emphasis on rapid industrializa-
tion and national self-sufficiency as the keys to development. At the same
time, the Government has sought to curb the concentration of economic power
through expanded public ownership, restrictions on the growth of "large
houses" and "dominant undertakings"; reservation of many products to the
small-scale sector as well as special assistance to it; and finally support
for development in backward regions. The aim of self-sufficiency has largely
manifested itself in the pursuit of import substitution as well as curbs on
foreign-owned firms and other forms of foreign involvement in industry.
28.       The main instruments of industrial policy have been central licen-
sing of investment and imports, physical allocation of scarce, domestically
produced raw materials and controls on industrial prices. This system has
itself tended to conflict with other aims, especially that of curbing econo-
mic concentration, since large firms are much better able to bear the over-
head costs of dealing with a centralized bureaucracy. Controls have also
restricted the ability of firms to respond to changed opportunities, especially
in overseas markets, and thus hampered exports. Price controls appear to have
had an adverse effect on investment and modernization in such critical indus-
tries as cotton textiles, sugar, and cement.
29.       In the last two years, there have been a number of important devel-
opments in industrial policy. In the face of poor industrial performance the
Government recognized that existing capacity must be utilized more efficiently
and took steps to require public sector enterprises to meet more commercially
oriented criteria for output, price and profitability. Increased emphasis was
placed on exporting and a number of measures were taken to boost industrial
growth, including liberalization of licensing procedures, relaxation of import
and other controls, fiscal incentives and more emphasis on industrial
modernization.
30.       With the recent change in government, however, strategy for the
industrial sector is again under review. It is clear that policies relating
to, for example, larger private sector undertakings and foreign investment
in Indian industry are being actively debated within the Government. One of
the elements of strategy that has now emerged is the emphasis to be placed
on small scale enterprises, and on the development of industry in rural areas.
The industrial priorities of the new Government are expected to crystallize in
the process of the preparation of a rolling five year plan. The new plan is
to be initiated in March 1978.



- 10 -
Recent Performance and Prospects
31.       Industrial production as a whole grew by just over 9% in 1976/77
over that in 1975/76, which had registered a significant improvement over
1974/75's performance. Early indications suggest this healthy performance
is continuing in 1977/78, if not at the very high rate of 1976/77. Although
there are a few physical bottlenecks -- particularly in power and cement --
the supply conditions are favorable for sustained growth in industrial pro-
duction. Continued high industrial growth depends largely on the demand
for industrial output. To stimulate demand, the Government of India is
taking a variety of positive steps, the most direct of which is accelerating
public investment.
The Role of the State Joint/Public Industrial Sector
32.       There is considerable opportunity for investment at the state level,
particularly in the less developed states, in economically efficient state-
sponsored projects in the joint/public sector. A joint sector unit is defined
as an undertaking in which the state holds at least 26% of the equity, with
a private entrepreneur holding up to 25%, and the balance being held by the
public at large. In the 1960s GOI looked upon the joint sector concept as
an instrument for curbing the concentration of economic power by restricting
the growth of "large houses." The concept, however, has been evolving, and
since about 1970 state governments have had the active support of the Center
in using the joint sector as a promotional tool to attract private investment,
particularly in the development of natural resources. In addition, joint/
public undertakings have been established in a wide variety of manufacturing
subsectors, including fertilizers, petro-chemicals, and engineering. Despite
the emphasis the states have given to joint sector projects, the sector is
small, and probably accounts for somewhat less than 5% of industrial value
added. The main institutions employed in promoting this sector are the IDBI
and State Industrial Development/Investment Corporations (SIDC/SIICs). IDBI
provides finance for projects directly and gives technical assistance to
SIDC/SIICs. IDBI started financing state joint/public sector projects in
1970 and had financed 120 projects in this category by June 1977. The
SIDCs/ SIICs are the institutions at the state level responsible for promot-
ing industrial development through the joint sector by identifying, preparing
and implementing high priority projects. SIDC/SIICs almost always are the
institutions that hold the state governments' equity. The first SIDC was
established in Bihar in 1960. Since then all states have followed suit and
there are 21 SIDC/SIICs throughout the country intended to serve as catalysts
in the industrialization process. Although SIDC/SIICs, on behalf of state
governments, sometimes implement projects on their own, holding more than 50%
of equity, in most cases state-sponsored projects are implemented in the joint
sector.
33.       Most state joint/public sector projects are either under construc-
tion or just starting up so it is difficult to evaluate their performance.
However, an analysis was made of projects in three states (Gujarat, Andhra
Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh) in different stages of industrial development.
In 1976, there were 12 operating state joint/public sector projects (2 in



- 11 -
Gujarat, 2 in Madhya Pradesh, and 8 in Andhra Pradesh), of which 5 were
operating profitably, 3 were making losses and 4 had started operations only
in 1975 or thereafter. Moreover, a comparison of 10 state government spon-
sored projects from different states with 8 private sector projects in the
same industries which had been in existence for comparable periods of time
shows that generally the performance of these projects has been similar.
34.       There are a number of advantages to implementing projects through
the joint sector. Private entrepreneurs and state governments have comple-
mentary functions in promoting project implementation and administration,
particularly in the relatively less developed states, which generally need
to attract entrepreneurs from industrialized states. Private entrepreneurs
reduce their financial risks through joint undertakings with the state gov-
ernments and, in general, relationships with the government are facilitated.
Conversely, participation of private entrepreneurs in joint projects allows
state governments to take advantage of managerial skills, operational knowhow
and manpower of the private sector. Mobilization of private resources for
investment also enables SIDC/SIICs to allocate scarce public funds over a
larger number of projects. A possible deterrent to greater private sector
participation in the joint sector is believed to be the concern that in
important matters affecting the project State governments, holding a larger
share of the equity than the private partner, may use their power to effect
decisions inimical to the interests of the private investor. IDBI involve-
ment in appraisal and supervision of these projects should greatly ease such
concern.
Previous Bank Group Support
35.       The proposed project would complement Bank Group lines of credit
to the Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India (ICICI) and
through IDBI to State Financial Corporations (SFCs), both of which are pri-
marily designed to assist the private industrial sector. The Bank has made
twelve loans to ICICI. The most recent, Loan 1475-IN made in 1977, conti-
nues to take advantage of ICICI as an efficient channel for financing the
foreign exchange costs of high priority industrial projects. Our experience
with the ICICI projects has been consistently satisfactory. The proposed
project would represent the fourth Bank Group operation involving IDBI. Two
previous operations (Credit 356-IN in 1973 and Loan 1260-In in 1976) for a
total US$65 million channel funds through IDBI to 18 SFCs. These two credit
lines provide assistance in financing the import component of sound indus-
trial projects in the small- and medium-scale private sector.  They also
provide for upgrading of SFC capabilities. Credit 356-IN was fully committed
by June 1976 and Loan 1260-IN continues the pursuit of the objectives sought
under the first credit for a two-year period through 1978. The first project
got off to a slow start, mainly due to the weakness of SFCs. However, SFC
upgrading programs have had a positive impact on the progress of both pro-
jects which is now satisfactory. IDBI was also one of the channels, for
US$28 million out of US$105 million, under a 1976 IDA Credit for fertil-
izer industry modernization (Cr. 598-IN).



- 12 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
36.       The proposed project was appraised in November/December 1976.  A
supplementary Project Data Sheet is attached as Annex III. A report entitled
"India -- Appraisal of a Loan to Finance State Joint/Public Industrial Sector
Projects through the Industrial Development Bank of India" dated January 5,
1978, Report No. 1736a-IN, is being circulated separately to the Executive
Directors. Negotiations were held in Washington in December 1977. GOI and
IDBI were represented by a delegation headed by Mr. D. K. Chatterjee,
Director.
37.       The basic purpose of the proposed loan is to assist the develop-
ment of industries in the state joint/public sector, to which the Government
attaches priority. It would do so by financing the foreign exchange cost of
productive medium-scale projects in this sector. The project also concen-
trates on strengthening the financial institutions dealing with this sector,
namely IDBI and state industrial development/investment corporations (SIDC/
SIICs), by enhancing the ability of these institutions to plan and promote
industrial development. The projects to be financed under the project would
be medium sized industrial projects (those involving fixed assets excluding
land in the range of Rs 10 million to 200 million) sponsored by state govern-
ments and SIDC/SIICs. The loan would be restricted to financing projects
sponsored as state public sector (i.e., 51% equity or more held by the state
government or SIDC/SIIC), or joint sector (i.e., more than 25% but not more
than 51% equity held by the state government or SIDC/SIIC and about 25% held
by a private party with the balance by the public at large). Also, $500,000
of the proposed loan would be allocated to a Technical Assistance Fund which
would enable IDBI to engage consultants to assist state government agencies
in executing industrial sector investment studies. Priority would be given
to the less developed states which are short of the necessary technical man-
power to carry out such studies.
Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI)
38.       IDBI would be responsible for implementing the project and would,
in particular, be responsible for the appraisal and supervision of sub-
projects, preparation and supervising implementation of upgrading programs
for SIDC/SIICs, and supervising the preparation of state industrial invest-
ment studies. IDBI is the largest industrial development bank in India and
also the apex institution for all other industrial financial intermediaries.
Established in 1964, it was a fully owned subsidiary of the Reserve Bank of
India until 1976.  As a result of legislation enacted in 1976, important
changes took place in IDBI. The organizational relationship between IDBI
and the Reserve Bank was severed and IDBI's ownership was transferred to
GOI. Also, IDBI's role as an apex institution for industrial financing was
strengthened by making it responsible for coordinating industrial investment
activities of other financial institutions. In 1976, GOI appointed IDBI to
administer industrial modernization programs launched by GOI to improve effi-
ciency in selected industries. IDBI has also taken up refinance schemes for
SIDC/SIICs to augment their resources and assisted in upgrading their capa-
bilities as industrial financing institutions.



- 13 -
39.       In view of its increased responsibilities and work load, IDBI is
taking measures to ensure continued operational efficiency, adequate staffing
and viable finances. IDBI is in particular strengthening the staff of its
Loan Departments, responsible for appraising and following up subprojects,
and of its SFC/SIDC Department, responsible for monitoring the activities of
these institutions and ensuring that upgrading programs are effectively
carried out. IDBI's appraisal and follow-up standards and its procurement
and disbursement procedures are adequate. IDBI ensures that all capital
expenditures for projects it finances are technically and economically jus-
tified. Disbursements are usually made in installments according to the
progress of the projects.
40.       IDBI is now the largest single institutional source of industrial
finance in India, accounting for approximately 5% of the annual total indus-
trial investment. Its activities include direct loans, rediscounting com-
mercial bills, refinancing loans made by the SFCs, SIDC/SIICs and commercial
banks, providing export finance, underwriting, equity investment and guarantee
operations. As of June 30, 1977, the total effective financial assistance
sanctioned by IDBI was Rs 24.5 billion (US$2.7 billion). About one third
of the total (Rs 7.2 billion) was for direct financial assistance to develop
industry. The balance consisted of rediscounted bills (29%), refinance (26%),
export finance (9%), and subscription to shares and bonds of financial insti-
tutions (4%). IDBI's operations have expanded rapidly in recent years. Total
annual assistance sanctioned reached Rs 7.7 billion (US$855 million) in 1976/
77 compared to Rs 1.4 billion (US$156 million) in 1970/71. Direct loans
accounted for Rs 2.4 billion (US$226 million) or about 30% of the total
assistance approved in 1976/77.
41.       IDBI's total assets as of June 30, 1977 were Rs 11 billion, its
longterm debt/equity ratio 10.6:1, and its profitability 1.9% on average
total assets. IDBI's financial situation is satisfactory. Arrears on IDBI's
direct loan portfolio have increased over the past few years largely as a
reflection of the difficult economic circumstances in 1972-1975. But, the
improving economic situation, combined with IDBI's improved follow-up, has
helped to slow down the upward trend in arrears. The total principal out-
standing on loans affected by arrears has improved from 50% of its total
portfolio as of December 31, 1974 to 40% as of June 30, 1977.
42.       IDBI's interest rates for direct loans are 9.5% for units in back-
ward areas and 11.0% in other cases. With long run inflation estimated at
about 8% per annum, IDBI should be lending at positive real rates of in-
terest of 1.5% to 3%.
State Industrial Development/Investment Corporations (SIDC/SIICs)
43.       At the state level, the SIDC/SIICs are responsible for promoting
industrial development mainly through provision of finance and by identifying,
preparing and implementing high priority projects. The State Financial Cor-
porations (SFCs) are the other important category of state sponsored devel-
opment institutions in the industrial sector; they essentially deal with the
large number of small scale enterprises, almost all of which are privately
owned.



- 14 -
44.       All SIDC/SIICs are wholly owned by the state governments.  They
have been incorporated under the Companies Act, as public or private limited
companies. Their Articles of Association or their Statutes authorize them to
undertake a wide range of functions, which is appropriate in view of their
objective to promote industry at the state level. Their functions are:
granting of financial assistance (equity and loans); identification, promo-
tion and management of industrial projects; setting up of industrial estates;
selection and training of entrepreneurs; and the provision of technical
assistance. There is considerable diversity of operations from state to
state, as well as difference in emphasis, arising out of the degree of
industrialization achieved, the institutional network existing and the
particular local needs.
45.       The bulk of the resources available to the SIDC/SIICs, taken as a
group, comes from state governments; about 40% is in the form of equity and
about 20% in the form of loans. The balance comes from bonds placed in the
open market. In recent years, SIDC/SIICs have disbursed about one-quarter
of the amount disbursed by the State Financial Corporations (SFCs), the other
important category of state sponsored development institutions. The SFCs
generally deal with the smaller enterprises, almost all of which are privately
owned, and SFCs are able to enhance their resources with refinance from IDBI.
The SIDC/SIICs became eligible for IDBI's refinance facilities only recently
(1976). The operating results of the SIDC/SIICs show considerable variation
but in general, and as might be expected, those in the industrialized states
have greater resources at their disposal and earn higher profits than most
others. While some SIDCs have adequate finances and procedures, many SIDCs
need to improve their finances, their financial reporting and planning, their
capacity to identify and select suitable project and, in general, their opera-
tions and procedures.
46.       Most SIDC/SIICs need to be substantially upgraded to enhance their
ability to contribute to state-sponsored industrial development. With this
in mind, IDBI decided in July 1976 to strengthen its relationship with SIDC/
SIICs so as to have a greater impact on their institutional development and
to make SIDC/SIICs eligible for IDBI refinance facilities. In addition, IDBI
will subscribe to SIDC/SIICs' share capital, and more closely monitor their
activities. IDBI plans to provide for the appointment of an IDBI nominee to
the SIDC/SIIC's Boards and to inspect their operations and accounts. Under
the project, IDBI will help implement upgrading programs for each SIDC/SIIC.
The upgrading programs, prepared in connection with the proposed loan, should
help in particular to: (i) improve the SIDC/SIICs' promotional role in the
state joint/public sector, (ii) clarify the division of responsibilities
between the SIDC/SIICs and the consulting firms/agencies entrusted to under-
take feasibility reports, market surveys, etc., and (iii) improve SIDC/SIICs'
capability to identify and select suitable projects and suitable private
partners for joint sector enterprises. Projects sponsored by SIDC/SIICs
would not be eligible for financing under the loan in cases where an SIDC/
SIIC was failing to make a reasonable effort to fulfill its upgrading pro-
-ram (Section 2.02 of Loan Agreement).



- 15 -
Project Pipeline
47.       The states have presented a pipeline of 218 state joint/public
sector investment proposals of medium size totalling Rs 12 billion ($1,333
million equivalent) with foreign exchange requirements of Rs 2.2 billion
($244 million equivalent). However, many of these projects are not at a
bankable stage and others may not be economically viable. It would be IDBI's
function to screen this pipeline and select high priority projects (approxi-
mately 15 to 20) requiring foreign exchange. IDBI's appraisal capability and
the sectoral studies to be undertaken in conjunction with the proposed loan
would help ensure selection of high priority, well prepared projects. Given
that the proposed operation would be the first along these lines, a modest-
sized loan has been proposed.
48.       Nine-tenths of the proposals in the pipeline are in the joint sector.
The emphasis is on chemical projects (about one-third) and the remainder covers
a wide variety of industries, many of which involve improved utilization of
natural resources. The majority of these industries require capital intensive
technology. Investment cost per job is roughly estimated at about $30,000.
Projects financed under the proposed loan would stimulate a variety of other
industries to utilize the intermediate goods produced as well as to develop
ancillary and service functions, thus enhancing the employment effect. The
geographical distribution shows that only about 30% of the proposals came
from the four more developed industrial states of Maharashtra, West Bengal,
Tamil Nadu and Gujarat. The less industrialized states will be the major
beneficiaries of the institution building program, and it is expected that
this will pave the way to increasing investment in these States.
Features of the Proposed Loan
49.       The IBRD loan of $25 million would be made to GOI at annual interest
of 7.45%. GOI would directly on-lend US$24.5 million of these funds at the
same terms to IDBI, which in turn would on-lend them at a spread of at least
2% on the average, for periods not exceeding 15 years, to industrial units
sponsored by state governments to meet the foreign cost of capital goods and
services. GOI would bear the exchange risk. Procurement and disbursement
would follow the normal DFC-type pattern. As with other loans to development
finance companies, eligible enterprises would be broadly defined and include
manufacturing, agro-industries and mining. The loan would be repaid according
to a composite amortization schedule which would reflect the repayment terms
of the subloans and which will not exceed 17 years including three years of
grace. IDBI has prepared a statement of strategy acceptable to IBRD for the
next 2 to 3 years for financing the target group from the proposed loan. GOI
would pass on to IDBI also the US$0.5 million balance of the loan, but as a
grant, to finance the Technical Assistance Fund (para 37 above). This part
of the loan would be disbursed against 100% of local as well as foreign
expenditures.
50.       In order to provide the Bank with an early assessment of project
preparation and appraisal work, the first project from the first six states
would be sent to the Bank for prior review and approval. In addition, all



- 16 -
subsequent projects for which IDBI would make loans of more than $3 million
from the proposed loan would require the Bank's prior review (Section 2.02
of the Loan Agreement). With this arrangement, about 50% by number, and 70%
by amount of the projects financed under the credit would be reviewed for
prior approval. Further, in order to guard against the possibilities of the
proposed loan being used to assist only a few large firms, an upper limit of
$4 million is proposed on the amount that IDBI can provide for any single
project.
Project Risks
51.       The short term objective of the project is to supporl: sound and
well prepared investment schemes in the joint sector. There is little risk
in a country with the size of India that there will not be enough sound
projects to utilize the proceeds of the proposed loan. The longer term ob-
jectives of the project are to strengthen SIDCs/SIICs and to lay the basis
for state level industrial planning and project promotion. This will be a
slow and difficult task, but one that needs to be tackled and one which IDBI
is well equipped to handle.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
52.       The draft Loan Agreement between India and the Bank and the draft
Project Agreement between the Bank and the Industrial Development Bank of
India, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
53.       Features of the draft Loan Agreement of special interest are
referred to in paragraphs 37, 46 and 50 of this report and are set forth
in Section III of Annex III of this report. There are no special conditions
of effectiveness of the Loan.
54.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
55.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
January 5, 1977
Attachments



ANNEX I
INDIA                - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                            Page 1 of 4
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                   -----4--------------------------  ---
---------------                                     INDIA                                 REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      3260.5                                         MOST RECENT
AGRIC.   1780.7                          1960        1970   ESTIMATE            INDONESIA       PHILIPPINES   BRAZIL**
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                        60.0*    100.0*    1so.o/a*               130.0*      230.0*       550.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YRR  MILLION)           434.9       547.6     620.4/a               117.6        36.9         92.8
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                        133.0      167.0      189.0/a               62.0        123.0        11.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND         252.0      308.0      348.071              414.0        375.0        49.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)           43.2       41.0        37.0                45.9         44.2        36.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)            23.9        19.0       17.0                20.6         13.2          9.9
INFANT MoRTALITY RATE (/THOU)         139.0/a        ..      130.0                   .         80.0       110.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)         41.7       47.2        49.5                   ..        55.6          3 4
GROSS REPRODUCTION PYTE                 3.2         2.9        2.8                  3.2         3.3          2.6
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                   2.0         2.3        2.2                 2.0          3.0          2.9
URBAN                                   2.5/b       3.2        3.1                  3.7 /a      4.0          5.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)             17.9       19.9       20.6                 17.5 /b     27.6         56.0
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                         41.0       41.6        40.1 /b             44.0         45.6        42.0
15 TO 64 YEARS                         55.9       55.3        56.7 7`7            53.5         51.6        55.0
65 YEARS AND OVER                       3.1         3.1        3.2 7FS              2.5         2.8          3.0
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                       0.8        0.8        0.8                  0.9         0.9          0.B
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                  1.1/c      1,1/a      12 /C                 ..          1.5         1.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)           71.0   145B5.0   37658.0                  259.3        354.0       250.0
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)                .          ..       18.7                   .          2.0          1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)         175000.0  218000.0  248000.0 /a                   . .    12400.0    29400.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)           71.0        69.0       68.0                             ss.o /a      40.4
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)              1.0/a .d              1.7                    .         7.6          7.5
INCME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME RECO Ba-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS              26.7       25.0/b         .                                          3s5.0 /a
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              51.7       53.17W  .                            .-                  62.07W
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               4.1        4.77E        ..                   ..          ..         3.o7
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS              13.6        13.1i        ..                   ..         1.O   7
OISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS                            .          . .                 . *          .         45.0
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS              ..         . .         . .                              *          1.5
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN               5840.0/ef4890.0    4220.0                  26370.0           .       1910.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          5310. ;72 20.0/c 3680.0/a                  763O0/        BS.         30
POPULATION 'E   OPTLBD                 29.07r 1610.0               .               1640.0--    850.0         260.0--
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)           95.0        92.0       69.0/e              91.0         93.0        109.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)                55.0       53.0        52.07e              43.0         45.0        64.0
-OF lHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           19.0        16.0         .                  14.0        22.0        39.0
DEATH RATE 1/THOU) AGES 1-4               44.0         ..          ..                  * -        6.6
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                         38.0        65.0      79.0/b               63.0        ,13.0        87.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                        9.0                   28.0o7F             12.0         49.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)               12.0       12.0        11.0                12.0         10.0         11.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                        8.0        6 0/d         *                29.0          6.0/b       17.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (x)                   24.0       33.o0      36. 0b,f             59.0                     64.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                   2.6         .         2.6                   '-         2.1          1.0
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WIT-rOUT
PIPED WATER (5)                                                                                76.0        73.0/c
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(5 OF ALL DWELLINGS)                                                                           23.0        46.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                        *-7.0 *.0
CONSUMPTION
_     __ -- _  _  _ _
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)             5.0       21.0       24.o                114.0         45.0        60.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)              0.7        1.0         1.0                 2.0         6.0         25.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)              46.0      114.0      143.0                 20.0       235.0        491.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                  0.2        0.3        0.3                  0.3         2.0          2.7
E --                      -       - ANO                                              ---- ON        --------------
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



P'age 2 of 4
NOTES
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, and for Most Recent Estimate between
1973 -nd L975.
GNP oer capita data are based on the World Bank Atlas nethodology (1974-76 basis).
** braoLl has been selected a. an objective country because of its si-e and comparable problems of regional inequality.
INDIA            1960    /a  1951-61 average;    /b  1951-60;    Ic  Ratio of popolation under 15 and 65 and over to labor force age 15 and over;
Id  Registered applicants for work;    /e  1962;    /f  Registered, not all practicing in the coontry;    _/  Including
midwives;    /h  1958;    /i  1960-62.
1970   /I  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to labor force age 15 and over;    /b  1967-68;    /c  Including midwives;
/d 1967.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE:    /a  1976;    /b  1971;    /c  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to labor force age 15 and ever;
/d  Including midwives;    /e  1969-71 average;    /f  Population 10 yeara and over.
INDONESIA        1970    /a  1961-71;    /b  1971;   /I  Including midwives.
PHILIPPINES       1970    /a  As percentage of employment;    /b  Not including private vocational schools
BRAZIL            1970    /a  Econontoally active population;    /b  Hospital pe-sonel;    /c  Inside only.
Rll, November }, 1977
DEFPNITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Land Area (thou km2)                                                                        Population per nursing person - Population divided by member of practicing
Total - Total surfac  uraa comprising land area snd inland waters,                           male  nd female graduate nurses, "trained" or "certified" nurses, and
Agric  - HMoat recent estiaste of agricultural area used temporarily or perma-                as-iliary personnel with training or experience.
nently for crops, pastures, market 6 kitchen gardens or to lie fallow.                    Population per hospital bed - Population divided by member of hospital beds
available in public and private general and apecialised hospital and
GNP per  eapita (US$) - GNP per capita estiostes at current macrkt prices,                     rehabilitation centers; excludes nursing barnes snd eateblih..sents for
calculated by sasme conversion method aa World Bank Atlas (1973-75 basis);                  custodial and preventive care.
1960; 1970 and 1975 data.                                                                 Per capita supply of calariea (f  of require-enta) - Computed from energy
equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita per day;
Population and vital statiatic_                                                               available supplies comprise domestic production, imports lass exports, snd
Population (mid-vear million)   A. of July first:  if not available, average                  changes in stock; net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds, quastities used
of two end-year estimates; 1X60, 1970 and 1975 data,                                        in food processing and losses in distribution; requiremaents wera estimated
by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity and health consid-
Population density - per square ki  - Mid-year population per equcre kilometer                ering envirotm,ental temperature, body reighte, age and ex distributions of
(100 hectares) of total are.                                                                population, and a11owing 10% for waste at household level.
Population density - per square kso of agric  Ind - Computed as above for                  Per capita supply of protein (frts per day) - Protein content of per capita
agricultural land only.                                                                     net supply of food per day; met supply of food is defined as sbove; require-
meets for a11 countries established by USDA Economic Research Services
Vital statistics                                                                               provide for a olniasas allowance of 60 gras of total protein per day, ond
Crude birth rate pr thousand, average - Annual live birth. per thousand of                     20 gras of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 gross should be animal
oid-year population; ten-year aritiosetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970,                  protein; these standards are lower than those of 75 graos of total protein
and five-year average ending in 1975 for mast recent estimate,                              and 23 gras of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by FAO
Cruda death rate per thousand, average - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-year                in the Third World Food Survey.
population; ten-year *rithnetic averagea ending in 1960 and 1970 and five-                Per capita protein oupply from  animal and pulse - Protein supply of food
year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate,                                        derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.
Infant mortality rate (/thou) - Annoal deaths of infants under one year of age              Death rate (/thou) ages 1-4 - Annual deaths per thousand in age group 1-4
per thouasnd live births.                                                                   years, to children in this age group; suggested as an indicator of
Life eapectuncy at birth (yr.) - Average nmeber of years of life remaining at                 malnutrition.
birth; uusully five-year averages ending is 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ing countries.                                                                            Education
Gro.s reproduction rate - Average number of live daughters a woman will bear                 Adjusted enrollment ratio - primary school - Enrollment of all ages as per-
in her normal reproductive period if she experiencea present age-spcific                    centage of primary school-age population; includes children aged 6-11 years
fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                   but adjusted for different lengths of primary education; for countries with
for developing conotries.                                                                    universal education, enrollment may exceed 100% since some pupils are below
Population gro-th rate (%) - total - Compound annulI growth rates of mid-year                  or above the official school age.
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                              Adjusted enrollment ratio - secondary school - Computed as above; secondary
Population Aroqeth rate (%) - urban - Computed like growth rate of total                       education requires at least four years of approved primary instruction;
population; different definitioma of urban areas may affect comparability of                 provides general, vocational or teacher training intructions far pupils
data among countries.                                                                        of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally excluded.
Urban population (% of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; different                Years of schooling provided (first and second levels) - Total years of
definitioms of urban areas my affect comparability of data among cruntries.                  schooling; at secondary level, vocational instruction may be partially or
completely excluded.
Axe structure (perent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age (15-64 years),                  Vocational erollent (% of secondary) - Vocationsl institutions inlude
sod retired (65 years and over) au percectages of mid-year population.                       technical, industria1 or other progrmaa which operate indepdtly or 
Age depeodeccy ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to those                   departmento  of secondary lstitutiono .
of ages 15 through 64.                                                                     Adult literacy rate (%) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as per-
Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of population onder 15 and 65 and aver to                    centage of total adult popolafion aged 15 years and onar.
the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
Family planing - acceptors (cumulative, thoj) - Cumulative musber of acceptors               Housing
of birth-control deviceu under auspices of national family planning progrom                Peroa  per room  (urbac) - Average ntasber of per-ons per room in occupied
since i..nption.                                                                            convetional dvellings in urban areas; dwellings enslude non-perma-ent
Family planning - users (7. of married women) - Percentages of married women of                structures and uooccupied parts.
child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control devices to all malrrid               Occupied dwellings without piped water  (%) - Occupied conventional dwellings
women in same age grasp.                                                              in orban sod rural areas without iaidr or outside piped water facilities
a. percentage of all oc.spied dwellings.
Employment                                                                                   Acce.ss to electricity (7, of all dwellings) - Camn-tiocal dwellings with
Total labor force (thosand) - Economically active persons, including armed                     electricity in living quarters as percent of totional dwellings   rba  -d
forces and unemployed but excluding housewives, students, etc.; definitions                  rural areas.
in various countries are not comparable.                                                   Rural dwllings conncted to elecricity f%) - Cmputed s above for rural
Labor force in agriculture (%) - Agricsltural labor force (in farming, forestry,               dwellings only.
hunting and fishing) as percentage of total labor force.
Unemployed (7 of labor force) - Unemployed se us-lly defined as prsons who                   Consumption
are able and willing to take   job, rut of a job on a given day, remimed act               Radio receivers (per thou pop) - All types of receivers for radio broadcasts
of a job, and seeking work for a specified minim    period nt ea. reding  oe              tRo reneral public per thouPOnd of poplation; ec. udes unlicensed receivers
week; may not be comparable between countries due to different definitions                   in countries and in years when registration of radio sets was in effect;
of unemployed aod source of data, e.g., employment office statiatics, sample                 data for recent years may nat be cparable since most coutrie  abolished
surveys, compulsory unemployment insurance -licensBing.                                                                          saar                        re    
PsegrLcars ipe~rthus nop)j - Pasoenger cars comprise motor cars seating
lnooms distribstion -Per.t.tge of private imome (both in cah end kind)                         leste   igtpros  e.cludee ambulances, hearses and military
re-ived by rihesbt 5%, richest 207, poorest 20%, and poorest 407, of house-                  vehicles.
holds.                                                                                     Electricity (kwh/yr per cap) - Annual ConP nption of industrial, coercial,
public and private electric'ity in kilowtt bonrn per -spita, general ly
Di-tributioq of land ownership - Pereetrages of land owned by walthiest 107                    based on production data,  ithout tlloaence far losses in grids but allow-
and poorest 107 of land owners.                                                              ing far imparts and erports of electricity.
Newprint (ks/yr per ceo) - Per capita annual comasption in kilagra
Health and Natrition                                                                           etimted from  domsestic production plus net imtports of newprint.
Population per physiciam  - Population divided by nmaber of practicing
phyeicians qualified from a medical school at ucivereity level.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMIENT DATA
CNP PER CAPITA IX 1975 9    uS 150
g/                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~AN?RJIAL RATS OF GROWER (56. constant PriCes) ]
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1975/76
USS Bln.      9%                                         1960/61-1964/65     1965/66-1969/70     1970/71-1974/75
GNP at Market Prices             82.8        100.0                                            3.8                  3.7                 2.6
Gross Domestic Investment        46.7         20.1
Gross National Saving            16.0          19.3
Current Account Balance          -0.7         -0.8
Resource Gap                     -1.5         -1.8
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971
Value Added (at factor cost)           Labor Force               V.A. Per Woiker
11SS Bin.            %                   il,     %               Ms       of National Average
Agriculture                      24.5             46.6                 130.0   72.1             188             64
Industry                         11.8              22.3                 20.2   11.2             582            199
Services                         16.3             31.1                  30t    16.7              54 186
Total/average                    52.6             100.0                180.4  100.0             292            100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                                        Central Government
(Ra. B-IZ              % of GDP                         (R. ln)          _     : % ofaGP
1975/76       1975/761973/74-1975/76                    1975/76        1975/76   1973/74-1975/76
Current Receipts                  133.34         18.5           16.7                       79-11           11.0          9.8
Current Expenditures              118.7           16.5          153                        70.05           9-7           8.8
Current Surplus/Deficit            14.57           2.0           1.4                        9.o6            1.3          1.0
Capital Expenditures A/            54.27          7.5            6.2                       40.75           '5.6          4.6
External Aesiatance (net)          13.89           1.9           103                       13.89            1.9          1.3
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES                 1965/66    1971/72    1972/73    197/74    1974/75   1975/76         September 1975    September 1976
(Billion Rs outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi Money                      61.4       122.4      142.2      169.1      187.2      213.6           199.0             238.3
Bank Credit to Public Sector               40.8        69.o       82.5       92.9      102.6      108.5           112.8             112.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector               28.1       64.4       76.o       90.1      109.5      134.2           106.0             143.8
(Percentage or Index Numbers)                      January 1976       January 1977
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP          24.0        26.4       27.9       27.1       26.2       27.9
Wholesale Price Index
(1961/62 = 100)                        131.6      188.4       207.1      254.2      313.0      302.8          290.0              320.5
Annual peroentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                       7.7         4.0        9.9       22.7       23.1                                         10
Bank Credit to Public Sector               12.9        21.3       19.6       12.6       10.4        5.7                               4.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector              12.8        13.6       18.0       18.5       21.5       22.5                              24.6
a/  The per capita GNP estimate is at market prices, calculated by the conversion technique used in the
World Atlas. All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.
t/  Quick Estimates.
S/  Computed from trend line of GNP at factor cost series, including one observation before first year anc
one observation after last year of listed period.
4/ Transfers between Center and States have been netted out.
!/ All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
t Net bank credit to Government Sector.
4 Bank Credit to Commercial Sector.



RCORI(8C DEWLLOPMENT DATA                                                        Page 4 of 4
BALANCE OF PAYIENTS                  1973/74       1974/75       1975/L6       1976/77 _h                C8ADISE EPORTS (AV3AE 1975/74-197/76)
(Uss llillion)                                                         USf In..
Exportts of Goods                     3,239         4,174         4,555         5,400                 Sugar                        342          9
Imports of Goods                     -3,971        -5,794        -6,085        -5,850                Joutelufactures              317           8
Trade Raleno                         -  732        -1,620        -1,530           -450               Tea                           249          6
RFS (net)  ./                          n.-.          n.e.          n.S.        nA..                   Cotton Textilee              413          10
Iron Ore                     206           5
Recource Gap                           n.e.          n.e.          n.a.         n.e.                 Engineering Goods            391          10
Othe.                     2.071           S2
Intereet Paymente (n t)                              n _233  - 260  n250        - 280                Total                      3,989         100
Other Factor Paymenta (net)            n.a.          n.a.          n.a.         n.a.
Net Transfers  I/                      n.a.          n.a.          n.a.         n.a.
Balanoe on Current  ooeunte           n.e.          n.a.          n...         n.e.                 EmTEAL DEBT. YARCH 31. 1976
US$ Billio-n
Official Aid
Disbure ments                     1,249         1,766         2,326       2,050                  RepaTable in foreign currency            12.3
Amortisation                      - 459         - 519         - 516       - 560                  Repayable through export of goode         0.7
Transactions with IMF                    75           515           205        - 365                 Total Os.tasding ad Diebursed             13.0
All Other Items                         205            80           559        1,100                 DCB' SIEVICE RATIO FOR 1976/77           15.5  percent
Inreease in REeerv   (-)               -105            38         - 794      -1,495
Gros. Reserves (end year)             1,416         1,178         2,172        3,667                 I_ D4EYNG___b_5,t7    (US$ Yln.)
Met Beserves (end year)               1,341           783         1,332        3,202
IRRD       IDA
Fuel and Belated Materiale
Outstanding and Disbursed             452.7      3208.4
Imports                                 720         1,451         1,417        1,625                 Und:abursed                            510.3      1140.5
of which, Petroleum                  719         1,451         1,417       1,625                  Outs,tanding ineluding
Exports                                  20            26            41          n.e.                Uadiebureed                            963.0      4348.9
of whioh. Petroleum                   16            17            22         n.a.
RATE OF EXCHANGE   /
Prior to mid-December 1971          VA 1 .00  =  Rs 7.5                                              Aftor end June 1972    *   Floating Rate
Rs 1.00  =  USSO.133333                                          Spot Rate  Maoch 31, 1976
Mid-Deoember 1971 to            :   0S1.00  =  Rs 7.27927                                                        approx. 1JS$1.00    t Rs   8.80475
end June 1972                     Rs 1.00  =  US0.137376                                                      approx. Rts 1.00 = US$   0.113575
h/ Estiuated.
i/ Included with 'All other Items'.
/ Aid and trade figuree eonverted to US dollars ueing exchange rates ae indicated in inside front
rover of this report or notes to individual tables.
V   Including garments.
i/ Amortization and intorest paynents (excluding IM transactions) ma a peroentage of merchandise exports.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 14
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CBEDITS
(As of November 10, 1977)
1/
Loan or                                                                                                  us$ Million-
Credit No.            Year     Borrower                      Purpose                                 (Net of Cancellation)
BANK       IDA      Undisbursed
39 Loans/                                                                                     1,091.5
47 Credits fully disbursed                                                                                2,527.4
614-IN                1969       India         Tarai Seeds                                       13.0        --           3.6
250-IN                1971       India         Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit                     --         35.0         1.2
264-IN                1971       India         Cochin II Fertilizer                               --         20.0        0.1
267-IN                1971       India         Wheat Storage                                      --          5.0         3.4
294-IN                1972       India         Bihar Agricultural Markets                         --         14.0        10.1
312-IN                1972       India         Population                                         --         21.2        7.1
342-IN                1972       India         Education                                          --         12.0         9.9
356-IN                1972       India         IDBI                                               --         25.0        10.9
377-IN                1973       India         Power Transmission III                             --         85.0        7 .2
378-IN                1973       India         Mysore Agricultural Markets                        --          8.0        7.0
902-IN                1973       ICICI         Industry DFC X                                    70.0         --          8.3
390-IN                1973       India         Bombay Water Supply                                --         55.0       33.1
392-IN                1973      India          Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Credit                  --         38.0         1.2
403-IN                1973       India         Telecommunications V                               --         80.0         5.7
427-IN                1973       India         Calcutta Urban Development                         --         35.0        11.7
440-IN                1973       India         Bihar Agricultural Credit                          --         32.0        16.7
456-IN                1974       India         HP Apple Processing & Marketing                    --         13.0         9.9
481-IN                1974       India         Trombay IV                                         --         50.0        15.6
1011-IN                1974       India         Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD                           52.0          --        36.8
482-IN                1974       India         Karnataka Dairy                                    --         30.0        29.5
502-IN                1974       India         Rajasthan Canal CAD                                --         83.0       54.0
520-IN                1974       India         Sindri Fertilizer                                  --         91.0        27. 5
521-IN                1974       India         Rajasthan Dairy                                    --         27.7        27.1
522-IN                1974       India         Madhya Pradesh Dairy                               --         16.4        15.6
526-IN                1975       India         Drought Prone Areas                                --         35.0        26.0
1079-IN                1975       India         IFFCO Fertilizer                                 109.0         --         79.8
1097-IN                1975       ICICI         Industry DFC XI                                  100.0         --         40.6
532-IN                1975       India         Godavari Barrage Irrigation                        --         45.0        26.3
541-IN                1975       India         West Bengal Agricultural Development               --         34.0       27.2
562-IN                1975       India         Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) CAD                       --         24.0       19.1
572-IN                1975       India         Rural Electrification                              --         57.0        51.6
582-IN                1975       India         Railways XIII                                      --        110.0        28.0
585-IN                1975       India         Uttar Pradesh Water Supply                         --         40.0        38.7
598-IN                1975       India         Fertilizer Industry                                --        105.0        95.5
604-IN                1975       India         Power Transmission IV                              --        150.0      149. 9
609-IN                1975       India         Madhya Pradesh Forestry T.A.                       --          4.0         3.9
610-IN                1976       India         Integrated Cotton Development                      --         18.0        18.0
616-IN                1976       India         Industrial Imports XI                              --        200.0        5.0
1251-IN(TW)            1976       India         Andhra Pradesh Irrigation                        145.0         --       145.0
1260-IN                1976       India         IDBI II                                           40.0         --         38.3
1273-IN                1976       India         National Seed                                     25.0         --        25.0
1313-IN                1976       India         Telecommunications VI                             80.0         --         43.8
1335-IN                1976       India         Bombay Urban Transport                            25.0         --        23.8
680-IN                1977       India         Kerala Agricultural Development                    --         30.0       30.0
682-IN                1977       India         Orissa Agricultural Development                    --         20.0       20.0
685-IN                1977       India         Singrauli Thermal Power                            --        150.0      150.0
687-IN                1977       India         Madras Urban Development                           --         24.0       24.0
695-IN                1977       India         Gujarat Fisheries                                  --          4.0        4.0
1394-IN(TW)            1977       India         Gujarat Fisheries                                 14.0         --        14.0
690-IN                1977       India         West Bengal Agricultural Development               --         12.0       12.0
712-IN                1977       India         Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Development            --         10.0       10.0
715-IN                1977       India         Second ARDC Credit                                 --        200.0      200.0
720-IN                1977       India         Periyar Vaigai Irrigation                          --         23.0       23.0
728-IN                1977       India         Assam Agricultural Development                     --          8.0        8.0
1473-IN                1977       India         Bombay Nigh Offshore Development                 150.0         --       150.0
* 736-IN                1977       India         Maharashtra Irrigation                             --         70.0        70.0
* 737-IN                1977       India         Rajasthan Agricultural Extension                   --         13.0        13.0
* 740-IN                1977       India         Orissa Irrigation                                  --         58.0        58.0
1475-IN                1977       ICICI         Industry DFC XII                                  80.0         --        80.0
Total                                                                  1,992.2    4,991.0
of which has been repaid                                              826.9         32.3
Total now outstanding                                                  1,165.3    4,958.7
Amount Sold                                     133.2
of which has been repaid                     111.5                     21.7
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                         1,143.6    4,958.7
Total undisbursed                                                         689.0    1,415.7
* Not yet effective.
1/   Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 14
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of November 30, 1977)
Fiscal                                                Amount (US$ million)
Year          Company                               Loan      Equity   Total
1959      Republic Forge Company Ltd.                1.5        -         1.5
1959      Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.                 0.9        -         0.9
1960      Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                     1.4        -         1.4
1961      K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                          0.2        -         0.2
1963-66   Precision Bearings India Ltd.              0.7       0.3        1.0
1964      Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.               0.8       0.4        1.2
1964-75   Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.             11.8       1.0       12.8
1964      Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.                 1.0       0.3        1.3
1967      Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                    1.0       0.1        1.1
1967      Indian Explosives Ltd.                     8.6       2.9       11.5
1969-70   Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.                 15.1       3.8       18.9
1976      Escorts Limited                           _6.6        -         6.6
TOTAI.                            49.6      8.8       58.4
Less:  Sold                               6.0       1.6        7.6
Repaid                            13.2       -        13.2
Cancelled                          6.2      0.7        6.9
Now Held                          24.2      6.5       30.7
Undisbursed                        5.3       -         5.3



-"l- - L 
Page 3 of 14
C.  PROJECTS IN EXECUTION"/
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding rea-
sonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are below.
The level of disbursements was US$598.6 million in FY77 or 80% of Bank Group
commitments to India in that year. The undisbursed pipeline of US$1,980
million as of October 31, 1977, corresponds roughly to commitments over the
preceding two-year period and reflects the leadtime which would be expected
given the mix of fast and slow-disbursing projects in the India program.
Ln. No. 902    Tenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$70.0 million loan of June 8, 1973; Effective
Date: August 16, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Ln. No. 1097   Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100 million loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
Ln. No. 1475   Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$80 million loan of July 22, 1977
Effective Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
These loans have supported industrialization in India through a
well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium and large scale
industries, which are often employing high technology and are export oriented.
Loans 1097-IN and 902-IN are fully committed and disbursements have reached
51% and 87% of total loan amounts respectively as of September 30, 1977, which
is slightly ahead of schedule.
Ln. No. 614    Tarai Seeds Project; US$13.0 million loan of June 18, 1969;
Effective Date: September 12, 1969; Closing Date: Dec-
ember 31, 1977
This loan to the Tarai Development Corporation is to assist in
the production, processing and marketing of certified seeds of high yielding
varieties. The corporation is working effectively and has developed an ex-
cellent reputation for quality seed. Expansion of three processing plants
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progre3s of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 14
is well under way. Delivery of some equipment in damaged condition, and
retendering, because of poor response for some others, has delayed delivery
schedules necessitating an extension of the Closing Date by one year to
December 31, 1977.
Cr. No. 250    Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit Project; US$35.0 million
credit of June 11, 1971; Effective Date: November 2. 1971;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 392    Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$38.0 million
credit of June 8, 1973; Effective Date:  October 31, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 440    Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit
of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 29, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
Cr. No. 715    Second Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC) Project; US$200.0 million credit of June 1, 1977;
Effective Date: August 24, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
All the above agricultural credit projects are similar in structure,
being designed to provide long- and medium-term credit to farmers through
credit institutions, for on-farm investments, primarily in minor irrigation.
Credit 715 is a continuation nationwide of the previous program of agricul-
tural credit projects, which were confined to individual states. Apart from
initial start up problems with the individual state projects, mostly due to
the introduction of new lending criteria and lending terms, progress under
these projects has been satisfactory.
Cr. No. 267    Wheat Storage Project; US$5.0 million credit of August 23,
1971; Effective Date: November 14, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
The US$16.0 million project, with co-financing arrangements with
Sweden, finances (i) the construction of bag and bulk grain storage and
handling facilities, (ii) staff training, and (iii) an All-India Grain
Storage Study. The government-owned Food Corporation of India is respon-
sible for the storage construction. All the nine 10,000 ton capacity bag
warehouses envisaged under the project as revised were completed and be-
came operational in 1975. The construction of five grain silos is progress-
ing satisfactorily and expected to be completed by September 30, 1978. The
training component is being implemented. The All-India Grain Storage Study
was completed in October 1976 and proved useful in formulating the proposal
for the Second Grain Storage Project which was appraised in February/March
1977 and approved by the Board on November 15, 1977.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 14
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
This project was designed to promote the development of apple
processing and marketing in Himachal Pradesh, and comprises grading and
packing centers, cold storages, a juice processing plant, road improvements
and cableways. The project encountered initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems; however, remedial measures have been taken to over-
come these difficulties. A recent review mission found substantial improve-
ment in project implementation and apple grower response has been encouraging.
Cr. No. 403    Telecommunications V Project; US$80.0 million credit of
June 25, 1973; Effective Date: July 30, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1977
Ln. No. 1313   Telecommunications VI Project; US$80.0 million loan
of July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Both projects are progressing satisfactorily. The closing date of
Credit 403 was extended by one year to December 31, 1977, to cover the
delivery and installation of imported transmission and switching equipment.
Disbursements under Loan 1313 have commenced.
Cr. No. 377    Power Transmission III Project; US$85.0 million credit
of May 9,, 1973; Effective Date: October 10, 1973; Closing
Date: September 30, 1978
Cr. No. 604    Power Transmission IV Proiect; US$150.0 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
For Power Transmission III all equipment has been ordered;
for Power Transmission IV, bids for all equipment have been invited and
most orders have been placed.
Cr. No. 481    Trombay IV Fertilizer Expansion Project; US$50.0 million
credit of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: August 21, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Cr. No. 520    Sindri Fertilizer Project; US$91 million credit of December 18,
1974; Effective Date: February 27, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
Ln. No. 1079   IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$109 million loan of January 24,
1975; Effective Date:  April 28, 1975; Closing Date:  March 31,
1979



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 14
Cr. No. 598    Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Progress on the Trombay IV project has been good although project
completion may be delayed by about 18 months due to longer than expected
delivery times for critical equipment and to reflect the current situation
with respect to the use of the Credit proceeds. Under the Sindri project
plant construction and erection is proceeding generally according to schedule
except for a one-month delay due to anticipated delays in receipt of some
materials. Commencement of commercial production is expected by March 1978.
The anticipated cost to complete the project is presently running within bud-
get. The IFFCO project was delayed by about a year as a result of a change
in feedstock from fuel oil to naphtha and delays in completion of engineering
contracts. The project is now progressing satisfactorily based on naphtha as
feedstock. Site work has begun, process- and time-critical equipment is being
ordered, and engineering work is well under way. Credit 598-IN is designed
to increase the utilization of existing fertilizer production capacity. The
project has encountered delays in sub-project preparation and investment
approvals by the Government. Further, some of the sub-projects identified
earlier may not materialize because of reconsideration by the Central and
State governments. The Central Government has submitted a list of sub-
projects to replace the ones that are likely to be dropped. Because of the
above, the project is likely to be delayed by 6-12 months.
Cr. N4o. 294    Bihar Agricultural Markets Project; US$14.0 million credit
of March 29, 1972; Effective Date: July 31, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
These projects were designed to help with establishment of whole-
sale markets in a number of towns in Bihar and Karnataka.  Progress under
the Bihar project has generally been satisfactory.  The project iLncludes
training of the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) staff and
evaluation of the project's economic impact.  As of June 30, 1977, develop-
ment plans had been completed for 48 of the 50 project markets.  The remain-
ing 2 are pending land acquisitions. Appraisals and loan sanctions had been
completed for 13 and was in progress for 18 markets.  Farmers and traders
served by the 8 market yards now in operation report more efficient marketing
activities and improved farmers' terms of trade. Progress under the Karnataka
project is improving. As of June 30, 1977, appraisals for 36 of the 39 proj-
ect market yard plans had been completed by participating banks and 25 of
these 36 approved by ARDC. Construction is in progress at 33 markets. In an
attempt to accelerate project progress, more liberal lending terms have been
provided to APMCs and Market Intermediaries (MIs) for construction of shop-
cum-godowns. The project is expected to be completed by the closing date
(December 1979) and to achieve its major objectives of making farm produce
marketing more efficient and improving farmers' terms of trade.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 14
Cr. No. 312    Population Project; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972;
Effective Date: May 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
This credit is designed to finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The project's
infrastructure, which would provide the optimum facilities (buildings, equip-
ment, staff and transport) according to GOI standards in selected districts
in each state, is almost complete. The two Population Centers, which will
design and monitor research aimed at improving the family planning program,
are now functioning. To allow adequate time for the Population Centers to
complete their evaluation of family planning strategies and the introduction
of management information and evaluation systems, the closing date has been
extended to June 30, 1979.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities Project: US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project involves the development of the agricultural uni-
versities in Assam and Bihar. Initial lag in implementation on account
of late appointment of project staff has been overcome. Campus plans
have been approved, and construction has started in both Assam and Bihar.
Disbursements which have been slow because of initial delays should
accelerate now that construction and equipment procurement are under way.
Cr. No. 356    Industrial Development Bank of India Project; US$25.0 million
credit of February 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 22, 1973;
Closing Date: September 30, 1978
Loan No. 1260 Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The first IDBI Project (Cr. 356) had a slow start mainly due to
institutional problems in the participating State Financial Corporations.
However, the credit is now fully committed. In order to continue Bank
Group's involvement in assisting small and medium scale industries and in
strengthening the State Financial Corporations involved, the second operation
(Ln. 1260) was approved on May 18, 1976, and more than 10% of the loan amount
had been authorized by mid-May 1977.
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
A substantial cost overrun on the project from US$158 million
equivalent to about US$375 million equivalent has been caused by inflation
and price increases resulting from delays in appointment of engineering con-
sultants and redesign of certain project components. The project has been



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 14
redefined and rephased to fit the financing available from the Credit, local
loans and bonds, and internal cash generation of the project entity. The
revised cost estimates for the implementation period 1975/76 to 1979/80
amount to US$266 million equivalent excluding interest during construction.
All major contracts for civil works, equipment and materials have been
awarded. This has considerably sped up disbursements which had been slow.
Financial performance of the project entity during 1976/77 was; satisfactory,
and major rate increases from April 1, 1976 should ensure continuing financial
viability of the project entity.
Cr. No. 585    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
February 6, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project had a slow start due to delays in preparation of techni-
cal reports for regional and local water authorities. The technical reports
for about a half of the project have now been finalized and construction
works started in October 1976, about one year behind schedule. All consul-
tants for engineering, organization, management and accounting services for
the Jal Nigam (Water Supply Development Corporation) and the Jal Sansthans
(water authorities) have been engaged. Significant institutional develop-
ment can be expected only after the consultants submit their final recommenda-
tions. The project is expected to be completed by March 1980, approximately
9 months behind schedule.
Cr. No. 616    Eleventh Industrial Imports Project; US$200.0 million credit
of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: April 1, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1978
Utilization of the Technical Development Fund has been slower than
anticipated and the closing date has been postponed by one year to allow
completion of disbursements from the Fund which has been fully committed.
Cr. No. 427    Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$35.0 million credit
of September 12, 1973; Effective Date: January 10, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Following considerable increases in project costs, GOI and IDA
finalized a project redefinition in April 1976, to accommodate the project
to funding available. It is now expected to be substantially completed by
March 1979. Agreements have been reached on consultants services and
technical assistance, as provided for under the project.
Cr. No. 687    Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date:  September 30, 1981
The project is designed to develop and promote low-cost solutions
to the problems of providing improved services to the urban poor in the
Madras Metropolitan Area (MMA) and to strengthen metropolitan planning.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 14
Project components consisting of sites and services; slum improvement; small-
scale and cottage industry; and maternal and child health are designed to
benefit directly some 250,000 persons in low-income areas of the city.  The
water supply and sewerage; road and traffic improvements; bus transport and
technical assistance components are designed to eliminate bottlenecks in
water supply and transport.
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30 million credit of
June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Proiect;; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
These three credits totalling US$74.1 million support dairy devel-
opment projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy coop-
erative scheme in Gujarat State. The Karnataka Project which got off to a
slow start has begun to show considerable improvement under new management
appointed recently. Farmer response has been good and over 500 dairy coop-
eratives with small farmer participation are functioning effectively. All
four dairy unions, as envisaged under the project, have been established and
are functioning satisfactorily. In Madhya Pradesh good progress has been
made. About 110 new dairy cooperatives societies have been established.
Detailed design studies for plant construction are complete. Technical ser-
vices investments are being made. Contracts have been placed for livestock
imports. The Rajasthan project is also doing well. Four milk unions have
been formed and excellent progress has been made in organizing the servicing
of nearly 350 dairy cooperatives at the village level. Plant-designs are
ready, and procurement is making adequate progress. Karnataka's decision to
procure plant equipment jointly with Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh on the same
tender should lead to a recovery of considerable time lost earlier in the
Karnataka project.
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45 million credit of March 7,
1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is in progress and is proceeding
satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 14
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83 mil-
lion credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 30,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Ln. No. 1251   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)         Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window)
of June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7,1976;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720    Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30,
1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects
is generally satisfactory and particularly successful with respect to
agricultural extension.
Cr. No. 736    Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70.0 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 11, 1978
(expected); Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740    Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58.0 million of October 11,
1977; Effective Date: January 16, 1978 (expected);
Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project became effective on July 31, 1975. Successful reor-
ganization of agricultural extension services has been a major achievement,
but preparations for lending operations have been slow mainly due to poor
coordination of project agencies. IDA and the government of West Bengal
have agreed on measures to improve coordination and on a timetable covering
a range of project activities. Progress with preliminaries for procurement
of equipment, markets construction and riverlift completions are satis-
factory.



ANINEX II
Page 11 of 14
Cr. No. 682    Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 728    Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million
credit of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31. 1983
Cr. No. 690    West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 712    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 737    Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13.0 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective
Date: February 15, 1978 (expected); Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
These projects totalling US$63 million finance the re-organization
and strengthening of agricultural extension and the development of adaptive
agricultural research services with the objective of achieving early and
sustained improvements in agricultural production, particularly foodgrains.
Arrangement for monitoring and evaluation of project progress and impact is
an essential feature of these projects. The Orissa and Assam projects also
provide funds for laying the basis for longer term improvements in ground-
water development in the States. The project's components include provision
of additional staff, training facilities, housing, offices, laboratory
facilities, equipment and transportation.
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Overall physical progress of the Drought Prone Areas project (DPAP)
continues to be satisfactory. The rate of disbursement is improving and
implementation of most components is proceeding, by and large, according to
schedule. However, progress may be affected by possible changes in thinking
at the national level. GOI is presently reviewing all national rural develop-
ment programs, including the DPAP, in order to determine ways to improve over-
all performance in the rural sector. The Government's review is being fol-
lowed closely to determine whether any recommendations would have an impact
on the ongoing project and require changes.



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 14
Cr. No. 680    Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
This project would improve the productivity of tree crop agricul-
ture, and consequently improve the economic situation of smallholder farmers.
It provides for rehabilitation, new planting and processing of various tree
crops. Support to smallholders is in the form of long-term credit and special
extension and research services, together with technical assistance and
training.
Cr. No. 572    Rural Electrification Project; US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Eleven states have now fulfilled the conditions of eligibility for
on-lending under this project [compared with six at the time of appraisal].
The project got off to a slow start, due principally to the need to adapt
specifications and tender documents to international competitive bidding
procedures, but these problems have been overcome. As of April 1977, orders
had been placed for 60 approved rural electrification schemes, and tenders
had been invited or were in the course of preparation for others.
Cr. No. 582    Railways XIII Project; US$110.0 million credit of August 26,
1975; Effective Date: October 10, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
The project was designed to cover most of the foreign exchange
requirements of Indian Railway's (IR) investment program for two years, from
April 1, 1975, through March 31, 1977. However, since the approval of the
project, increased production in steel products in India and further develop-
ments in IR's indigenization program slowed down the rate at which IR requires
foreign exchange. Therefore, the Closing Date was extended for one year to
September 30, 1978 in order to complete implementation of the project.
Cr. No. 609    Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective
Date: May 26, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project will identify a sound resource base for pulp and paper
manufacture and related industries, develop suitable logging systems, and
undertake a feasibility study to determine optimal use of the existing wood
resources in the Bastar District of southern Madhya Pradesh. It also includes
a study of ways to integrate the area's tribal population with future develop-
ment. After initial delays due to difficulties in employing key personnel,
project implementation is now satisfactory. The contract for the feasibility
study has been awarded.



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 14
Cr. No. 610    Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million
credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project finances equipment and civil works and crop production
credit to support programs for cotton research and increased cotton produc-
tion in three states. The project also provides credit for improving cotton
ginneries, new ginneries, cotton seed oil extraction plants and vegetable oil
processing factories. Project management and coordination were established
and the cotton production program has been pursued energetically. Implementa-
tion of the research and industrial components has started.
Ln. No. 1273   National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The National Seeds Corporation (NSC) has withdrawn from seeds pro-
duction as planned, having handed over to State Seeds Corporation (SSC).
Detailed production programs, by variety and responsible institution, have
been prepared for breeder, foundation and certified generations. GOI and
State Governments have made equity contributions to SSC thus ensuring financ-
ing of major project activity. Orders will shortly be placed for processing
machinery to provide bridging capacity pending the construction of new pro-
cessing plants. Tender documents for the first purchases of farm machinery
have been finalized.
Ln. No. 1335   Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980
Contracts for a first tranche of 325 single and 175 double deck
bus chassis have been awarded, and bidding for the balance of bus chassis is
in progress. Contracts for 275 single and 175 double deck bus bodies have
also been awarded. As for civil works, contracts have been awarded for 6
of 19 bus facilities, and for 11 of about traffic engineering schemes. The
Borrower, the Bombay Metropolitan Region Development Authority, has employed
consultants to assist it in organization, administrative and financial man-
agement systems, and accounting. The beneficiaries of the loan, the Bombay
Municipal Corporation, and the Bombay Electric Supply and Transport Under-
taking, are in the process of employing consultancy assistance in traffic
engineering, and operations and management assistance, respectively.
Ln. No. 1394   Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14 million loan and US$4
(TW) and       million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 695    July 19, 1977; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983
Progress is good. All project implementation units appear
to be competent and enthusiastic and the project is progressing as antici-
pated at appraisal.



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 14
Cr. No. 685    Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Initial project implementation works, principally site acquisi-
tion, construction of access roads, temporary buildings, and design works
are proceeding satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1473   Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$150.0 million
loan of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: October 20, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980



ANNEX III
Page 1
INDIA
LOAN FOR STATE JOINT/PUBLIC SECTOR PROJECTS
THROUGH THE INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:        Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the Borrower to prepare the
project.
This loan is a diversification of our lending
operations with IDBI and preparation for the
present loan formed part of a continuing process.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project.
IDBI
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and
date of the first mission to consider the
project.
March 1975; July 1975
(d) Date of departure of Appraisal Mission.
November 29, 1976.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations.
December 1977.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness.
April 1978.
Section II:       Special Bank Implementation Actions.
None



ANNEX III
Page 2
Section III:      Special Conditions
(a) No withdrawals for projects sponsored by an
SIIC/SIDC that in the judgement of the Bank
has failed to make a reasonable effort to
fulfill its upgrading program (paragraph 46).
(b) The first project from the first six states
should be sent to the Bank for prior review,
and all subsequent projects for which IDBI
would make loans of more than $3 million would
require the Bank's prior approval (paragraph 50).
(c) The upper limit in the amount of assistance in
foreign exchange that IDBI can provide for any
single project is $4 million (paragraph 50).



IBRD -iRTAR
AWARY 1971
CI A            R A
c        H                N         A                                                       1.0
I IV 0   A A(         0  C 5 A  N
90,
A.
AL 14ANCAL
T   I  B  E  T
30-              +                                                                                                                                                                                              3C.-
N                                                                                              >
-SIKK"11 BHUTAN
JAIPLR                                                                                                             NAMRUP L   f
(a       41>              IEL                  GORA
A
A
GIALO 11
A, Dcm
H A H             k;
BURNPUR           BANGLADESH
--------                                                                                                             Si N D R I    m     r
41xl
AMSHEDPr-i  jVFS C
5 H
URGAPUR
OSFC                                                                      RO      L
L AA                                                                                                                        41W,
BHILA               +  HIRAKUD
ORI    S  A
-20-                                                                                                                                                                                                              20--
A TROMBAY
t H   t A                                                                                                     of
POONA
NDII
INDIA
IIELGAIIM          2
LOCATIOK Of VAJC# INDUSTRIAL CENTERS
SIADRAVATI                                                                                     lVd..tri0f C0040rX
KAR W A  K A                                                                              A
BANGALORECO
$tote or Union Territ-y Bo.ndories
Inwnational 8oundcwies
NEYVELI/
SALEM
NAOU
10.
mitfs
a                     200         300         400        m
-LANKAL
f
KKOM40ETOER 5       600           400
:A



